---
video_title: "Scale your web expertise with Chrome DevTools for agents #GoogleIO"
video_id: H8jIVQdYymA
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H8jIVQdYymA
video_date: 2026-05-29T13:21:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Stop letting your coding agent burn through tokens by guessing how to fix your website. Chrome DevTools for agents introduces specialized tools to run performance traces, accessibility checks, and SEO audits. It actually tests for known problems instead of just blindly reading your source code.
  
  Subscribe to Chrome for Developers → https://goo.gle/ChromeDevs 
  
  #ChromeForDevelopers #Chrome #GoogleIO #ChromeDevTools
  
  Event: Google I/O 2026
  
  Speaker: Matthias Rohmer
  Products Mentioned: Chrome
---
Let's look at one last use case. And to be honest, it's really my favorite one because Chrome DevTools for agents enables you to scale your expertise. For example, let's imagine you don't know much about web performance. Or imagine you don't know much about accessibility or SEO. Now you could go in and ask your coding agent to improve any of the areas mentioned with a generic prompt, improve the performance of this project with a generic prompt like this.

And without DevTools for agents, what will likely happen is that your coding agent just slowly starts burning through your token budget, reading all of your project files, and only fixing random things that might find along the way. Ultimately, that wouldn't help your website performance, but with DevTools for agents, it's flipped with its specialized tools to run performance traces, analyze included insights, and run accessibility best practices. SEO and the new Atlantic audit in lighthouse. It can actually test for known problems instead of trying to guess them from your source code. This allows you and your coding agent to improve your websites in areas you are not inherently familiar with.

For example, you can work on real performance issues by letting DevTools for agents actually measure your current performance and then work against an actual target and use Performance insight in the trace to start where it matters. All through a prompt go to localhost, run a performance trace and act on all findings, or you can use the same pattern to improve accessibility. Instead of your coding agent and underlying model, just sprinkling in a couple of labels, or you use the same pattern to ask your coding agent to work on SEO.