---
video_title: "Simplify complex user intents with WebMCP #GoogleIO"
video_id: qrpH-b067uo
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qrpH-b067uo
video_date: 2026-06-01T17:54:38+00:00
video_description: |
  It can be challenging for AI agents to solve complex user intents by synthesizing signals like screenshots, the DOM, and the Accessibility Tree. Enter WebMCP, a proposed web standard that aims to expose structured tools for AI agents directly on existing websites. This makes the interaction between the website and the agent faster and more reliable!
  
  Subscribe to Chrome for Developers → https://goo.gle/ChromeDevs 
  
  #ChromeForDevelopers #Chrome #GoogleIO #WebMCP
  
  Event: Google I/O 2026
  
  Speaker: Kasper Kulikowski
  Products Mentioned: Chrome
---
However, the challenge is still there. So it can be still challenging for agents to solve complex user-intents. So when you go to a hotel website, you also need to understand where to look for things. But you do have some mental model where to look for things. Because you and your life probably saw multiple websites that are similar, right? So right after corner, login, account, somewhere in the middle or somewhere at the top search. Yeah, so you trigger the search and you see some search results. And you might have some preferences like gym, breakfast, late checkout, right? So that journey becomes more complex. And you could think of additional steps that you could potentially take. So the more complex the journey becomes, the more complex it is for an agent to synthesize all of those mentioned signals, screenshots, DOM, and accessibility tree into the actionable plan. The big question is, how can we make interactions between website and agent faster and more reliable? How can we reduce mention complexities? Web MCP is a proposed web standard that aims to expose structure tools for AI agents on currently existing websites. It means that when user wants to add certain kind of pizza to their shopping cart, in addition to analyzing visuals of your websites, reading DOM and reading accessibility tree, agent can use tools provided by your website. Let's do a quick technical deep dive. How to define Web MCP tools? You have two ways of doing this. You can do it in an imperative way using standard JavaScript or in the declarative way by adding specific attributes to HTML forms. Let's take a look at a cult example of imperative API. In order to register a tool, you use Navigator Model Context Register tool. The tool should have name, description, input schema, and execute block. The execute block is what will happen if your tools is called, if your tool is called. Parameters as execute params, they are defined in the input schema.