---
video_title: "Build your AI testing pipeline"
video_id: fPj-nOcUVyk
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fPj-nOcUVyk
video_date: 2026-05-07T20:46:25+00:00
video_description: |
  It's time to wire everything together into a continuous testing pipeline! Today we'll cover extended unit tests for PR merges, weighted Composite Metrics for nightly integration runs, and Pairwise Evaluation (Elo Ranking) to mathematically prove which model is best when you want to swap LLMs. Check out this video for a quick learning session, dive into the article for all the integration tips you need, and share the bugs you've caught by adding evals to your testing pipeline!
  
  Subscribe to Chrome for Developers → https://goo.gle/ChromeDevs
  
  #ChromeForDevelopers #Chrome
  
  Speaker: Maud Nalpas
  Products Mentioned: Chrome,  AI for the web,
---
Ready for the next step. It's time to build our AI testing pipeline. So first rule based evils are your unit tests. They use regular code to catch simple failures programmatically, but code alone can check key product behaviors that are subjective, like tone or toxicity. So we introduced extended unit tests that use your LLM judge.

They're slower and more expensive than regular unit tests but just as critical. So we run both of these before every pull request. Merge your data set for this test is about 30 hand-crafted inputs that stay the same every time. Include all the key scenarios you want your app to support. Well, so happy path cases, but also tricky edge cases and adversarial attacks.

For these tests, we expect 100% pass rate. If they fail, stop and fix it. Next, run nightly integration tests on 1,000 static inputs. Now, which metrics should we look at. A simple pass rate per eval is easy to read, but it may hide trade offs if your brain fit goes up 5% but your toxicity is up 3% Is that a win.

Instead, use a weighted composite metric to get a single reliable scorecard for your app's health. For release, candidates run a final exam. You test 1,000 random inputs from a massive pool to ensure your model hasn't just memorized the test. What if you're considering changing models and comparing candidates. Use pairwise evaluation.

Show the judge two outputs side by side and ask it to pick a winner. LLM and humans are better at picking relative winners than assigning absolute grades for two models. Compare win percentages, but for three or more models, upgrade to the more specific Elo ranking, which is the same that's used in chess. A few more tips. Run online evals in production, use a clean evals UI instead of staring at raw JSON, and always have a human review a sample of production data.

So check out the article, share your results and see you next time as we build a true expert jet.