---
video_title: "Translator API: on-device translation made easy"
video_id: PCQhSAQqnmc
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PCQhSAQqnmc
video_date: 2026-05-08T00:27:11+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn to integrate the Translator API for seamless, on-device translations. This quick guide shows how to bring powerful language tools to your applications. 
  
  Subscribe to Chrome for Developers → https://goo.gle/ChromeDevs
  Learn more → https://developer.chrome.com 
  
  #ChromeForDevelopers #Chrome
  
  Speaker: Thomas Steiner
  
  Products Mentioned: Chrome
---
I love to travel. Traveling has always been my favorite kind of adventure. And if you are anything like me, there's nothing you love more than living like a local when you do. Let's say you've set your sights on Shanghai and you've found a pearl of a short term rental. Off the beaten path, bike included.

You fill in the form, secure your reservation, and then it hits you. You don't know how to get there from the airport, and you don't speak any Chinese to ask. Fortunately, the site that you're renting from has used the translator API to let you send a message to your host using local, fully private on device translation. No API key required. Let's build out these English to Chinese translation ourselves.

First, check the availability of the language pair by calling translator availability. This returns one of available. When the translation is immediately supported, download double. When the translation is supported after downloading the English two Chinese language pack. Download ding.

When this language pack is currently downloading and unavailable, should the browser not support the requested language pair. Luckily, in our case, the response of the availability call is downloadable so we can call our translator object by invoking the Create method, passing it the desired language pair. Because we already know that the necessary language pack isn't downloaded yet. We also need to pass the API, a monitor callback method that will get invoked whenever the download progress event fired letting us keep the user updated on Download progress like a progress bar. Finally, we have the English to Chinese translator, and we can now call its translate method to actually obtain the translation.

As you can see, the API is lightning fast. All right. Now all that remains is actually making the trip. Maybe not to Shanghai, but to developers to learn more about the translator API. While there, explore the translate streaming method for a sentence by sentence translations of longer texts.

Check out the abort signal option for canceling running translations or dive into the language detector API, which comes in handy if you don't know the source language that you're dealing with. With user generated content, then build something with them and show us what you've made. If you get stuck, reach out. We are here to help. We're excited to see what you can do with the translator API.