---
video_title: "How to understand Chrome extension IDs and the key field"
video_id: cHzsNU84u6g
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cHzsNU84u6g
video_date: 2026-02-11T16:00:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn the fundamentals of Chrome Extension IDs, from their generation to their critical role in security and resource management. Oliver clarifies the difference between IDs for unpacked extensions (based on file path hash) and published extensions (derived from public keys). Understand how to work with deterministic IDs for development, the importance of ID uniqueness, and the security implications of using an ID as an extension's origin.
  
  
  Chapters:
  0:00 - Introduction
  0:36 - Understanding extension ID structure
  1:00 - Using the ID as an origin
  1:24 - Unpacked extension ID generation
  1:49 - Public key cryptography explanation
  2:52 - The public key manifest field
  3:07 - Demo: Replicating an extension ID
  3:47 - Security in development vs. production
  4:23 - Generating consistent IDs with OpenSSL
  5:07 - Conclusion
  
  Watch more Developer Mode → https://goo.gle/dev-mode 
  Subscribe to Chrome for Developers → https://goo.gle/ChromeDevs
  
  #ChromeForDevelopers #Chrome
  
  Speaker: Oliver Dunk
  Products Mentioned: Chrome
---
If you've ever looked through the Chrome extension's documentation, you might have seen the key manifest field. Or perhaps you've even looked at the manifest for an extension in the Chrome web store and seen it there. But what does that do? How does it relate to a Chrome extensions ID? And how did the IDs work anyway? Hello and welcome back to developer mode. I'm slowly getting through some of the questions that you regularly ask about Chrome extensions. And one that I've seen come up a lot is about how extension IDs work and how you can control them. So let's start really basic. Here's an extension that my team publishes on the Chrome web store. And as you can see, it has an ID which consists of 32 characters from A to P. And this is used to identify the item in the store. And for published extensions, it's guaranteed to be unique. For reasons we'll get to for signed extensions, this will also always be unique, even if an extension isn't published in the store. Your extension ID is used as the origin of your Chrome extension and resources for this extension are served for the URL based on this ID. So if I copy this ID, I can go to the URL for this extension and I can see the manifest file. This can be useful to know if your extension makes a request to a server and you want to allow requests from only your extension. But this isn't for proof and I'll get to that shortly too. So how is the extension ID generated? Well, for unpacked extensions, which means an extension that you've loaded from a directory during development, we take a hash of the absolute file path the extension was loaded from. That means that as long as you keep loading the extension from exactly the same place on your machine, that ID will always be the same. But as soon as you move the directory, then the file path is different and the ID will change. Once you upload an extension to the store, things are a little more complicated. We use something called public key cryptography. If you're not familiar with that, all you really need to know is that we generate a pair of keys called the public key and the private key, which are mathematically related. The private key is used internally by the Chrome Web Store as part of publishing your extension and the public key is used to generate your extensions ID. Now in practice, this means that two extensions should never have the same ID by chance. The public and private keys are randomly generated and the resulting extension ID will vary as a result. It's actually not impossible to have the same ID twice. We could generate the same private key and there's also something called a hash collision. But that's very in the weeds and very unlikely. So we don't need to worry about it for our case. Now once you upload your extension to the Chrome Web Store, we also have internal logic to make sure that your ID can never be taken by anyone else. You might have noticed that I've been carefully choosing my words a bit and that's because there are some ways that two extensions could end up with the same ID. The most relevant one is all about that public private key pair we mentioned earlier. As the name suggests, the public key is public. Actually in the manifest for the extension that I showed earlier, you can see this key field in the manifest and this is the public key for the extension. Let me show you how to use this to create an extension with the same ID. I'll copy this line and I'll head over to the Web Accentions playground and then I'll go ahead and paste it into the manifest. And so now I have a completely different extension, but it's using that same public key. And then we're going to go ahead and download this. I'll remove the existing extension that we have, but make a note of this ID. And then if I go ahead and drag in this new extension, you can see that we actually get our new extension, but with the same ID as the previous one. And that was really easy and that's why you should never trust the extension ID as a guarantee that a particular ID means a particular extension for any security critical use case. Now, if you know anything about public key cryptography, you might find it a bit strange that we can do all of this with just the public key. And that's because in development, we're actually not doing any cryptography. The public key is just being used to generate the ID directly. Of course, once we publish to the store, then cryptography starts to come into play and things are different. By the time you upload to the Chrome Web Store, you need to remove the key field. And that's because the cryptography comes into play as I mentioned. We'll start to use the public key associated with the private key we hold for your extension in simple terms. The key we're using for your extension is fixed and can't be changed. We can also generate a value for the key field on the command line. So I have some commands here that I can talk you through. If I take this first one, then I can use this to actually generate a private key for my extension. And now I have the private key. I can use the second command to actually get the public key that I'd need to put into my extension manifest. And then if I take this final command and run this, you can see this will actually give me the extension ID that would result if I was to use that public key in an extension. And using one of these two approaches can be really useful if you need a consistent ID in development. For example, if you're working in a team and you want to make sure that everyone has the same ID for the extension, even if they're loading it from different file paths on their machine. And that's everything I have for today. If you have suggestions for other questions you'd like to see answers to, drop them in the comments below. Otherwise, we'll see you in the next video. You