---
video_title: "Practical steps to make your website agent-ready (I/O Connect ‘26)"
video_id: SnkNmrW0cdE
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SnkNmrW0cdE
video_date: 2026-07-02T17:21:54+00:00
video_description: |
  Prepare your website for the next generation of AI-driven interactions. Dive into Chrome DevTools to monitor and debug the WebMCP, use targeted Lighthouse Audits to evaluate your site's agentic web readiness, and finally put coding agent SKILLS to the test in practical exercises. Kasper Kulikowski and Andre Bandarra share how to apply these tools today to future-proof your projects for the next evolution of the web.
  
  Chapters:
  0:00 - Introduction
  0:36 - The Agentic Web
  1:54 - How AI agents see websites and complex journeys
  5:28 - Introduction to WebMCP and tool demonstrations
  10:37 - Defining WebMCP tools (Imperative & Declarative APIs)
  15:26 - Workshop: Making your website agent-ready
  17:21 - Implementing to-do app tools
  20:11 - Testing and debugging WebMCP tools
  25:13 - Declarative API demo
  26:26 - Lighthouse Agentic Browsing audit
  27:50 - Summary and next steps
  
  Resources:
  Chrome DevTools overview → https://goo.gle/4gdy8Gx
  Get started with WebMCP → https://goo.gle/4vcwqci
  Build extensions with coding agents → https://goo.gle/4vOAO2o
  WebMCP docs → https://goo.gle/webmcp-docs 
  Lighthouse GitHub → https://goo.gle/lighthouse-github 
  Create AI evaluations → https://goo.gle/evals 
  WebMCP tools (GitHub) → https://goo.gle/webmcp-evals-cli 
  
  Subscribe to Chrome for Developers → https://goo.gle/ChromeDevs
  
   
  #ChromeForDevelopers #Chrome #GoogleIOConnect #ChromeDevTools, #WebMCP, #Skills #Developers
  
  
  Event: Google I/O Connect Berlin 2026
  
  Speakers: Kasper Kulikowski, Andre Bandarra 
  Products Mentioned: Chrome, WebMCP, Chrome DevTools
---
So, in Carbiter Science, an agent is an autonomous entity that observes its environment, collects information, processes it, and takes actions to achieve a specific goal. And then, continues. What has changed in recent years is we have unlocked new capabilities. We gave agents access to other lamps to the reasoning engine. So, and then, what is the agentic web then? A great question, Casper. The agentic web is not a separate web. It's an evolution of the web that we already know and love. It's primarily built to enable humans to create, share and consume content, shop online, and all of that, all the things we already do. The difference is that users are increasingly using AI agents to perform those tasks. On the agentic web, an AI agent can come in different flavors. You can have on-site agents, which are integrated directly into your websites, part of your experience. You can have a browser agent that can be native to the browser or created via browser extensions. And you can have, you can even have off-browser agents like CLI applications that can talk to the browser via protocols like a CDP or DevTools at MCP. So, today, we are talking about browser agents native to the browser like Gemini and Cron, or provided via browser extensions like the model context to Inspector you are going to see later today. If you're interested in other kinds of agents, come find us at the workshop. We are happy to have a talk. So, as developers, we want to enable our users to succeed when using our site with AI agents. To do it, it's important to understand how agency or website or what kind of inputs it will collect from our pages to understand an action on it. So, the first way an agent can do it is by literally looking at your page. It does that by taking screenshots of the rendered page and then using a visual model just like the human words to interpret it. Then, the agent can also read the render's DOM and analyze the structure of the text. So, the nesting of elements in the DOM, like a button inside it is, tells the model about the hierarchy of the text. It will also use the raw text to make sense of the content and then understand actions it can perform. Like the text inside a button tag, for instance, will tell the model what the button does. So, the DOM tree fundamentally reinforces the relationship between elements in your page. Finally, the accessibility tree. The accessibility tree is a browser native API that distills the DOM into what's most important. Roles, names, and the state of interactive elements. And it provides the agent with a semantics summary of the page. It's also what screen readers use, by the way. So, as it happens, making your website great for humans will also make it great for AI agents. If you do high quality visuals, semantic HTML, reinforcing hierarchy, and implementing great accessibility, agents are going to be able to use our website better. So, I guess we're done today, right? So, we can just go and watch Germany play a quarter. We have work to do. Actually, well, as much as I like football, there's still a challenge to discuss. You see, as humans, when you visit the hotel website and you look at the two, we want to book a room, and you need to understand where the search bar is, or where to pick dates, and which buttons to click. And, you know, while different sites will have slightly different experiences, you can carry over experiences across websites. So, you look at a page, you tell where the search bar is, then you type the location, you click on the search button, then you see the search results, right? And you may have a preference. I know Kasper likes to go to the gym, so he'll probably pick a gym. And we want to do, like, late checkouts, and you pass through the future selection, and you click whatever it wants. And, you know, the user journey can become more and more complex. And, as the user journey becomes more complex, the context said the agent needs to know to understand what's going on. Gross. It needs to synthesize the signals, screenshots, down, accessibility tree, but that context is grow, which requires more computing power, which means it takes longer. And, at the same time, it increases the chance that the model can misunderstand some signal and take a wrong turn. So, here's the question. How can we make the interaction between the website and the agent faster and more reliable? Kasper, I'll leave you to that one. That's a very good question, right? So, enter WebMCP. WebMCP is a proposed web standard that aims to expose structure tools to AI agents, and to create an AI-based web. Uncurrently existing websites. What does it mean? It means that when a user wants to add a certain kind of pizza to their website, to their cart, in addition to analyzing visuals of your website, reading DOM and reading accessibility tree, agent can use tools provided by your website. If there is a tool that agent can call to support user intent, the whole journey becomes simpler, because the tool is right here. Of course, we would not be ourselves if we did not show you some demos, so back to you, Andrea. So, Kasper is great. He promises demos, challenges, and he's like, go for it, Andrea. Great. I'll try this one. All right. Here's our first demo. This is a little bit too useful. It has a form, as you can see. On the left side, it's a debugging agent we have created. It will list the tools you have on the website. That's what we have a book table, a little bit too, distro tools. And you have the name in the description. We'll go more about it later. But I can prompt this agent. I can say something. I'm... Oh, capsule. I'm celebrating a successful workshop with Kasper at 7pm. Book a table in the name of Osandre. And that's it. We can tell the agent is going to call it to and fill in the form for me, name, date, time, number of people, and then even this special request, we are celebrating a successful workshop. That's it. Let's go to the next demo. All right. So, in this case, this demo is a game. The tools you have in this game are you can move your character around. You can look around, which means that it will give the agent information about what's around your character. It can pick up items. You can use items and it can drop items. That's what the agent can do. So, let's see what happens. I'll just tell both down and see the agent does it. Yeah, just did it. I can tell it moved down. You can see it invoked a tool called move and the parameters south. And I can say, oh, there's a key over there. So, let's say move down and pick up the key. All right. You just picked up the key, breaking green key is over there. Well done. Okay. Move down two times. We'll do it. Yeah, great. Let's do it. Then move, right, open door to the north. Let's see if it does that one. Yeah, did it. So, this gets boring pretty quickly, right? And so, what if we tried something slightly more complicated? Let's try the exits of the maze is at the bottom. Right. So, I created it so I can tell the agents keep moving until you reach the exit. Pick up items, you find and use them to unblock your path, avoid backtracking. All right. So, slightly more complex instruction. Let's tell the agent to go and see what it's going to do. So, yeah, it's moving. So, what's happening here is I gave the agent much more complex instruction, higher level instruction. And it's figuring out how to combine in the tools that I provided in the page to solve that higher level problem. So, imagine that you should do in that journey website, how the user can use your tools in creative ways that we maybe haven't even imagined. So, we're not going to wait until the agent reaches all the way to the end. Maybe it's even stopped right now. But we can switch back to the presentation. So, what do you see what you can do with WebMCP? Now, let me give you a tour on how to define tools. First, you have two ways to do it. You have the imperative API which uses standard job strips. And you have the declarative API which uses additional attributes on HTML forms to implement WebMCP. So, let's take a look at the imperative code first. So, yep, there it's all there is to it. And let me give you a deeper tour. So, to write certain tool, you call documents.model.stop.rgc.tool. Your tool need to have a name, inscription, an input schema, and an execute block. The input schema are the parameters the model will pass to your function when executing the tool. The definition is that JSON schema which is a powerful format. And you can find details about it on JSON-schema.r. The execute block is what will happen when the tool is actually called by the agent. You will have notice there is a add to do item there and wonder what's that. That is just your real JavaScript function. And it can be any function your site already has or it can be a new function you want to implement. The value returned by the execute block will be sent back to the agent and agent might send that back to the model. This is a great opportunity for instance. Let's say that there are some error in the parameters or you want to report success or even next step to the agent. You can return that information because remember that message is not for the user. The message actually goes back to the agent itself. So you may want to write certain. If you want to write certain, you can use an abort controller. And you pass it to the right certain when right strain it. Then when the tool is no longer needed, all you have to do is just abort the controller. For example, if you are an Angular developer and your tool availability is coupled to your component lifecycle, you can use the on destroy cook to do that. Then we have the declarative. If you already have a form, you only need to do a couple things. There are just two required attributes to lane into the description. When you provide them on the form, your form will be seen by the browser as a web msp tool. Two-prem description is an additional attribute, but it's optional. It gives the agent needed context about how to use that inputs. That's an interesting thing to remember. The way you name your tools, the way you describe them, the way you describe parameters is not just the documentation. It's actually important context that the agent will use to decide when to use a tool. Think of it as some specialized form of prompt engineering. On the right hand side, you can see how the browser will translate the declarative tool we just registered into a tool until an internal representation. That internal representation is very much like the JSON schema that we use on the AMP 32. You have two names, two description, prem description, P. One thing to know is that the default behavior for the declarative API is that they require user action to submit the form. The agent will only steal in the sales. The user will have to click on the submit buttons. But you can change that behavior with the tool auto-submit attribute, which allows the form to automatically be submitted once the agent fills all the information. Finally, there's a new member added to the form submit event called agent invoked. The value will be true when the form is submission was filled and invoked by an agent. You can use that phrase in the validator form and then use the respond with method to return detailed message to the agents so it can learn about its mistakes and try again. We just scratched the surface of the parrots and declarative APIs enough for the workshop. But if you want more, to learn more about more advanced features and ways to use the API, you will find more details here. All right. All right. So let's try this in practice. So you have two ways of solving this workshop. The first way is we provided you templates in the code that already have things like input schema and so on. The things we need to do is uncomment them and add proper tool names and tool descriptions. And we have to be very precise to distinguish between tools like edit to item and toggle item. Poggle is kind of editing, right? The other way in which you can solve the workshop is by using modern web guidance. I believe some of you have seen the earlier presentation today. So my tip would be very specific about what needs to be accomplished, right? Using modern web guidance, wrap those specific functionalities into the Web MCP tools. Let's switch to the laptop. All right. So this is a meta demo, let's say, because it also serves as a tool list for this workshop, right? So we have several things to do. Implement imperative web MCP tool, validate it with dev tools, implement declarative web MCP, validate it as well, then debug. And one is hidden light house, agentic web audit will be running audits. All right. So let's go to the code. So in the up GS in the base directory to do list, you have commented out templates for the web and this web MCP tools. If you want to use modern web guidance, you can just completely ignore it, delete and use the scale, Web MCP scale to implement those tools. But let's try to actually uncomment them. And first thing I want to do is get to do the first thing I need to feed to the agent is get to do. And for this, I also want to understand like how to do is constructed. So it has ID, text and status. Right. So let's description returns list list of to do with their ID, the description and status. Let's save this website is being run with on port 889 with cash disabled. So if I reload it, I expect the tool. Yes, the tool is there. So let's try to trigger it. So list me only descriptions of current to do items. I will maybe clean this list and let's try it. Right. So at the bottom you can see, AI result, implement, imperative, blah blah blah, got it. First exercise done. So now it will be good to have some tool to actually mark this exercise as done. Right. So let's try it. Down below, you will find you will find toggle to do. So let's do it. Let's try to uncomment this. All right. Toggle to do. Poggle is the status of a to do item between active and complete. Okay. So in this example, we are using toggle, but let's say to the agent like mark, implement imperative web mcp to do as completed. Yeah. Nice. We have this one as well. Let's try to implement these other tools as well. So add to do. Starting with add to do. All right. Add to do. Okay. Add to do the list. Fair. Edit. Selecting, selecting, selecting, selecting, selecting, still selecting. All right. Will it suggest me something? Yes. Edit the text description. That's important, right? Because that's what will distinguish between editing description and toggling the status. Right. And delete. So, Andrea, we have so many cool tools. Watch what to do. We should add. I mean, we already we already booked a dinner. Right. So maybe have fun. Have fun. Yeah. That's a good item to have. You're like add. Have fun. Item to the list. Okay. But if we added have fun. Unless we mark it as done, we are, are we not having fun? Yeah. I mean, continue having fun. So let's edit the text. Definitely. Right. Edit the have fun description into continue having fun. Right. Yeah. And then maybe just delete. Delete, delete, implement imperative web mcp item. Right. The way. The way it's. All right. Let's try again. Delete, implement in imperative web mcp item. Delete it. All right. So now what we can do is we can look at the DevTools. I will check later. Why didn't catch me? Maybe we need smarter model 3.5. Let's try this once again. Delete, validate, validate. With DevTools imperative. Let's see. I did not add the tool. Okay. That's that's my bad. There was no tool to delete. Of course. They'll hit to do. Delete as specific to the item. All right. There's some typo already. It makes sense. Right. It couldn't delete it because I have another tool. So let me try this again. Delete, validate with DevTools imperative. Do I have the. To refer to page. So the tool is yes. It's now. It's now here. It takes some time. But in the in the meantime, what you can see is that in the DevTools, you can see what tools were called with what input parameters and what was in with what output parameters. What's also possible is that you can remember that WebMCP tools are either JavaScript based or HTML4 and based. Right. So you can debug them the same way as every JavaScript function that you ever created. Right. So what we can do is from here. Oh, now it works. It's always easy, right. Yes, I do want to confirm already. So what we can do is we can select a tool in the DevTools to see where it's registered in our code. Right. So let's try it. So it's here. All right. So I want to set the break point because let's say something doesn't work. I should have done this with the delete tool, right. To check why didn't work. All right. So now let's try to add debugging in progress. Item sent waiting for the agent. If it takes two hours, we'll switch the model might be right. It works. So any technique you already use to debug your JavaScript functions, you can apply for the WebMCP as well. Right. Then there's very interesting discussion about the evaluations in general. So I'll be sharing some materials about this later. So here my guidance would be to test deterministically your tools wherever you can and then evaluate the touch points with LLM like can agent given the list of tools can agent choose the correct tool can choose proper parameters. And then it use one tool result as an input to another tool, right. Like a touch points with the with the agent. So yeah, I think we are pretty much done with the with the imperative API. I will just resume debugger and let's go to another demo. And just go to Google advanced search website. This is a real website, right. Then what I can do is that I can try to find the form. There it is. I mean, it's pretty small, but yeah, you can see it. So it's a life website, right. And currently no tools are registered, right. So what I can do is early, they added us HTML at a tool name equals advanced search and tool name the description. That would be best improvised search tool. Okay. Okay, tool. Of course, the parameter is wrongly named tool description. Right. And it converts any form into the WebMCP tool. So what we also can do is review what available in Chrome, starting from milestone 150, which is the new category of the light host audit, which is the agent browsing. Let's try to run it on this demo website. What it checks, it checks several very, very important things like accessibility, which is very relevant for agents, right. The content shifts. So how much the content shifts on your website and validation of validation of things like WebMCP tools, artists, schemas, correct, and so on. It's also important to mention that this audit is experimental and we are looking for your feedback. So let's see. Two out of three. Still, it seems that I will have some work to do after right to fix the layout shifts for this website, right. So WebMCP form coverage, two forms are missing annotation because we did not use the clarity of API. So there are the API in this example. We use imperative API. So this is informative. Right. There are WebMCP tools registered, which is good. And yeah, accessibility tree is well formed and WebMCP schemas are valid. I think we can go back to the deck. So it summarized. And right still here not hiding me. All right, let's summarize. We began by understanding how an AI agency is your website, how it uses a combination of screenshots, the don't tree, and the accessibility tree. And so that agentic readiness starts with a principle that we already know, build it well, build it accessible. We have reviewed WebMCP, a proposed WebStandards aiming to expose eStriptured tools for agents on existing websites. I really encourage everyone to start experimenting with WebMCP and join the origin trial, give us feedback. We really want to hear that if there is a time to give feedback and improve the API, that is now. Finally, we discussed the new light house audits for the agentic web. And we'd love to hear your feedback also on the WebMCP debugging tools available in Chrome DevTools. Yeah, so the practical steps to make your website ready. It's a good moment to take a picture. So try WebMCP imperative and declarative APIs. All did your website for agentic readiness using lighthouse and of course join the WebMCP origin trial. Yeah, so Andrea, that's a wrap, right? Thank you for listening. Thank you. Thank you.