---
video_title: "Lighthouse audits with DevTools for agents"
video_id: 2q9d7ANaXeA
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2q9d7ANaXeA
video_date: 20260806
video_description: |
  Improve websites with Lighthouse audits from Chrome DevTools for agents. Learn how you can utilize Lighthouse for comprehensive checks in accessibility, SEO, and the new agentic browsing category. See how coding agents autonomously run checks, provide targeted advice, and fix problems based on live runtime data. We present practical scenarios for accessibility and SEO, demonstrating an optimized workflow for continuous web page improvement.
  
  Chapters:
  0:00 - Introduction
  0:41 - Lighthouse audit categories
  1:20 - Performance tools for agents
  2:05 - Automated accessibility audits
  3:04 - Automated SEO audits
  4:05 - New agentic browsing category
  4:56 - Learn more and conclusion
  
  
  Resources:
  Lighthouse audits with DevTools for agents → https://goo.gle/dta-lighthouse 
  Performance insights → https://goo.gle/performance-insights
  
  Questions? Find us on LinkedIn:
  
  https://goo.gle/matthiasrohmer
  https://goo.gle/chrome-for-developers
  
  
  Watch more DevTools Tips → https://goo.gle/DevToolsTips 
  Subscribe to Chrome for Developers → https://goo.gle/ChromeDevs
  
  #ChromeForDevelopers #Chrome #Lighthouse
  
  Speaker: Matthias Rohmer
  Products Mentioned: Chrome,  Chrome DevTools
---
Did you know the first lighthouse in recorded history, the Pharos of Alexandria, was built in the 3rd century BCE. Over 23 centuries later, maritime lighthouses might feel a bit outdated for actual nautical navigation, but the Lighthouse tool that developers rely on that is still fresh and is now available in DevTools for agents, including the new Agentic Browsing audit category, all built by the same team that maintains Chrome DevTools. Welcome to Developer Tooling Tips. I'm Matthias. Let's dive in.

DEVELOPER TOOLING TIPS

TUTORIAL As a quick recap, Lighthouse is an open-source tool helping you improve the quality of web pages across a set of five distinct categories: performance, accessibility, SEO, best practices, and now new Agentic Browsing. You can run Lighthouse through the DevTools UI in the dedicated panel, through the command line, or as we'll explore today, through Chrome DevTools for agents. Across these categories, Lighthouse packs a massive punch with over 140 automated checks total. With its straightforward advice, excellent starting ground as context for your coding agent. For performance, DevTools for agents has specialized performance tracing tools instead of Lighthouse, giving your agent the raw, more accurate runtime data than the single 0 to 100 score familiar from Lighthouse.

And performance insights as part of the trace bring the same context as the original Lighthouse audits. Learn more about them through this link. GOO.GLE/PERFORMANCE-INSIGHTS By using Lighthouse, your agent gets targeted advice based on the live runtime completely autonomously, and after it's done, use the info from those audits to immediately start working on failed audits instead of waiting on you to manually copy/paste them from DevTools into your agent. Let's explore some examples.

When you're working on a page intensively, trying to meet deadlines and fulfill client requirements, accessibility is sometimes, even unintentionally, deprioritized. But we want to make sure your website works seamlessly for as many people as possible. So, after finalizing a change, you can ask your agent to do a final accessibility check with Lighthouse and fix up your work before you push it to your users. In your coding agent, just prompt "Please run a Lighthouse accessibility audit on this URL." In this example, with our demo news site, DevTools for agents identifies missing button names, bad color contrasts, images without alternative text, and nonideal touch targets.

With a follow-up prompt like "Fix all findings," we can send our coding agent straight to work and have it fix those findings on its own without any manual intervention other than the final code review. Onto the next use case. When building a web app, it is easy to overlook search engine fundamentals like missing meta descriptions or skipped heading levels. Before deploying, you can ask your agent to evaluate your page's discoverability using Lighthouse's SEO audits to ensure crawlers can effectively index your content. As for any other Lighthouse category, just prompt "Please run a Lighthouse SEO audit on this URL and fix all findings."

With the same demo site as in the previous example, Antigravity, as our agent, found missing meta description tags across various different layouts. Easy to forget and, for an LLM, just as easy to fix. By adding "fix all findings" to the original prompt rather than sending it as a follow-up prompt, we created a closed feedback loop this time. The agent identified issues and can jump straight into fixing them before running the same audits again to verify its fixes. For the last example, let's take a look at the new Agentic Browsing category in Lighthouse.

Agents accessing websites rely heavily on a well-formed accessibility tree, descriptive tools, and stable layouts to navigate and interact with your website. A malformed tool or unexpected layout shift can completely break an agentic workflow. To ensure your site is ready for the agentic web, ask your coding agent to run the new Agentic Browsing audits. To do so, you can prompt "Please run a Lighthouse Agentic Browsing audit on this URL." On this example site with a WebMCP-enabled car configurator, the tool definitions look all right, and as it's a single-page demo application, it doesn't have an LLM's TXT file.

I got some work to do on accessibility though. This is how you can run Lighthouse audits with Chrome DevTools for agents and when it's useful to do so. To learn more about these and other use cases of DevTools for agents, visit our documentation at this link. GOO.GLE/DTA-LIGHTHOUSE Let us know in the comments which issues your coding agent was able to surface with Lighthouse.

Or just leave your recommendation for your favorite real-world lighthouse. Mine is Point Bonita in California. As always, thanks for watching, and see you next time. A POWERFUL WEB. MADE EASIER. WATCH MORE