---
video_title: "Extension Update Testing Tool in action"
video_id: Lpz6nFy7PQo
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lpz6nFy7PQo
video_date: 2026-01-21T18:00:27+00:00
video_description: |
  Oliver walks through how to test an update for yourself using the Extension Update Testing Tool. For more information on permissions, check out the related video.
  
  Watch more Developer Mode → https://goo.gle/dev-mode 
  
  #ChromeForDevelopers #Chrome
  
  Speaker: Oliver Dunk
  Products Mentioned: Chrome
---
Well, things get a bit more complex because Chrome has some logic where it will merge the permissions and not always show all of the permission warnings. For example, let's say the user has already agreed to let you read and change all your data on all websites because you requested that all you are else permission. Now you want the Decide of NetRequest permission. If I search for that permission in the documentation you can see that will normally trigger a block content on any page permission warning. But since the user has already accepted something far more broad, we actually don't require any steps from the user and we don't show an additional prompt. Now there are too many cases like this to document, so instead we publish this documentation on how to test an update. And it has a few different options, but one in particular is using the extension update testing tool. And I want to show you that one in practice. So let's take a look. So I have a really basic color world extension you can see here and I brought this into the extension update testing tool and I've done the basic setup so that I'm ready to go. And if I press the install extension button here now you can see we get the prompt to install the extension and I haven't requested any permission. So I don't get any permission warnings here. I can just directly install the extension. And then if I go to the extensions page, you can see that my extension has been installed. And now we're going to go ahead and update this with a new permission. So let's say that I want that declared of net request permission that we looked at. So I'm going to add that to the manifest and then I'm going to download the extension and bring that into the testing tool. And actually I need to update the version here as well because if there's not an increase to the version number, then the browser doesn't know that there's an update available to be installed. So I'm going to go ahead and grab this and move it into the update testing tool. You can see we're now serving the updated version. And if I go ahead and press the update button on the extensions page, you can see that my extension has been disabled and I'm being asked to accept these new permissions to block content on any page. And this is exactly the same as the permission warning that users would get installing from the Chrome Web Store. So if you have an update that you're not sure about what I advise you to do is take the version that's already published, bring that into the tool and then upload your new version. And you can use this to go through the full flow that a user would see and check that you're comfortable with any permission warnings.