---
video_title: "WebAssembly Backend for Scala.js with Sébastien Doeraene"
video_id: HuPG-4ayXQM
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HuPG-4ayXQM
video_date: 2026-01-05T17:00:33+00:00
video_description: |
  The JVM-to-Web journey continues! In this episode, Thomas Steiner welcomes the original author of Scala.js, Sébastien Doeraene, to discuss the major, experimental leap to WebAssembly. You’ll learn why the team decided to target Wasm now and how it complements the existing JavaScript emission. This episode offers a technical deep-dive into how Scala’s powerful, nominal type system maps its objects and classes onto Wasm GC, and examines the critical details of interoperability, including what happens when a Scala object crosses the boundary to a JavaScript function. Finally, Sébastien covers the current status of the Wasm ecosystem for Scala.js, and the key limitations you need to know before you flip the `withExperimentalUseWebAssembly(true)` switch. Tune in to discover how a mature typed language is laying a fast, new foundation on the web!
  
  Chapters:
  0:00 -  Commonalities between composing music and composing compilers
  1:38 - Scala, Scala.js, Scala Native, and the Scala Center
  11:01 - The "elevator pitch" for Scala.js
  14:59 - Is Scala.js competing with TypeScript?
  20:31 - What motivated the decision to target Wasm?
  26:40 -  How Scala.js utilizes Wasm GC
  31:24 - What's actually crossing the boundary between JS and Scala.js?
  37:37 - BigInt support in Scala.js
  38:38 - The status of the library ecosystem for the Wasm target
  41:40 - Sébastien's hobby project ported to Scala.js
  44:02 -  Is the Wasm backend purely a Scala.js thing for browsers?
  52:38 - What developers should be aware of before flipping that `withExperimentalUseWebAssembly(true)` switch
  58:28 -  What Wasm proposals are you waiting for to unlock new features in Scala.js?
  59:57 - Wasm, but not 
  
  Resources:
  Sébastien Doeraene on GitHub → https://goo.gle/4pMPufo 
  Sébastien Doeraene at EPFL → https://goo.gle/3KTZZhu  
  Ensemble vocal Évohé → https://goo.gle/4pApQu5 
  Scala → https://goo.gle/4iYZwY1 
  Scala.js → https://goo.gle/4oYze9E 
  Scala Native → https://goo.gle/4rX4hp0 
  Scala Center → https://goo.gle/44uffZ8 
  Scala to TypeScript → https://goo.gle/4j37ZcM 
  Tyrian → https://goo.gle/4iZCOik 
  Laminar: https://laminar.dev/  
  Scala.js WebAssembly backend → https://goo.gle/4oT4bvV 
  Announcing Scala.js 1.19.0 → https://goo.gle/4aSYM4F 
  Wasm GC proposal: https://github.com/WebAssembly/gc 
  JSPI proposal → https://goo.gle/4s5cIik 
  Scala.js Interoperability → https://goo.gle/4afJdE1 
  Scaladex homepage with stats → https://goo.gle/4ja7jCr 
  FunLabryrinhte (Scala) → https://goo.gle/4oTghoL  
  FunLabryrinhte (original) → https://goo.gle/3KA8EWx 
  Bringing Scala to Server-Side Wasm → https://goo.gle/4pgwC7v 
  Scala.js Wasm Limitations →  https://goo.gle/4s1jOnN 
  Custom descriptors proposal → https://goo.gle/4p8I7Og 
  Stack Switching Proposal → https://goo.gle/4pJG8B1 
  JS Primitives Builtins proposal → https://goo.gle/4akAnor 
  Shared-Everything Threads proposal → https://goo.gle/3MCCxGd 
  
  Watch more WasmAssembly → https://goo.gle/WasmAssembly 
  Subscribe to Chrome for Developers → https://goo.gle/ChromeDevs
  
  #WebAssembly #Wasm #ChromeForDevelopers #Chrome
  
  Speaker: Thomas Steiner
  Products Mentioned: Web Assembly (Wasm),  Chrome,   WebAssembly for Chrome
---
Welcome to the episode 18, and the last episode we explored Kotlin's journey to the web with Sanem Baschwav. Today we stay in the realm of strongly tight languages that usually run on the JVM but have found a second home in the browser. I am thrilled to welcome Sebastian Durand, the original author of Scala Jazz. Sebastian welcome to the show, but before we dive into the net degree of compilers, you're not just a code virtuoso, but also a voice virtuoso. Singing and inquires like the ensemble vocala Eboe. I think I'm hoping I'm pronouncing this right. Do you find any commonality between composing music and composing compilers? That's a good one. Yeah, I do think quite a lot. I do compose a little bit, I conduct more. I'm not sure there's much commonality between compilers themselves and composing, but you could make a parallel between language design, which is also part of the job. There are lots of moving parts and you need to make sure that you always want to add more features and more voices, more parts, but you want to make sure that they all sound or work well together. In that sense, I think there is a little bit of commonality in the creativity aspect of making various things play well together. Well, and both are art forms and both are out of reach for myself. I think this is where the commonalities are even stronger there. So it is singing and compiling building both things. I'm not really good at both things. I have to learn and try, but I have a most likely fail. So I'm on sing. I'm here to get very interesting insights out of you about the world of Scala. And so people know there's Scala. Some people know there's Scala JS. Some people even know that there is Scala native. There's the Scala center, which you work at are involved in our CEO of something. So can it just help us put a bit of structure into the Scala ecosystem? Who does what, what came when and so on? So first, I mean, Scala center is a little bit different from the other things you mentioned. Very obviously. So when it has Scala in the range. Right. Right. So the Scala center is you can see it as the foundation that's behind Scala similar to the Node.js foundation or patent foundation or whatever. Right. It is technically hosted inside EPFL, the technical university at Lozan in Internet. So, but it's it functions as, yes, mostly independent foundation. And it works together with three other units, let's say that Stuart the Scala programming language. One is the lamp laboratory at EPFL as well, which is led by Martin Uttersky. You may have heard the name. He's the author of Scala. So that's the research group where they do all the fancy forward-looking stuff. And then there are two companies working on the Scala programming language. There is Aka, who is mostly maintaining the Scala two line of the compiler. And then there is Virtus Lab, who is still working the Scala three efforts on the company side. We're consulting and compiler development, tooling development as well. So those are the four units that work together to maintain Scala. Then you mentioned, so Scala.js, so obviously Scala was first designed for the JBM. And when we say Scala, we primarily think about that. That came out in 2001, I believe, the first version. So it's been a while now. Scala.js appeared about 10 years later in 2013, I think, was the first... Yeah, I started working on it in 2013. Martin had a chat with me when I applied for a job. And he said, how would you like about compiling Scala to JavaScript? I said, sure, sounds great. So that's how I started. I'm still there 13 years later. So the first development started in 2013. We had our first non-experimental release in 2015. The infamous version 06. Infamous because it was supposed to last for six months before we turned to one. And it lasted for seven years because we never broke backward compatibility. So why would you switch the version number? So eventually we got version one in 2020. And since then we haven't broken compatibility. So we're at 120.1 last I checked. And then Scala native came the first version came out in 2017, I believe. And so Scala native directly compiles to native codes. It uses an LLV and backend to produce X86 or X64 or RM or whatever. And that is considered stable since version 05 which came out last year somewhere in 2024. So yeah, there you have it. One thing that I always like to put emphasis on is that Scala native or not compiling Scala to JavaScript or to native code. They're their own dialects. Scala JS is a dialect of Scala that compiles for the web. It doesn't have Java interrupt but it has JavaScript interrupt which makes it a different language basically. And then Scala native is yet another dialect that it hasn't heard with C. So and it happens to compile to native code but again those are really different dialects and we think of them as such. That said they do share a substantial common subset. Probably more substantial than many other languages that target several very different backends. So you can typically write the same code and it runs, compiles runs exactly the same on all the platforms. So you're mostly involved with everything Scala JS, right? So you were not about in Scala native. And you said you were looking for a job and then this sort of dropped out of nowhere. So what's this on Martin's bucket list of things that he wants to do in his life? Like get a language that compiles two JavaScript or like what was the involvement there? Well I was not even looking for a job. I had started a PhD at UC Luvain in Belgium a year prior but then I got this email on the Scala internals mailing list back then which said brilliant compilers engineers wanted. It was like this is for me I need to apply and the next thing I knew I was moving to Switzerland and I dropped my PhD started a new one at EPFL. But yeah it had been on Martin's mind and several other people's mind for a while. Scala JS was not the first attempt at compiling something Scala to JavaScript. There had been two other attempts in house like in Martin's lab. One was Scala GWT using the GWT technology from Java. You may have heard of it maybe not. Well you may have not. So that was compiling from the class files but then making GWT happy with Scala class files. Basically that got good demos but it was hard to use. Also the GWT technology itself was already kind of declining at the time. There was another one which was more in the shape of DSLs. You could write inside a Scala application, right? It's JavaScript-ish code that looked like Scala as a DSL and your Scala application would then emit JavaScript at runtime if you want. Which could be used if you have a Scala server but you want to emit a little bit of dynamically generated JavaScript for your clients but you can't really write a website application, client-side application using that technology. So those were two attempts and then there were two other attempts in the Open Source community. One was Scala for... I don't remember. Two different other things but that didn't get much traction. So Scala JS was the four for fifth attempt at compiling Scala to the web which worked well because they had previously done something like that compiling Scala to dynamically types of language and I had already realized that compilation itself was not going to be the difficult part. You can write a compiler. It's fine. What's hard is interrupt. How do you interrupt with JavaScript? From week one of this work, my mind was on we have to get interrupt ability right and it has been the late motive of Scala JS for its entire life. It's still our number one priority. That worked out. In this span of a few months, we had a good demo and then it only took seven years to make it right. You mentioned JavaScript left and I guess a lot of our listeners are mostly JavaScript developers but also web developers obviously getting in touch with TypeScript and Scala is often described as a blend of object-oriented and functional programming which is a little weird maybe already for JavaScript developer. It's concise, static, it runs on the JVM. There's Scala JS which is the main talk of this episode which compiles Scala to JavaScript but can it just give us an elevator page for Scala JS? So why would a developer in 2025 choose to write Scala for the browser instead of just using TypeScript or JavaScript directly? Well TypeScript already provides a good stepping stone into an elevator page. If we're not there, we would have to try and motivate why you want static types in the first place. I think in 2025, the industry has mostly converged to static types are actually good. We should have them. TypeScript has the gargantuan effort of taking JavaScript semantics and somehow putting types on them and making that sort of work. But to achieve that, they have one overarching non-design goal which is to be sounds. So it's very easy to write code that type checks according to TypeScript rules but it's actually not type correct at all and you can still run into a lot of runtime errors which is fine. They still achieve their goals of helping code bases be mostly right and helping with auto completion and all of these things. So it's definitely useful. Scala goes a step further. Scala has a sound type system or at least if there isn't an unsoundness somewhere, it's considered a bug. So there you get a much stronger story for what you want to do with a safe application, a correct application. Then the blend of OO and Functional is, I mean Scala was a pioneer there but it has made its way through several mainstream languages. You could argue that JavaScript at this point is a blend of functional and object oriented programming. You've got classes, you've got first class functions, the core data structures are not immutable which is the one thing that really is missing to adopt the coding philosophy that you would want for a functional mindset. So that's but the ideas are there now and they are fairly well accepted at this point that immutable is good thing. Sometimes you need mutable data structures, sometimes you immutable algorithms but mostly if you can design and most of your application in a functional mindset and immutable mindset that it helps. So Scala gives you a language that helps you writing immutable first codes whereas JavaScript, TypeScripts, you have to kind of fight the language at every step of the way to do that. So the other way that I pitch today is not so much about the blend itself but really the language and its main data structures. They encourage you, they help you, right? Immutable first code as opposed to along with you but not really helping you. So people when they program TypeScript they typically use Escape Hatch sometimes like something as any which sort of breaks the contract that you have with the TypeScript language but then yeah it's frowned upon but people do it but essentially even despite such weaknesses if you will, TypeScript has sort of won the war for Type JavaScript. It offers structural typing that apps 101 to how JavaScript actually works. Scala on the other hand uses more of a nominal typing system and has, as I say, a much more robust and sound. Even, yeah, you could say strict type system but then you look at the industry today. Do you see ScalaGes competing with TypeScript or is it solving a completely different problem for a different kind of team maybe? There's even a Scala to TypeScript compiler which is interesting. So very position ScalaGes versus TypeScript today. So it's difficult to argue that ScalaGes is not competing in any way to TypeScript, right? There are obviously two languages that you use to write your client's site application in. So clear, clear, there's, you're going to have to choose at some point. Do you want to use TypeScript? Do you want to ScalaGes? Do you want to use Closure Scripts? Do you want to use any of the other languages Kotlin? Right. So it's definitely competing in that sense. Of course, yes, TypeScript is definitely winning and I don't think we want to compete in terms of market share per say. But if your team is more into the functional oriented or immutable oriented mindset, then as we discussed previously, ScalaGes is going to be more suited, I think. And there are two frontend frameworks that help you do that. One is really all in into the purely functional style. It's called Tyrion. If you're familiar with the L and the L market texture, that's basically the L market texture transposed into ScalaGes. The more popular one is Limiter, which uses a functional reactive programming paradigm. So in such a paradigm, you're not really manipulating it immutable data structure, you're manipulating time varying signals. And then you compose signals, you derive signals that are, for example, the sum of two other signals. And that means it's not that you have an immutable value and you perform an addition and you get a new immutable value, but you have at any given time one value that you derive another value from. And then that means you can still reason about your program in a sort of immutable way because the relationships between all your variables hold. And Limiter and it's its FRP system prevents glitches, so you don't have weird inconsistent states where some of the values have updated and some others haven't. And then it directly modifies the DOM. So it's more efficient than a virtual DOM. A virtual DOM you have to build an entire new data structure, defeat against the previous ones so that the system can update the DOM for you. With an FRP system, the system knows about the signals propagating in any directly updates the DOM, so it's actually more efficient than virtual DOM-based systems. All that said, there are some teams that actually use both TypeScript and ScalarGS. That's where the Scalar2 TypeScript compiler you mentioned is not really a compiler in the sense that it doesn't translate the body of functions. It's more providing TypeScript type definitions for what the ScalarJS side of your application would expose to TypeScript. Because ScalarJS compares to JavaScript directly, if you use that code from TypeScript, you don't get a typed version of the API you just wrote in ScalarGS, which is kind of a bummer given that it was statically typed in the first place. So what you can do is, indeed, there are some tools that take your ScalarGS application and consider it as a library to be intended for TypeScript and then writes down, in general, it's the TypeScript 4 TypeScript to see the right API with all its static types. So that's useful if you have an existing front-end team that is comfortable with TypeScript, with whatever front-end framework they want to use. But then you have a complicated logic besides that you want to write in ScalarGS for its correctness, or because you want to share code with your backend, which happens to be written in Scalar on the JVM as well. And then you want to interrupt the typeScripts and ScalarGS on the 30-deep level and that's something that some people do. That's very interesting. So you might be learning for finally getting into the interrupt with JavaScript and so on. But before we do this, we need to first actually introduce WebAssembly because this is the very topic of this podcast after all. Right, that's right. But if you go there, so for a long time, ScalarGS targeted JavaScript, it's in a name exclusively. But then starting with ScalarGS 17.0, which was released in, I think, late 2024, and then improving significantly in the 19 release, you officially added first, like, experimental WebAssembly as a backend, which seems like a major shift. What motivated this discussion and sorry, this decision to target WebAssembly now, and as the goal to eventually replace the JavaScript machine or to complement it, so will it be Scalar.Vasemian instead of Scalar.js? Right. So one thing that has completely changed a year and a half or two years ago is that WasmGC appeared. Before the existence of WasmGC, it was a complete no-go to compile ScalarGS to WebAssembly. Many people said, why haven't you written a WebAssembly backend? Like, everyone's doing it, it's going to be fast. Except no. Compiling to WebAssembly does not suddenly make your program fast. Before WasmGC, compiling your linear memory language to WebAssembly instead of JavaScript was going to make your program faster. But if you had a GC-based language and even more so, if you wanted to interrupt what JavaScript, that was basically a no-go. You would have to essentially write an interpreter that you would compile to WebAssembly instead, which some people do. There is a Python interpreter compiling to WebAssembly in the linear memory system. It's entirely isolated. It works. But if you want to interrupt with JavaScript, then that's not really a possibility. But WasmGC completely changed that story because now you can actually hold values that are JavaScript objects, put them into your objects allocated on the GC, but also go the other way around, give one of your WebAssembly objects, give them to JavaScript, it can hold on to them. You can have cycles between the GC and it can give them back to you and then you can call your methods again in many things. That completely changed the game. Basically, as soon as WasmGC was available in one browser, we sat down, we were two of us, worked for six months, and we had Scala.js WebAssembly. Remember earlier, I talked about the fact that Scala, Scala.js and Scala native are three dialects of Scala. It's with other languages that have a set of semantics and you can do things with them. Scala.js on WebAssembly is really that. It's not Scala Wasm. Scala.js is the same language. It's the same dialect that you can compile to JavaScript, and now you can compile it to WebAssembly. You get all of the JavaScript interrupt, like for free. The compiler is doing all the hard work for you. You don't have to think about it. You can write calls to your JavaScript object methods, put them into fields, manipulate them, call higher order functions, give them Scala functions, and get back a result. It's all as as was always possible. You can write subclasses of JavaScript classes and implement methods, and it all works. In that sense, the WebAssembly backend for Scala.js is really an alternative backend. You can flip a switch in your config, and suddenly you have Wasm. It works the same. If you're lucky, it's faster. If you're unlucky, it's slower, depending on your workloads. There is one thing that you gain from compiling to WebAssembly is that you can leverage JSPI. The JavaScript promised integration feature of WebAssembly. That's a game changer. On the Web, on JS, you can't ever wait. You cannot wait for a promise to resolve. You have to yield to the event loop somehow. With JSPI, as long as you enter somewhere into a JSPI async function, then you can call as many methods as you want, put as many normal looking methods as you want on your call stack, and then somewhere deep inside your call stack, wait for a promise to be resolved. JSPI is going to suspend your function call, yield to the event loop, and eventually when the promise gets resolved, your stack gets resumed. That's a complete game changer because now you can write applications in synchronous style, and somewhere deep inside, do an I-O-Call, wait for the result. It's all free. Can you just walk us through maybe how a scholar JS uses VASMGC? Does it map scholars directly to VASM struct scenarios, or is there still some magic happening to make scholars and antics work? For the most part, we do what you would expect if you've ever thought about how to compile a Java language to VASM. Every class becomes a struct, subclass relationships translate into sub-typing relationships between your structs. You have a first field in every object that's your VTable, so it contains a pointer to your method table for virtual dispatch, some metadata about a class name, it's runtime metadata if you need it, and then some more elaborate system for interface method dispatch, which is absolutely a treasure's performance wise, but that's another story. That's what we use. That's works because by default in the semantics of scholar JS, scholar classes and instances of scholar classes are opaque to JavaScript. You can give it to JavaScript. It can hold onto it, pass it around, store it, give it back to scholar eventually, and then scholar can again pick up from their call its methods, access the fields, but JavaScript itself cannot by default see any of the fields or methods that are defined in your scholar class. That's great for us on WebAssembly because right now on WebAssembly on JS, if you have a VASM struct and you give it to JavaScript, there's nothing you can do with it. You cannot even call toStraight. That fits mostly with our semantics today. Then you are going to ask, but how do you interrupt with JS? What if you want to call a JS function that expects an object that has certain methods that uphold some interface? That's then a different hierarchy. In Scholar JS, we have two separate side-by-side hierarchies. One for what we call the scholar classes, which have the semantics as described, and then one for the JavaScript classes. In JavaScript classes have JavaScript semantics. They have runtime method overloading, for example, where scholar classes have compile time method overloading. In JavaScript classes can only extend JavaScript classes. They can implement JavaScript interfaces, but you cannot have a JavaScript class extend the Scholar class for conversely. What you can have is put an instance of JavaScript classes as an instance fields of a Scholar class, and conversely, you can even instantiate generic parameters of a Scholar class to a JavaScript type and conversely. It's just the inheritance relationship that is not a load. If you have a JavaScript class, even that you wrote in Scholar JS, it extends to JS class. It becomes a JavaScript class because of it belonging to the hierarchy. Then all these public members are automatically visible to JavaScript through the usual JavaScript property resolution rules. How do we compile that to web assembly? Well, exactly the same way we compile it to JS, which is that those classes, we actually generate JavaScript code for them. In JavaScript glue code that we generate automatically, we define the classes, we define their fields, their methods, but the body of each method is calling to the web assembly implementation of those methods. That means you can extend JavaScript classes, you can expose methods, fields, they are JavaScript objects. This is the implementation of their methods or calling into web assembly. And this is how Scaladry's on Wazim works. We have these two hierarchies that are separate from a class inheritance point of view. The Scala classes are compiled to structs and are a pick to JavaScript. The JavaScript classes are actual JavaScript objects that are therefore visible and entirely manipulating both from JavaScript. Well, so there's a lot to unpack. I want to dive a little deeper. So you said JSPI is very important for this. Just to take a step back, one of the trickiest parts of WebAssembly for managed languages is always interrupt as you hinted at already. Scala JS is famous for being really good at it. So you can interact with React code if you want. When comparing to JavaScript, when comparing to WebAssembly, how do you technically handle that boundary? So if I pass a Scala object to a JavaScript function or the other way around, so what is actually crossing the boundary? We touch a little bit on that already. So the thing that we give to JavaScript is the Wazim struct. With Wazim GC, that works. You can give a Wazim struct reference, give it to JavaScript, and it can hold on to it. This is what happens, except it says it's opaque. The only thing you can do is give it back eventually. So this is how it works. And interrupt still works because for the interrupt aspects, we have the JavaScript classes that are different. There is one additional thing that is very unique in the way that we compile to WebAssembly on a JS host is our handling of primitives. If you have an int 32-bit sign integer in Scala, and you give it to JavaScript to a function that accepts an int in its declared type signature, or pretty much any language, including linear memory languages that have some sort of FFI, which JavaScript will then convert that in a way that your int becomes a JavaScript number in the right range. And then if you get it back, get the same. What is unique for us is that if you put that primitive int inside the generic context, like in a type parameter, or you upcast it to any. Usually what happens and what happens on the GVM, for example, is that you box that primitive int inside a class, inside an instance of JavaLongInteger, for example. If we did that, then as soon as we enter a generic context, we would have an instance of JavaLongInteger, which is a Scala class, which is opaque to JavaScript. We would give that to JavaScript, to JavaScript we'd say, I can't add that. It's an opaque struct, it's going to throw a type error. So what we do instead is when we upcast or put in a generic context, which is the same because of type Erasure, a primitive int inside an any, we turn it into a JavaScript number right then. And how do we do that? Well, we call the JavaScript function that is an identity function from the JavaScript point of view, except it's wasn't signature, says, I'm taking an I32 and I give you back an any ref. And because of the magic of how JS interoperates with WebAssembly, that gives us a JS number inside an any ref. And this is the thing that we manipulate. If we have to cast it back down or take it out of the generic context into being a primitive int again, we ask JavaScript again to do the conversion for us. And this way, even if it's already in a JavaScript context, in a generic context, and we give it to JavaScript, well, it's a JS number. So JavaScript sees the JS number and it's happy to perform an addition on it. So we do that for all the primitives. And it works. Sementically, we achieve exactly all the right Sementics. It is, however, dreadful for performance because that means every time we upcast or done cast or perform a type test on an int, we have to ask the JavaScript, the wasm JavaScript boundary to do some work for us. And that boundary is terribly slow. So yeah, it works. But if you have to box a lot of integers or booleans or doubles or whatever, then you're going to hit that boundary way too often. For ints, we actually can, most of the time, avoid that using a trick with I31 ref. So it's actually kind of okay. And if it were not, I think that the whole performance story would be completely, completely dead. But because of that trick, it kind of works, but it's still a pain for booleans, for doubles. So that's not great. This is precisely what I wanted to address with a proposal I made to WebAssembly, which is now at Phase 2. It's JavaScript primitive built-ins. So that would be a small ish set of wasm.js built-ins. So special functions that you can import into your WebAssembly module and that are actually provided by the JS engine itself, rather than being written in JavaScript code, to perform these conversions. So for example, the boxing of an I32 into an any ref. And then it will still have to perform the same conversion, of course, which has a cost. I mean, you need to allocate a heap number and stuff, but at least you're not crossing the wasm to JS boundary back and forth. And so you can cut a lot of the overhead from that. So this proposal is going to help a lot for that use case. And we're going to be able to fix that performance issue. Yeah, we will talk about the exciting Vazen proposals that you were championing or interested in in a little bit. I was about to ask about performance, but you answered that already with great detail. You mentioned all primitives, but JavaScript has gotten one more primitive recently, which is recently ish, which is big int. Do you have big int support as well? Yes, I know. Big, JavaScript begins as seen from from scot.js is some JavaScript thing. You can call methods on it. You can apply operators on it. But there's not a corresponding scala primitive. So we don't have that problem. I mean, basically it's as if it were any other object. The fact that it happens to be a primitive is of no real concern for scala.js as far as that as as far as big int is concerned. Yeah, understood. Cool. So scala.js is mature. It's been released many years ago. Its ecosystem of libraries has had many years to develop this page called Scala Dex, the Scala library index. And according to this Scala Dex, roughly one third of Scala libraries are available on JS as well. So what is the status of the library ecosystem for the Vazen target? And like more forward looking, is it realistic to build a full application in Scala.js on Web Assembly today? So usually when you have a new ecosystem of libraries and Scala.js was like that. You build a compiler and then you can use a standard library because you compile the standard library with your compiler to JS. And then you can write small programs and you cannot use any of the libraries that people have written before because those are compiled to JVM class files. And yeah, so you need a lot of time for the ecosystem to first take you seriously. And willing to update their build and publishing procedures to also build the Scala.js version, publish that to Mavon Central, the JVM repository of libraries. So it takes a while. And for Scala native, same story, it takes a while for your ecosystem to catch up with the fact that, yes, you're actually serious about this new target. And yes, we should invest in making it work. For the Web Assembly target, since we're actually compiling the Scala.js semantics, just to a different back end, we can actually reuse all the libraries that have been published over the last five years. And so you take any library that was published for Scala.js, the binaries that are readily available for you, you don't have to wait today. You can use this entire ecosystem of Scala.js libraries, compiling them to Web Assembly. The only thing you have to do in your build to switch, I'm going to target Web Assembly. And then your build is going to generate Web Assembly for all the libraries that you're using. So I mean, assuming you believe that it's realistic to build an application using Scala.js today, which I believe many people do too. Then it's also possible right now to build it with Web Assembly because you have your entire ecosystem. I mentioned Tyrion in Lime Error earlier, front end libraries. You can use them from Web Assembly. I have a personal project where I do that. I use all those libraries just like that in compiling through Web Assembly. So yeah. Nice. We can make to this project and show notes if you want us to. Can you just provide some background compared to many the paradigms of how it would have been had you programmed this in JavaScript, regular JavaScript versus how you approach this in Scala.js. You mean from the front end UI point of view? Anything we did. From the programming approach, from the programming paradigms study years, but also yeah, from if you build the front end choices that you had available and so on. Well, definitely using Lime Error as a front end UI library is, puts you into a certain mindset when it comes to your UI, right? You write your entire application in this FRP style, which is which is fairly comfortable. That is more or less like you would do in Scala.js, usually like wasn't really a chair, just tore him up. There is one thing. Again, I mentioned earlier, JSPI. This is the reason that this specific application I compiled to Web Assembly is because I want JSPI. It's a game, it's a maze game. You can customize it. You can write your own squares, effects, things like that. So basically script the game, right? And to do that, well, somewhere inside your script, you might want to display a message to the player or ask for a confirmation or something. And if you had to do that on JS, waiting for the reply of the user is not something you can do. You will have to register a callback. And then that means your entire scripting experience needs to be asynchronous, work with promises. It's a nightmare if you want to explain that to someone who's not a professional programmer. So, JSPI brings a completely different paradigm to the table that I can write my scripts in a completely synchronous way. I can write show message or ask confirmation. And I receive a result right there. I don't have to play with callbacks or promises or anything. JSPI is providing all the magic for that. So that's really, that's really, really nice. Yeah, that's good. So talking about the Web Assembly starting point. So there was some confusion or doubts if you will about which of Scala JS or Scala native would be the best starting point to compile a Scala. So you said different languages, different dialects to Web Assembly. But now that Web Assembly is also entering the picture particularly with Vasey, the Web Assembly System interface on the service, the line seems to blur a little. So Mr. Vasey back in purely a Scala JS thing for browsers or you see a future where a Scala native could target Vasey as well for service side workloads with maybe even the component model as suggested by a blog post by company called Virtus Lab. Right. So Scala JS as a dialect, it really wants a JS host. Right. If you're not going to talk to JavaScript libraries and Scala JS is a language means nothing. There's nothing works. So Scala JS on Wazem is definitely for the Web or at least for JS engines. I mean, you can run it on the server on something like Node.js or something, right? Which you might want to do. But there's no way you're going to put it in the Web Assembly container that doesn't have a JS host and that provides you with a component model instead. Right. So for that, we are working on a new dialect which this time I guess we could call Scala Wazem or maybe Scala CM for Scala in the component model world. And then the question is more indeed relevant. Do we want to use the Scala JS compiler architecture or the Scala native compiler architecture to build this new dialect or do we need an entirely new architecture. Right. And then it's not really about the standard question of semantics. It's really about the question of compiler design. Like how do you design your intermediary presentation? How do you design your optimization pipeline? So for that, you could indeed make the case that Scala native would be a better starting point as a compiler architecture. But it remains the problem remains that you want a GC. And if you're going to use Scala native which has a pipeline going through a LVM, even if you ask a LVM to generate Web Assembly, it's going to generate Web Assembly in the linear memory. And you're not going to get a GC. You will have to build your GC yourself, which is what Scala native does when it targets the native code. Obviously, but if you target Web Assembly in the linear memory and you want to build your own GC, it's really, really difficult. And there are some really hard roadblocks there. You can't scan the stack, for example, to get your roots. So you have to build Shadows stacks and in the bunch of things like that. So it's a lot of work. And if instead you want to reuse WasmGC, but not in the JS host, just WasmGC in WasmVM that is server-side without JS, then you get the GC for free. And that's what you really want for all sorts of reasons. But then if you start from Scala native, going through a LVM, you have a really, you have a big problem, because a LVM is not going to use WasmGC. They're not going to change that. It doesn't fit the entire architecture of a LVM is geared towards the linear memory model. So this is not going to happen. So then could you intercept the pipeline between Scala native and LVM and target WasmGC instead? I guess you could, but you would have to walk uphill on the ski slope to recover the GC abstractions out of your linear memory IR, which Scala native uses for optimizations and stuff like that. So as opposed to coming from the Scala JS compiler architecture, which is oriented towards a GC target, yes, there is more work to do at the language level to interrupt with a component model. And you might even argue that lowering that down to WebAssembly is still a bigger diff compared to coming from Scala native, except going uphill 20 meters on a ski slope is much harder than going downhill 3 kilometers. And with compilers, it's exactly the same thing that happens. It's much easier to get down 3 kilometers of abstraction levels than to go up 20 meters. So it's still a lot easier to start from the Scala JS compiler architecture to WasmGC without the GC without the JS host, but with the component model. And this is what we're currently doing. And the blog post you mentioned was I think written by Ricky Totteniguchi, who is working on this new dialect of Scala for the component model using the entire Scala JS compiler architecture to target WebAssembly in the component model. So there we definitely have a future. I'm eager to see what is going to happen there. When difficulty in getting now your GC language inside the component model is that the component model itself currently it's mainly not only ABI as linear memory oriented. So you can compile down your interrupt with the component model to the linear memory so that you can talk to the component model and then back into your GC structures. This is all fine for immutable structs and records lists because especially serialization. You can take an immutable structure, serialize it however you need to talk to your function, get it back, diserlize it into your structs. But if you have a component model resource, which is a handle to a stateful entity, that's more problematic especially because at some point the resource expects you to drop it. If you have a linear memory language you typically have a built in a well-defined point in time where you free your objects. And that's the time that your compiler would call the drop operation on the component model resource. But if you have a GC there's no point in time where your GC object is going to be free. That wasn't doesn't even let you see that. It doesn't have recreferences. There's nothing. So there's no no way your compiler can decide to call drop at the right time. And that's going to be a challenge. Do we enhance the component model to be friendly or to GC languages, which is probably the most promising option but might be very difficult. Or do you then require your user of your GC language to actually put in their source code and express it called to drop, to compensate for the fight that the compiler cannot do it for you. It's not as nice but yeah you know it's better than not paying. I can see already we need to have you on in maybe six years or so, see years or so when the Scalovasm backend is fully baked out. But final let's say a little closer to what we can do now. So going to the release notes there's some limitations that you mentioned for the WebAssembly target as it is today. There's some limitations with JS export for example. Are there any other Godsha's blockers that you should be aware of before you flip that with experimental use WebAssembly switch to true. Anything you want to give developers on the way when they are about to make that switch. Right. So there are two things. One thing is simply something we haven't implemented yet, which is multi-modules support. In Scalovjs you can configure your builds to emit not just one giant JS file with your entire application but it can decompose it split it into modules that are either statically loaded depending on the initial points or even dynamically loaded using dynamic import calls of JavaScript. But currently for WebAssembly we haven't implemented that yet. There's nothing blocking us from doing it. It's just and it to sit down for a few weeks. Do it and ship it. The other thing that is much more problematic is those ads.js export annotations. Remember when I said if you have a Scala class an instance and you give it to JavaScript it's opaque and you cannot do anything with it from the JavaScript side. Well I lied. It's because there is one thing you can do with them. It's called methods that have been explicitly annotated with adjs exports. Right. And so on JS when you annotate a Scala class method with adjs export we make sure that the JS object that we give to JavaScript has a meaningful method with that name that accepts arguments and that we then call the inner code that sits within Scala. Right. And you can also annotate properties with getters and setters in the same way. And so with WebAssembly that's the one thing that we cannot implement today because of Wasim's struct is opaque to JavaScript and there's nothing you can do about it. So there we stuck. And that's the one thing that we say adjs exports the Wasim back in just ignore that. Fortunately you could be actually rely on that anymore since in most situations where you need to give something to JavaScript that JavaScript can call methods on you would actually give a JavaScript class. And JavaScript classes are compared to separate actual JavaScript objects. So all of that works. But still the adjs exports they don't work. But for that there is a proposal in the pipeline not by me this time but I'm contributing very closely. Permanence lively is the champion. It's the custom descriptors proposals. So the custom descriptors proposal has two main aspects. One stays entirely within Wasim core. It's so that you can attach descriptors to structs. And the descriptors can for example hold your virtual method table. And then the engine can fuse your descriptor with its engine level metadata for the objects for the GC to work and stuff like that. So you remove the footprint of every object by one word because instead of having the engine hidden word plus your VTable world. And then only the user level fields you only have the engine level word which also acts as your VTable because it's a descriptor and then the user land fields. So that's one thing. And then the second so that's that's an optimization oriented feature if you want from our perspective which we will use. But then on descriptors you can add a special field that will act as the js prototype of Wasim structs that used that descriptor. And that's exactly what we need to implement at js exports because now we can attach on the scalar class that defines an adjs exported method through. We can in the descriptor for that class put a prototype that has a full js method that then calls into the way that symbol the implementation for the method. And this is exactly what we need. And it will fix that last one person of semantics we can't yet compile. We already have a PR open content merge it because it's not stable in V8 yet. But we have a completely completely developed PR with all test passing including all the adjs export test passing that targets the custom descriptors. So I'm really looking forward to that. It's going to really finish our support. We will actually be able to claim that we have compiled scalar js the full dialect to web assembly. I'm very saying. So you mentioned a bunch of proposals already. So there was the custom descriptors one just right now before you mentioned your built in printtifs proposal. I forgot the exact name. I think stack stretching is also something that is of interest to you. Like can you just very briefly because we're already running a little late summarize. Yeah. What other proposals you're interested in in the bipe assembly world. All right. So stack stretching is definitely something that we're looking to we don't have anything like that today in the scalar languages. So we'll see what the stack stretching offers us and will provide then language features to use that power eventually. Another one that will definitely look into is the shared everything proposal. So because that would theoretically allow us to have multiple threads sharing GC memory which would in expand the possibilities of Scala.js as a language. Currently Scala.js is single-treaded by nature whether it targets GS or web assembly. But with a shared everything proposal we could consider adding short memory threading support. Nice. Very exciting. So yeah, this already brings us to the end of the show. I feel like we could go on forever. But yeah, I just wanted to leave sometime for the last part which is a basm but not which always helps us understand a little more about you as a person. And when you, Sebastian, instantiate streaming on any of your streaming devices, what is it that you currently watch or listen to? Well, right now we're we have started watching X files, the good old series at the website suggestion. Yeah, exactly that one. There I am singing and I've promised you a won't sing. Yeah, yeah, you did. You did. But usually what I listen to is mostly the movie music scores or video game music. That's that's one thing that I listen to a lot. And watching is a lot of Zelda lore YouTubers who who create content about the legend of Zelda game. Yeah. So when people talk about film music, more than nine typically comes up, which is Hans Zimmer, is that you as well? Hans Zimmer is definitely up there in the top composed for music. John Williams is perhaps the most famous one James Horner is also a dick name. And then yeah, several others that we like. And of course for the video game music, it's Koji Kondo. He composed most of the Zelda music's Mario as well. He's a legend. Okay, that's definitely a legend. Yes. Cool. And then the final question, if there's one thing that you could local get as in something that you do, and then global set as in something that you wish everyone else did, what would it be? And of course, as always, if you wish, you can also for sorry, swap the question around. So yeah, what is it, what you would local get to the set or vice versa? I wish every scholar developer has stayed with this kind of two brisful syntax and not with today indentation based syntax. The scholar three added to the language. But that's not going to happen. They like it too much. Yeah, that's interesting because I've read on Wikipedia about the scholar or the builder. People really were into this change. So you don't like it? No, it's still hard for me. It doesn't work with my brain. I need to spend too much too much brain power to parse indentation based code. I like the braces. I'm going to keep writing my braces. That's interesting because I think people like Python also just because of that. But like, do you enforce any kind of annotation with, I don't know, with the scholarship, as version of prettier would be like JavaScript kind of beautifier or do you just code well and then invented and then did as well, but in that it anyways. Yeah, I'm a bit particular. I still format all my code by hand. But most scholar developers don't do that. They use Kali FMT, which works the same whether it's Kala's Kali's Kali native. It works at the syntax level. So this is all the same. So yeah, most scholar developers use Kali FMT to enforce the specific quitting style. Yeah, that's all right. Yeah, that was kind of surprising inside to you, but yeah, that's why we have this session. And the final final question. So if people after listening to this episode, after watching this episode, if you're watching YouTube, have any more questions about you, the ecosystem, they want to know how to best get started. What would be the best way to do so? Do you have social presence? Do you have a forum, discord? How can people reach out? Right, so one important source of information is a scholar along on all the socials, either scholar, underscore, or scholar, dash, line, depending on the particulars, which is for all important announcements about the scholar language and events and stuff like that. We have the same for Scala JS. So again, Scala, underscore, JS for Scala dash, JS for Scala JS specific things, including Scala JS and wasm, obviously. And then if you want to reach out, the best is probably the discord server of Scala. You can find it. Scala discord server. We have a Scala JS channel. I'm looking there all the time. So you can reach me there. Nice brilliant. Cool. So with that, thank you so much, Sebastian. This was very insightful and I learned a lot about Scala JS about the Scala ecosystem, about why you don't like the annotation system that they introduced. I would definitely play around with the Scala JS playground as well, which is something that you can just do in your browser. There's no install or anything required. Just hang out and play. And yeah, with that, also thank you, listeners, watches for listening or watching. And if, as always, you have something interesting to say in the boat of Web Assembly, be sure to reach out. I am Tom Ajak on all the social networks that you can think of. I mostly hang out on Mastodon, but yeah, I watch everything else as well, except for maybe X, which is something I stopped actively using. And yeah, with that, thank you Sebastian again and happy. Next time, goodbye. Thank you all.