---
video_title: "HTML is the new JSON: Declarative partial updates explained #GoogleIO"
video_id: cPXJD6vTwEs
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cPXJD6vTwEs
video_date: 2026-06-08T15:06:15+00:00
video_description: |
  What if you could render your site as your components are available, without JavaScript? With Declarative Partial Updates, you can now render HTML updates out of order from how they are originally rendered. This allows you to load heavy application logic at the end of your document and patch it in later, creating massive performance and UI wins.
  
  
  Subscribe to Chrome for Developers → https://goo.gle/ChromeDevs 
  
  
  #ChromeForDevelopers #Chrome #GoogleIO #JavaScript
  
  
  Event: Google I/O 2026
  
  Speaker: Paul Kinlan
  Products Mentioned: Chrome
---
I do want to show you something that I think is just going to change the way that we build some UIs in the future that are both performance and also UI wins. And I think it's one of the biggest changes to HTML in a decade. So if you go back to my bedroom and look at the clock on my machine, you can see it updating every single second. Kind of what you'd expect from a clock. But the thing is, there's no JavaScript on this page, it's updating every single second.

And that's because of the declarative partial updates, that implementation that is coming into Chrome. The clock demo isn't all that useful by itself, but I do think it highlights some compelling potential use cases. So, for example, if you have a huge amount of application structure, say, a massive menu, you can render it at the end of your page, let the critical content get rendered first, then you can patch it back into the Dom just a little bit later. It's available in Chrome 148 now I want to show you one other thing where I think I would like to make HTML the new JSON, and we have a new API that's going to help with that. So if you've been using frameworks, you'll probably know about something called the island architecture.

I think it's a beautiful pattern and it's a beautiful concept, but it's going to be even easier for us as just plain JavaScript developers to do something very similar. So the new streaming API for dynamic markup gives you a revamped way to improve experiences by letting you inject HTML into documents via the stream HTML and stream HTML. Unsafe methods. What this really means is you can take the body from a fetch request, and then just stream it directly into the Dom. These APIs have both been available in Chrome since Chrome 148, so pretty recent.

They're going to change the way I think personally. They're going to change the way that we build web experiences as well.