---
video_title: "The new HTML-in-Canvas API is a game-changer #GoogleIO"
video_id: 9jFC6_-MmuU
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9jFC6_-MmuU
video_date: 2026-05-26T16:30:46+00:00
video_description: |
  If you've ever felt the HTML canvas was just a black box to the browser, hold onto your hats. The new HTML in Canvas API introduces a massive paradigm shift by allowing real DOM content directly inside a canvas. In this Google I/O excerpt, we break down how your canvas elements are now fully searchable, accessible, selectable, and inspectable. Say goodbye to needing a DOM overlay for accessible content!
  
  Subscribe to Chrome for Developers → https://goo.gle/ChromeDevs
  
   #GoogleIO #WebDev #ChromeforDevleopers #Chrome
  
  Event: Google I/O 2026
  
  Speaker: Una Kravets
  Products Mentioned: Chrome
---
And if you thought that all of that new CSS and HTML was game changing, then hold on to your hats, because this next feature is one of those rare moments where a new capability really shifts the paradigm of what you can do on the web. If you've ever built anything in an HTML Canvas, whether that's a shader with WebGL or even an infographic, then that the Canvas is essentially a black box to the browser. It's not parsable by the page that it lives within. But now, for the first time ever can have real Dom content inside of the Canvas with the new HTML5 and Canvas API. Yes, this means real elements in your Canvas that are searchable, accessible selectable, translatable, and inspectable.

And that also means that everything that we just walked through in this talk is also available in Canvas. This means that you can create entirely new types of UI where you no longer need a Dom overlay for accessible content, or you can create forms within Canvas. You can apply WebGL filters to text that you can interact with as their real UI elements, and you can keep that text highlighted. Copy, paste, and even preserve forms that work with built in browser features like autofill. The community has already been creating some incredibly creative demos with HTML and Canvas.

This 3D web page by Santiago colombatto and these fun wobbly button effects by Wes Bos. Popular libraries like Three.js also have already implemented native support for HTML and Canvas primitives to. This feature is a big one. It means an entirely new way of building web experiences that fuses shaders and semantics.

Even a simple button or slider like this one can be taken to the next level. The possibilities really are endless. From 3D web UI to incredibly detailed shader effects and interactions, to making your 3D game accessible and translatable by the browser. We've got a bunch of demos from our team live now on Chrome dev. HTML in Canvas where you can try it out yourself.