---
video_title: "How much do you really know about Vikings? - Stephanie H. Smith"
video_id: 2gPzWP3dcOQ
channel_name: "TED-Ed"
channel_id: UCsooa4yRKGN_zEE8iknghZA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2gPzWP3dcOQ
video_date: 2026-02-03T16:01:44+00:00
video_description: |
  Explore the 5 most common misconceptions about the Viking Age, and find out what living as a Viking was actually like.
  
  --
  
  The Viking Age. When medieval, horn-helmeted Scandinavian men ravaged Europe, scribbling mysterious runes and toasting their victories in goblets forged from enemy skulls before bidding farewell in fiery funerals. Except… that’s not quite how it went. So, what were the Vikings actually like? Stephanie H. Smith debunks common misconceptions about the time period.
  
  Lesson by Stephanie H. Smith, directed by Avi Ofer.
  
  Support Our Non-Profit Mission
  ----------------------------------------------
  Support us on Patreon: http://bit.ly/TEDEdPatreon
  Check out our merch: http://bit.ly/TEDEDShop
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Connect With Us
  ----------------------------------------------
  Sign up for our newsletter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdNewsletter
  Follow us on Facebook: http://bit.ly/TEDEdFacebook
  Find us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdTwitter
  Peep us on Instagram: http://bit.ly/TEDEdInstagram
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Keep Learning
  ----------------------------------------------
  View full lesson: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/5-myths-about-vikings-that-everyone-believes-stephanie-honchell-smith
  Dig deeper with additional resources: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/5-myths-about-vikings-that-everyone-believes-stephanie-honchell-smith/digdeeper
  
  Animator's website: https://aviofer.com
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Thank you so much to our patrons for your support! Without you this video would not be possible! Cyrus Garay, Samuel Barbas, LadyGeek, Marin Kovachev, Penelope Misquitta, Hans Peng, Gaurav Mathur, Erik Biemans, Tony, Michelle, Katie and Josh Pedretti, Hoai Nam Tran, Kack-Kyun Kim, Michael Braun-Boghos, zjweele13, Anna-Pitschna Kunz, Edla Paniguel, Thomas Mungavan, Jaron Blackburn, Venkat Venkatakrishnan, ReuniteKorea, Aaron Henson, Rohan Gupta, Begum Tutuncu, Brian Richards, Jørgen Østerpart, Tyron Jung, Carsten Tobehn, Katie Dean, Ezgi Yersu, Gerald Onyango, alessandra tasso, Doreen Reynolds-Consolati, Manognya Chakrapani, Ayala Ron, Eunsun Kim, Phyllis Dubrow, Ophelia Gibson Best, Paul Schneider, Joichiro Yamada, Henrique Cassús, Karthik Cherala, Clarence E. Harper Jr., Vignan Velivela, Ana Maria, Exal Enrique Cisneros Tuch, Tejas Dc, Khalifa Alhulail, Martin Stephen, Jose Henrique Leopoldo e Silva, Mandeep Singh, and Abhijit Kiran Valluri.
---
Ah, yes: the Viking Age. When medieval horn-helmeted Scandinavian men ravaged Europe, scribbling mysterious runes and toasting their victories in goblets forged from enemy skulls before bidding farewell in fiery funerals. Except, that’s not quite how it went...

It’s unclear where the word “Viking” came from, but in Old Norse it apparently referred to an act of maritime raiding. Historians long pinned the start of the Viking Age to a brutal ambush on an English monastery in 793 CE, which the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle described as an onslaught of lightning, “fiery dragons,” and “heathen men.” The more recent discovery of Scandinavian artifacts at a site in Estonia suggests that Viking activity began decades earlier. But whatever the precise 8th-century start, it persisted for the next 300 years. We don’t know exactly what prompted all this Viking-ing.

But volcanic activity in the mid-500s triggered a mini Ice Age that destabilized Scandinavia. Its society grew increasingly militarized, and like many warrior-based peoples, local chieftains legitimized their rule through gift giving. So, wealth-acquiring expeditions helped maintain authority. Meanwhile, new seafaring technology enabled ships to navigate both shallow rivers and open oceans. Most Scandinavians didn't participate directly, but Viking raids could offer young men the opportunity to amass riches to afford land and marriage.

These raids were unquestionably violent. But Vikings didn’t use their victims’ skulls as goblets, though this has been recorded in history— looking at you, Shah Ismail. This myth likely arose when a 17th century Danish scholar called Ole Worm mistranslated a reference to animal horns. Beyond killing, Viking invasions also involved mass capture. Vikings enslaved and sold people into human trafficking networks, or sent them to labor in Scandinavia and its colonies, as was the case for many Irish captives in Iceland.

Over time, small-scale attacks on vulnerable coastal communities evolved into sieges on cities; temporary camps grew into permanent communities; and trade networks spread even farther. Viking-era Scandinavian chieftains may have drunk German wine from Egyptian glass, while clad in Chinese silks and Indian gemstones. But they did not wear horned helmets. This image was popularized in 19th-century stage productions, specifically Richard Wagner’s “The Ring Cycle,” an epic, mythologized account of Germanic history. While archaeologists have found Scandinavian horned helmets, they preceded Vikings by 2,000 years, and were likely used in rituals, not battle.

Instead, high-status Vikings might have worn iron helmets with brow bridges, while others donned leather caps. And we aren’t sure these warriors were always men. In 1878, researchers excavated gravesite remains since interpreted as belonging to a high-status warrior, which a 2017 analysis found to be female. Viking society was undeniably patriarchal, but discoveries like this hint at our incomplete understanding of the social complexities at play. As for funerary customs, 10th-century Arab traveler Ibn Fadlan recorded witnessing a burning boat funeral along the Volga— however, it’s unclear if these were, in fact, Vikings, and it occurred on land— without flaming arrows and with sexual violence and human sacrifice.

Popular Viking funeral depictions are likely modern inventions. Vikings didn't appear to have one funerary practice, and both buried and cremated their dead. Regarding runes, Germanic peoples began writing with them around the 2nd century. They came to be used to bridge the physical and spiritual worlds, and for more mundane matters. While some reference past events, Viking Age runes typically didn't record detailed narratives.

Old Norse only became a literary language after Christianized Icelandic scholars adopted Latin script around the 12th century. So, actual Viking Age accounts generally originate from traumatized victims and cultural outsiders, restricting our insights into how Vikings understood themselves and their world. The Viking Age is traditionally said to have ended in 1066, with a battle won by English troops, though some incursions continued. In Scandinavia, power shifted towards centralized Christian monarchies and state-sponsored conquest, like Crusading. Meanwhile, the Scandinavian diaspora flourished in Iceland and integrated into other European societies.

For centuries, the term “Viking” went unused, until the 1800s, when nationalism swept Europe, and people began invoking it to gesture at a romanticized, shared Germanic past. This mythos persists today— even as new discoveries reveal just how little we know of the Viking world, and shapes that once seemed certain recede into the thick mist of time.