---
video_title: "Palmeiras e Flamengo no Brasileirão, MP marcando o Timão e o Grenal da Copa do Brasil."
video_id: vVtU9ANSAHQ
channel_name: "Metrópoles"
channel_id: UC9mdw2mmn49ZuqGOpSri7Fw
channel_category: "Sports"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vVtU9ANSAHQ
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  De segunda a sexta, às 9h30, acompanhe o 90 minutos, com Marília Ruiz e Fábio Piperno, sobre tudo o que acontece nos campeonatos brasileiros 2026. Resultados, notícias, análises, comentários, bastidores e os principais assuntos do futebol brasileiro, tudo em um só lugar.
  
  Saiba o que está movimentando os grandes clubes, acompanhe as principais disputas e fique por dentro de tudo o que importa no futebol.
  
  De segunda a sexta, às 9h30, ao vivo, no Metrópoles TV.
  
  Fique por dentro das principais notícias do Brasil e do mundo no Metrópoles TV. Aqui, você acompanha cobertura completa de política, economia, segurança pública, entretenimento e os fatos que impactam o seu dia a dia, com informação rápida, confiável e contextualizada.
  
  Trazemos os destaques mais relevantes do momento, com análise clara e direta para você ficar sempre muito bem informado sobre tudo o que importa, onde quer que você esteja.
  
  🔔 Inscreva-se no canal e ative as notificações para não perder nenhuma atualização.
  ➡️ Deixe seu like!
  
  ✅ Acesse o portal Metrópoles: 
  https://www.metropoles.com/
  
  #MetrópolesAoVivo #90Minutos
---
Hello, Chana, good day, 90 minutes is starting, the end of the week, arriving with the Brazilian champion of the championship, the most important, the middle and the flamenco, we'll take the plane, I'll play outside the house and now bring you a single difference of the green now in front of the flamenco that took the ball's favorite, the other one, the race against the Z4, which also has an important game in this weekend with the stars of the Brazil Cup, because we will talk a lot about the grenade, I came from Vermelho and the tribute is our friend Magão, but he missed, he lost his ball, he missed, and I went to the end of the program to dance the ball with him, but I didn't see the boss, the game was so long Inter, our dear Magão, with the head pain and everything, and today he didn't even appear here, but I'm going to do it, it's going to appear, I have a little bit of magic, I'm going to ask for a little bit, he's going to appear here, there's no escape from the team, I'm not one of the last ones, I'm not working day by day, well, we have a ticket for the day and the ticket has a new drink, but the boss is with super focus in the palm, let's see, it's very busy, right, guys, the ticket, I want to see the second party, everyone down there, the palm has a foil, I like to joke about the three titles and the question is if Gabriel is the production guy, he does it all day, green, green, green, it's yes or no, the palm has a foil to joke about the three titles, remembering that this week is the liberator week, starting the week that comes, and the end of Brazil is only coming back in the last week of November, I'll give you a good day to the Pipeano, who is there all-animated there, three faces, paper, Pipeano always works with three faces in his personal life, he never is a face, he's used to it, good day Pipe, I love Marylyn, I'm going to go to the reason, as I always, but look, since I always insist and repeat for you, you're human, you're a warrior, I live, that is, I mean, that he lives in society, so I live in society, now, look at love, it's a different interpretation, I said to you that it's a little interpretation of the elastic of my brigade, but the fact that I'm looking at it here, I'm going to take a new journal that I showed you, Margarão, here I'm, that's it, it's not a provocation, and it's a bad thing for you, international today, it's not a good news, international is just a little bit of a consultation here, that Marylyn, where are you going to say something, I'm going to get a paper, I got a paper from Margarão, a more like that, for those who are not colored, obviously, the most funny of the world today is zero, for those who are colored, look today is really like a paper, it's great, but I'm going to watch the red one, then I go, I'm going to dance later, first with the results, I have to call the screen, take the paper, put it on my screen, look, it's not a bad day, the result of the game won for three to one, the game had been zero to zero, the game had the resurrection of the Carlos Viní, you know the bad of Carlos Viní, I wanted to change Carlos Viní, Pedro Raú, and you said that you were equal, the same Carlos Viní, three to one, the game, the little one that was not playing, the kiss, the one that was this one, did the little ball of honor at the end, the joke at the end, the spray of pepper, the three to four, five, four in the ring, and the game is classified, it will take the ring in one of the final of the end of the day, well, for you who are with us on TV channels of Metropolis, you go to a quick interval, you will take your coffee tomorrow, if you don't know the six weeks here in Metropolis, the little one that will know, there's coffee tomorrow, it will be marilha Ruiz, coffee Ruiz, today there was bread, cheese, ballinha, mother, mother of Enrique, also contributed with ballinha, so the sixth day of ingord here in Metropolis, two minutes interval, for you to be with us on YouTube, we follow, talking about this final, you see how it is, in ketchup, you don't answer me, you said that the sergiegario, and so I think the apple is to tell you about three ahead, oh I'll tell you, the calendar of this year gives three ahead, because if you take the wrong of Brazilian championship, you will not go well in the libertadores, and now the cup of Brazil is passed on the way it is not working, you can't say, ah, the three championships, it's what gives to the German, now the German paper, two data, you have a libertadores' flag, remembering that the champion and vice of the cup of Brazil has a free flag, a group base and one, make free. Well, obviously, it's up to this business to go to the vice champion of the cup, but I'm talking about this time, there is a higher estimate, right? There is a reason for that, for example, if the glass passed on the palm, it's there in the credit, it's in the libertadores, and the game, which is a little bit of a dispute too, the metal and the glass, it can in an extreme situation, fall in that limbo, say, to break the libertadores, but you will be down in the Brazilian, and then it will be all that confusion, a new risk, it's good, the fact is that this year, the palm, now it's not going to open, because this happens a lot in Spain, Real Madrid, sometimes the other alternative team to play the cup of e, but when the semifinal comes, you will not open the semifinal, nothing, then the risk is that I have the team to play, now I have no more way to think about it, but see, disappearing from the team, I would say to the former coach, that if everything is right, this, these provisions, I have, I have, I have the teams, I have to celebrate a title on the day of 22, and I don't see the Brazilian champion, the young coach, Flamengo, here in São Paulo, 28 of November, the free match, and 6 of December, the Brazil Cup, here is the wonderful, Marilha Ruiz. God bless me, I'm still fighting here, it's not just a match, no, we are back with the Pipe, playing a fake for the end of the year, in 15 days the palm, you can stay with the three titles, in the 22 of November, the game against palm, in São Paulo, in the Benclique Péate, 28 of the end of the free match, in Montevideo, and in the 16th of December, there is the end of the Brazil Cup, the market is not confirmed, but it should happen for the first time in the United States, December 6th, my youngest daughter, in Brazil, only three games against Flamengo, because Flamengo is outside the Brazil Cup, good, we have to put now the classification of the Brazilian championship here in the screen, to help us, I and Pipe, we will do, we will not be able to break the game, it will be a raius x, Pipe, it went to Madrid, studying the game, we already talked about all the games of the 10 games, to not say that we are prioritizing green, no one saw Gabriel Luca, which is all green, green, green, green, it is not like that, the championship has a lot of time, the palm is still the leader with 52 points, followed with the high one by the Malvado, with 51, the Melvade, or Flamengo, the Athletic Paranáense, 45, Fluminense, 42, Bahia, 40, Cruzeiro, 39, Curitiba, 37, Athletic Minero, 36, Edibulgo Ragantino, 35, and 40, 32, because I was going to leave this screen here, because they are only worried with the wrong and the half of the week, from the side of the table, Palmera, Flamengo, Fluminense, Athletic Minero and Corinthians, the others will play the Brazilian championship because they are not in other championships, but all the times I said here are, or in South American, in the quarter of the final, or the Liberteleport, quarter of the final, I am the case of Flamengo, Fluminense, Corinthians and Palmera, Virapágio, please. Then, in December 1st, São Paulo, 30 points, also worried in the middle of the week, there are the Bocajúnis, in the third this week there are the Bocajúnis, the Bota Fogo, 30 points, is not in competition, no victory, 29, and the Santos has a Copa Sul American against the Galo, 29, 28, just think about it now, in the Brazilian championship, and there is a Copa in Brazil, in front of Mirasol, just thinking of the Brazilian championship, and that's it, this situation, 25 VázCO 25 also has a Copa Sul American against the State of the World Cup, with an independent international unfair, only has the Brazilian championship for the coming of the E4, Remuk 23 and the PECOENC 14, and also, it's good to remember, we have a discussion here between the 17th and the 10th, sorry, the 10th, the 16th, the 17th, because VázCO claims that in the design part, they would be the cards at this moment would be in front of Mirasol, even the reclamation on the CBF, then we will talk about it more about this after the round ends, much more probably this confusion of the 25s, in three teams, with 25 points and Inter, VázCO and Mirasol, the design part of two teams here that are with everything the same is the yellow card, the paper will be the round, now, and you help me analyze it, well, we have a game that only goes for the Brazilian championship and it goes very well, the two are on the first part of the table, they had a lot of decreases, especially in the case of Bahia, and now they have a G4, which is good to remember that between the four finals, you are the nationalist of the Copa of Brazil, only the first can open a Vagano G5, so Bahia and Red Bull Bragantino have to be in Fiat Quinta Marcha, how will it be Red Bull Bragantino and Bahia tomorrow, has them founded not only for r invitation, and the real wheel such as the yellow card. And because that'saciones, two, So, there is a more ambitious project of a group there with the presence almost global, it's a group site, so the Bahia is the most time to keep a better result, especially the competition of Matamá. I think Bahia, Marila, did not win the goal, would have been a weak player at this season, with Bahia doing very few champions in the two teams. So, I think this challenge, this final third of the championship, it will be much more impact for Bahia, that will naturally be more committed than the Red Moo. While atese important,epsah, 4th aches the gwt glor blends into every group who understand the goal and will live its overall goal. That's one of the most important, first of all, that people who go and play the rugby, improve in their games, the São Paulo Day is a refresher in the history of the rebalancing, but the São Paulo Day has a good week that comes and the athleticist has a Santos by the South American, how will it be? The national team, the impressionant that the eight of the men, has already won more games by the Brazilian championship than the volleyball player, São Paulo and Corinthians in the 26th, right? In any way, the guy who the goal is a very good one, but I doubted that the goal has the strength to the maximum, because the goal is developed in the Copies, so I think that the book is a little bit much more. But the São Paulo Day will be the maximum, the São Paulo Day is also good, because the Boca is a very good one, the Boca is lost for everyone, but the Boca. The Boca of our great-grandfather, but there is a thing, the São Paulo Day has just a cup, the Gálida, the Gálida has the two, right? And now it's played by the Brazil Cup, the effort was good. Look, in the case of the São Paulo Day, we interviewed here with the exclusivity of the Ortenhari, the Gabriel, and after that, we will give the answer to the president Harry Macis, the denunciations, the affirmations that the Ortenhari did already opened here in the 90s. Tomorrow there is also a classic in Rio de Janeiro, the classic that has always been spending with one side, Pipero, there is a flow and the glass, thinking about the plate, and the glass thinking about the independent Santa Fe, the glass, still in the Copies of Brazil, and it will be a champion this year. I want to see if there is, if there is like all this, the dad must be desperate, but you know who he is, if you are with Paul Meiras, which is something he is, a great rival of the Flamingo, with the Zeretorce for Vasco, the president of Flamingo, is giving this game, Pipero. Look, there are many people who already should be preparing the answers and so on, what are you thinking? I was made of interest. Oh, of course, Paul Meiras passed, too, right? Vasco takes money from the office to facilitate, Paul Meiras asks, so I want to give a force for the new team, so any result will be there, some theory of the concentration entering the team, in any way, I think it is a more complicated moment for the only one, for the Flamingo, for Vasco and Moro Flamingo, he has asked the last shock directly, why? Because Vasco is in this fight with Miração to come to the Zora of Rebaixamento, so I think that this height, and the two have a couple of games, who have more to lose now is Vasco, a party, a party, a party can leave Vasco, in the Zora of Rebaixamento even this doubt of impact. So I, I was the Vasco, Dari, at this moment, priority, because I was the Brazilian, let's go to this game, the winner is important, four finales, it was already a lie, maybe the other player, even because it was the result of the Coplo of Brazil, so I think you can play practically with the team to decide the other Vasco, the Vasco, no. I think you have a reason, Piano, because at this moment there is a jump, between the tenth and the tenth and the eighth, which is the Grammy, there are already three points, there are three teams with 25 and the Grammy with 28. So start increasing the degree and it goes to be more of a round, out of the Zora of Rebaixamento with the criteria of the draw, between the three competitions that Vasco has, obviously the American Copa is important, but it will have to travel to Colombia, the game is going to have this party in Colombia, I think Vasco has to think the same, in the audience, here is the classification, there is a return there for me, for people to see, because the people do not run numbers, the paper is good from other things, it's like, oh, it can be love, oh, there is a degree, Piano, the Grammy has already 28 points and the 129 are two round, so in the Zora of Rebaixamento there are the teams with 25 and the criteria of the draw, so not to win this game for Vasco can mean that the other teams win the round, two round at the end and now we are already three round at the end of the Brazilian championship, so in addition to the score, you have to think how many soldiers at least have to try to take this difference, in the Sunday we have more games Piano, prepare that you all night for this, we have the team that makes a spectacular championship and Mirasol who now Piano, is Reste Tag in Brazilian, you are Dr. Neymar and I think I improved the world, Mirasol is competitive to play against the teams of the media of the media, the media of table to bottom, for me it is very clear, from any way a difficult game against a coach who makes a great championship, and I think the players of the team are very competitive, they are all coaches. It's true, look, there yes, I'm going to put two games here because we will talk about them in the first block, I will pass here to Inter Santos, my father, Piper. Our mother. The two eliminated in the middle of the week, the Santos knew that he was eliminated in the classic in the regional, Santos lost to Paul Meiras, the Vaga and Inter, but only lost, Adordas 3-0 was in the last week Adordas Inter is now, Piper, in the 3-1, now, Valsa, Trala Lai, and all that, and this is a very important game, because I play Inter, I will be in touch with Santos and bring Santos to the Brazilian Bacha, not to pass to Santos, four points in the front, but come back and bring Santos to the 4th. Well, I even put the games here because it's time to go. Now it's time, because it's the following, I read a excerpt from a report from the Zero Hour, so the technical Paul Pesolano and the captain asked for a excuse, it's a feeling of M. Pontinhos, the wolf, the worst season of this weightlion. Then the President, Barselos, it's impossible, I can't, it's impossible to believe that the coach doesn't win, I have to show how to win. Then he recognized the failure of the group, the administration of the club, so he asked, and he asked for the other side. We need to re-agglutate to go out this morning. Conversations of the party and the tomorrow's game, today, right? Let's do a remobilization, explain what that is, but a word, Marilia, to us in the body. Remobilization. And then I said, it's going to be a medial point, a mobilization, what do you say? Exactly, it's a good definition. And then he confirmed Pesolano between the athletes, even the team to trust in the evaluation of the football team, citing Fabinho Soldado and Abel Bragg, remembering that Pesolano is suspended for this game against Santos. So, it can be a good thing, he doesn't invent it, because he invented it on the lap against Gremy, Peperno, maybe it's a good thing. So, that's the international club for the Sunday game against Santos. Now, a Sunday, Mar. I raised the Flamengo, let's talk about it a little bit, there's also a cross-border, a test, a little fad, a little bit of a cross-border, because I crossed the Peperno, there was no... there was no news, now, invested, invested, invested, in the past this year, contracts, doesn't sell, and goes there, and brings the cross-border that everyone wanted, in their own cell phone, and it won't win Peperno. So, and I crossed the cross-border, I think it was a guy, he gave it to us, a lot of people wanted it, and another thing, in the neighborhood, we talked about this here. A cross-border that was recommended to win more than 30 million euros, with the negotiation of the fall and the judge, it was a player who understood the Flamengo, in the month of January, 27 million in the month, very hot, more semolina, and, from February to August 28, to repatriate the judge. That is, it's a cross-border, that in this story, it left T, in your account, more or less, 60 million euros. Everything, in the focus of a big, and in the big result, the result that it didn't come, and it won't come anymore. The maximum that the cross-border can, is to say, is my third place in Brazil, repeated. But there is a territory, Peperno. It's to say, I think it's a mandatory, everyone passed a year saying that the cross-border, it's the third force, it's the third best place in the field, eventually, you can even listen to some positions, if it's not the best, then what I say, and the right palm, in some positions, for example, gesture, some positions, and Mattel Spereira, no team has this player, but it's true that I think the third place in this championship, taking the consideration that Fluminense is on top, even being in the liberators, in my opinion, the rest is the mandatory, the mandatory, the judge's teacher. I also have the courage to chat with him, who is also the mandatory teacher of this. Ah, but I'll play with the students, you know. Well, it's the third place in the field, if the players are lost, the third place in the championship, it's the four-inches with the teacher of this. No, but it's a lot of obligation, Maria, there's no... there's no worry, it's just one thing, Fluminense does a better job than the cross-border, he's alive and liberators, with real money, because, for example, it's always the final step, the beautiful champion, and the Corinthians, ah, but the push-up, it's going to play the Pedro Hall again, it's not interesting, it has to come, it's going to play, no, no, there's no discussion, if you don't win, you'll get the join, the game, the Marcelo spoke about the peasant, it's a lot of work. And then, in the second night, there's a Grêmio Grêmio, there's this day, more to breathe, and have the victory about the international, it's a difficult sequence of the Grêmio Grêmio, which gives a real jump, it's put an international situation even in the game, but the game sequence of the Grêmio Grêmio is quite difficult even to get the athlete in front of him. So if you also sit on this classification, the chance to come back and bring it to the Z4 is great, because the game sequence of the Grêmio has been looked at, which is difficult, but I'll tell you, and Péne, how do you say it, and the victory is also good, that the teacher already won, it's here. No, but there's also the Grêmio Grêmio, you can say it there, you're being kind, beauty, it went through the Grêmio Grêmio, it's always important, even in the end, the result of the Brazil Cup, OK, in the middle of a more short day, even to help to get the players because the Grêmio also had a very bad season. But there's something to say, you're getting older, with the moderation. I'd say for you who can do a big step, something of a distance. Never. No, no, no, no, no. Don't you think it's a little too late? No, a celebration, the style of the Grêmio Grêmio is there. Péne, I'm sorry. The sequence of the Grêmio the game has a victory in this round, then the Vasco gets it, then the game goes to the fire and then the Palmirus. These are the next four games of the Grêmio. It's a very tough one. Professor Luis Castro, who came out, we talked about it here, he has been pressed by the torch, he doesn't get the chance of the Inter Inter Inter Inter, he has four games difficult to maintain the distance of the regulation of the time of the season and it's very hard. Professor Luis Castro made the birthday of the OTA in 65 years, as a member of OBEI, he ended the party. That's why, then, then, it's time. You have all the reason. The way in the short term, he is the Ardu, the Ameasator, and the situation of the Grêmio has nothing to be comfortable with. Look, we have two screens to talk about. Now, I obviously want to see the Rememble and Flamingue and the Palmirus, which will be the theme of the fight of the fight by leadership. We have the screens here of the next games. Is that the first one? The next games. Look, Pepera, we talked a lot. And then, the next games of the Palmirus and Flamingue today, separated by a single point, in this week's final. The Flamingue, thinking about the Libertadores and the Palmirus too, but also thinking about this fight that is very rare for the leadership of the Brazilian championship or the Palmirus will laugh and play against the fire. And the Flamingue will be the Belém, play with the Rememble. Then, there are the Libertadores in the middle of the week, the Palmirus at home and the Flamingue outside. In the final week that comes in classic in the case of the Palmirus at home with São Paulo, Flamingo receives the Corinthians in the Maracanã and then, in the case, it makes three games. Corinthians, by the Brazilian, turns with the Independent Devale and the Red Bull is winning in the Maracanã. In the case of the Palmirus after playing two games at home, it will make two games outside. With the L.D.U. deciding to go to the semi-finals of the Libertadores and against the Grammy for the Brazilian championship. Go back to the home. Against Bahia, then after the Data FIFA, not before the Data FIFA against Bahia, and Flamingo will play in the Vila Bialmiro against Santos. We don't know how to play with Neymar because I don't know if he's going to play with him. No, he doesn't have a clue. And the Palmirus plays with Corinthians in the house and Flamingo receives the game. He plays with the Flute in the final week of the Classics that we will have before the Data FIFA. This point can change from one side or not in this month, but the truth is that the chance to open the small ones from the Pipero Mesquipaste and Flamingo are games that are the same weight and the same weight. There are the same Corinthians and that is the same. The two will play with Corinthians in the house, just like the same. But I think that's the same. I think that the same. I think playing with the Rebaixamento, the Palmirus, the Santos playing with Rebaixamento in the Flamingo case, the Classics, it seems like the table of the two this month. I think yes, they are the most or less the same in the final week. I don't think at that moment the botafogo is not playing better than the game. We have a comment to compare all the tricks. After the game improved. And the Rebaix only plays hard. The last one in the week, the defeat is a lot of going, a lot of going, look at the second half. A defeat is a lot of going, because the game is that the Rebai created a lot of chances for two to one and took the turn. But it's the team that has a right that is playing well, like, yes, Pikachu, we have the Ageiro, Razor, Aval, and so on. There is the Palliari, an attacking level, well, well, it's like that, but it's the same attack that really hits the goals. And there is a climatic issue. It won't be a easy game for Flamengo, it won't be a peaceful game. It's the same way that the Palliari will not be in the game, and the botafogo will be there. That's why I posted two in part in this final week. Look, we have another screen that speaks of Gordura, which was the Palliari and Magressel. The Palliari is not a joke. It's eight points difference, Piper, look, Magressel is fast, Palliari. Gordura that Palliari had fell. If it was a 7-0 round, when the two teams played between Cila and Maracano, Palliari won three-0. That difference came to seven points. Then, she increased, one point was eight. Flamengo already had a distance from passing in some round. In this period of time, it's good to remember that Flamengo had a less game. So there is this inflation of the Palliari against Mena-Som, and in this 4-4-4-5-5-5-5, it falls precisely to five points. Because Palliari was in the last week and Flamengo had a lot of time and in the middle of the week Flamengo made the game of the Asterisco and he got to go home with two-0, with a lot of tranquility, team-stuff, everyone's touch, and so on. And now it's a real distance from the same points, even in the Palliari. A more game. That's it. We have a big one. Now, can I call it? Can I call it? The keyboard is so out of itself, with the Coriinte game and Chappecoyeis, that he talks to me without opening the point. And I don't know what he's talking about. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. I'm not that powerful, I really do. I'm going to be reading the lab. It's out of a glass between me and him. I'm not sure what he's talking about. Is it like that or not? A guy is with us? No. Still, no. A guy is running. A guy running. Pipera is running from the debate. Pipera, that's never done. I don't care what he's doing. He's running from the next game. With the way he's giving it to us. Well, first of all, the citizen is tense. Because he's going to get Chappecoyeis at the end of the week. It's not exactly like that. A security symbol. It's a bit of a concern. This is the first detail that we have to point out. The second. The big one, I think he's like that today. He's also shy of the guitar. That thing hit the bottom. I like it. Now, on the Brazilian side, on the Brazilian side, he had a 3-0 phase of the final round. A 1-0, a 1-0 point. It's a technical part. But we also don't forget to always have this answer. It's the scoping of the ball. To the end. Or Paul Miran has scored three games. It's better than that. Paul Miran has a 30-0 point. He's going to get a score. He scored three games. Paul Miran has scored four games of the Brazilian side. Oh, but the Brazilian side of the Flamengo was after the World Cup. Did you get it? No. No, Flamengo lost to the victory. Oh, it's true. It's a big loss. It was after the World Cup. No. The Flamengo scored ten days. He scored three games less than Paul Miran. Because he scored one Brazilian. He scored one, and Paul Miran won. Exactly. He scored four games of the Brazilian side. What also helps explain. The little is the disinfit. Because they see it only. Before the Copa of Brazil. The Flamengo also had a cross-country against the international. And São Paulo. Paul Miran is also. But we always have to do this. The Paulo Miran already played in 40 days of the post-copa. Three times more than Paul. Yeah, and he already broke two microphones. Four, three, three, four, three. He broke three, two microphones, and it's because of that. At that moment in the STJD, the professional football player happens on the football court of the week. He passes it, sometimes it's fast, sometimes it's hard. I think it's always fast. But it happens today, the professional football player. And he's an incident in a football court of the year. He's a microphone player. He says, the ball. Look, he's a fisherman. He's an auditor. I'm worried about the brotherhood. Everyone is sitting there. Let's see what they'll find. Let's see what the professional football player will receive. I can lift it. I can lift it to talk about our next subject. A big one there. And a big one there. I'll lift it to me. I'll lift it. Look, a big one. And then... Oh, a big one. A big one. A big one. I'm finally ashamed to record a big one, but it's a big one from the conversation. No, I'm not doing it this way. I'm doing it this way. I'm always crying. It's always. Look, a big one. I know you're not here with us, but I've had a commitment. Look, think about it. It's good to have a commitment to win the joy. What a happy thing to get to win the joy. You're so happy, Magra. I wanted you to talk. If you were working on the game yesterday, what's the problem? First, I'm here with you guys. I'm in trouble. I'm in the 40th grade, I'm in the first grade. There's no way I can't suffer. I don't know how to work on the difficulty. The day yesterday, I was very sad. Magra, maybe the only hope that the heart of the team would be the weightlifter. Yesterday, the weightlifter was very bad once again. It's the third game followed by the weightlifter to overcome. They solve something that hasn't been done for a year at all. That constant team, that team that played for a ball, I went through the counterattack that was played for a ball, even the coach ran from the card, which is the Inter, which is a team that has a ball, historically, behind the football field. I was very upset. And so the team got the courage to play well against the palm trees, played against the flamenco, but then the player didn't think the team could play. And yesterday, that was the whole club of the win-win carbon, the speed players in the home game to try to get the positive. To try to get the ball from a quarter to a quarter, a Bruno Henrique on the right, a Nidu quarter, a field with a Bruno Henrique on the right, a Vidjaga, a Chagumaya, which didn't play for a while, and Bernabéu. And then he gave the team what the Inter is interested in doing best and he gave the team what was against the attack. And he showed that the player lost in the goals, that the player who was against the Inter now, just before the transfer, the team had scored three goals in two years. And then he thought it was the dream for the international. It was very good, it was a great goal. So the coach was very upset, very upset, very upset, but there is still a Brazilian in front who has to be eliminated and the team is going to be eliminated. And I can say, I'm here, I'm like a Colorado, I'm not going to insist on the crowd, on the team that I will be able to win the Rio, within the Guayba, and we are here, I'm here just to thank the individual, this beautiful study here, which is the person of intervention, the Alexandrian person, the person who pressed the ball. Oh, that is very amazing, Alexandrian, I send a kiss to him. He's here, he's here on my side, he who has brought all this here, because I'm a Júvenil, I'm starting to go to the area of the press. Ah, I don't see what happens to Júvenil, I started working, I already play, I don't see that this business is not the only one that has the right. The winner has the press. Ah, the winner has the press too, the winner is here on the pitch. And the person who gives the ball, which is the international brand, international science, that has always been a step forward to us to be able to talk about the international. Oh, I'm going to pass the ball to the pitch, but before we go to the pitch, I'll help our international players, what I said yesterday in the program, no one wants to play, go there on the pitch and the pressure goes up, no, no, the professional player comes to the pitch, let's play, what do we play? Oh, the player says, the feeling of shit, really, a tough game, undoubtedly, the worst. To give you a survival against the first game, it's tough. The game is like that, it's tough, the ball is broken, it's tough, we put more aggressive, and there's a lot of time to cover them, the ball is the transition that I could run. It's normal because when you're going to play, the player doesn't give us a little more, and it could happen. It's the same thing, it's tough, it's tough, it's tough, it's tough, it's tough, I really have wolves and mushrooms here at time. Moving, moving, shaking, pushing down and bringing you $1, moving around. You didn't lose. So now the head gets wiled, over 100%urusome. a game in the speed of two. The game is very interesting in the first time. And what he tried to imagine, with this... to bring the game to the field of the Inter, it didn't work. The game by the sides and the counter-attack of the game that played for that was much more efficient. Marilla and I will talk to Magrão. I already talked to Magrão about his time of the game. Because... a game between the characteristics he had... as a good player of the middle of the field. Here, Magrão was a fast-growing roll. So... we're talking about 25 years ago. At that moment, he was already angry... fast from the player who left to kill him. So, for example... Marausinho, Maraus had almost zero technique. But to give a dribble in the... Marausinho, so that he was in the race of the Marausinho, he was a partner, a challenge for any attacker. And from there to there, this exigence of the fast-growing roll of the middle of the field is more evident. In a extreme situation, you can preserve a half, if you have the technique of the type of hook, which could even have a very bad career, because of the injury, it was very slow. And as a hook, there's a technique that strikes the class, and it's still surviving. But not today, for you to have a half-camp player, and even more... two, all of this to say... that you can't play with Bruno and Riquit as a player. So... I have the colors, the criticism of the colors, because of the nationality. I just avoided them. Look, they're not in the middle of the field, but I'm saying the following. Even for the sides, they're obviously the players, much faster. Dari and I managed to fill the middle of the field with much more ease, much more sincerity. And I also gave Dari and both of them, to the international, the game's output better. So I agree with the critics, I think the weight of the year. It was... it made the whole image of the game. That story. It had a very low night, undefined, and I understand the broken of the Torcidor Colora. Oma Grande, I was reading, talking to the journalists from Rio Grande do Sua, from tomorrow, the situation of the weightlifter, it's complicated, it seems like the situation of the Scastro, before this confrontation. So... the Grammy put him in check, saying that the game would let him know and the Grammy would be a definitive for his permanence. And now he won a surprise, even if we show here, the game's table here, for the front, is very hard in the Brazilian championship. The weightlifter, who seemed to have entered the best in this confrontation, or... but with more support from the Torcidor, or has left completely pressured by the own choices. I'm not saying that he has a lot of everything, behind the salad, a counter-attack of a player for millions of dollars, that in terms of the others, who didn't focus on the game, but he made the static options for the two games very difficult. And now, the counter-scent was at the end of the week, Sunday at 7 o'clock, it's in check, it's in check, to check the match. If it didn't come to the Santos, then the situation of the Inter was very bad, because the Santos is at 4 points in the Inter. So, to attract the Santos, in terms of the debatement, you don't have an option, you have to win. No, you were very happy with him. He tried these problems, because the more difficult it was to make the Santos player, and understand, in the middle of the season, that the Inter was a creative team, that gave the ball to the opponent, and it wasn't possible, and it was the flow of his carterist, his origin, of the ball, to play for a ball. The Santos player, that's what he understood at the moment, he didn't have the players, the players, the players, to play for the positive game. So, the Santos player, that's what he understood. The Santos player, only at the last three games, I was playing, the Gar Council, No sacrifice for� zam Reserve this game in a second I'm going to do it now. I'm going to go back to my origin, the violinist, and he's different. And the piano was happy when he said that he was not the quality of the tech, because the Chagumai in the career, and Bruno Henrique has the quality of the tech to play, obviously there's quality. But the electric lamp, and the diagram, I'm the four players, and there's one more. I want to know if there's a game, I'll put five players. There's a market, and I'm going to do it. Six, seven players who don't have a speed card, just have a speed card, and a speed card, and a technical field, but without speed. I only had Bernabé to make this function of the ten, which was there. Only Bernabé to contract that he had a speed card and had a carbonate. So he delivered the new program, which was a game, and the game was intelligent. And the game results to the exhaust, but now it's just. And here it's not that good, look at the violin. Sometimes the avitores hide a lot of things. It's a day of commemoration, the criminals, but the exhaust, even the same exhaust, right? Calm down, there. The witter, there. It was easy to get into the exhaust life, it was a game that was going to be sold. So the exhaust now, right? So let's go with the exhaust. We can't measure the volume. The yellow victory of the volume, yes. We have to be, I, as a scientist with the witter, I have to recognize the volume of the witter, which was the worst, yes, in the two games. In the two games. It was the worst for Carlos Vinicius to fight, and he couldn't play well. He could play, he had made a second round, too, in the first game. So, to be able to see the volume, for the classification, I think we have to be able to do this. We have to understand when the opponent team was the worst, but the volume doesn't have this selection in the whole of the marina. Let's see the exhaust, we'll have the opponent, Dere, he was in the recording, and it was sold. It was the first present, after Tomo Cartão and Marelo. It seemed like he was going to the reverse, all the time he was looking for the mass, Carlos Vinicius gave a happy day at the reverse of the exhaust, how did he hear? What did he say? The victories are wrong in the houses. The houses are more happy when they suffer. But all the houses from this world are more happy than the success. They help solve problems, they help to unite. I would like to say that this union was a union, even the end of the fight for the elections, not the objectives, because all the families of the family belong to the Grémya family. The Grénal is special. Let's hide what? No, you can hide it. The Grénal has a special preparation, a special look, but I'm not saying that other games are not important. That's what I'm saying, not confused. The Grénal is special. Look, I don't consider what he just said, but I'm going to say here, as a journalist, with some experience and paper, too. This phrase is a phrase that he pushes from journalists, conversations, actors, and all that. He learned what the Grénal is this year. He's learning that it's Grémya this year. I'm not saying that he doesn't have the right to use this phrase. And as the Grenais say, the Grénal is rumble and disarming houses, and the other thing is that he uses the speech of it all right. To be categorized, he'll be a musician for the invited people. But the paper, the Hungry, said very well. I consider the work of Luis Castro, until now, with the victory. And this is the end of Brazil's final fight, but I think the bottom of what the game is like, because the game invested a lot, and until now, we didn't see the result. Obviously, at the end of the year, the game was the champion of Brazil's Cup, we'll tell you the story behind it. In the end, it was excellent, the year of Luis Castro. But as long as we didn't see the Grémyo, as a great favorite, non-contro-tetic, the winner. His work in the game is piffy. His work is three, four, and who saved Luis Castro even here at the time, was an international. The Grenais champion Gaelus Ggan, this Grenais Cup of Brazil. That's why the Grenais are the worst teams in Brazil. So, with all respect, with all respect, what I'm going to say is, it's a job chain, even here. It's a job chain. But, it's alive in a matamato, okay, congratulations. Take the lap back here, because it's an incompatible job with the volume of investments that the Grémyo did. The Grémyo team is not a great team. The Grémyo is more expensive, for example, this Grémyo, this Grémyo who is making this very weak campaign in Brazilian championship, it's a Grémyo, for example, that invested more than an athletic partner than the third one, more than the flubinist who is bringing it up. Oma Grémyo, you came today, and you imported the leg, wanted to know how to score a local, right? Journalism, local, it's all blue, and I don't know if it's your beautiful study of the energy that is acquired. It's all blue, it's the love of the vermelha of Rio Grande do São. The Grémyo came to his Grénal and we know when the Grénal comes, the atmosphere crisis is more positive to one side, more defeated to the other side, to the other side that lost the game, it's more blue. But I think the Colorado, the senior, the Colorado, now can't lag. It can't be worse. If it's bad today, if it's Friday, Wednesday, it can be worse in December with a replacement. So, the Colorado has to understand that I know that the Colorado will talk about the territory, the coach's and players, but this here, is bigger. The greater the player, the greater the coach, any territory. So, the second division, the year that comes, is very bad. It's very hard to get back. It's not like we used 2000, that falls into the second division and if it keeps the cut for one more two years, now it's not. If it goes to its division, the cut goes down to the television, to the patrocinus, and it's already getting paid now. Imagine the second division. So, I know that the Colorado coach who was watching me will say, but he will want to support the new Sin. The greater the international heritage, the Colorado coach. And the Colorado coach has to fight, but he has to be with us now because the coach can't leave. And he's ending this season. And the one who came to another season, maybe, a bad hope for the Colorado coach. Look, the game ended and we had scenes that were lamentable as we felt, unfortunately, there were lines there too, scenes lamentable in the elimination, gas, fire, and so on. I think it could have been made of other forms, with people with two staff, not only with players. The game, I put a wave in the high-quality words of the arena, so that the game ended, making the dimension a provocation that the game itself had made with the game in 2016, by remodeling the 15 years, so the game won a press conference and were 15 years from Brazil in 2001. In 2016, the dance, the wave, there was a singer and a singer with the elimination of the Inter, 15 years from the recovery of 2011. I made the joke here, put the music and the wave. And today, I don't know if we can call it, but anyway, the social networks of the game made a provocation, today, tomorrow, with Morango, and even in my opinion, I don't know how the player is going to be aware of that. With homophobic, the player of the Inter, Moranbinos, etc. I know it's a story of the chocolate, of the lesson for a while, but evidently, it's a provocation that is hot, climate for the next confrontations, and that always has the following day. Has the Valsas, now has the other Valsas, lives like this, Magra. Yes, provocation. I don't like it. I'm the player, as an individual, as a leader, as a commentator, I don't know how to make a provocation. I don't like to do it with anyone, and I don't like to spend money with me. It's something for me, we have to be more professional. But not to be, I also have a provocation there, in 2011, the provocation of Sasha, I don't like to spend money with anyone, who is the player, Sasha, and the other... I don't like to... I don't like to... The card is the same as the Inter's football. It's a bit broken, let's see if he returned. He returned? He still didn't. The Inter's football, the pieces will have Inter. Or the Inter's situation is dramatic. It's really dramatic. The first four points of the team that is outside the entertainment zone receives the Santos FC without any margin. But it's not just Inter. The Inter is reading the barcels that are coming out, the technique that is in the team's core, the player who just got to get the $1 million and left the other in comfort. Where they will take this new motivation that we have played here, I don't know. I have the other one, I would have the most important in the game, because the international has a more critical situation than the Brazilian championship. In other words, the Brazilian team will now be the only one in the Brazilian league in the Brazilian league. So, if I can find the Inter, the game today is being played by the Brazilian league, but the Brazilian championship has a small, little, little, little, international, not only the level one, but also the game that goes to 1,000 points in the weekend, because the other team is waiting for the other team. So, in the case of Inter, the one who is also is the perfect match. Outside the corner, the ball is the same. That's a lot of fun. I want to say something that I want to say to the Brazilian league that I am very happy to have a good time and to be honest, I want to be a good player in the league. I want to be a good player in the league, to be honest, to be honest, to be honest, to be honest, to be honest, to be honest, to be honest, to be honest, to be honest, to be honest, to be honest, to be honest, to be honest, technology. She sings too early in the team and goes to bring her now fluffy I'm a big one. I'm a big one. I'm a big one. I'm a big one. I'm a big one. I'm a big one. I'm a big one. I'm a big one. I'm a big one. Let's finish the week for you. I hope you're back. Because we're here to win. We're here to win. Thank you. It's been 90 minutes for Ernest. It's been a year for the students. He's invited to participate with us. There are many things to celebrate. Thank you very much for coming to see us. Come and join us in the coming weeks. We won the Santos FC. 1-0 for us. It's a winner. It's a great event. Marilia, just one thing. I'm not going to come. I'm going to be a big one. I'm going to be a big one. Come to join us. Tennapplause. Son of a Kiss. Amazing! Say goodfu you're back. Keep on staying. Thank you. Marlia, thank you! We're going to a kind-of somebody who's here right now. but I'll take the Silver Point nationalism to push it out of our Meu SEN __ the leader of European Country's National Federation. the crazy hyperfoca in the green, we're going to ask if the paper has strength, it's useful to thank the three titles that still dispute or not, we're going to talk here on YouTube, how is it still in the chat? So, Piper, let's see how the people are looking to get in, let me see, as it is called, it's being judged by the microphone shoot in the past week, it can take one or six games of the people who fell, too, where are the people? Oh, Piper, how are our judgments knowing? No, I'm not, I just wanted to say something, I have a suggestion from inquieting for the second party. Is it green too? No, no, no, no, what is the gap? It's a gap that we see in Brazil right now, the international youth. What is that, Piper? It doesn't do that. No, you're waiting for it. You say that I speak green because it can't, you wait for a big exit to come with this type of gap? No, it's that my career is now, right? I don't know what's happening with me today or if the leader, because the end of the week is coming, he's sweating, I don't know, we're going back, 30 seconds, we're still going to see the people on YouTube who are with us, Lucas Henrique, Deurysada, I don't know what the bomb was, I said, Deurysada, the 30th party, the global clock, the speed, we're back with you who were on TV, to talk about São Paulo, that's it? Oh, yeah, Harry Macism, well, yesterday, we talked here in 90 minutes, without being chatted, now we interview the president of the State of Liberation of São Paulo, who also passes through a financial crisis institutional and technical, gritant in 2006, maybe the biggest news of the club, lost the president, impeachment, has an election in the end of the year, and there's a question that seems smaller, which is a contract with a label, but it's because of that, it's the series of the Bolot of a very large constitutional crisis, Walter said yesterday that his relationship here in the program, with the president Harry Macism, it's not good, but that institutional institutional Liberation Council has a dialogue, but the truth is that the president wants, that it's quickly approved a new contract, of a label, although one year comes, he's not the most president, because this money anticipation is what will help him to have some of the assets, and the president of the council, that can't be like that, because the companies are complaining, and you know why you have to be so fast, the signature of this contract, Harry Macism, he gave a note to re-bate the accusations of the president of the council, we'll read here, the president of the head of the San Paulo Football Club, repeatedly reported the postura of the president of the deliberative council, and Daniel C, that company we said yesterday, that it will be contested, the company is defeated in the selection process of the new Tiqueteira de Morumbis, a tentative attempt to predict a structured process, conducted over four months with analysis of the answers, this sublimations, the competent instances of the government of San Paulo, for several times the directorial requested that Daniel C, to present his formally proposed complete and detailed operation, the San Paulo Football Club understands in a definitive way that the proposed presentation by Tiquete Master, one of the largest global companies in the sector, attends the requirements established by the CUB, contemplating investments guaranteed, before the end, offers legal security, institution, and has the potential to fill the billetery and the software program of the SOS Torcedor, besides promoting the sign language, significantly the pre-states service, the president of the council, and the president of the council, and a very big fight, a club of San Paulo's size, seems to be resolved, or not resolved because of a contract of Tiqueteira again, it is the point of the SBIC of a club that came in a situation that could not have come for years of administrations that were injured at the own club, Pippo. Look, Maria, there is something there, right? So we know that in the case of San Paulo, it is that thing that, when you lack a point, everyone has no reason, right? San Paulo lived a square environment, they are many trucks and only costs for less than 2014, give the hand in the fire for some current, for some director, for some police leadership of San Paulo, of course not, my determination at the moment of life, all of them were allied, now they are antagonists, so, the San Paulo Council, put something on the head, first truth, absolutely, maybe the only true, absolutely contestable in San Paulo, or San Paulo has no reliable people, second truth absolutely contestable in San Paulo, yes, it was to depend on anyone of all these names of the San Paulo, of whom you heard talk in the last times, San Paulo is in the year, San Paulo is founded, because San Paulo lost, even, it is not capital, but also capital, intellectual, to leave this crisis that seems to be there. Well, in the end of the program we talked about the final part of the week, San Paulo receives the two teams that have a place in place, and he in the chest, because in the middle of the week there is American and in this Saturday, the Rafael Goloiro, the game this Saturday, the Rafael Golo spoke of the expectation for the game, let's hear it. We are doing this game more than one final, but a very important game that we need the result, that we will play in the game in the same place, together with our partner, and so we come working this week, all so that we can, in the Saturday, make a great game once again, represent the big teams. We come working technically, technically, physically, everything, we know that it will face a big opponent, so focus on this final there preparation that we have, so that we can be Saturday there, very prepared and feel that we need to do it. The victory of the last week, the game was in the Saturday, it seemed to open a final more isolated week for the trick, but everyone almost pointed out, right, that was in the fight against rebalancing, so let it be a victory, it is a victory to be tested, the victory is the winner of the São Paulo over the Bragantino, and this time as well, as we do not have, taking the interest that is a game of six points, the São Paulo needs to look at this game that plays before, the São Paulo plays in the Saturday, the point that will happen in the rest of the round, for not to face in that situation, to comfort him. Now, the situation of São Paulo and now, it has been a little week, it is still very complicated, São Paulo sees his team good, it is true, right? São Paulo has a good, right? Let's remember, Dolores, it was that opponent I said to you, for us this week the last one. Well, yes, it was. Dolores. With John Vitor, right? Our nephew, Cleber? John Vitor, how do you do? We have the triumph of São Paulo in the official official programs, John Vitor, nephew of Cleber, Dolores, my mother and his mother's sister, Pico, have my pen and you are the one who complained, right, Pico? Yes, well, yes, that's what happens, right? But the fact is, finally, I gave him the win in a championship for the São Paulo, really a very important match for the race, that he does very well, right? He also has no Corinthians, in the past, he had in the trickle, also he has no Flamengo of 22, we did not forget that, he was very well in the competition really, he was three titles of the Copa in Brazil since then, right? This is something notable, my 22, 23, John has passed, he won the win, 22, no one takes this from the race, but it was due to the Portuguese race, and now the São Paulo depends on Portuguese, right? How can I do it? Seven to one in the game, it's like a memory, right? If you lose again in the Brazilian it will be lost in the gold of the Red Bull. Or the São Paulo has to score, there is no other way. The São Paulo has to score, there is no other way. The São Paulo Passons has the last weeks, if we talk about the game, there is also a lack of CT, the players who are without CT, and the right arm of the Macis promised to be the independent president, who will pay, and now there is no money to pay. The question is much bigger than only the United States, and in fact, they are very bad at the rival points in the last years. The São Paulo has the American Copa, eventually to be the possibility to return to the Libertei. The São Paulo has been the South American, it seems like it is not even combined with the possibility of the title of the American that the Brazilian championship is to be in the G16, no chance of the Libertei to see the Brazilian championship. No, I don't have a clue. That's it. The São Paulo is that non-fragult person, in fact, debuting everything in the water to escape. The São Paulo knows, he can't think to get there, he can be drinking the drink of the short. So no, the Libertei would know that. The São Paulo is not in this condition of thinking about the comfort. São Paulo today is a club that is going to survive. It's all right. I'm going to say it in the army, because it's all because of the interval. Still not. So now, from the São Paulo football club, we are going to the Brazilian football club, Sport Club Corinthians Paulista, the league, the professional tennis club, the league, but outside the stadium, there are all these questions in the last days, meeting with the FBI, meeting with the public minister, opening the door to investigate the Gauroen's guarantee, or not to the federal economic box, and yesterday, I gave my, in my social media and I brought the news here with more entertainment in the subway. I gave the president of the Corinthians, this is the paper here. The official paper, exclusive here in Metroplex, is the public minister, the one who is being, the investigation, who is being conducted by the promoter, Caso Concerina, who already had here with us in the program, ask for the clarification of the company, Berce Kiryut, who is your favorite president, Maristabli, and also hired and registered with the local companies. Ask the clarification until five days to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to the contract of this company that does not have the police police federal authorities to arrest this type of security, the security department and particular. The president of Corinthians differently, no, you saw it there, it has already answered. The minister of the city, at 31 in August, did interviews, saying that the contract is mandatory, and that this company makes a VIP insurance, which as the president of the Corinthians, he received the threat, and he has talked a lot about it, about threats, about the phones that were empty, the data from his family were empty, and that it would be a necessity. The problem is what? I bring here part of the investigation and already the perception of the public minister. In the response of the Corinthians, they talk about a institutional security, VIP to the president, but the Corinthians has another contract with another company that makes the same service inside the Corinthians. The unit, then there is a suspect of the public minister, who is a chosen company, especially by the president, to make his security as the president, it is a way to remunerate the own president of the Corinthians, indirectly. So, he is paying the particular security of a physical person, they come to a currency money. This is the suspect that has the public minister, and this is part of the investigation. All this gives more weight and more relevance to the history of the judicial intervention, since there are a lot of the leaders of the Corinthians, it is the president, it is the vice president who is also invested by the public minister, because of the currency leased in the question of the uniforms, these three vice presidents are in the justice for being leased, or Corinthians and the judicial intervention have precisely with the governance of the club, but a action, and if the minister will turn the justice realm into this, it creates the possibility of judicial intervention, so it is there that it is a business, I I imagine, for example, now the minister, how does it stay? Any action, any more definitive step, when I say, even more radical, in the sense of changing, for example, the question of the own survival of the Corinthians, while the club, while the institution, or if the Corinthians goes, for example, and falls in fact in the question of the faithful, because, see, what is the jurisprudence today of the Corinthians, to change your regime, if there is an action in justice to all over the country, and we know how these actions happen, you know, a action considered today, for example, a considered today, it can be removed, it can be caught tomorrow, so see, let's imagine that the president is in the second party, look, I'm going to sign the vinculante color with the faith, then comes the third party, someone tries to judge the justice for the reverse, in the sixth party that comes, it seems the result of the work of the period, about the black and white, and the test, that the key to the currency is not enough for the cash, then, you know, how does it define the clarity, what can happen with the Corinthians here a week? The jurisprudence is very big. Very big, and there is a stranglement, there is a denial of the stories, there is a perception of the Corinthians, also we see for the social networks that no action is denied, justice is not as fast as possibly the Thor Sedor would like, we all would like that it was, but I will repeat what I said to the big one, I have a general feeling that it is not the same as the moment of 2005, 2006, when there was a question from MSI, there are many sides, being the Corinthians's leaders, and they are attentive, at this moment, for example, there is also the possibility of investigation, in the case of the State of Corinthians, the president of the court is 12 members of the court, because the period demonstrated there in the denunciation that he made, the minister of the public, that he entered into contact with the president of the court at the time, Alexandre Usni, with the president of the Corinthians of the time, with the vice president, sent several and a half of the saying that was happening in the renewal of the agreement with the cash, and there is no response. So there is a perception of the Commission, I also took the Corinthians to this situation, so at this moment I see no president or one direction, in the end of the year Corinthians has election, pressured, as was the renewal of the transparency of the other years, for six per hour Corinthians and the problem would be resolved. There are many presidents, managers, and investigated and pressured, they will do something, because it will get on the CPF. It will get on the CPF, and this story from the B, it can be like, you always say, the capon of the CPF. By the security company, which has no authorization of the federal police, etc., which has a contract, less than all these three billion of dividends, you push, you push, a filter with the owner of each conseler's story has a contract in Bado Brasso. Each one comes in Corinthians, CPF, it makes a contract that we don't know where, nor with whom, why? There is the story of Ortefrut, the idio has the history of the pharmacy, the market, the restaurant of the Quentin, each one has a contract, you say, it's not possible, man. No one is in the right place. Stories, even, remeds for dysfunction, heretics, there is no capon of hair. Capon of hair? The president's name, the woman, with all respect, I don't know if the CPF is capon, but you need a hair that will be fulfilled to make the boss not burn the hair color. And we read the name of the president Corinthians, who had a enough hair to use the capon, for who was the capon? If it was a chain of hair, then we have to have one another, there is a lot of people. I'm getting white, but in any way, it's like a total blackout, and well, look, if in Corinthians, see, this, we have developed, there are some facts, events, we have no time, maybe no one has the impressivative, if you have a detail about the work of the period to know about the divida of Corinthians, everyone who has a divida, you have a divida of a house, look, if you pay your parcels, your financial, you know, clearly when you have to have a value of each parcel and so on, then you know what the divida is, everyone knows. Corinthians, you know, you can't know the divida's health of a business, of a customer who costs here, worth hundreds of millions of reais, this is a kind of hygiene, how can you not know? Imagine a constructor, you want a constructor of the first year, I'm going to do a press, okay, to do this press, I'm going to take the financial bank, now the constructor will know the direction, how much it takes, what the other one has to do, how much the quality of the unit is, Corinthians, no, how does it not know, how hard it is to know, how much it should, how much it was paid and the rest paid for an operation like this. Well, Corinthians who was thinking of selling two players, a player to have money in this half a year, the business of the bidon, the four of which, the business of André, the Italian, and at this moment you see the two companies, the half accommodated and Corinthians did not do any negotiation, we saw here Marcelo Pais, remember, it would be necessary Corinthians to do a negotiation in half a year to not balance the accounts, but there is a refreshment, go to the negative and that didn't happen, no, no, no, let's say one, so that's why I don't know how Corinthians will turn to the fact that the trader is great to have a bidon, a great player, André, well, a guy, a guy promising, but the bidon is a reality, there is, I think the bidon can be, even a name in the list of the tea party, what Corinthians, in fact, in the middle to be good, because this would result in the valuation of the trader, but I think at least some other of him, he had to have left now, Corinthians at least celebrated these transfers, transfers, good. Well, I don't like to talk to the club, I don't know if I have to call Interval, break, look, for you who is with us on the channels of TV from Metropolis, on your TV, smart TV, we will go to a quick interval, but I ask you to look for your cell phone, take a walk and come back to our cat on the day, which asks if Palmeiras has been able to sell the three competitions this season we will go back in two minutes, or he lost this weekend, our bad week, the week was good for the bad and it was okay for Palmeiras, because after the meeting with the Miracol, it was a bad topic, but without big problems, everyone knew that it was a great big, big recreational in the village of Belmiro, and now Palmeiras is obviously in L.D.U. We have to think about what will make against the fire, because it is not, Palmeiras has a difficult time, in games freeing in the house, being in a surprising way, lost to the brain, he had an impact with his brain, so there is no place easy to result in the scene in the middle of Brazil, which was there and there, in our blood. So, the game of fourth year, I think the best for Palmeiras to do the result in case you have to reverse a result of altitude, but this game against the fire is in the middle of this story, Professor Abel does the control of load, does not do the control of meat, grab the ones and better. The world has to do, so I think for example, it was important to give a book to Gustavo Gomes, if it happened in the village, Gustavo Gomes arrived to be the player with the most minutes in the field, not soccer, World Cup, this is not a game's motive, but it is a lot of learning, already a player with more than 30 years and fundamental, so I think so. Tendo Gustavo Gomes and Flaklox, the rest for in Cheatac, which are the two guys, fundamental to Palmeiras, and the two have to play against a fire and especially against him. Look, we are back, I never know, I'm not a chronometer, 10 seconds, then 10, 9, 8, all right, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 3, 2, go, we're back to you who were our last interval here, 90 minutes of this sister's sister, the paper has the Flamengo will take the Remo and before, and to compare the points things, it's boring to fool, legal is matamata and that's why I'm going to receive here, the renello is very cool, it's a cool thing, 500 thousand wheelers, the championship started in January, no one is more than the renello points, renellops, G.S. in Brazil, it's going to talk about the series that is getting fire and we like matamata, good day renello. The led of the Nectal Line in the street in Brazil, there in the ministry's plan, with the cathedral in the background, where the end of the end of the Brazilian cup will happen, that is matamata, we like matamata, good, classification straight to CRC, we already have, it's already defined, it's missing for me to talk about the times that are already classified, the Belândia, and are already classified, but do at this time, finally, just a little bit, we are with my open point, I can't thank you, the classification straight, the Azo ABC, the Belândia, they already went up to CRC, what will the definition of the playoffs for the next wave is the guay atuba with the national we have games in the end of the week, the people will, the people will assume now the matamatas here from CERD to talk what happens in this weekend, people. The ball has the end, right? in which the Belândia enters the field, exactly to play against the Raza, but I want to call attention to something in the team of the Belândia, a river of the coach, the mine, the Belândia has a technique, Danilo, great player, Corid, São Paulo, Boias, Danilo, so it's very close to your first competition as a technician, already with the access to CERD and be guaranteed, it's very happy in this new career, you're always a player, very important ball, and against Rapiaca, right? I do not know, I do not know, I always thank you, Raza is the representative of the lagoon in CERD, when you imagine that the team of the lagoon was CERD, right? The Lord imagined, the Lord who was going to enter me, I always imagined Raza, you want to fly today, right? You already thought Raza with the hydrangea, right? That's right, it was the ego, it was the ego of the company Austria, when I came to Brazil, and instead of taking the big one, I had to go there in our Raza, dear, oh, we lost contact with Renner, who was I was going to read this a lot in the week, that you see we have a Renner here speaking of CERD, direct from Brasilia, giving everything that happened in the road, speaking in Matamata and in technical, that he didn't do anything in Matamata, I don't know, in Real Madrid, there is the new era of the Brazilian selection, let's go! The teacher didn't see the last games in the forum, he didn't see the last games in the Cruzeiro, he didn't see the green playing, nothing, he saw this week he saw, cream, athletic and Cruzeiro, guenal, poor meers and Sanson de Littal, and the Trim Real Madrid, and then he is defined in the scale of the super data FIFA of the Brazilian selection for the beginning of the year 2030 selection, so in the super data FIFA Brazil will be mixed, day 25 and 29 of September against Australia, very little, so those who were already known, could not come back, and in the same data FIFA, they will have a counter-india, which is lost, and the goal is to beat the goal. Then in another data FIFA that we have taught, Indic will also work at the end of the championship, Brazil plays also the other side of the planet, against Japan and Singapore, because I swear to you that it is wrong, it is the other side, it is not long in the map, it is like Brazil is here, and the last is here, it is wrong, and it takes time to come back, these are the next games of the Brazilian selection, is that? Inquiet, result of the Inquiet, let's see if our green is with everything, and people there, we see, the paper has a forum to fight with the three titles of Sputul, Leila Maral is saying there is no condition that the green emotionally changed a lot, because it will not be able to, he voted no, but the majority voted yes, 59% voted yes, 41% voted no, what else? Good, Piper, let's see, ha ha ha ha, the victory of the Grammy, pa pa pa, I will you production, already the big one, good, the big one was to vote with the heart, good, at a point the other way, good, let's see, people 32, production 28, Marilha 21, a big 14, the father, he fell, even Piper, it was only the link, he fell, I fell with strength, this final week there are these games chosen by Mr Gabriel Lucas, always taking the team of the others, the athletics that São Paulo, I put the victory of the athletic Piper, no impact, the big victory of the athletic and production, I put the victory of the athlete, thinking that the game was in Belo Horizonte, I think I wanted to change, but now it was, I I think it was in Belo Horizonte, I think it was, Flui Vasco, I think the victory of Vasco and the background also, Piper, the victory of the flow and the production put the impact to Flamengo and we all remember the victory, ah, I guess here in the later the victory to Flamengo, just the people, there was the impact, ah, Piper and the tambour, then he said that he didn't believe, I put three in my, but the big 2, the zero, the production also 2, the zero, Piper said with a little one, Piper has a lot, then to vote the green fire and the whole world is in the game, until the Piper, no less the production that believed the production, the same, Gabriel Lucas, victory of the green. Then to the Corinthians and the Atlético and the Pekois, evidently it will be a zero, but then they want to make other results, Piper, the 2, the 1, the big 2, the zero, and the production was in the Pipu and put 2, the 1, that's it? Let's go, the tensions are up, the seniors, first I want to thank your Fabio Pipeno, we complete here the second week of this new project, thank you Pipu, look, it's already with the brown face, already you're already here with me, Pipu. I want to say, I want to say the following for the pessimists, I will be motivated on the 28th of November, no matter what I have, continue using my bottle, here I won't show now, Pipeno is not home. Oh, very Pipeno, now it's Pipeno, it's the bathroom, he only uses the bottle, look, I wanted to thank a big one that is not here with me, but I wanted to thank everyone who is behind the glass, Joel, tocleb, Gabriel, the cold-blooded, the people of the coffee, the Henrique who brought this bowl today, it was not a whole team, huge, we couldn't put this program in it, it's a very dear production, for those who are always very free. Well, 90 minutes of today is finishing, the mine has the decision on the festival screen, on the YouTube of Metropolis, our Aza and the Berland decide the series D, from the four of the afternoon, now in the sequence, there are the yellow line, with the metropolis context, and don't forget, evidently, to subscribe in all the universe of platforms here on Metropolis, on Instagram, on YouTube, especially on YouTube, go there, like it, like it, like it, like it, like it, subscribe, subscribe, in the week we come back, the last last week, thank you very much, bye! Music