---
video_title: "Reinaldo Azevedo – 04/09/26: Dark Horse e malas; Master: propina a Bolsonaro e Tarcísio; STF e farsa"
video_id: yZgbDeCRJnQ
channel_name: "Metrópoles"
channel_id: UC9mdw2mmn49ZuqGOpSri7Fw
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yZgbDeCRJnQ
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Com apresentação de Reinaldo Azevedo, o programa do Metrópoles TV traz, de segunda a sexta-feira, das 13h às 14h30, uma análise aprofundada dos principais fatos da política, economia, Justiça e cenário internacional. Com comentários afiados e contextualização dos acontecimentos que movimentam Brasília e o mundo, Reinaldo aborda os bastidores do poder, decisões do STF, investigações da Polícia Federal, eleições, pesquisas, Congresso Nacional e os temas que dominam o debate público.
  
  Confira os principais assuntos:
  Homem do Dark Horse e Vorcaro: malas de dinheiro
  Flávio faz do medo uma premonição, é isso?
  Vorcaro: doação a Bolsonaro e Tarcísio era propina
  Lula: ninguém está acima da lei e sem vazamentos
  Moraes aponta abusos de Mendonça e pede investigação
  Fachin, Moraes, petição e o inquérito 4.781
  Relatórios demonstram decisão de alvejar Moraes
  Alcolumbre também na mira de Mendonça, diz texto
  Relatórios: Mendonça quer diretor-geral fora da Polícia Federal
  Documentos: como Mendonça afastaria Gonet
  Relatórios: atuação ilegal de Mendonça nas delações
  Messias classifica relatório da PF como vingança
  Fachin, o inquérito das fake news e atalhos
  Dino: STF é maior que qualquer um que o integra
  Mendonça: nota de alfaiataria em nome da mulher 
  
  Fachin pede manifestações de Mendonça, Moraes, PGR e Andrei Rodrigues
  
  Fique por dentro das principais notícias do Brasil e do mundo no Metrópoles TV. Aqui, você acompanha cobertura completa de política, economia, segurança pública, entretenimento e os fatos que impactam o seu dia a dia, com informação rápida, confiável e contextualizada.
  
  Trazemos os destaques mais relevantes do momento, com análise clara e direta para você ficar sempre muito bem informado sobre tudo o que importa, onde quer que você esteja.
  
  🔔 Inscreva-se no canal e ative as notificações para não perder nenhuma atualização.
  ➡️ Deixe seu like!
  
  ✅ Acesse o portal Metrópoles: 
  https://www.metropoles.com/
  
  #MetrópolesAoVivo #NotíciasHoje
---
you you you you you you go put an idea get a table central because do not alert you And then it was there, you dislocated. You could be here in this glorious São Paulo, with this wonderful sea. But you have to be there too. So. You're wrong. You know what I mean? I joke São Paulo, she calls me and sometimes she puts me on the side because I've been almost three times. I've been running three times from the São Paulo just running, continuing in Brazil. Today, I'm passionate about Brazil, completely fan. But anyway, I've almost died several times. But yeah, I love São Paulo, kiss São Paulo, if you want to send a little bit of it. I know I need you to be there. I died in Brazil in 1996. I was going to be back to São Paulo for family reasons, my partner in the end, but my wife is well. I... I'm from Correguência, in interior, born in the northern cavern, a man who learned to walk on the road, on the road, but I'm completely wasting almost everything. I need this business here. I need this cause. This cause, but it's caused by the organized ministries. I'm going to say that cause by cause. I'm already starting to bring more cause, involving Dark Horse, because it appears there, new details of the mining, that is that company that made the background repass that is linked to the film. Now, it stated that the government was evil and living money, calling Daniel Vorcairo. According to the report of the Folha, the miner presented himself as financial operator Donald Master, and said that Vorcairo passed his operation, which he himself called not orthodox, as a remiss without the act and the detention of money. But what was it? Vorcairo would transfer well, or resources for mining companies, that for the procurator other exporters to deliver the living money. They were charged 4% by operation. The miner put the notes in the malls and delivered to the bank. The company stated that he didn't know that the final sign of money was a company of him and made the repass the background of the Havingate in the United States used to finance what? Dark Horse. Do you know that I like a lot of people who call him the legality of practice not orthodox. Because practice is not orthodox. It is. The practice is not orthodox. It is a thing that can be orthodox or heterodox. So follow the traditional paths until you are known or not. Now orthodox is heterodox, nothing of that supports illegality. The things that are not orthodox or heterodox are illegal. I would tell you the following, Rafael, there was a time when the legality was orthodox. It was not the right pattern. There was a certain modesty, even in the robbery. A orthodox robbery. But it happened to be heterodox, especially when these crimes against the people were financed and passed the more sophisticated methods, the more sophisticated even the ones that the state can follow. Follow to be pre-caved and that is what it is. Well, in this lesson, let's go. What do you need to understand essentially? This lesson is being made in the Ambitus of the Master's Bank of the Master's Bank related to the fact that he is a Dark Horse. Why is this guy there? This guy is there because his company was used to send money to the Revingate. Commanded by Paul Calisto, the lawyer of Eduardo and Eduardo. They are the gestures of this fund. Imagine that in the 60s and millions now we see more because there are more than 8 million. Now Flavio explained to Eduardo and Eduardo explained to him he said, no, I have already had the auditorium, I have not mentioned the contract. I have not explained it yet. They are doing the counter. Everything is right. Let's see. You know, he closed the relationship with the general manager of the Republic. If the general manager of the Republic closed the relationship is because the general manager of the Republic understood that he was born and his ex-boyfriend of the law of the 1850s. The law of the organization was written in the chapter of the relationship. The general manager understood that he was born and that he allowed to identify how the organization works and how the structure was, what are the practices that he added new elements in the investigation. The relations of the lawyer were rejected because or did not have added new elements or did not have added some indication that the crime he is talking about happened. The simple words did not go. The law was even changed in 2019 because the law was already with simple words and we have already had it. So it means that he forced his elements to get the police to get the evidence and that's why the relationship was wrong. Now it depends let's see, it depends on the location of the Andromendoms. I understand that I am not going to call Deterodox the current of Andromendoms I'm going to call it legal it is not Deterodox it's not like Deterodox it's like Deterodox it's like I legal and legalities are committed to the process of the process where for example, all the controls that have an obvious electoral impact they could not have a technical part between the language and the language at least in some research, in the majority of the data. And nobody can reach who in the end of the end is doing this. We have pistas with the request of investing in the Alexandre, which is a little bit we have arrived there. A record for the term to decide if it is a logo or not. The last word is not necessarily the director's It is a turn, let's see. It will be what? It's there Alexandre it's there to play. It's there to the top master it's there in smart in smart what is the advance in research on Dark Horse? We already see here that not necessarily and the property then it would say if the property was not the property and with all the veins I don't think it's already an imparcial imparcial production and none of the two inquiries we have elements for this This is a very high temperature that you referred to in the political process just exist because I think there is a neutral calendar that is together with additional calendar with the calendar of the director because the elements that were already there were already there and it would be decided to create a research and the research and now let's see that it was to implement a contract in the 24th of August and obviously to inflate the bullseye to use the term in the specialist in another issue we will see to inflate the election so that the candidates to the Senate that want to impeachment of the Supreme Minister has a more discursion there is no ad, see just he could say look at the reigning of the election and then it's not using it I'm saying that the minister is not idiot he may be idiot he may be he may be he may be he may be he may be despise I'm� slime I said I said I said I said I said I said it's no rem novel I said he will be exempt. Take it. Go. Because even now Dark Horse, as you know, has not been anything. There, I want to talk to him. As far as the ball goes everything. He said, it was not me. The relationship between intelligence and the PF seems to be something else. If it wasn't him, it was us who are with him. What will happen? Hello, Renaldo. I spoke to Bolsonaro. Now he's saying that Alixan de Morais gave the column and the phabetic were articulating an action and a cool against him. But he admitted that there is no proof of it. In social networks, the phabetic firm said that the Morais or the column would have been conversed along and articulated with a knee, some measure to predict the fall during the campaign. According to him, it would be a reaction to fake revelations, at least in the case of the master. And it was the legend that if the story confirms it would be the proof that Brazil would turn a empty into a law where opponents use weapons to fight against others. It was a great theory of conspiracy, right, Renaldo? The theory of conspiracy is very interesting. This is anything that comes against me now. I had already invented it. Look at this. This is rigor. Anything. This would be wonderful, this formula. Anything that comes against me, is an invention of my opponents. I don't know what. So, everything that comes out of it. Well, Lula could say something. He is taking advantage of a moment in which he has the support of the actors in practice, the objective support so that the people who follow us eventually not intimate with the vocabulary or even of the war, right? The objective is not the subjective view. Press attention. What I want to say is that it is subjective, everything that comes from the subject. That is why we say, this is very subjective, this is very personal. Subjective is everything that comes from the subject, which has an intervention, the objective, that does not depend on this intervention. So, in the war there are objective allies. Is the person who or not with their current is allies of one side? Today, in general, the exceptions, is allies of the Bonsaná Flavio. Is the ally of the Bonsaná Flavio, who is ally of the André Mendoza. And the André Mendoza takes decisions that objectively interest the Bonsaná Flavio. But then, it should not be done by anything, even before the indexes of irregularities, yes, these indexes are there when. Why now? Why can't they wait a little? Why did they need to run the illegal methods to do what they did? So, look, they are trampling against me. He gave a lead in the scenario. So, let's go. Why did they choose these characters? I love these news, Rafael, and they are serious to use a picture of the Queen and the Antonio Cícero. They are serious to use something that need to be known to understand people. The end of the story is being noticed. Let's understand that. Who is trampling against me? Flavio Dino, why did he put Flavio Dino there? He put Flavio Dino there, because Flavio Dino is the creator of the interest of the Indians who invests also in the Indians to the Queen of the Gama, the producer of Go Up, who made Dake Horse. And because of this path, you can get to Dake Horse. No, the tower, Mario Freas, and Eduardo Keren, which is the case of a migraine for the Mendenza. Confessing that everything has to do with the Masta. He is the whole Masta's side, and the NECS. Why did I choose the Mendenza? The Mendenza was one of the Alves, the Mendenza, as it was, in the Petition presented by the Moraes. And because they want to desembrale the Mendenza, because I don't have a special sympathy, but, in fact, I'm giving it to you. Because I want to control the Senado, to promote the Mendenza, because I already, I already talked about the first days of this program, the Mendenza plan is eight minutes from the Supreme Court. And then, to control the production of Cajunina. Do you understand? What will be a catastrophe? I'm just going to offer you, if it happens, refuge in the cave of the Unyudo, in two races, our myth, our true myth, which is the cave of anti-platam, because there is the reality of perceiving it, but it is not a mere shadow of people buried, right? They are free people, which are there in the resistance. I love it. I don't need to say, because I love it because I love it. It's the enemies that they choose, the enemy that they choose, and ready. And then, come with this waterfall. Look, it will happen to me. So, I need to understand the nature of the game, which is there, and we are here for this. Let's make a small pause, Rafael, I want to continue this, and we'll see, because then one of the evokes, one of the evokes, would have, but I'm not sure, it's a good scenario, and even the hunt. But let's do an interval to make this story of the enemies. Two minutes of interval for you to be with us on the PV, are you on YouTube? We'll follow you. So, you know, they know that there are things, eventually, to leave, they did, there behind, already the projections, look, there's something in the moral field, there's something else, I don't know what. I don't know if this all comes to the audience or not. It's what I know, and I'll say once again, we would be pressing, a very better service for society, and we, even the press, if this is what Rafael said, we would be discussing the government plan, the proposal for the government. The climate of denunciation, I don't know, all of the lessons have, it's a little part of the game. I'll go for the fragility of my opponent, to say, the reader, he's not the best, that's how it is in democracy. He exists for that too. But this is the political game. What is unacceptable, is that there is a intervention of judicial nature, as the law is made by the Ministry, with electoral object, but the law did not do that, also, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. He took against the监is. It's a very different thing. He took against the监is, and this party is not even on the right to the due process of legal, with the plasm of the press, so he asked his head. And then, one of the sides, there you are, seems to be forced, and come with this rules. So now the following, anything that has against me is the cup of Alexandre, the Dino who is in charge of the immense, involved fake news and the Colombia because we want the control of the Senate for the Internet of the Senate, and so to control even the production of June, is absolutely crazy, your400 Hey no, captain Whoenena, come back charge of 해�武頭 Number Hey Naught, for the second time and also for the Ministry of Public Space, Udenel Vorkard said that 5000 million reais of deposits has already been donated and from the protests in 2022派 Got months of prison Mr.bel from In that year Bolsonaro received the official donation of 2 million reais from the Zeta Fabian, which is with the lawyer. The Tarsis received another 3 million reais. He was elected the government of São Paulo. In the beginning of the year in 2023, the House of Representatives accepted as Secretary of the government of São Paulo. He left the car in the mass, leaving it currently, is seen in the hat of the Ronaldo Caíado. In the reports, the payments were classified as counter-financial payments, after an adjustment due to the open House. The goal would be to maintain the credit system, which is the credit card, being used by the company's companies, linked to the mass to finance works. According to him, the operation started even in the government of John Doria, the middle company linked to the St. Lima, the source of the lawyer. The bank claimed that the property would be to keep the scheme ahead of Tarsis's arrival to the government in January 2023. The report was revealed by the law and has three proposals made by the lawyer. All the proposals were used by the PR, by the PR, that did not see the facts and evidence related to the report. The Tarsis said that he had never had any contact with Daniel Vorkar, and he did not have the knowledge of the report mentioned by the report. And Casab also confessed, and he claimed that the version of Vorkar is a report absolutely fantastic. He also said that the report is guilty of the claim, and the defense of Bolsonaro did not manifest until the moment. You see, just like the things that happen. I will not give credit to the government, but Vorkar said, if the deal was used, I understand that I do not know if it was just for this, but also for this, that the court did not present the necessary clues, or this did not explain what had happened. But see, just, it was on the side of the PT, or what happened in the fall of the Bahia, which also had the credit system, and maybe this investigation was going to be postponed. Not all of the things that happened, everyone is denying it, now the facts are, and I put it in their sounds. They have been buried, they have not been buried, from the moment that it was rejected, so it does not be purified anymore. It may always be, because it did not see the index, but see, as one of the sides of the issue, in which everything came out great scandal, the other, no. The court did not happen, the court never left Bolsonaro without being manifested. Already in the case of Dark Horse, the money was paid, but the investigation is good, even now, as we see, it is not a way, it is all rejected, compare this situation with the situation of Olulyan. What is there, there are the trends of the Lurc情ger of Lulinha, but there is no business closing until now, and not yet. That's it. That's it, because after we see that the lawyer also says that we are going to have a lawyer, that the lawyer says that his relation to him, in fact, was concentrated in things of this government, maybe that's why it has been rejected. That's why, of course, it was not well discovered, I think there is also the defense of the lawyer that is a little disorientated, taking it all over. Now the fact is that it is there, look, this situation was just fine. Some way of that being investigated, discarded, which was from the delation, maybe not, because if it was discarded, maybe there was no indication. Now how much is there, without indication, and not investigated? I insist, in the case of Olulyan, because the control investigation was because he would have received the money from the NCS, from the Roba Léa of the NCS. It came to the conclusion that, no, did not receive. Ah, did not you know? It changes its investigation. Let's go to other things, who knows traffic of influence. And then they open three inquiries about my theme. Ah, because it was different companies, so we will, if it appeared another company that Robert Tadouk tried, we open up a part of the inquiries. There is no standard there, there is no standard. Renaldo and Uluas pronunciated about this crisis involving STF, the case of the master, in a video recorded in the report of the plan, the president defended that all the investigated and criticized selective measures. He did not directly have a minister, but he remembered that the lawyer was arrested and the master's bank was liquidated during his government. Let's see, and then we want to see if you comment. The former master's bank is the largest robbery of the story of the Bravil, stealing millions of people from many states of the U.S., a leader of the scheme has relations with many people of power, and it was my government that it was arrested by the closed bank. The political and political aspects of the people that are involved in this, our democracy cannot be re-evaluated by selective measures. The point of gravity and the moment, the people of the country hope that the president of the short term, and the general procurator of the republic, is a process that guarantees integrity and confidence in investigations. As the republic president said, that just by giving transparency, we want to ensure that institutions are repeated by the Brazilian society. It is time to get people who are in the public life or, if the duty of office, and put the public compromises above any individual interest, democracy needs institutions strong and respected. It is clear that our political system, judiciary, needs to be removed from the depths. It is fundamental that we all know that no one's ability to give us. Well, I think it's good to do so. I think it's fundamental that we all know that no one is able to give us. It's a reality. There is no need to blend out the lyrics. There are only ones that need to be of agreement with the legal process. What I'm sorry for is that I'm not doing it. It cannot be seen by selective measures. The candidacy of the law is being highly selective. The ones that are in the law are looking for the law. Oh, no! The law is looking for the candidacy of the law. Doluna, where is the nervous center of these selective measures? The least I'm sorry. I'm not going to use it personally. Now he created a legal model of the capture of the inquiry that allows the selective measures. The press, in the regra, is not all doing, is telling that we didn't see it. But we saw here in the investigation of the Alexandre, the representative of the Alexandre, there were two things that didn't even stay in the final report of the PF, as a document, they just entered the raw material and then they left. And they were published. Where is the central department of the investigation? No, the Federal Police is not coming, but this Federal Police is on the control of who? There is a person today who controls the raw material. On the control of the menon. And that's true. The lawyer wants to give a statement, or to arm a scene there, so that he can give the statement, delivering the Federal Police, as the legal officer of the Federal Police, as the legal officer of the Nodeshore, or the department of the investigation, and the press will be published. What is clear. But who was the department? It wasn't the judge, the lawyer, the lawyer of the menon. And a little later, he was already in the press? With heavy accusations against the Jewish, etc. I want to say, the lawyers who are democracy in a... with which democracy can't live with a woman. It's very bad. And now we're going to enter the election team of the Marais. That he asked us to see in the press, in the quarter-seven, eight-one, in the quarter-six news. He walked into the press, pointing out that the menon is in the press, and he wrote a long text in the Metropolis, read the document I'll do it forever, also the menon, who is very sick. And made a message there, to those who are interested. Let's go. That's the initial report of the Marais' team. Marais, he changed his position in the Ambito of Inqueria, the S.F.K. News, to the president of the F.U.E. Edson-Faquin, so that he would invest in the act of the Minister and the menon, so that he could see the practice of abuse of authority, administrative advocacy, and crime of responsibility for the relationship of the operation without a discount, and the operation with the plan C0. Marais says that the tribunal colleague incited the inquiry of the judicial impartiality and favoritism to determine the political groups. Consistent with what? The use of the direction of the investigations of the police authorities, including the determination of administrative measures that have been faced by the absence of custody of the custody, predicated by the production of the property, two, the illegal and regulated actions of the criminal collaboration and three, the determination of the detention of the Alves for the investigation. The Marais and the Senado David Al-Colombre. The Marais suspended the decision and documents of the press that they serve as a suspect. Where the minister took the evidence, he had been determined by the first day that the press sent a report of intelligence that was in virtue of the news of the existence of intelligence reports, of course, the federal police system, involving criminal acts, to address the production of evidence to force crime imputation in relation to the Minister of the Federal Supreme Court. The press is in charge of the Minister's name, which is Marmens, Dia Stoffel, Luis Fuchs, Alexandre de Morais, and Nunes Marx, besides the PGR and the General Director of the Federal Police. And then, Renaldo. Very serious. Inodzanta has intelligence reports. This has been closed. I'll talk about the 478-1 that has been left so many people in the woods. I'll talk about it. Well, in fact, what's there? For those who read the document, the servitor, Leticia Magalenze Espósito, on the command of the Ministry, has the personal control of the rigid risks with the registration of the cell phones. Only she has access to this. A single person, the police's rule, writes, is there in the intelligence report. The law of the law is incompatible with the regime of the Cigilosa Information Regiment. I will counter the principle of the necessity to know that has been successfully, fundamentally, eliminated. It is incompatible with the regime of the controlled document that those who access this, leave your mark that has been accessed. And, from the operational point of view, it eliminates the auditability of the material. Then who is the name of the report, the intelligence report? Stay there questioning everything, wanting to know how things are going. The material is being devolved, without being delegated. It's the brutal material that is leaving. And precisely, in this point, which is very serious, which has something that came in there, entering this brutal material, without anyone's exam, was stopped at the press, in the line of the purification, and then, no one has been incorporated in the material, it just disappeared. Where are the views of the votes? There is such a patience. We can't... No, we are in the polls. We are in the polls. Where are the views? And this guarantees the cost of the tests? And that's what happens, because the threat of this virus is to behave as a police officer. And they are controlling the inquiries. This is illegal. And this is illegal. The lawyer general, if it's not the threat of this terrorism, it's a panic. Because, I know, I'm happy that his friend is being questioned. And this should have been questioned by the lawyer general general. The director is not a police officer, the judge is not a police officer. With two investigations and ignoring the question outside. Oh, never again, he's investing in the game's rules. And there's more to say. But there's a decision taken by the Fakins. Do you know that when I was 15 years old, before I converted to other skis, I almost converted to Orthodox Communism, because I had a professor who influenced me a lot. The general who was part of the game. And he said, Reinaldo, the ignorance of the bourgeois is more rational than rationalism. Because he makes the world pay. And there are certain things that are not right. Because I'm talking about this. Let's go to the next news. And then we come back to the petition by Alexandre, what else has left. But what was noticed by the Fakins was that he was taking a decision against Alexandre. Because of the interest of the fake news. We are noticing that something was noticed. Justly so we can enter the Rafael Amago of the issues. Right? Always entering the Amago of the Reinaldo issues. President of the FF, Edson Fakim, he removed the opening of the investigation made by Alexandre Morais against Andrea Mendonça in the case of the fake news. The Fakim pointed out that the initiative was taken to verify the regularity of the act of Morais and then analyze the fake accusations by the Collegan report that is in front of the cases involving Il Banco-Masta and the INSS. The President of the Supreme Court included the request of the minister in the same process, about the federal police report that will treat the messages that were sent by Daniel Morcaro Amorais. Fakim determined that the PGS was going to be approved by the Fakim on five days and the minister wrote the following in the debate. Considering the need for the possibility of the regularity of the adotated procedure by the minister Alexandre Morais, as if it were the case of the imputations in the undetectable of the implementation of the instructions we have followed. The President of the FF also established a five-day break to the Mendonça to manifest himself formally on the case and if so, the PGS will be the answer of the PGR. Fakim signed the following. The evidence of the terminated is determined exclusively the construction of the fake in the anticipation of the judge of the misbility, the regularity of the procedure or the merit of the imputations. Fakim asks information about the circumstances in which the determination of the person's identification with whom the lawyer spoke and the measures taken for the regraces of investigation over the authorities were committed. The minister also determined that the cabinet of the state-owned case was sent to a full-fledged copy of the report. Fakim also determined that the General of the Federal Police and the Rodrigues' Federal Police manifest himself on the document of the operation in this same case. So let's go. He asked all of them to clarify the things. Fakim, first, he was saying, look, he was trying to record the fourth, seventh, eighth, eighth, eighth, eighth, eighth, and disrespect to the misbility that happens in the press. If there is a secret investigation against the press, in the press, in which the fourth, seventh, eighth, eighth, eighth, eighth, then he should have been closed. We will not get to that yet. I do not think it is completed. But we will get to that here a little bit. We will put the order in the Georgia as Marquess de Sát. I did not say, please, put the memory of the Georgia Marquess de Sát, the Georgia and each one doing something right. Georgia is not bad. So let's put the order in the Georgia. The fourth, seventh, eighth, eighth is justified. If he should have been closed, then nothing else. I will manifest myself. No, Fakim did not have anything. This news, this news is here. Just so I have a little taste of saying that he is false. Look how things are. He is false. I just changed the afternoon. I just changed the afternoon. Because in the afternoon, so our afternoon is like this. Just to remember here, it is like this. Fakim will live in expectation in the fourth, seventh, eighth, eighth. You see that there is no. Fakim is wrong. Because if Alexandre Alexandre sent the president of the Supreme. Alexandre sent the president of the Supreme. And he did the position of the whole of the fourth, seventh, eighth, eighth. But asking the president of the Supreme what did he do? He did not take Alexandre and sent him. He did the right thing. Because if Alexandre sees Alexandre as a reporter, he could have been finished by simply. Alexandre tried to make a parallel there between what he did and what he did, the tendency and the parallel false. The tendency as a reporter was that Alexandre did nothing. He did not invest in anyone because of that. He used intelligence relators that were on the P.F. So nothing was removed. If Alexandre did not do that, that the respect would not have sent to Fakim. People. It is necessary to know how things work. What happens today? Even the ministers of the Supreme have many, many circles and competent accessories. And then, in life, sometimes life is so hard. It is so much demand, so much pressure to publish things. Nothing better than someone who says that is the following. That's it. And life is easier. It is easier, but everything is much more complicated. Because in a few years we will see we will do a little interval and I will comment on this. A little more if as news the watchers are made. We will see what is there in this report made by Alexandre Morais that some are trying to minimize. Although everything is obvious. But let's go. Let's go to the pause. Two minutes interval for you to be following us on TV, who is on YouTube. So you see how it works. Well, of course, the value is already the moral value, the idea that one side is winning or another is of course that it interferes in the perception of people. And in a way as this was reported I did not say that it is a conspiracy. I speak to the professor. That so much influence. Right? So, Rafael, if you ask me do you prefer to cross the desert with idiot or with a conspirator who eventually wants to steal your water? What do you think is my choice? I prefer conspirator. The idiot will kill me without wanting. With conspirator I will be attentive. Because I will also call me. The fool is what is going to be produced there as these proteins that will be developing and corroding brain, life, etc. Then it is wrong. I prefer the conspirator. I prefer to be attentive with the expert to not sleep with the eyes of others. So, this thing is seeing as a lie. Look, he took the ink of his ink and the Alexandre sent it. As a relative, he could have finished the procedure. But it did not end. He sent it. He turned a little like a bird in the eye. It is not secret for anyone. For anyone of the glorious Brazilian who spoke, we were even. The one who has this business that Andrei was in the investigation. And Adi Fato, the federal police in the intelligence report that the vendor is available to investigate Andrei, that he is available to take the gun. That's all. And Alexandre said, look, this is here. With the total initiative, he is more capable of the fake. Therefore, the fake did not take the gun. He joined my things in what was very good. And look, to get the energy of my fake, it is necessary that the life is already lasting. Because sometimes I do not understand the fake right. Because it is an idea that I do not sleep. It is a report on TV, also on YouTube. The official report of the moral report, he transcribed three of the app, indicated that the agency is in the control of the inquiries, choose your albums. He and the moral were his, the second minister of the intelligence report that I will read now for you. Let me explain. The federal police is in the document. How many minister Alexandre de Morais, the director of the police, has been solicited more than once, the investigation team has changed some provocation to him in this sense. The record is with everything that in previous meetings the report gave expressly about what was with the state, the minister, in the data extracted from the cell phone, Daniel Bueno Vorcaro. The report of the report that the moral decided to investigate the report with the investigators to present it in his cabinet, deliver the physical examination without the signature. The practice is the typical. The information of the judicial act is made by the right. The investigation was not signed in the present act, it did not constitute the form of the process communication in order to prevent all the messages, existing interactions that involve the same people is not identification. It is the investigation of the Alcança-Ampo, directed to the people determined, produced without specific authorizations, between the three-time integrates of the tribunal. It's all there, the investigation. The investigation is going to be all there. The federal police is pointing at the police, which you see just now, look at life, look at life, right? And the intelligence intelligence report this. Why is the Toffle left to be the director of the case master? The Toffle did not leave this case master because of the need to adopt the A. I do not know, and I see that I never train this thing. I love politics and the test, I do not want the test to be the police. I want this police to read this. Because of the A. And it is of course the Nunes Mart who exist in evidence of his son with a master. He is the owner of the master's come. It seems that the son of the Fox also the federal police write the report and the intelligence report has many different and previous appears related to the Toffles and Nunes Mart in comparison to the perception of the Minister of the Chandiborais. The selection of the Alvo. And then the day of the meeting comes. It is not written written in formal without the signature that only after the report points the data are published without delegated supervision. Each analyst there who resolve the Nathelia to do his analysis free of the products of the information. From to to cut this is not good is not is not is not I'm not getting too much I don't want to end his analysis in the game. The delegated leave the importance. This is very serious. Let's do a third third pause that I want to continue in this subject. But a quick pause minutes to who is on the TV, who is on YouTube, let's continue this subject. So let's what are the consequences of this procedure? The question is in the request of Alexandre. Not Alexandre signing the intelligence that will be the source of the data. So there is this. Imagine you deliver the material of the analyst's device. In a simple information that will be the source of the source of the source of the data. So let's do a third pause minutes to who is on the TV. So let's do a third pause minutes to who is on the TV. And the speaker responds to follow me, I force myself to stop and not give nothing. This is compatible with who was thinking about a second before the trip to the Swiss trip. If you do not follow the report of the intelligence report, do you have a sentence? Thank you. We are back on the TV on YouTube. Another one that was in the second of the intelligence report was David Alcolumbri, the congress president. He was terminated to investigate political and political personal issues, including the pre-meditated court-led education. The valley that David Alcolumbri constituted, provable, strategic strategic, considered his political force, favoritism to keep the president and the country. We know that material against Alcolumbri is not even present. But there is a text in the globe. He said it is a analysis. The next analysis is not. We just had a normal read. He did this kind of thing to achieve, make a accessory, I don't know what. It is a case with the line. But as the CM could complicate and was the most important in the next road. Because this in the Brazil. It is a way to achieve Alcolumbri. Alcolumbri is considered today an enemy of Bolsonaro. He will have control of the Senado. He will not have the fault of the impeachment. We see this program. But we always have a thought. We don't treat today Alcolumbri is against me, we are seeing the sky. One of the most effective actions of the Federal Police. Is the operation of the Federal Police and the operation when organized. When the Federal Police learned that the ban was retied from the ban of the Federal Police. That the law is trying to control the investigation. There is no one. And in the report, the report is a tree. All of this is false. We see this. This is a misunderstanding. I am not saying this. My internal, internal, what can't be done to have this here. We will see now in relation to the Federal Police. What is there in the report? Let's see. This is the report. The Federal Police is a Federal Police. The Federal Police is a real suspect. And the prosecutor is a public prosecutor. The report is a report. The report is a public prosecutor. The report is a case that can be executed. The report is a case that can be executed. The report is a public prosecutor. The report is a personal prosecutor. The report is a public prosecutor. no. PGR? No. So is the investigation of the police at the Mendoza level? And we saw if they were to turn into Alvo. In Alvo, including the department of the lawyer. After the conversations that seemed to me just as the Mendoza with the defense of the lawyer. Is it acceptable? The things that are made in this way? Or is it that it is in the reality? It is lie. If it is true and considering what it is, what it comes out is it is not possible to continue the report. But he does not want his head to go to Rodrigues. What else? Let's go. The general prosecutor of the Republican general, Paul Gones, would be marked to fall, because it would be very close to the Jumar Mendes. Let's test the report. The proximity with the defense of the defense, the manifestation that probably will be the case, at least as testimony, in the process of derivation of the operations. The general prosecutor of the Republican general is the constitutional title of the penal action in the case of the original and the federal Supreme Court. His arrangement as a testimony would produce incompatibility with the exercise of this title in the same heights. Depending on the finality, the objective effect would be the execution of the derivatives, structural consequences, and it should be registered. And then, Ronaldo, how I take the PGR? If you do not give the PGR, I call it as testimony. Then as testimony, it can continue to act as a PGR. But what is the problem with Gones? The problem with Gones is I have to ask, the problem with Gones is the problem with Gones? Gones, which is the least unsentitary, that the discreet is not unsentitary, in which Gones is the most important factor in the situation of Gones. I am going to say to select a information to try to suggest that Gones be the cause of the event in London in 2024, the legal event March 24, the juridical forum of Banco Master, after having the execution of the risk, which looks like... Ah, that people are giving the risk. And then, the lobbyist says, oh, Gones, what he loves, and he said, if his son is going to do the surgery, because he is going to do the surgery, I don't know. I am going to say to my children, they are not good, they are a little exaggerated. And I use the hair of balls, as I was in the basement. Oh, go! The needle is out too. Too bad, very close to the hospital. The police said that was about the command of the defendant, not even because on April 22 of 2020, the Bolsonaro said that he intervened in the federal police and intervened. He shot the president in this case, because, as always, the president shot the federal police. On April 22, he said he did the 24-year-old and on April 29, the defendant assumes the justice, the Bolsonaro of the prophet, and the successor of the Andrea Mendoza is in the chair. And the chief of the federal police is in the chair. That was a federal police that was in the chair. But there were less operations than I knew. I knew it. I knew it. I knew it. I knew all of this. No, unacceptable. Simply, simply, unacceptable. Everyone will have that. If each report that I have a Supreme about corruption, etc., if each one resolve his scheme in the federal police we will have a process of vulgarization of the Supreme of the country, of division, of war. You can't do this. You can't do this. You can't do this. You can't do this. Still, when you are talking here, just imagine, no, I, because as the saying in the order, each report that I have is still in the state of the state of the state. Anyway, let's continue the report because the opposition in the relations that expressly is from the law of the 1850. What did the text say? The text is present in the participatory report that I have a question about the information that is in the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. Some creations of the seat House of Calabetric Calab wholesaler, Antiochant This route reached 3 CCC. The House of Calabetric Calabetric Calab необmap in general. You can review WH times Again, the afterward report aimed to councils with rec bleibtible respective celebrations ofär, due to those full-brθ Brexit assessmentespress on defesenciores andиниchas discovered in August 98 No. Ali Ayes, any treatment, any treatment that comes after that? No. No. No. And there is more serious thing. What would suggest? Benefits to the debauchers? Is it in the report? No, I did not warn you. I did not just negotiate the divorce. And that was news again. Come back to my teacher there. That was news for the company. Unfortunately, there is no question. The issue is debating with the divorce lawyer. How is it? The divorce can be debated. With PGR, with PF or with the two. With the judge. Is it cool? Or, Mendon was taking the divorce lawyer, taking the judge's divorce lawyer to know the image of Johnisio. The divorce lawyer, that wonderful woman. She was taking the divorce lawyer, the platon was very bad. The platon was very bad. The divorce lawyer was very bad. The divorce lawyer, the divorce lawyer, the divorce lawyer, the divorce lawyer, can be a divorce lawyer, or can be an absolute being in his judge's office. Because the divorce lawyer is absolutely innocent since he dominates the philosophical culture. The divorce was made to be certain. The platon had to be correct. And his friend was dead. There is no virtuous dictatorship. No. And it seems that Mendon is taking this convention that he is the prime of the interpairs, and he is above everything. Let's do another pause, and I want to get a little bit of that. Two minutes pause to ask who is on YouTube, and we will follow the subject. And now I have to tell you something, that is in the report, that is a extreme gravity. After the speech that the collaboration of Mauricio Camisote, one of the people who saw how much benefit the prosecutor of the Republic not reporting the proposal of two only tersees, proposed by the Federal Police at the moment before the transfer, and after it is clarified that the Equipri Coordination is a converse ministerial composition, the PGR director would have stated that, for not trusting the Republican regional prosecutor, he could apply benefits not to prevists in law, even outside the legal reports. And he wanted the cost of this choice, this practice to be with the Federal Police. In the proposal, his jury, the institution would figure out how the benefit of the extra-legal, and then the evaluation of the agreement and the approval of the derivative would be the attribution of its situation. And not the judge of the prosecutor's law, it would be the case of the Federal Police, and not the own tendency. What is he doing there? What is he doing there? He is putting himself into this issue. He should not. He cannot. He is not on his side. And the final point. There is no ambiguity in respect. Now, if your claim will go with this, I do not know if I will, as a journalist, I will not. But you do not think that you have to put a front of the rumour of the studio? Of course I think. And who will be investigated? Only the investigation of the agreement with the law. Not the law outside the law. I wrote this, I suspect this. The law outside the law is the square of death. The law outside the law is militia. The law outside the law is the adjustment. The law outside the law is the law of courts and depictions. And I want the law. That's it. We are back on TV and also on YouTube and on the report that was published by the Global Journal. The company that the lawyer General of the Union, George Messias, said in several reservations that the director of the federal police who was the site and was used by the minister of moralists, Andre Mengon, is a revenge. Messias would have been alleged that the press came because of the fact that he did not have the intention to ask the corporation to contest these threats of the one who approached themselves in the last few months. The second matter, the agency would have said in these conversations that the references made to them are a shame. He was procured and stated that he did not comment the theory of this report. And what are the facts of the scientists? You know that he was the one who commented. Whenever someone talks with the attorney, it's the same. I have to teach my law teacher, my old 20 and my spectator TV. Whenever you hear, read, yes. He commented with the attorney, but look, he said it was me. He did not comment anything. But this is because, so, the agency was a mischievous, and his Messias was a mischievous, he said that he did not have two things with them, two very nice things. It was a mischievous, the minister of justice is being a mischievous, because they left Andre exposed. It is what I think I'm saying. It is the mission. If it is for the finality of the narrative, it is for any calculation, of any nature, it does not interest me. And for this business of the office, knowing that whoever will write, will write that he commented with the attorney. The attention you have on me, learn to read, etc. Every time someone is commenting with the attorney, he was the one who commented with the journalist. That's why I do not use this strategy. This one commented with the attorney, it is a long time, people in the circle of the same. But then, he started having a big doubt that this business, a people who have access to the circle of the same, because they are talking about the same. They are talking about the circle of the same, the same, the same, the same. It could be very different. But, it was not the case. So, the attorney was changed by commenting with the attorney. Okay? Okay, okay. I always say, I'm a friend of mine, when I use the attorney, I use the irony. I comment with the attorney, come on, you know? That's it. The attorney, always read, I comment with the attorney, I imagine a sect who runs behind the minister and tells all of them, the attorney passed away, with the interlocutors. The interlocutors with the board, interlocutors. When I went to the room, I saw the ACM, the woman was going to the church, literally. She looked like the king's king. And the king's king. And everyone in the back trying to talk to him, he did that. He was a person who was a friend, but he was there. Interlocutors. Ah, I have a preguise of the interlocutors. I have a preguise, if you know about it, I'm already 12, I'm 65 years old. I can't live with the interlocutors. I can't. We have our company. Let me invite you to my colleagues. Colleagues, I went to look for your formula for this. Colleagues, no, you know what? You know what you need. I'll put the ring in. Colleagues, you commented with a minister's pass. It's a partner. It's a brother of the minister. He started with a fight. He started to get... Exactly. He started with a fight. He started with a fight. Ah, who's the partner? I, huh? Let's continue. Because in the ceremony today, in the final panel, in the company of the president Luul, the president of the staff, Edson Fakin, he referred to this crisis that is happening in the federal Supreme Court. He said things to all the guests. From one side, he defended being necessary for the sake of the fake news, from another criticised the use of shortcuts to make a certain object. Let's move on to the thing he said during the ceremony, that was related to the sanctions of the government, the fund of justice, as I said, in the planal palace. The facts are being supported. This presidential will follow the steps established by constitution and legislation. We will do what is right. In the time and in the form that the legal order exists. The institutions of the republic need to be preserved above all at the moment of greater attention. Without an authority is above constitution. Without power is above law. Without any circumstantial interest can be overcome the integrity of the state of democratic rights. The gravity of the facts does not authorise shortcuts. On the contrary, as much as the most challenge should be to compromise with the legality, the due process and the constitutional guarantees. There will not be a press conference, but a commission. The institutional response will be a proportional and rigorous proposal. The recent events demonstrate certain and urgent of three methods of our gesture. The adoption of a ethical code to the end of the inquiry of the fake news and the modernization of the justice system. No, I don't agree. No, no, no, no, no, no, I don't want to go to bed. Who is going to bed? But also in the face of the state. Yes? Also in the face of the state. Because the state serves to certain accounts with the necessary. And then it does not serve. Yes? I already know that, I have already known it. I have already played a song of very high tone. I already know the steps of this state. I don't know if they will go in the steps of this state. I don't want to go in the steps of this state. I don't want to go in the steps of this state. I don't want to go in the steps of this state. And Lula also said that. Exactly. In this same event, Reina Aldo Lula defended a reform in the judiciary that no one is above the law. Criticized these legislative basements of investigation. Let's follow what the president represents. We are to the next language of deep discussion. The city of a new reform in the judiciary. To the people who can continue here, dictating the justice. Because no one. Nobody. The name of democracy can use the person who has the benefit of the people. Nobody. This is worth to understand the republic. The material material is worth to a party and to a medical party. Everyone has to be subordinated to the same laws of law. The end of the story is worth to all. And I am the one, my friend, the Supreme Court and the prosecutor, the prosecutor, the Republican Law, is very expected from the Brazilian society. Because when the syndicate is dedicated, I am devoured to be the one who is going to be the one who resolves. And so my friend, you are in your court, in the court of the Polgonaer, the responsibility of passing the minimum of tranquility, without trying to hide absolutely nothing. What we, what we cannot do in this country is to officialize the inductance of the Fick News, the inductance of the selective assessment for the political interests of the economy. It is not possible. If we did not stop this, we will lose the credibility that we want the Fick to have in the justice. Therefore, I am happy to be comfortable with the announcement of the Brazilian justice with this law. I do not agree. It is all right. The Messiah who is talking about the Latin American, is not mistaken. I had an intervention before, and I did not filter the final of the electives. Maybe the thing did not have to be so far but only because I am the king, Rafael, I could say that the law when he gives an example, to someone who controls the son and in the case of the children does not do the right thing. The president knows that. That is why I have to follow the rules. The final point. For example, I do not think that the law can do everything because he guarantees the democracy, even guarantees the book, the post of Lula, and others. I will say that everything is fine. I do not think it can do everything. But he can not be subjected to something that is outside of the law. That is what it is. And what is he trying to do? And then, really, a top-tier. I agree with the president. Obviously. Let's have a break. Let's have a break. I also have a break. I have two minutes to go. I have two minutes to go. I have two minutes to go. I have a break. I can not do anything. I can not do anything. He is now getting a metro. Let's go. Let's go. We will go to 12. Two minutes to go. To get to TV. We will come back. The Minister Flávio Dino, the SDF, the final. He manifested himself in this seat over the crisis, and he was in the social networks. Jesus and Cicero, the SDF firm, is greater than any one that integrates. Dino says that the exit of crises depends on three elements, consults to the classics, listen and time. First of all, the minister of the sentence is the weapons atoga, the lawyer, the political lawyer, the Cicero, the law and the political system. The sentence is used in defense of the dialogue and the politics, the following. When Cicero invoked the virtues of the toga or the power of the power of the word, the counter-action, the rational judgment, the sobriety and the procedures. Good, great. Whenever someone sits down at least on the point of view of the style, he is sitting well. I am a great Cicero admirer. I recommend to all who read the daily catalogs, which are their daily attacks. He was and I am not doing any action to the minister Dino, who thinks a great minister. Cicero was a reactionary little boy. Cicero falls into our hands, maybe here in Brazil he didn't have the best side. Now he was a great stylist. And without doubt, the minister is saying that he is worth the triumphant of the law. And we count on this. And yes, the surprise is that you have to be the greatest of all these things. Now, to be the greatest of all these things, it is necessary to have people with courage to do the re-agreation of the game. Investing, if you have to invest in the Raza Lechane and the avenue that you have to invest in, now it is necessary to have someone who has courage to do re-agreation of the game in the democracy aspect. And this has its name and its name. The Lechane de Morais. And he didn't turn the Alvo at the number one audio of the set of seters because of the banjo master or whatever. And this is false. He turned the object of this audio because he sent the piece to the wall. This is the point. This is the point. Do you get the investment? No, but do not get below the guarantees. Do you have a healthy patience? And then we will not go back and then we will be late. Let's see. Let's go to 12 people who are watching us. We will continue here. In the program, we will talk about the next. André Mendon will present two notes of a luxury farm to re-end that suspect that the land would have been paid by people linked to the Volcano. The documents are 26,430 reais but do not include any evidence that they will show how the clothes were paid and how much money was left. The suspect followed the case that led Mendon to the Alfaite to make a land that he was working for. One of the notes presented is precisely that day and is in the name of the woman of the minister. Now I have a more element. The Paulo Motorinho revealed in his newsletter, The Night Zunger that a capture of the carton of the Volcano records a payment of 500,000 reais to this same Alfaite, eight months later. The facturna will not show that the Volcano bought half a million reais precisely in that statement. And then, that is, there are many coincidences. I must say the following. I do not like it. Two landings for 26, Paulo do not have such a luxury. The luxury is less than 500 pounds. You buy three or four landings. If it was really luxury. Maybe the minister does not have access to the best-of-the-art. In the area. A landings, you do not have two landings for 500, you see. I'm not doing it in the afternoon. For 26,000, but no, but no, you buy the present value. So the minister can still suffice his taste. In the present, I am not suspecting anything. The minister said nothing. But the present note is not the proof that he paid the note. One, two, he went to the office. Together with the man of the lawyer. The lawyer is a client of 500 pounds. So, for him, it was little. And I'm working here for you. What is working for him? Take the office to the office. Why? Working for the lawyer in the case was to be watching the case as the lawyer said. He said, what was the sentence of the defendant, the criminal, but what is it? The note. The note is not the proof. And this is what I'm talking about. I'm suspecting the minister. I'm asking myself, in the second, there is no, there is no, this program, everything that happens in the republic, in the third party, we are back. That's it. This party, if we still have the republic, we will go back to the网. But we will have it. They try, but we are resistant. And we will go back. Look at the metropolis today. You will see that the president of the court is not leaving tomorrow, against Andrea Mendonça, not in the case of the fake news. And even on the STF, the minister Carmen Lucia sought the exchange of the legal legal and copyrighted of the federal police report that his conversations with the lawyer and this Friday, the electoral tribunal has crossed the system that will be used in the elections of 2022. We will go to the elections. go to the elections. No. We need to set up a mandate to prove itself to be opposed. Don<|so|>. What is going on? We must, and we must, and the� illegal people do not recognize impressed by the underdogs that start theview and, for the people to be allowed to take care of the moral accusations. That is, so that they simply didn't accept the accusations to the inquiry and will analyze the president's condition, if there is a foundation for the case to be approved. That is why the need for the administration to take care of the moral. The general prosecutor's office has also had a sentence of five days to elaborate on the same. And the reason for all this is that you remember, right? In the fifth, in a space in the inquiry of the fake news, Morais alleged that the murder would be in the fabric, committed to a series of irregularities such as the administrative improbability, crime of responsability and abuse of authority, with a break from judicial impassion and favoritism to the legal groups. For Morais, the murder would be the legal groups to determine the investigations in the cases of the messages from Daniel Vorkaro. Wallachandra Cusandredi is the appropriate direction of police investigations. The minister also accuses the colleague of conduct the legal and legal groups to negotiate a possible criminal collaboration of Vorkaro, directing the investigations against him and David Columbre, the political and even indicating the legal reasons that the federal police should ask. And today, during a ceremony in the state of the plan, where the president in the law was appointed to the federal police, the minister Edson Fakim promoted that he would not have the mission of the investigations and also promised the end inquiry of the fake news. Let's see the talk of the minister. We will do what is right, in the time and in the form of the legal order. The institutions of the republic need to be preserved, especially at the moment of greater attention. Without a authority on the top of the constitution, without power on the top of the law, without any circumstantial interest, it can be overcome the integrity of the state of the democratic law. The gravity of the facts does not authorize the shortcuts. On the contrary, as much as the most challenge, the most must be the commitment with the legality, the process of the legal and the constitutional guarantees. It will not be perceived, but not with the mission. The institutional response will be a proportional and rigorous firm. The recent events show certain and urgent matters of our management. The adoption of a ethics code, the end inquiry of the fake news and the modernization of the justice system. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Look at the escalation of the crisis in the Supreme Court of the Federal Council, it is still more explicit after the Minister of the Law of the Immoraes, it is worth the inquiry of the fake news to accuse Andrea Mendonça of abuse of authority, in administrative and criminal property, in the production of the operations without a discount and compliance. But the moral foundation of the strong and indigenous accusations, crimes and a report from the Federal Police Intelligence Agency, which is a part of the sale. The document is classified as the own analysis with a lack of trust under or moderately. But in the decision of the moral, these hypotheses will be treated as consumables in the conduct of Mendonça. One of the central points of the decision is to be referred to the support of the management of investigations by the Mendonça part to the president of the Senate of the Vio Columbo. Even if the Calichandre has been framed as a result of irregularity, the own text of the press is classified as a single, as an election hypothesis for an analyst, he has contributed a lack of trust under or moderately. The material is fragile because the State Office is not a final report of the investigation, but an temporary analysis of the scenarios about the accusations of the Masta and NSS cases. This document does not have official head, nor is it related to the signature. Only the face of a restricted diffusion, besides registering expressly that it is a work piece, without a mandatory value. Now, as I said before, the accusation was removed from the inquiry and will be analyzed directly by the president of the court, Edson Fakim. But be careful, because the two of them are considered fragile. Let's try to understand this with Gabriel Braga Silva, who is the director of the Constitutional Law. Gabriel, very good afternoon. Morais can be considered a report that does not have the right to do the accusations that he does to the Minister of the Commandant. Good afternoon, Rafael. Good afternoon to all who follow the metropolis. It is a pleasure to talk about this issue with you. Well, before we start, we need to give a step back, because all these information that came to the inquiry of the fake news, we need to think about why these information was only manipulated by now. The inquiry of the fake news has been lost since 2019, and this makes us ask questions of the case. So why was this only brought to the court now? If there were already parts of the Ministry of Commandant in some way and that's it, why is this still not revealed? In question of the failure of the fake news, in fact, the intelligence reports, because there is no metropolis, the metodological, many times you don't know where they left it, which are the concrete elements that led to that conclusion, they don't pass from a understanding of the police agent about facts. So to understand the value of this territory, we need to retrocede to what led to the production of these territories. So the fact that this has been taken by the Ministry of Commandant for this half, will need to be evaluated, which were, in fact, the elements that were analyzed by this territory. Look, Gabriel, another question I make you ask you. How can the Ministry have access to a police report that is not finished? And the fact of the document is to eliminate the weight change that it can have in a final decision. Justly in the causes of the protests to question us. It's the fact that, in fact, as the investigation of the incigiluses, as this case of the lawyer, it was from the rule that access to the report, which would be the current report, the Minister of Commandant. So the fact that these information had been sent to the state of the fake news, that did not treat this issue, it treated the issue totally different. The fact that they had been noticed there, also makes us wonder how these facts came to the Ministry of Commandant Alexandre de Morais, that would be investigated, currently, not directly, because this would happen by a planar authorization of the STF, but by a false point of view, from the evidence, he ended up being reached, he ended up being identified with an interlocutor and someone who was also listed as being there. So this involvement, with his access to these information from the Federal Police, also makes us wonder how he reached these information that would be from the government's full convenience of the case of the murder. Look, what is in the practice of also having the difference between a intelligence report from the Federal Police and a proven evidence within an investigation? A report like this can be seen, and at least to justify the opening of an investigation? Interesting question, Rafael. Here we need to sit down, at the moment we are seeing and where these discussions are occurring, which is in the STF, of an investigation that would occur in our national territory. So, these intelligence reports, in fact, as I said, they have been in this case, in the STF, it cannot be used for a juicer, for example, to finish a search measure, or an interception measure, telephonic or any measure, in the right and right, because it is not an element in itself. It is not a case of a value, and listed or not. It is nothing more than an evaluation of the police, right? The search for certain elements produced, the right? So, returning to the question if this can or not motivate an investigation, now we have to situate this response within the political context that we are living in. And these information, being listed, coming from a listed or listed way, they were brought to the public and they were brought to the public and sub-meted now to the decision of the president of the STF, the minister of the Edson-Fakim, about which will occur from then on. And, for having a social co-brancher, very large, a political pressure, although the criminal is juridical, of the three powers, in short, the existing in our republic, these brought to the public they can, not by the private value that is attributed to the relative, but by the content and by the elements that they refer to. So, this could, in my opinion, motivate an investigation from these facts that were produced in a listed way. Real, if this relative has the present and the pot and the complete information, and there is no private value but we say it's more serious, the fact that the moral is used, it can sustain the accusations to compromise the own request of the investigation against the trend. Well, how I tried to explain here, the specific qualities of this territory, the degree of private capacity, if it is a weak test, or if it is not, these discussions here, they serve, they serve more to bring these facts to the tone, that is, the facts are there, the ministers are the faking, and if, to understand, this decision to the plenary will be the plenary position. So, what will be evaluated by the ministers? Will the facts be in the form of how they were produced in the origin, etc? So, this relative, he will not have so much importance in the sense of corroborating or infracting the accusation brought by the minister by the moral election. But yes, if the ministers understand that the origin of this relative, that is, the facts are produced are, in fact, illicit or capable of generating a concrete suspect to motivate then a debt investigation that has, as specific to some ministers, then, this will be done. Not by the provisional force of the relative, but by the content of these facts that were or not sold. I would like to hear in fact an opinion of the current situation within the federal Supreme Court, we have even said that she is the largest in the Supreme Court. How do you evaluate the consequences of this crisis that has been pushed by the Supreme Court with the case of Daniel Vorkaro? In fact, here we have all these analysis, they have to be placed within a historical moment that we are living. And this can be considered a crisis in the institutions that are in our state never before registered. So, depending on the way the Supreme Court takes this issue and that is why I said this a little bit now that I understand that the Supreme Court has been in the state for a few days now, after the Supreme Court has been pushed by a relative, without speaking about the prosecutor or by another source, the fact is that the society wants to know the society is in a way revolted with all this context and that is not only the Senate and the Congress that are in the streets of the popular street but also the Supreme Tribunal Federal, which is the Supreme Court of the judiciary, which theoretically should not be suffered from these political restrictions and it ends by recovering these effects. So, in my opinion, the Supreme Court is going to not investigate this, it can influence the electoral plate as this will develop and even to bring and corroborate and to break the legitimacy that people have in the state. Gabriel, thank you very much for participating in the Metropolis to talk about this issue and to come back and all these elections that are the Supreme Court of the Federal Court. Thank you, Rafael. And until next time. The Supreme Court of the Supreme Court has presented the criticism of the fake news industry and said in a positive statement. Let's watch. We are to the next deep discussion with the need of a new reform in the president's position. But the people can continue because nobody, nobody, the name of democracy can use the person who has the money. This is worth to believe in the people who are worth to pay the money and the matter is risky. It is worth to have a party and a medical party. All the world has to be subordinated to the same laws and I say to my friend here, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court of the Republic are very speculative of the Brazilian society because when the dedicated son is devoured and is a given house that resolves and so my dear, is in your feet, in the feet of the Paul Gounet the responsibility to pass the minimum of tranquility and to try to hide absolutely nothing what we what we can't do in this country is to officialize the induct of the FIC News the induct of the selective movement for the political interests is not possible. If we don't stop this we will lose the credibility that we want so I am happy to be comfortable from the Brazilian justice with this law the Supreme Court is very good I am happy to be able to ask the Flavio about this about the Falkin that had happened some minutes ago of this collective and the president of the PL is classified as a light in the end of the tunnel let's see this declaration with light and the cane to be the political person to be able to be the member of a very small and realistic person who respect the Constitution it's just to return to the basics because the principles are to be kept in this country let's see how Mr. Valia has received the declaration of the Columbus that was interpreted by a signal that he would have given the money to the board to the Supreme Court how Mr. Valia is going to be able to see the Columbus very worried with a small amount of money and the fact that he has made a long meeting with small amount of money in the third year or before the plan that seems to be combined with legal actions against me I have time to say there is absolutely nothing wrong with President's president because we are dealing with the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the Columbus and the judiciary is not what we are seeing there, but the legislature is not what we are seeing there, and the role is ours as the senator or our public people to reject the credibility of values and institutions so that democracy will be filled with our country. later receive all the help in order to be bättre preusional to city and to be prepared to be assembled Dus Par today. With some achievements, we knocked out the evil forces but given扮 off nature, we can't even reinterpret it people fight like aPrometheus of the Wild many times and especially Hostiel Wabec but better the example, if god dare start that apartheid this first turn as governor of São Paulo and I hope that the President will be able to help the São Paulo state, the municipalities of São Paulo, and the public schools that were here to be able to do more effectively in São Paulo and Brazil. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Why is the problem in the past three months? Well, you also heard Flávio Bolsonaro talking about... it was another response, right? Flávio Bolsonaro commenting on the fact that it was Colombia. What happened? Because Flávio Bolsonaro didn't explain it. The Colombian said in the Senate that some people forgot to receive 130 million for a film and act as if the only problem was the moral lesson. A clear reference from the President of the Senate, to Dark Horse, the cinematography of the Bolsonaro, that received a vote-released investment from Daniel Vorcaro, who was in front of the bank master, this investment that is something of investigations, so much the police sent to that state of São Paulo when the federal police also sent it. And then, the last information, Flávio Bolsonaro, after this visit to the S.R.B. of startups, where I am now, which is the municipal market of São Carlos, has made a beginning with the prices of prices, they said, what they repeated along the campaign, let's go to the PT, they wrote a chorus of the moral lesson, called people for the 17th of September in São Paulo and then the President left here in the city after this last commitment. And I also supported that the campaign of Flávio Bolsonaro was going to start a tour there for several regions in Brazil with the intention of really strengthening the campaign, they will find a place to vote in a positive and positive way. And in short, these crises that affect one another, the state of the election of at least some people, close to the campaign, have been strengthening the candidate in Flávio Bolsonaro and perhaps breaking the candidate of the president of the election. Rafael. Let's call for our conversation to bring repercussions to respect this institutional crisis in the federal government. The report is Camila Chavier. Camila, very good afternoon. How was this talk about Lula, how many of you are here in relation to this, as I said, that is being considered the biggest institutional crisis of the state? Very good afternoon Rafael. Good afternoon everyone, my friends, for example, the campaign was about these talks. We passed a little chat about the president Lula and this strategy has been this. The president is manifested in relation to this crisis without directly attacking the involved figures to prevent more tension in this moment. The president of the federal government, Edson Faquin, who was speaking about the plan, talked about this, which is what the facts are, but the intention is to prevent institutions from being distracted. He spoke specifically that it is necessary to present the institutions, especially at the moment of greater tension. And then it was by this little girl that he followed. And the president Lula also followed in this same sense of co-brances, but without doing references directly to the involved figures. Inclusive, the fact that they were here, present to other figures, Inclusive, the own general prosecutor of the Republic, Goneque, was one of the people sitting in the messages of Daniel Volcaro, these messages that were published in this week. And the president Lula, talking a little more in detail about this talk about him, he even said that he was in the costs of Edson Faquin, without being directly attacking, but not understanding what he was talking about. He was in the costs of him, in the costs of Paulo Goneque, the responsibility to spend the minimum of tranquility without trying to hide absolutely nothing. He made this co-brance so today, and I also see the result that there was also a entrepreneurship of the president Lula, who was the first public manifestation of those pages talking about the video, published in his social networks about this crisis. He published this video, talking about the size of the crisis, involving the scandal, the bank master, and also said that the government had the question to highlight that it was in his government, that Daniel Gorkar was investigated and arrested, and also criticized this question of the selective basis. We have, even Rafael, a third of this talk about the president Lula, let's move on to analyze a little bit. The scandal of the bank master is the biggest robbery of the story of the braviu. The robbery of millions of people of many state-owned citizens. A bad crime of the scheme has been related to many people of power, and it was my government that he was arrested in his bank, the suspect of political and political involved publics. Our democracy can't be re-evaluated. The gravity of the moment, the people will hope that the president of the short term, and the general procurator of the republic, lead a process that guarantees integrity and confidence in investigations. As the president of the republic, I believe that only by the way of transparency we guarantee that institutions are repeated by the Brazilian society. It is time to get to know that people who have a public life or a law are due to the law. And I put the public control above any individual interest. Democracy needs institutions strong and repeated. It is clear that our public system, which is necessary to remove the funds, is fundamental, that we invest in all the world, no blindness of anyone who can't. The Brazilian people have the right to know the truth. Well, Rafael, we saw the press and the president of the president of the month yesterday, and this position of the president is very well-prepared between his allies, which even saw the own position they were oriented to adopt. And this is that everyone must be investigated, someone must be arrested, but making these arrests and also he did these criticism, the selection of the elections, which is something that is being pointed by his allies, criticizing the fact that these figures that are being exposed are being exposed to this in a way that other inquiries, including the investigation of the film and the patrocini given by the bankmaster and the bankmaster's investment in the biography of the father of Flávio Bolsonaro, of the Bolsonaro, has not been treated so the repercussion has been being investigated, and we continue to follow any new manifestation of the president Lula or of his allies in relation to this case. Camila, Samuel, thank you very much for seeing this program full of you here. You can always come back especially because I also have it, but at least I stay here in the room. You will still have a lot of shame even better than we have you to fight the shame behind the candidates, so any newness can come back here with me. Look, and with this one that is considered the biggest institutional crisis in the history of the federal Supreme Court, it is reverberating and other projects. Of course, the question is important because when the court is taking the vote, the candidates are given and given to the banquete. Today, the Cuban Instaigul Gadeira is being held, which is happening in a kind of operation that can be done here in Brazil involving several groups of power in the capital of the republic. Each one is trying to preserve their new lead message that is brought to the cell phone. I'm alive with the political scientist Magnus Caul to try to try to understand the little thing in Brazil, Magnus. Very good afternoon, try to talk to you this week the technology did not leave the agenda did not leave the republic but now we managed. I want you to be able to do a summary not necessarily a summary of what happened but a summary of what you think will be in the future of this historic week in the worst sense of the word. It's a good afternoon. Although the republic remains the hope of us to talk about it here. I have not remained the same. We have been in a very complicated place. We are approaching the elections. They are important elections where if the new third of the Senate the whole whole the president of the republic has never been so disputed. The two candidates are practically in the squarely imported in the second turn of the elections according to all the needs. So the electoral scenario is already very important and the needs are shown in the very open and for the next we have the master case bringing questions that influence the political case. They influence the elections directly or directly. Not to give us two things to discuss. But they bring us a point of confidence in institutions that we had not been at this point. I think it's not exaggerating some people saying that since the democratization we had not been so contagious and so spread by the republic's powers that we are now looking at. I'm impressed. Not even the two cases of impeachment that we had differing color of a Rousseff, they transmitted a population a sensation. Not just that a generalization is a very serious issue in Brazil. But the contamination of the institutional Brazilian system is very grave. We had the president of Lula, we had the senator Flágio Bolsonaro, we had the president of Supreme Court of Federal and all of them do the same in reference to institutions that could work to help the public general to refer to the own Supreme Court of Federal but in addition to the population it can trust this tragedy to the crisis, if the federal police is suspect of leaving the subject of their investigations and delivers to the minister of the moralist a relatively successful intelligence artificial with a low-level probability if the general general of the public is led by Paulo Gone, who appears in selfies of Daniel Vorcaro's siliares, who does FaceTime with Daniel Vorcaro, who goes to the event of Daniel Vorcaro, who is anxious to have the list of the best possible of the world that the public is trying to make the time pass and the public forget about the STF with the banquemage from behind from the stockpoli and what STF did compared to the interest of the stockpoli nothing happened after many scandals, after many covered the company the stockpoli was forced to remove the factory's territory, it was not the case, it was not the case, it was forced to leave or STF did not get the right to have a contract whose value is absolutely disproportionate contracts made in this sector and the agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's agency's in the population of Brazil at this moment, the Brazilian society is that everyone is working for their own defense and it will be a very big disappointment if the USF does it with that case, it ends in pizza, everyone goes out protected or receive a symbolic symbolic punishment and life follows people like if nothing had happened, what is happening is very serious, what we already know, is very serious, and the loss of trust from society in these institutions is a democracy in a way that we did not see until this moment since the democraxization we need to take care of our institutions and take care of our institutions is not to impure all these accusations below the carpet, is to invest and do what they have to, be effectively united, it's just like that we will be able to reanimate the Brazilian population society and do what she trust in our institutions. That is, responding to this question that is on the screen, the prejudices we are. Magnum, the crisis of the image of the USF even for a question of political strategy of Bolsonaro is very old, but in the past we saw that moment in which the USF was put in a certain way as a democracy in the time of the condemnation of the gold pistas. Now we are at this moment that you just described so well. I wanted you to also be able to analyze that the crisis of the USF will influence the campaigns since we have between the two main candidates one that in fact continues with this flag that the need of the USF's impeachment to put in check the juridical question involving the ministers and we have the other side, President Lula, who despite trying to face it, he has a more close connection with some ministers and has already spoken about this crisis that happens. How do you think it will happen if you book the campaigns to use this one, which is a constitutional crisis, which will make the whole country within what they want to pass the population in these days that are still there. The USF's president, the president of the USF, was the president of the Supreme Court of the Federal Supreme. The Supreme Court of the Federal Supreme fulfilled its function in the republic which is at that moment condemn those who planned the USF a gold pistas planned a scheme for the president, the vice president, the elected ones, did not go into the ramp on January 1st. At the end, they fulfilled their obligation very grateful. Now, this does not give them a single conduct to eternally do what they want to do in a way that they are punished. They are the heroes of democracy, they are the servicemen of the population, public officials who serve society and who fulfill their obligation. No one makes a act of benevolence, no one makes a act of charity, no one complies with their duty in a way that they are not able to serve as a duty to act as they want for the rest of their lives. The Supreme Court of the Federal Supreme needs to be punished by the acts of its ministers if so, to demand the institution, while the institution is being transmitted to us, the idea of the act to protect the individuals who have been there to protect their ministers, to protect the institution, the institution will be fragile. One thing is the Supreme Court of the Federal Supreme Court, very important to the fundamental pillar of our republic, another thing is the ministers, temporary, who pass through there and who eventually will be able to do it. These individuals should not be protected because it is only to end the eroding of our capacity of us to believe in us in the Supreme Court, in this institution, in this important pillar. And the same should be applied to the candidates, the presidents. Each one should solve their cases, each one should respond by their problems. Lula has their problems, Flávio has their problems in the Banco Márcio, Flávio has 132 million problems being responded and the association of each one of them, with this case, is very toxic. Flávio is associated with the millions Daniel Vorcaro gave to the film for the realization of the biography of the Bolsonaro and Lula to have a close relationship and to be transmitted. A certain image of alliance with a Supreme Court, believing that in fact his government of certain form depends on the Supreme Court, there is a certain, certain support, the task, even covered by the Minister of the Marmenes this last week, the president Lula so that Lula acts indefinitely to the least of this field of the Supreme Court of the Federal Government. Nothing could be more toxic for the president Lula at this moment than associating the candidature to a very involved Supreme Court of the Federal Government, with a master's case. The Gestophony is very involved, the Alexandre de Morais is very involved, and Lula has a lesson to learn. It seems to me that at this moment the winds are only for the best for the Bolsonaro Flávio. Since it was the field of the Bolsonaro Flávio that said that the inquiry of the fake news was open for more time, is around seven years rolling out for the Alexandre de Morais. Use your power as a director of the way to describe your own objectives and what we are seeing at this moment is exactly what the Bolsonaro and other people in the last few years are also receiving and, as the Minister of the Sunfake said today, this inquiry needs to be closed. It needs to be closed because it is no longer the fake news that we saw being used in the case in 2019. It is true that, at this moment, for example, to record a few other ministries of the Federal Government for a wide variety of things and nothing to see with fake news. So, Alexandre de Morais talks as a character of this election in a way that is involuntary because it appears in these conversations, talking with Daniel Vorcaro and, if Flávio Solbero uses this participation to be the case that this ends up by beneficial. The law remains the strategy that he put today. Everyone needs to be investigated, no one is on the law, we need to keep our institutions now. Rest of life. The Brazilian can trust the Federal Police to provide these denunciations since the General Director of the Federal Police was arrested in Longdas, the Brazilian population can trust in the General Director of the Republic. Knowing that the General Director of the Republic had done time with the Vorcaro and asked Charutos and Wicks, the Brazilian population can trust the Federal Federal Supreme Court knowing that the stock day was the owner of the Taya-A who made business with Daniel Vorcaro's family who, by the time he was married, Daniel Vorcaro, his son, the Carthons de Credito, who was auxiliating, giving advice to Daniel Vorcaro to the investors of his prison. This is a question that the Brazilian society expects to receive the answer. As long as that's all, it was not answered, our election, which was already very complicated, which had many reasons to be tribulated, but it was more disputed since the Democratic Law and that's all very complicated. We will wait four or five weeks until the elections, which literally everything can happen. We don't know what the next revelation will be. Everyone claims of selective basements when the Flavio Bolsonaro claims when the Lula claims when the Lula claims when the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court in fact, the journalism in a democracy also makes a statement. We are waiting to see if something will happen, if something will appear, and what will be the impact of these new information in the electoral process. The electoral process is already complicated, the election is already hot and this expectation should not be done with which the things will be easier for the future. It is, in a month, exactly a month, we have the first turn of the elections, Magno, thank you for participating again with us in the metropolis. Thank you, it was a pleasure, we will see you next week. Look, a few minutes ago, for you to be on TV, on YouTube, we continue to talk about the crisis. So, nothing better than remember how it was during the last elections in 2022. Finally, as I just said, we are one month of the first turn of the election this year, so our team has been very busy how it was the country, at this same time, four years ago. First, it is important to say that, currently, some of the main researches of the country have a fight with votes intentions between 37 and 39% in the first turn. Flap Bolsonaro appears between 30 and 33%. In 2022, the petition registered a greater advantage in this period, varying between 42 and 45% of votes intentions. Flap Bolsonaro registered between 32 and 34%. And beyond the P.T.P.L., the third best placed, in recent events, here in 2022, Augusto Curri, he already exceeds votes intentions, both of the men, and of the Simone Tabet, who disputed the third place in votes intentions, in 2022. And what was the result of the first turn? Let's see how it all ended. The result of the first turn of 2022. Lula TV, 48,4% of the votes were 57,2 million votes, already Bolsonaro, 43,2% 51,07 million votes. Simone Tabet kept the third place in the first turn, she had 4,2% of the votes, that is, 4,9 million voters voted in Simone Tabet and the third place, 3%, with 3,59 million votes, the others candidates kept less than 1% of these votes. The second turn, which I ran at the end of October, was sold by 50,9% of the votes against 49,1% of the votes of already Bolsonaro. And then, after the public began to move in the opposite between the Deputy Deputy of Nicolas Ferreira and Oiz Dono do Banco Master Daniel Vorcaro, started to run in social networks and supposedly, the Federal Police. The text said that the opposite between the two did not have the crime index and stated that there were no elements to open the special investigation against the NICLAS. The Deputy shared this document, but the Federal Police never produced this report. The document also found several signs of falsification such as the data that did not beat. The document is false as it was on November 9th, 2025. The real truth of the loss was that the Federal Police was only the case of personal and professional and that there were no sufficient elements to investigate. The Federal Police was procured and denied that this document would be produced. The real truth of the PF that is published this week is from August 27th, 2026. There are also links to the transcriptions of the conversations, problems, the number of pages, and differences in relation to the visual identity of the official documents of the Federal Police. In addition, an analysis made by AusFatos identified in an open-air digital market that is an indicator that the material had been generated or manipulated by the Federal Police. The document is published after the talks and audio and the documents were revealed. The messages are called the Dane banquets and said it would like to have more proximity to them. At the same time, the police will help to get an active miniaturization of an friend and his access. And the message that the company will have abandoned all the votes of the deputies. The documents have received any irregularities in these conversations. And the name of the Dane Alvorkaro is not yet out of the metropolis. The reporters, Jessica Bernardo and Rebecca Ligaboo, gave us a balance of São Paulo. They said the banquets said in a pre-media proposal that the donation of 5 million for the companies of the São Paulo government is still free. Two presidents were Bolsonaro there in 2022. It was a negotiation of propane. Two million reais for the government of Paulista and other 3 million for the president. In that year, with the help of Volcaro Fabianos Etel, he was the biggest political leader. He is also involved in the operation with Plan C0. I live with the reporter, Jessica Bernardo, who will bring more details of this story. Jessica, very good afternoon, what is the desire to sign about these 5 million duels, the campaign of the Tassisi and Bolsonaro in 2022? The afternoon, Rafael, the afternoon too. All of you who are watching on this moment, both on YouTube and on TV, will be here. One day, I was added here in São Paulo after a report from the OOL, reported that the pre-media proposal of the Delacian Alvorcairo had made a relationship between two received by the Tassisi and Bolsonaro in 2022. There is a negotiation of propane that would have been made with a stubborn Kassabi. In that campaign, as you said, if Tassisi received two million of reais of the Alvorcairo in the Volcano, Bolsonaro received three million reais. This verb, then, this second proposal of the Delacian would be a part of a negotiation to make Tassisi a law. There was an authorization for Rafael to continue working here in São Paulo authorized to work here in São Paulo. The sixth cred, which is a credit card achieved, which works here in São Paulo since 2022, that is, before the Tassisi was elected. What would be the relationship between these two actions and this cred 6th cred, in the government of São Paulo? Rafael, a credit card, he is the PKL company, this PKL was linked to the Albuenco Master, and he, as I said, already operated here in São Paulo, because he already operated here in São Paulo since 2022. He was then authorized to work here in the state of the João Doria governor. And then, in this proposal of the Delacian I will say that the company is Augusto Lima, so with the intent of making the cred 6th continue here in São Paulo, he found Gilberto Cassabee. And then, just to remember, for those who do not remember Augusto Lima, it was a name justly linked to the cred 6th, it was a name that appeared several times in the newspaper, because it was responsible for the expansion of the cred 6th, which also works in other states here in Brazil. So, he had, second-hand lawyer, procured Cassabee, and negotiated with him, so that the cred 6th could continue. Cassabee, who was at the time directly involved there in the campaign of the Tarsí de Depois, would be chosen as Secretary of the government when Tarsí de I was in fact elected, so, second-hand lawyer, would have negotiated the co-brancher of this contract, so that it was made. And this contract would be, in the middle, of these two actions that were made, so, second-hand, the proposal of the relationship, were made of Tarsí de and Bolsonaro. And the important thing is that the report of the current, is still here, another part of this contract, is also being delivered in money, and in this case, the names, linked to the ministries of the Cassabee. So, we have a problem in our connection with the GESC-Bernardo. You can see, if we can reconnect our conversation with the GESC-Bernardo in São Paulo, I still wanted to ask you about it, because, Fernando Adade, he also said, about this issue. Do we have a connection with the GESC-Bernardo in São Paulo? I still wanted to ask you about it, because, Fernando Adade, he also said, about this issue. Do we have a connection with the existing response of our team there in the Paulista capital? Look, we have a problem in our connection. Anything, we will try there, because Adade is the CESC-Bernardo. She always has a lot of interesting news. But, before that, I will tell you a story of a group. A group of people who ended their own disappearance. But, before that, they had already been transferred to a group of colleagues who started to see me. What did GESC-Bernardo do? Let me make a little a little bit of the group. I know that you are the two group of people. We always love group of people. Come back with GESC-Bernardo. GESC-Bernardo, you will talk to us after you leave. I want to know if you will want to see this group of people here in Brazil, because the guy is really expert. He stole a lot of money. But, he told me that what the CESC-Bernardo and the CESC-Bernardo were after the investigation of the Vorkado's disappearance. Well, Rafael, I was curious to know the story of the group. I think I will continue watching here. I hope that our viewers are also well. But, yesterday, then, after all, all this happened. Also, the Tartis, I know how many people were there. We even had one of the agencies, one at night, in which Tartis and I were there. And he said, the Nose also is another journalist who was there at the time, who is the ridiculous, the ridiculous, this situation. So, I will read here exactly what he said. Open the page. It is a relationship that is ridiculous. Imagine that I will ask for some favor or that the president Bolsonaro and ask for some favor is something that does not make the least sense of this, then, the governor who yesterday had in the Aituba in the interior of São Paulo for the launch of the Rogerio Nogueira from the state of São Paulo. The Tartis, he also said, this is something that these authorities, for the employees, work here in São Paulo are made from the moment that these companies work in the central and that there is no denying a credence. In fact, there is a decree that was made during the general action that in 2014, the norms of how these employees work here in São Paulo in 2022, so the gesture of the Dora makes a insistent article that allows the banks, better saying sorry, that credit card is being made by the financial institutions can also be used by public servitors. And then, from this, when the central ban is completed, the second of the São Paulo these companies are being accredited. The accreditation would say that the automatic from the moment that they are authorized, including the central ban, and that is the words of the explanations of the defreitas and the government of the São Paulo officially. In addition, the House said, he also said, that he did not support the president of the United States and the House of the United States. He also said, that he is also also as a citizen, and they said about this situation, in 2022, the current of the Credicesta here in São Paulo, and then it is worth remembering that the PKL, following our notes, because there are several, right? After the report, we were already in the air, that this issue was reprecording, we started to receive the notes there, which of course we we will look for all to put the report in air. And the government of São Paulo also announced today a new note saying that it is repudied and denied any signs of irregularity or favoritism, involving the Credicesta of the PKL to operate the credit achieved here in the state, the second suggestion, there are no reports and not against the respawn in the facts, neither in the chronology of events, or in the rules that discipline the sector, they all denying any relation with this relation, this proposal of Daniel Vorcar. This is just to finish the campaign of Fernandade which is the main anniversary of the CIS by the government of São Paulo, it also manifested itself in relation to this accusation. What was it? Well, the campaign of Fernandade manifested itself, Fernandade has said that today, in the propaganda of radio, he quickly made a new piece for radio, quote this question of the Wall, and asking that you have made the explanations that you have explained about all this situation. The age that is in the following places in the research of the vote intention, then, there is, of course, an interest and an audience in this case, more and more. So, the campaign of the Fernandade of the CIS of our reporter, who was taking this, she will be very attentive to the statements of this question involving Daniel Vorcaro and Tarsízio, in this proposal of premied delation that happened, will be released now from the side of the Tarsízio campaign. I agreed that, however, at least some allies say there, that they don't believe that this will have a strong impact in the campaign of Tarsízio Diffreitas, which is first place in the research of the vote intention. They say that people know that Tarsízio is not involved with anything that is incorrect. This is the words of a ally of him, who said to me, today is and also at night, I talked to some allies. So, that's it. I think this action is still going to continue to be repeated in the next few days. But, of course, we, here in MetroPresue, will accompany everything and bring all the details for you. And then, I want to know, the history of the Brazilian government. Exactly. I was saying, there are things that we like, and we will tell you the history of a bad government, after bringing you free gas, bringing your information directly to São Paulo. Jessica, thank you, to participate with us. Look, how I said to you, right? Now I will tell you the history of a bad government. Here in Brazil, he ended the appearance itself, but before that, he had already been profiled and the vote intention which began from home, against the own country of creation. Leonardo Siqueirasalvos has 26 years and tried to live with the life of light, with the money fired. And the party just started, when he simulated a five-day submissive to the São Paulo mobilizing the police of two states. Carlos Carone, from the South, is here to tell you more about this history of the coupist. Carlos Carone, very good afternoon. This coupist is in the Christa da Honda, literally, right? He is with at least 200,000 reais in the account to be able to take the best way he thinks about the money and the question was that he took and he took this money from a friend of the family and gave an opportunity to him to get out, follow a truck and put it justly taking care of the bank accounts of the cost of a company that moves a lot of money and, along for six years, he promoted these divisions. This division ended up coming to an end recently, with the company from the Falk, and, following a series of financial retirements that he took from the company and distributed some accounts of cars and then he was discovered with his own 5 vehicles, one of them was a Rengero, a car of more than 300,000 reais and, along these divisions. How did this sum that he ended up with him and, in which the investigation runs the risk of being arrested, he is in Brazil, with this situation now. This first episode he gave a bomb on his own father, who is the police military-posentado, he had this separate, decided to sell the house, divided the money with his wife, he gave his profile and, he gave his wife a money and, he left his father with nothing, and, he had a lot of 300,000 reais and, so, even so, he decided to escape, went to São Paulo, he invented this story of who wanted to sell a car, and then the police ended up being arrested, both in São Paulo and in Rio, the family knew about these details, they didn't even know that this money was being sold, and it was bad because he didn't want to be found, the family was looking for it, he was stopping in South country, and the police saw that it wasn't a case of sequester, a disappearance, nothing like that. He left, he lost the family's contact with his own family but he is in Brazil, we took him back, he came back, with more money than his family, so he is taking advantage of this fruit of crimes, of stolen money. We always ask ourselves why do you like so much to try? But, anyway, maybe if I had a million of a cousin, my parents maybe I had a business, I didn't do it, we're kidding, just to make a conclusion, because now we're talking about a very serious carony, because the cat is in front of a woman in a woman's ring. She was found dead and is locked within a abandoned wall, there was no public in São Paulo. It was on day 21 August. The identification was confirmed by the police in São Paulo, then a more than a few others brought and a technical case was investigated as a murder by a Specialist of criminal investigations and carony wanted to know how many years the investigation is going on. is putting up with everything concerning individuals , There is also noyeahrunt possiamo Scroll downstream andiggants are trying to bring these pieces to make ruin of the Trans wouldn't it be relevant to research They would have been a violent death, motivated by one of these three factors that are being buried there. The violence, the adjustment of the count, a drug-driven measure, the police is trying to find cameras, because they can show some author or something that leads to at least the indices of suspects, but not yet. It's a mystery, this body was found in a painting, it was a murder committed in a very brutal way, motivated by a very very obvious, very, very rare. So it's a point that the police, that still so dark, the police need to be clarified, and when the investigations go on, they will arrive again, again, fixed to be pushed. And any news about this case, you accompany in the middle column with Carlos Carone. Arone, thank you for specifically with us. Thank you, good afternoon. Let's go back to talking about elections, because today the electoral tribunal gave another step to the great day of the vote. The systems that will be used in the elections of 2022 were formally signed and lacraced. In practice, this means that the programs used in the vote, in the purification and in the totalization of votes, have a definitive version. After the digital nature and this lacration, the systems cannot be altered anymore, this is the TSE, which was precisely to talk about this stage that the president of the TSE, the minister, Kassionunis Marx, has a direct declaration about the role of electoral justice. Kassionunis said that the justice does not choose winners, does not interfere in the popular choice and does not have preference for candidatures. The declaration comes exactly to the month of the first turn of elections, it is marked by four in the morning and it is not by chance that the security of the electoral system goes back to the debate center. The TSE needs to guarantee not only that the election can vote, but also that the vote registered in the urn is counted correctly until the totalization of the results. Before the declaration, the systems pass through a series of stages of fiscalization. The sources of electoral systems were available for the inspection since October 2025, authorized entities can analyze the programs and follow the procedures of fiscalization. Now with the digital nature and lacration, the TSE includes one of the main stages of technological preparation for elections. The TSE also occurs at a time when the electronic zone returns to the subject of the political debate, so the TSE has reinforced the existence of transparameters and fiscalization, among them there is the opening of the code of the source, the public tests of security, the auditory of the systems and the procedures carried out before, during and after the vote. The TSE itself says that these mechanisms are part of the regulation of the elections are not a novelty of 2022 and the electoral calendar is already going. The first turn, as I said, will be on the 4th of October and if necessary, we have a second turn marked by the day 25 of October, about 158 million voters vote and second, the expectation is to use approximately 564,000 electronic corners. Let's see a little talk about the minister today during this moment. We are going to talk about elections in the federal district because there is a return on the plate. The Red Cross had the registration of the government's registration in favor of the regional and electoral tribunal here in the federal district. But the decision does not stop automatically that it exists from the campaign. I'm alive with the colonist TSE's administrator to explain that it is not only the decision of the regional and electoral tribunal but as it can change the electoral schedule here in our square. The administrator, very good afternoon, starts asking you, you called the decision to the TRE or the expected Jair and how this decision, as I said, can alter this election here in the federal district. Hi, good afternoon, good afternoon to all who are with us here in the metropolis, I always want to participate with you to talk about the most important issues there for the population. So, Rafa, yesterday in the regional and electoral tribunal here in the federal district decided to form a year and five votes that the government's e-reported governor does not agree with the elections in 2022 in the reason of the instability. The defenders understood that the governor's e-reported, still cannot go back to the political scenario and dispute elections because it is impeded in the reason of six condemnations, for the administrative property that declared to determine its instability. The route to remember us was the governor, he was elected there in the elections of 2006, the federal district government during the period until 2010, when he was arrested in the Amtus of the Pandora's Office, who invested in political agents, besides the governor, the governor of the epic, deputies of the district and also in the press for a scheme of propane payment for the maintenance of these contracts. The second minister of the public used the epic, this value paid by the press for the political group, the second MP coordinated by the governor, this value was used to finance campaigns and also for them, the second minister of the public in this position, the route was processed, it was coordinated seven times by administrative property in relation to this case of the Pandora's box, the processes were remembered there, seven processes and they treat each one of the contracts that the GDF had because with the companies pointed by the public minister, as the authors of these payments, the public agents, the governor, the legal, there that the processes were in fact connected, that is, the connection between the processes in form that they should be unified to end the contagion of this uniligibility, of this form, according to the candidate, he could already run the elections on October of 26th, because his first condemnation is June 2014, that year's tattoo for uniligibility, inserted by the new law, the famous flexibleization of the Fischel Impa law, in the past, in the congress, sanctioned by the public representative, it established this tattoo of 12 years of uniligibility in case of successful condemnations, since the facts are connected, and the legal defense of the route that the facts are connected, then it should be told from the first condemnation, collegied, that is, by the tribunal of justice that I ran in June 2014, in the way that the 12 years would have been completed now, but the five members of the regional regional tribunal, the federal district, understood that these processes are not connected, because they treat different contracts, different people who would have participated in this scheme, the penalty of the Pandoora case, that is why it should not be told from the first condemnation that is from 2014, and more so, conforming the public itself, the public has pointed out from December 2018, what does that mean? It means that, following the TRE, the route can only be carried out after December 2030, as in the federal district, the electoral system is a little different, we only have elections every four years, so they could only be carried out again in 2034, that is, there is still a way to run there in front of it, that is why the registration of the candidate was indefered to the TRE, but as you well remembered, Rafa, the route can continue to do the campaign acts, because the law of elections allows the candidate to subjude, and it can continue to do these acts, there are passports, chariots, using the electoral program, free in the TV, in the radio, participating in debates, this even if the case of it is analyzed by the last instance, which is the most electoral terminal, the route has a today's collective to talk about this case, he said that it will be recognized, that it will be the end, and he emphasized what the defense of it says, that the facts are connected, that it is 16 years outside the policy, and that it can be retouched. So Rafa, we now need to save these next steps, while the route is impeded to be candidated by the TRE, he will run, if it takes the term to be analyzed, the name of it can be for the world, but the votes attributed to it can only be counted if there is a superior decision, it would be the electoral terminal. We need to save the next steps, but the fact is that yesterday, the TRE declared the instability of the route and impeded the registration of candidacy. Iza, there is nothing to do with the subject, but when you said that 2014 was 12 years, my language was like this, I felt this remembrance because 12 years already 2014, it's not easy. I will continue to keep this subject, because you will send the debate with candidates to the federal government, which is the third consecutive, made here by Metrópolis. I bring the details about this debate when it will happen, and of course, if the route continues with the invitation. Of course, Rafa, I just finished the meeting with the representatives of candidates, the six candidates were invited, according to the electoral legislation, in the sense of that candidates with the parties or elections have at least five, five representatives in the congress must participate in the debates. So we invited the six, Selena, Capel, the route, Paulo Belwonte, Kiko and also Leandro Graz from PT. They all participate, confirm a presence, sent representatives to this meeting prepared, in which we made the debate. It is a very important moment for the population, because this debate can define the vote of the people. At this moment, the candidates will be presented, will debate the most important themes, the most controversial themes, and the population that is well. At the end, how will it be solved, the problem of health, what will be the promise for the transport, and in relation to the investments, what can we expect, everyone pays so much, what will be the money, will be returned to the public, in the public benefit for all. These questions will be in the debate, the debate will be Thursday, December 10, from the 19th and 30th, we will make the live broadcast, everyone is invited to be able to watch this moment very important for democracy, and for our federal district squadron, the candidates will be the opportunity to ask if, during two blocks, in addition, they will also answer the question of journalists of Metropolis. This moment will be very hot, we think, because we are, it ended up leaving the decision of the TRE, in relation to the street, but it is only forbidden to register the district squadron, the federal district governor, he can continue the campaign act, he can continue the debate, I do not know if it comes to any decision later, but even at the moment he can continue to invite, we received his team, and so on, so we believe that this debate will be very hot, and of course, we promise to bring the most important actions, everything you want to know about the federal district, what these people who are candidates, what they pretend to bring from the best for you, and this will be a good opportunity, Rafa. Look, what happened to me in the memory of other editions, and how the candidates are treating the social networks, it will be very hot, very interesting, and really everyone needs to watch it. Iza, thank you for being with us here at Metropolis. Thank you, Rafa. Look, pause quickly for you to be on TV, who is on YouTube, the candidate for the general government by the Republicans, Clayton, Azé Vedo, stated, an interview is made by Metropolis, that the rare lands are the largest active in the state, and defend investments in technology and research to expand the production in mines. Let's see a little trick. For me, it's a lot of things that we have today with the general government. I think we have to do investment in technology, we have to invest in universities, and what we have to do is that the production is a lot of things that are in the general government. But just to explore, no, we have to produce, to produce, to put the company here, to generate the company here, when we work on it, that's right. So, to work on technology, to work on research, invest in universities, so we can explore, and that's a lot of things that are in the general government. But Mr. President, you should do partnerships with the federal government. You should do it when you are at the main point. All the necessary things of the federal government. And private companies, for example, in Goyars, the state of Goyars has made a memory of understanding with the department of the North American state in relation to the issue of the land of the Jaras. Mr. President, you should look for the American American company, Chinese too. Dude, since it's viable for the general mine, since the look is here, the wealth is not there, there's no problem here. I'm going to explore, just not only explore. Here, there will be a political leader here, who will take the state's account, who will defend the interests of the same people. Look, we're back on TV on YouTube. Let's talk about a sport, let's talk about a sad action in sport. A national player from Amazon lost his father a few days before going up to the CCC. Let's see what our conversation is in the team, what he said, and then, we'll have Nana Diné explaining the best story. without you in the supports. Hello, hello and good night. I'm非常 grateful you're talking with us from Metropolis Sports. My everything work is fine, and you have needed him so great at this event even that CCC the Brazilian championship keeps youAN in action. How many performances did you have in advance in the championship? How long had you been coming to Senhora Pondaointe? Well, I was staying in Spain today, but, I guess, that I was at a mis offenses I got here in the second row and I received a news that my father had told me to stay on the track. I got there yesterday. The news is telling us. The moment I'm here is exciting. We're all in the team of the Metropolis Sports. We put our feelings, we received messages, and I'm happy to hear what happened, and I'm happy to hear that there was a lot of resilience. The Igor is here, it's very exciting. We understand all this feeling, but how was it for you to come here? And knowing from all this work, I believe that all the mental, the mental mental was fundamental in this game. How was it for you? Personally. I don't know how I was talking. My father, my father, but he was for him. I'm sure. I just came back to know that he wanted to be my father. I believed that he was more than I was. So, if this power comes today, and comes from him, talking about it personally. Today, I'm going to call him to talk. I'm going to know where he's going to be. I'll see that in the future. Thank you, my friends, all the staff, the national staff, who gave me strength, who I felt I was. And that's it. Thank God for everything. Look, you who are on TV, we are closing here, but on YouTube we continue, we hear, no, no, you can, so comment a little bit about this situation. As long as we are watching the video, and you are even excited here. Good afternoon to all of you, we are in the afternoon of Rafa. It was exactly the scene. It was very emotional, the game finished. It's already a bit like this interview, it was very sad. But to make it a little lighter, the national team managed to classify the series to be guaranteed a wave. Yesterday, on this Thursday, the national team disputed the second game of the playoff of the series D, against the C.A. The game finished at 0 and 1.0, but thanks to the game of the disputed there in Amazonas, as a mandate, won three to one. And that's why it was classified. And this story happened with the national player who is Igor Raiyam. Igor was aware of the news. On the second day, when the national team was disembarking in the game, to make that final preparation before the duel against C.A. As soon as he was aware, he had the support of the director, even said that on the interview. He said he received the support that they wanted to make. To be calm, he didn't want to play. On the same day, he went to the fortress where his family lived. And he didn't see his father at 9 months. We know how this routine, running, playing football, many games, and he didn't see his father at 9 months. He found the family, went to the inner and in the fourth year, one day before the game, he went to the waters and then he played the game. The game was active here, and Vaslove showed thebourne team… So the National team guaranteed the obligatory for itsial team that he would come back to the season with the Brazilian champions 20 years after they found the critical final. The first game happens this week and transmission via mode to live in the fifth Chinese YouTube. And Nana, to manners! Tell us more about what has been in this weekend on SportsBomb that has already been able to receive variables in the series. But what kinds ofastern classic delivering this tune? Perfect, so the series will end this day. Let me ask. As of I jáologos, the Berlangia damen ages a jam, egg and our Brazilian air in constantję certificate mod a. that time as We have the dispute on top of the table. Flamengo, which is the second place, will enter the field against the rainbow there in the stop. And we, in the first location, we have Palmeiras. Palmeiras that will face the fire in Rio de Janeiro, remembering that only one point differentiates the two teams. Palmeiras is still in the middle of the game, but even what we said is that yesterday Palmeiras, they ran in the last round, he hit against Mirasol and Flamengo, his time won the game. So with that, he scored Flamengo, with a 50 point and Palmeiras with 52, it is also worth to highlight that Palmeiras, right? There is a important saying that the drawback of this JD that came out on this Tuesday, the SJD, the technical team, the Belferreira, to shoot a microphone in a game, so the technical will be fixed during two games, it will not command the team of the field, of course, he will have the support of the oscillators, but he will not be in the field, because we know that it is very important for this coach presence, especially at an important moment, like this, we have already been in the Vijese round of the Brazilian championship, that is, three round for the end. That's it, Ana Dine, thank you for being with us here at the Metropolis. Thank you, Rafa. Look, second party, there is no Metropolis, because it is closed on September 7, so I go back to the third party, starting from a date with the regional of the TV, the first two and a half, here at the Metropolis. So subscribe to the channel, because despite not having Metropolis now, in the second, I don't want to say that you will be able to see us, okay? It will be programming during the day, I will be here late with you, so subscribe to the channel to be very well informed, and I see you next week. See you.