---
video_title: "I Turned My Phone Into A Microscope"
video_id: Bb0uDpvitoE
channel_name: "Veritasium"
channel_id: UCHnyfMqiRRG1u-2MsSQLbXA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bb0uDpvitoE
video_date: 2025-11-27T15:04:19+00:00
video_description: |
  #Sponsored @madebygoogle A single drop of water is all it takes to turn the new Google #Pixel10Pro into a makeshift microscope.
  
  Promotional code offer expires 12/05/2025 at 11:59p.m. PT; while supplies last. Must be redeemed on Google Store only. User must be signed-in to their Google Account and checkout with Google Pay profile, including a valid form of payment. Limit 1 per customer.Available only to US residents, aged 18 years or older, with US shipping addresses. Google Pay profile must be registered in the US and promotional code can only be used in the US.To redeem, visit store.google.com, add the desired item to the cart, then enter promotional code during checkout for an instant discount on your purchase on one of four eligible items: Pixel 10 (unlocked), Pixel 10 Pro (unlocked), Pixel 10 Pro XL (unlocked), Pixel 10 Pro Fold (unlocked). Promotional code is for one-time use only with no residual balance; is not transferable; and is not valid for cash or cash equivalent. May be combined with other offers on Google Store. Void where prohibited. Terms of sale and additional Promotional code terms apply: https://store.google.com/terms/google_store_promo_codes
---
- Watch what happens when I put a drop of water on my phone camera. Thanks to Google for sponsoring this video. Well, the droplet forms a tiny dome, and when light hits this dome, it gets bent and focused, just like a lens. I'm putting a drop of water on the front-facing camera. The macro lens on this Pixel phone is already great.

But with the drop, we've now got one lens on top of another. So we've turned our phone into a microscope. The droplet magnifies the image, and then the phone's lens zooms in on that image. It already works great lying flat, but the real magic happens when you flip the phone over. I hope this is gonna work.

I have to get this water drop right under the ultrawide lens. The drop sticks to the glass thanks to adhesion, and with gravity pulling it downward, the drop becomes more spherical, resulting in a more convex lens, and that increases the magnification even more. And you can use this to see some really cool things. Whoa! Do you see that?

This is a $20 bill, and you can see all the tiny security details. And this is a tiny dead fly. I'm honestly pretty impressed with how much detail you can see. Look how complex its wings are. What I love is that you can capture this miniature world in 4K with just a phone and a drop of water.

If you wanna try it yourself, you can shop the Pixel 10 Pro right here on YouTube, just click the shopping shelf below this video. And the first 200 people to use code Veritasium at checkout on the Google Store get $150 off the new Pixel lineup. Is that like a little hair on my fingers? Am I Spider-Man?