---
video_title: "The Interview Question Everyone Gets Wrong"
video_id: dFVrncgIvos
channel_name: "Veritasium"
channel_id: UCHnyfMqiRRG1u-2MsSQLbXA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dFVrncgIvos
video_date: 2025-02-18
video_description: |
  Are you smart enough to solve this Google interview question? Use code veritasium at https://incogni.com/veritasium to get an exclusive 60% off an annual Incogni plan.
  
  A massive thank you to Dan Goldman, Jeff Aguilar, Daniel Soto and Georgia Tech’s Complex Rheology And Biomechanics Lab
  We’re incredibly grateful to Carl Zimmer, Gayle McDowell, and Geoffrey West
  
  Correction: Dan Goldman is a Professor of Physics not Biomechanics.
  
  We have a tabletop game launching! Pledge your support now - https://ve42.co/KickStarterD
  
  ▀▀▀
  0:00 Hard Google Interview Question
  2:34 How do Geckos stick to walls?
  5:58 Do physicists know the answer?
  7:01 The Square-Cube Law
  9:10 Tiny Superheroes
  10:23 Simulating the problem
  13:36 Adding Air Resistance
  15:14 The End? 
  16:16 What would happen if you were shrunk?
  17:39 What interviewers actually look for
  
  ▀▀▀
  Try Snatoms! A molecular modelling kit I invented where the atoms snap together.
  https://ve42.co/SnatomsV  
  
  ▀▀▀
  References:
  William Poundstone (Jan 2012). Are You Smart Enough to Work at Google?.  - https://ve42.co/smartenough 
  Giovanni Alfonso Borelli. Translated by Paul Maquet (1989). On the Movement of Animals.  - https://ve42.co/borellianimals 
  In Head-Hunting, Big Data May Not Be Such a Big Deal. (Jun 2013) via New York Times - https://ve42.co/headhuntbigdata 
  Drag Forces. via Lumen Learning  - https://ve42.co/dragforces 
  R. McN. Alexander (Feb 1995). Leg design and jumping technique for humans, other vertebrates and insects. The Royal Society Publishing  - https://ve42.co/legdesignjump 
  Sharon B. Emerson (Sep 1978). Allometry and Jumping in Frogs: Helping the Twain to Meet. JSTOR - https://ve42.co/allometryfrogs 
  Jay J. Meyers, Anthony Herrel & James Birch (Jan 2002). Scaling of Morphology, Bite Force and Feeding Kinematics in an Iguanian and a Scleroglossan Lizard. Anthony Herrel - https://ve42.co/scalinglizard 
  Kirby TJ, McBride JM, Haines TL, Dayne AM.  (Aug 2011). Relative Net Vertical Impulse Determines Jumping Performance. Journal of Applied Biomechanics  - https://ve42.co/jumpperformance 
  Rasmussen Mette H. et al  (Jul 2022). Evidence that gecko setae are coated with an ordered nanometre-thin lipid film. The Royal Society Publishing  - https://ve42.co/geckosetae
  Body Orientation During a Skydive. via Libre Texts Physics  - https://ve42.co/skydivephysics 
  
  ▀▀▀
  Images & Video:
  Here’s how many Google interviews it takes to hire a Googler. (Apr 2019) via CNBC Make It - https://ve42.co/googleinterviews 
  Google received 3.3 million job applications in 2019. (Jan 2020) via Axios - https://ve42.co/googleapplications 
  Here’s why you only have a 0.2% chance of getting hired at Google. (Oct 2014) via Quartz - https://ve42.co/hiredgoogle 
  Dear Reddit, my friend was asked this RIDICULOUS question in a job interview, what’s the best possible answer?. (2011) via Reddit - https://ve42.co/redditblender 
  Mark Rober. (May 2020) Backyard Squirrel Maze 1.0- Ninja Warrior Course https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hFZFjoX2cGg
  Cambridge University. (Feb 2010) Cambridge Ideas - Sticky Feet https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hd5upt3IrWM
  IV C. (Oct 2023)Incredible Shrinking Man (1957) Jack Arnold. The spider scene. El increíble hombre menguante. Araña https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wJiJsbBBHpE&t=7s
  Russ Amy. (Apr 2018) Honey I Shrunk the Kids 1989 1080p BluRay X264 AMIABLE mkv https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=byxGZ8cD7rk
  R Sisters Gaming. (Feb 2022) It Takes Two - Destroyed by the Blender https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QqrPufq2jP8
  ClipsyBox. (May 2017) Hulk vs. Ant-Man - Coca-Cola: Coke Mini https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sMkGwCw7iv8
  El Gato. (June 2021) Squirrel has 44" vertical jump straight up to bird feeder! jumping https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ethwLHw46JM
  A-purpose . (Apr 2024). Who can jump bigger part #2 via Youtube - https://www.youtube.com/shorts/mJhf7wYNkYA 
  
  ▀▀▀
  Special thanks to our Patreon supporters:
  
  Adam Foreman, Albert Wenger, Alex Porter, Alexander Tamas, Anton Ragin, Autodidactic Studios, Bertrand Serlet, Blake Byers, Bruce, Dave Kircher, David Johnston, David Tseng, Evgeny Skvortsov, Garrett Mueller, Gnare, gpoly, Greg Scopel, Juan Benet, Keith England, KeyWestr, Kyi, Lee Redden, Marinus Kuivenhoven, Matthias Wrobel, Meekay, meg noah, Michael Krugman, Orlando Bassotto, Paul Peijzel, qiaohui wei, Richard Sundvall, Sam Lutfi, Tj Steyn, TTST, Ubiquity Ventures, wolfee
  
  ▀▀▀
  Directed by Henry van Dyck
  Written by Henry van Dyck
  Edited by Peter Nelson and Nick Lear
  Assistant Edited by James Stuart
  Animated by Fabio Albertelli, Andrew Neet, Jakub Misiek and Emma Wright
  Filmed by Henry van Dyck and Lukas Guderjahn
  Additional Research by Emilia Gyles and Geeta Thakur
  Produced by Derek Muller, Henry van Dyck, Zoe Heron, Rob Beasley Spence and Tori Brittain 
  Thumbnail contributions by Ben Powell, Ren Hurley and Henry van Dyck
  Additional video/photos supplied by Getty Images and Storyblocks
  Music from Epidemic Sound and Jonny Hyman
---
There is this famous Google interview question that everyone gets wrong. You're shrunk down to the size of a nickel and put into a blender. The blades will start spinning in 60 seconds, so what do you do? I would like to think I could duck down and miss the blades Break the thing at the bottom maybe? Push the blades?

Ask nicely for the blender not to be turned on. Tie my clothes together, and then like use it as a rope I guess? If I was lighter I could maybe catch a draft up? - Just accept defeat. - I mean, I'm the size of a nickel what quality of life is that?

Okay, resonance. I'm going to run to one wall, push on it, run to the other wall. Push on it. Run to the other wall, so I'm going to tip the container over. Honestly, the thing I would think about is trying to get to the very center of the blades.

It's spinning around me, but the actual RPM is probably not that high, if I'm standing in the middle. I tie my clothes to one of the tips of the blades as it’s starting up. Yeah, I get it to swing me around and then I woooo! But these answers don't cut it. Now, I first heard about this problem in this book.

It describes how each year Google received about 3 million applications, but they would only hire 7000 people. That's a 0.2% acceptance rate. So one way to screen out millions of applicants was to use brainteasers, and the interviewers would make these up for fun. We didn't get a list, at that time of what questions to ask.

We would share questions among each other. Some of them gained traction, questions like: How many golf balls can fit in a 747? Or, how much should you charge to wash all the windows in Seattle? But the blender question really stuck with me, and I'm not alone. - Just lay back and enjoy that breeze. The best model in the world is only going to run maybe 10 or 11 hours,

so we're getting out and when we do, we're better off for it because whatever doesn't kill you makes you stronger. - The question has been hotly debated in Reddit comment sections.

There are so many different answers, but which one is the best? I try to hide underneath the blades, I guess. Hide under the blade, probably Great first reaction, but maybe that doesn't solve your problem entirely. Now you're just stuck inside of a spinning blender, so maybe you want to escape. Can I climb the walls?

Are there defects in the walls that are sufficiently large for me to grip on to? Do I have Van der Waals forces that are strong enough to connect me to the wall? Am I, like, essentially a tiny gecko? A gecko can stick to the wall of a blender, even though neither its foot, nor the glass are charged. The gecko's foot has to be pressed firmly against the glass, so its atoms are within a few nanometers of the glass atoms.

Then, at any moment one atoms electrons aren't uniformly spread about the nucleus, they might be slightly more on one side than the other. This makes the atom momentarily slightly positively charged on one side and slightly negatively charged on the other. The glass atom next to it experiences the pull of this charge imbalance, and so a similar charge imbalance is induced on the glass atom, and therefore the electrons in the glass atom are drawn to the nucleus of the gecko atom, and vice versa. So there is a very weak attractive force between neutral atoms. This is known as a Van der Waals force, and it's what makes geckos stick to walls.

It's the same force that holds graphite together. There's no actual bonding between the layers of graphene in a pencil. It's like a stack of paper. The layers only stick because of Van der Waals forces. Now these forces are pretty weak.

But since we're so small, maybe they'd be enough to help us climb out. This I can almost certainly say, we wouldn't be sticking at that scale, and that's because the Van der Waals type interactions are still small. And I studied climbing, so that of these types of scale, cockroach and gecko, you know, it turns out that you have to get very special to do that. Geckos have millions of tiny branches on their feet that increase their surface area and allow them to mold to surfaces. Our hands aren't like that, but ants and cockroaches don't rely on Van der Waals forces, and they can still climb up walls.

So maybe a miniature human could too? The mechanism of a cockroach foot, and I used to know all that cockroach feet, is absolutely gorgeous, Same with an ant, by the way. There's two little claws, the tarsal claws those are things that slap down on a surface and really do slap when climbing meters a second... slap and engage, despite having no adhesion,

they have very sophisticated, frictional attachment. Those claws can grip almost anything, even glass. While glass feels smooth to us, It's actually covered in tiny surface imperfections. At insect scale, these features are significant. - Ants basically have climbing gear. - Oh yeah.

They're like, using these little like axes basically to pick their way in. We don't have the attachment disks or whatever that would be, or like the special claws or the Van der Waals forces. Well, we have claws, if you're that scale, our fingers are claws. We have only really got... we have two claws, really.

And then our feet aren't great at climbing, I don't know. Well, again, at that scale though, I don't know, right? Imagine putting a little sharp, spike into your foot and sharpen your shoes, wear high heel shoes. You'll be good to go. So now I'm climbing in heels.

But there's still a problem. I mean, I'll have to be pretty careful placing each hand and foot slowly. It's going to take longer than 60 seconds to get out. And in that time, the blades will have started spinning. One mistake and I'm a smoothie.

So Google was looking for a different answer. Now we’re going to the physics building. Maybe they know? Yeah. I really got nothing. I’m stumped.

This is so embarrassing. We’re in our last year of our degree, we should definitely know this! I feel like I could probably swing running around the sides and yeeting myself out. Okay, if we're just talking about the entropy, it should increase at some point. So some sort of chaos should be...

None of the system will stay un-disrupted... Take that as a limit to infinity and I'll be chilling...

Like using that logic if I just like extrapolate... Now that's still too big for me to Quantum Tunnel or anything like that. - Whoa whoa whoa whoa.

I mean, that is really overthinking it. It's actually not that complicated. - Do you want to hear the best answer I've heard yet? - Sure. Just jump.

Just jump? How would that work? - Just jump! - How? -Does that work like that? - Jump where? - Out of the blender, just go up.

- So whoever told you that is... - ...crazy, right?

Yeah, does that makes sense to you? No, it doesn't, but... do you want to hear why that works?

Yeah, tell me how it works. Jumping out of a blender seems impossible because at nickel size, the wall of a blender is 15x your height. It'd be like leaping over an eight story building. But watch these clips...

Did you notice it? A horse, a dog and a squirrel. They all jump to about the same height. This is exactly what Alfonso Borrelli, the father of biomechanics, looked at in the 17th century. As he put it, in the same conditions, smaller and lighter animals make bigger jumps relative to their body.

if the other conditions are equal, and indeed the limbs and the other organs are in the same proportion, the dog will jump as far as the horse. Now, sure, there is variation. A species whose survival depends on jumping will be optimized for it, while others, like turtles and elephants, they don't jump at all. But when you consider the huge variations in size, I mean a horse is 1500 times heavier than a squirrel. It's incredible that they jump to around the same height.

And it's not because squirrels are super muscly or something. Horses and squirrels have similar muscle to weight percentages, and insects have even less muscle relative to their weight. Why do you think an ant can lift 50 times its own body weight? Like, is it any more muscular? No you guys hit the gym.

Come on. Like you're more muscular than an ant. So how are small things so strong? Well if you look closely at a muscle. It’s made up of tiny units called sarcomeres.

They act like miniature springs. How far a muscle compresses depends on how many of these springs are in series. But the strength of a muscle depends only on how many are working in parallel. The thicker the muscle, the more springs in parallel, and the greater the strength. Therefore strength depends on the cross-sectional area of a muscle.

And as animals shrink, this cross-sectional area scales down with the square of their height. But an animal's weight is proportional to its volume, so that scales with the cube of their height. So as you scale down, weight decreases faster than strength, and as a result, smaller animals have much higher strength to weight ratios. I mean, you could probably lift, your own weight, like if you were to put your own body weight on your back and squat that, you could now lift... 100 hundred times.

Yeah. Let's go! And for us, stuck in that blender, that extra strength relative to our weight means we could jump right out. Your surface area decreases with the square. You'd be like a little superman.

- I see, okay! - That's really cool. So I could jump, like, literally out of a blender. You could jump out of a blender. But in movies and games where people are shrunk, they almost never show it like that.

Honey, I Shrunk the Kids It was one of my favorite movies when I was a kid. I loved that. Tiny people struggle picking up scissors. They almost get crushed by raindrops. If it was scientifically accurate, they’d actually be overpowered.

Most people don't think of this when they first hear the question. The answer almost seems too simple. When you ask the right questions, you define the problem. There's some really obvious solutions that work, and that's actually true for a lot of problems in the real world too. Now I'm all for obvious solutions, but from the start, the answer of jumping out didn't sit right with me.

Even this idea of like, I'm going to jump out of the blender like that doesn't make sense to me, because jumping is not just like, okay, how strong you are relative to your weight. It's also timing and your kinetics and all that. So like, how long can you be in touch with the ground? How much can you apply that force in one burst like over a really short period? Would it be fair to say you're overthinking things?

You got to suspend your disbelief somewhere. I think if you like, factor in all the potential challenges a human would have. Just like if they just all of a sudden that size, they don't have like time to practice using their legs and stuff in that new environment. Like, I don't give them very good chances of jumping out. Sometimes there are people who make everything more complex than it needs to be, and that can be problematic.

I would like to see like, you know, realistic modeling of, we scale me down 100 times. Like, can I jump higher? I want to see someone do those physics equations, yeah, you could jump higher, but you couldn’t jump 100x higher, you know? So that's why we got the researchers at Georgia Tech's biomechanics lab to investigate. While, they're figuring that out, let me tell you about today's sponsor, Incogni.

Every time you browse the internet, sign up for a newsletter, or even just buy something online. Your personal data is collected, it is stored. And sometimes sold without your permission. So how do you escape? Well, with your permission, Incogni contacts data brokers on your behalf and requests using proper legal language that they delete your personal information.

So instead of spending countless hours trying to track these companies down yourself, Incogni does all that hard work for you. I started using Incogni and within just a week my inbox was less overrun and my phone even got fewer spam calls. After a month, my dashboard showed even more removals. Companies I had never even interacted with, but who somehow had my personal information. If you want to try the easy way to escape the clutches of data brokers, visit incogni.com/veritasium.

You can click that link down in the description or scan this QR code. Make sure to use Code Veritasium to get 60% off your annual subscription to take control of your data today. That's incogni.com/veritasium. Now let's see how that simulation is coming along.

Okay, so we have our simulated blender. We’re 2 centimeters tall and we have to jump at least 30 centimeters to get out. I was like, well, what about me? Like, I'm pretty, you know, embarrassingly non-athletic. What if I do this? So I did it right here next to my desk.

My partner sort of measured my jump height, and I know how much I weigh and all that stuff. So what would it look like for me? If we have a person that weighs 84kg, is squatting 15cm and has a jump height of 27cm. That person, if they were scaled down to 1% of their original size, they would jump 42cm high. The simple simulation shows a jump height of 42cm.

So you would make it out. But we need to add in air resistance. Since our cross-sectional area is now 100 times larger relative to our weight, drag should have a greater effect at nickel size. If it was 42cm jump height before for the jumper, with drag...

considering drag, then it's about 39cm. So we do decrease in jump height a little bit. But that drag calculation is assuming you jump perfectly vertically. But what if you're a bit uncoordinated and you flip onto your side mid jump? Well, then you're exposing ten times the surface area and that increases the amount of air resistance.

Like if somehow you flipped, and you're still moving up like this. Like what is the air resistance then? So doing that, that means 22 centimeter jump height. Oh. So we don't we don't.

Oh. Darn. If you start getting overconfident and you wanted to do, like, a backflip while you're at it, then you're going to mess it up. Yeah. Don't backflip out of the blender is a good piece of advice.

Don't try and show off. You're trying to not get chopped up. Just like, just go headfirst. It's not so much getting out of the blender. It's what happens next.

You've got two nickel sized men free in the world. Think of the posibilities. The simulation came back, You can jump out of the freaking blender. Alright, okay. I'm glad we went through this, this exercise.

Do you want me to do another month of research on this? No. You know, like you've done it. You've done enough. You've done enough. I'm convinced.

I feel like jumping is an unsatisfactory answer. It was unsatisfactory when you mentioned it in the first place. And you went through and you got the simulation, you got the model, and you're like, look, you know, our little guy can jump 40cm. Are you convinced now? And I'm like, I guess.

But like, my spidey sense was tingling. - Oh was it now! - There is something going on...

You're telling me that I have to apply a force in 1/1000 of a second, and I have to undergo 278 G's? I'm not going to survive that. So what I'm getting now is that, like, my intuition was good. I think everyone's intuition was like, you can't jump out of a blender. I think they're right.

And you may say, well, that's overthinking it, but that's the whole point of the brain teaser is to overthink it is to get to that point where you're thinking about it in the detail of like, what would actually be feasible. A whole lot of things would go wrong. Our hearts have to generate a certain amount of pressure to get the blood, you know, going up to our head and going all the way down. If you take the human heart and shrink it down, it's not going to be able to generate the same kinds of forces. I think it would be a catastrophe, in a smaller size. Controlling

air pressure inside these countless sacks inside of our lungs. There's an exquisite balance there. Now, you try to take that same design and squeeze it down. I would be skeptical that you'd be able to keep the passageways open. You wouldn't even be able to think this through, because you just wouldn't have the brain structures that we have.

You can't fit 86 billion neurons in a nickel sized volume. You can't scale cells down either. That's the thing. Like cells are cells. I mean, jumping out would be, to me, seems like your only option, but I don't think you're going to be able to jump because you can't breathe and your heart can't pump blood, so you just keel over and die before you can make your jump.

Okay, so if you're a biologist, you think we die. If you're a physicist, you can decide whether we'd be little supermen or, as I believe, incapable of fully harnessing our extra strength. What did Borelli know? He didn't even have blenders. He doesn't know the stress.

But if you're an interviewer at Google, you might not even care what the answer is. I think one of the misconceptions that candidates have is when I'm asked this question, it's because they want to see if I can solve this problem. That's actually not quite right. There are five attributes people are looking for. There's addressing ambiguity, There's breaking down the problem, being creative, being smart, and then communication.

- So I guess like none of those five are whether it's correct. - Right. We’re the idiots who went and tried to figure out what's the best of those answers. Um, yes! Google realized that asking these types of questions didn't make much sense.

Laszlo Bock, the senior vice president of people operations at Google, said this: On the hiring side, we found that brain teasers are a complete waste of time. How many golf balls can you fit into an airplane? How many gas stations are in Manhattan? A complete waste of time. They don't predict anything.

They serve primarily to make the interviewer feel smart. But I just feel like there's that moment where you're like, so are you going to admit you're wrong? And I'm like, nyah, you know, I think this is further to like, I'm not wrong. This is crazy. This question is crazy.

And I think it goes to your very point. Your very point, which is that like brain teasers like this are not good ways to assess whether people know what they're talking about. So although brain teasers aren't useful to assess job applicants, they are useful for something. I mean, every time we ask this question to people on the street, to physics students and to scientists, they lit up. They had to try to see the world from a new perspective.

And it's exactly this way of thinking that has led to some of the biggest scientific discoveries. Einstein used thought experiments to come up with his theory of relativity. Euler's solution to the bridges of Königsberg puzzle is what inspired graph theory. And when Schrödinger wanted to illustrate his problems with quantum mechanics, he imagined a cat in a torture box. The blender question is admittedly silly, but silly questions can yield profound answers and show us new things.

I think in order to learn something new, you have to be willing to embrace the ridiculous and just go with it.