---
video_title: "Why Waves Travel Faster At The Top"
video_id: RmHcX5oVzvs
channel_name: "Veritasium"
channel_id: UCHnyfMqiRRG1u-2MsSQLbXA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RmHcX5oVzvs
video_date: 2026-07-17T13:28:38+00:00
video_description: |
  Why do objects travel with waves?
  
  We're taught waves only transfer energy, not material, but objects wash ashore all the time.
  
  How does this work?
  
  #veritasium #science #physics
---
There are lots of wave pools in the world, but what makes this one different is control. You can create waves of a specific amplitude and frequency and do so repeatedly. Can we try our one-hertz? Yeah. Do me a favor and dial up one-hertz. An amplitude will be 0.078 at one-hertz. Hey, go ahead and send it from zero, please. And so this is the largest wave we can make at one-hertz, that's based on the motion and power requirement for the wave maker. There's something a bit like surreal about watching this, because it almost looks like an ocean, except you never see waves this regular out there. Correct. One of the fundamental characteristics of a wave is its wavelength, the distance from one crest to the next. The first thing most people learn about waves is they transmit energy, rather than material from one place to another. In this case, as the wave travels to the right, the water molecules themselves basically move along circular paths, and the deeper the water, the smaller this motion. All motion stops at a depth equal to half the wavelength. This is known as the wave base. But even in an ideal water wave, the molecules do drift a bit in the direction of wave motion, and this is because the molecules travel faster the higher up they are. So they move farther at the top of their loop, then they move backwards at the bottom, creating a spiral path. This is going to be an irregular wave. This is irregular wave. So what you saw earlier with the regular waves, were one frequency, one amplitude. This is what we call a spectra, or multiple frequencies, and multiple amplitudes. You can see there's higher frequency with the waves that kind of go slower than the low frequency waves, because low frequency waves will travel fast and overcome them. And that's what's making them look peaky or kind of dulling it out.