---
video_title: "AD - Why are plants colder than their surroundings?"
video_id: Xhl5TzKZbpw
channel_name: "Veritasium"
channel_id: UCHnyfMqiRRG1u-2MsSQLbXA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xhl5TzKZbpw
video_date: 20260707
video_description: |
  Plants can stay cooler than the air around them, even in full sun. How is that possible? We partnered with Anker to find out…
  
  Pick up your Anker Prime Charger here:
  https://ankerfast.club/noagy5
  
  #AnkerTech #Anker #AnkerPrime
---
This is just a plant. But, if you point a thermal camera at it, you'll notice something weird. It's about 5° C colder than everything else around it, which is weird because it's sitting in the same hot sun and the same hot air. So, you'd expect it to warm up and reach the same temperature. So, what is going on? This video is sponsored by Anker. At

first, I thought it was simple. Concrete absorbs more sunlight than plants, and so it heats up more. But, it turns out they absorb similar amounts. And it also doesn't explain how the plant can get colder than the surroundings. So, then I figured it had to be photosynthesis. The

energy going in to make sugar. But, plants only use around 1% of the sun's energy for that. So, photosynthesis isn't soaking up the heat, but it does hold the key. Because to pull carbon dioxide out of the air, a plant has to open all these little pores called stomata. And as soon as it does that, the wet inside of the leaf meets the hot dry air, and water evaporates. And

here's why that matters. Every bit of sunlight that lands can do two things. It can heat the thing up, or it can evaporate water. Now, most of the time, concrete has no water that can easily evaporate. So, all of it turns into heat. But, a plant is full of water, and

evaporating that water takes a lot [music] of energy, around 2,400 J per milliliter. And that energy is pulled straight out of the leaf. So, up to 50% of the sunlight a plant absorbs goes into evaporating water instead of heating it up. And so, the plant stays cool because it sweats. You can also feel this yourself. Just

walk into a park. Madrid's El Retiro Park cools the surrounding air by up to 2.8° C even up to 600 m into the dense city center. But, cities and plants aren't the only things that have to manage heat. Chargers convert AC power to DC power that phones and laptops use, but this is never 100% efficient, and that leftover energy gets turned into heat. Heat that

you need to manage or the components break down. So, just like green spaces pulling [music] heat out of a city, Anker built their Anker Prime Charger with a unique thermal silicone that helps carry that heat away. Also, their L-shaped graphene structure draws heat away from the hottest components towards cooler areas. [music] And Active Shield 4.0 checks the temperature 10 million times per day, so it can stay at perfect operating temperatures. So, to get your very own

Anker Prime Charger, click the link in the description.