---
video_title: "The stupid loophole that f*cked American democracy, explained"
video_id: 85CC7OueX1k
channel_name: "Spectacles"
channel_id: UCgQ7Amr6fvCJyVlCwEi1bLw
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=85CC7OueX1k
video_date: 2023-11-07
video_description: |
  Super PACs aren't just bad. They're a legal mistake.
  
  This video serves as an entry in the #CancelSuperPACs contest! — https://cancelsuperpacs.com/
  
  In 2010, a lower court made a huge mistake that opened the floodgates of dark money, jeopardizing American democracy and radically driving up the risk of corruption in politics.
  —
  Support us on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/spectaclesmedia
  Hang out on our Discord: https://discord.gg/VWcpybH683
  —
  Spectacles is a love letter to democracy, its values, its caretakers, and its ideas. Around the world, individual rights and representative government are facing unprecedented attacks from the forces of reaction and revisionism. But despite liberal democracy’s real shortcomings and today’s all-too-fashionable cynicism, we remain committed to its preservation and improvement. Join us as we explore just what liberal democracy is, how it comes about, and how it can best be maintained in a changing world.
---
3,300 dollars equals infinity dollars. Hah, wouldn’t that be nice… But it’s true, at least according to the American legal system. And, it’s bad. Let me explain. Way back in 1976, the Supreme Court decided it was time to limit corruption in our politics. Good choice. You see,

most of us can only afford to give our vote or maybe a couple bucks to a political campaign. But some people can give more…a lot more. And it wouldn’t be very fair if they could just buy a politician’s support for their favorite policies. That would be corruption. So, thankfully, the court set the standard that Congress is allowed to limit how much money anyone can give to political campaigns IF there is a risk of corruption, so Congress set the limit at 3,300 dollars. Remember this standard: IF there’s a risk of corruption.

Because 34 years later, in 2010, another court decided to jazz this whole situation up a bit. They didn’t really say the Supreme Court was wrong, they just said that as long as money is given to an independent organization instead of a politician, there’s no risk of corruption. These independent organizations are called Super PACs. Therefore, Congress can’t limit the amount of money given to Super PACs, even if all they do is spend money on ads for a politician. Maybe that even seems like it makes some sense. After all, even if some group spends all their

money on ads for someone, they can’t exactly make promises to some big donor that the bills they like will be passed by the politician they support. So, no real risk of corruption…Right? Well, imagine this. Instead of Billionaire Jeff going to Politician Hannah and saying, “I’ll give you 10 million dollars, if you support this bill I like,” he says, “I’ll give your Super PAC, Vote4Hannah, 10 million dollars, if you support this bill I like.” [Hold up, wait a minute! Somethin ain’t right.] You’re probably noticing the problem here… That

sounds a lot like corruption. Well, that’s because IT IS! That is straight-up illegal. Except it’s the kind of thing that’s almost impossible to prove, which is why Congress is supposed to set limits to prevent the risk of corruption. So let’s take a second to recap. Congress

is allowed to limit campaign contributions IF there’s a risk of corruption, but some court somehow decided that Super PACs don’t pose any risk of corruption… when they obviously do! That means our whole campaign finance system is based on one huge mistake made in 2010: a mistake that says 3,300 dollars equals infinity dollars. But most people don’t know this, so if you learned something, share this video. Because it’s time to cancel super PACs.