---
video_title: "Why Japan was Insanely Violent for 100 Years | full series"
video_id: 0VgdclaLYuk
channel_name: "Spectacles"
channel_id: UCgQ7Amr6fvCJyVlCwEi1bLw
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0VgdclaLYuk
video_date: 2025-11-10T22:00:01+00:00
video_description: |
  💥Download War Thunder for FREE and get your bonus on PC & Console! ► Use my link — https://wtplay.link/spectacles.
  To download on IOS & Android use —  https://wtm.game/spectacles. Thanks to War Thunder for sponsoring the video! 
  
  These are the years that made modern Japan.
  —
  Nebula: https://spectacles.link/nebula
  Patreon: https://spectacles.link/patreon
  Merch: https://spectacles.link/shop
  Discord: https://spectacles.link/discord
  Japan in 1932 script and sources: https://www.spectacles.news/japan-in-1932-was-insane/
  Japan in 1949 script and sources: https://www.spectacles.news/japan-in-1949-was-insane/
  Japan in 1960 script and sources: https://www.spectacles.news/japan-in-1960-was-insane/
  —
  About us:
  Spectacles is a love letter to democracy, its values, its caretakers, and its ideas. Around the world, individual rights and representative government are facing unprecedented attacks from the forces of reaction and revisionism. But despite liberal democracy’s real shortcomings and today’s all-too-fashionable cynicism, we remain committed to its preservation and improvement. Join us as we explore just what liberal democracy is, how it comes about, and how it can best be maintained in a changing world.
  —
  Sources are in the linked script pages.
  —
  00:00 1932
  25:19 1949
  50:11 1960
  —
  Select imagery/video supplied by Getty Images
  Includes Music by Tom Fox
  Lowpoly Human Rigged by IcySugar on Blendswap: https://blendswap.com/blend/21420
---
This video is sponsored by War Thunder. Tokyo, May 15th, 1932, about 6:00 p.m. Prime Minister Inukai Tsuyoshi, by now 76, [music] preferred talk to action. Which is why, as five uniformed military officers burst into his apartment, guns drawn, he asked them to sit and [music] discuss their concerns. Taken aback, they holstered

their weapons and followed the elder statesmen to a nearby room where Inukai invited them to sit on Tommy [music] Mats and inquired why they were here. To kill him, the leader of the group stated flatly. Inukai chuckled and replied that of course [music] he knew that. But why? Exasperated, the officer insisted that Inukai [music] was ruining Japan by restraining the military from invading China and [music] attacking the United States. Inukai, unsurprised at the young

man's hotheadedness, took a deep breath and began to explain that Japan was in no position to [music] He paused at the sound of someone running and turned his head to glimpse another uniformed officer rushing into the room, knife in hand, shouting, "No use [music] talking. Fire." Months earlier elsewhere in Tokyo on February 9th and March 5th, two close [music] friends, Onum Sho and Hishinooto stood waiting. Onuma outside Kamomoto Elementary School and Hishina outside Mitsui Bank each held a revolver in his pocket. But Hishina also possessed two other items. A picture of a man, the

business magnate Dan [music] Tkuma, and a fragment of paper on which was scrolled the phrase Namu Mojo Reo. [music] They're the words of a Buddhist chant known all too well by Onuma, who spent all day prior to his arrival at the school [music] repeating it in meditation. They learned it together from an obscure unlicensed priest who taught them along with a dozen other devoted cultists [music] that Japan was being consumed by an evil which had to be destroyed. And so at 8:00 p.m. on

[music] February 9th, when Inu Junosuk, Japan's former finance minister, stepped [music] out of his car outside Komoto Elementary School. And when a month later [music] Dan Tkuma approached Mitsui Bank, the two young men strode forward, raised their [music] pistols, and

a year later, the cultists, now known across Japan as the League of Blood, stood trial alongside their priest. It was perhaps the highest profile trial up to that point in Japanese history. And when the terrorists explained their motives, the nation listened. They insisted they were acting on behalf of the emperor against a corrupt elite which was robbing the country blind and subjugating his imperial majesty. All they sought was a restoration of the emperor's power and the glory of Japan.

But as the public sympathized with this romanticism, Judge Sakamaki couldn't care less. They had violated the law and murdered fellow citizens. Their motives were irrelevant. Instantly, Sakamaki was blindsided by public outrage, threats, and legal complaints alleging [music] communist sympathies. He delayed the trial, but the deluge continued. So, he finally

resigned. [music] His substitute took a different tact, lauding the quote unquote pure motives of the [music] defendants and sentencing them to life in prison rather than death. In concluding the trial, he [music] remarked that he hoped their sentences would soon be commuted with imperial amnesty. Yet the subsequent trials of Inukai's killers were even [music] worse. Held across Navy, Army, and civilian courts to try the various conspirators, [music] the most important proceedings were the military courts marshal. After all,

these concerned the leaders of the plot and offered a crucial chance to chasen a growing fever of rebellion throughout the armed forces. In the Navy trial, the prosecutor made his position [music] plain, stating, "No matter what the motive, unlawful action always retains its unlawful character. [music] If for the sake of argument, we approved the notion that purity of motive purifies action, then we would [music] give rise to grave dangers and evils which would threaten the future of the state." >> The defense disagreed, avering that the murder [music] of the prime minister was >> the act of a truly profound and sublime divine providence. The dying man toppled and those who brought his death were destined to pull the trigger. Rather

than them pulling the trigger, it was nature that made them pull it. In other [music] words, it was destiny, a natural manifestation of a pure spirit devoted to the emperor. A sentiment echoed by a top general who declared these officers had not acted for fame or personal gain, nor are they traitorous. They were performed in the sincere belief that they were for the benefit of Imperial Japan. Eventually, the judge more or less concurred, concluding, although their criminal culpability is truly significant, the depth of their patriotism must be acknowledged. In

turn, for the murder of the prime minister and [music] a broader botched coup attempt, the six Navy officers were sentenced not to death, nor to life in prison, but to a mere 15 years. Their army accompllices were let off [music] even easier. This was the signal to every ambitious young officer. Plot your coups. [music] Carry them out. We will

protect you. In truth, civilian government in Japan died in 1932 with Inukai Suyoshi. This [music] was just the nail in the coffin. But why were so many military officers so hellbent on destroying the civilian government? And [music] how did they escape serious punishment? The answers lie in the

origin story of modern Japan. A story of how Japan's military got away with terrorizing the country, brazenly murdering elected officials, and in the [music] end, how they seized power and plunged the nation into a massive, devastating war. [music]

[music]

It's a story which begins in the 1850s, [music] a time when Japan was in a weak position relative to America and Europe, possessing an undeveloped economy and an archaic feudal military. The ruling shogunut, powerless [music] to resist Western pressure, thus accepted a series of unequal treaties, and fear spread that Japan would soon be reduced to a mere vassel of foreign powers. So began a widespread campaign of terrorism carried out by nationalist revolutionaries who united under the slogan sonoojoi or rever the emperor and expel the barbarians sought to oust the weak ruling shogunit and restore [music] the emperor Maji to power. By 1868 they succeeded and their triumph became known as the maji restoration. Yet many of these revolutionaries had by then shed their xenophobia and [music] adopted western ideas about governance and modernization.

Rather than instituting direct imperial rule, they established an [music] oligarchy and embraced the so-called barbarians by pursuing westernstyle reforms of law, politics, and [music] industry. By 1889, they even went so far as to import a European style constitution modeled after a German example. It hardly drew any inspiration from Japan's history or tradition. And though [music] it appeared to restore the emperor to supreme power in Japan, in effect, it subjected him to a series of bureaucratic systems and procedures preventing imperial rule by decree and entrenching the new oligarchy. [music] Quote unquote imperial decisions, including military commands, were usually made by a small circle of unelected adviserss. For many who still

believed in the revolutionary slogan of Sono Joey, this was a bridge too far. This Maji restoration was a fraud. And so many returned to arms against their former comrades in the government, unleashing a new wave of terrorism, which that same year saw an assassin hurl a bomb at the foreign minister. Afterward, the bomber bowed toward the imperial palace and killed himself. The minister, however, survived and bizarrely eulogized his would-be killer, opining, >> "He is truly a wonderful person. I am

touched by the bravery, even foolhardiness, of throwing a bomb at myself, the foreign minister." Because this mentality wasn't foreign to the minister. He too had once been a revolutionary devoted to the precepts of Sono Joey, an ominous signal that Japan's leaders could tolerate terrorism as long as it had righteous motives. This warrior ethos is essential to understanding Japan in the 20th century, especially in the Second World War, which was rapidly approaching. For a more visceral understanding, however, check out this video's sponsor, War Thunder. War Thunder is the most

comprehensive vehicle combat game ever made and is available for free on PC, consoles, and now mobile devices. Take command of over 2500 intricately detailed tanks, planes, helicopters, and ships of 10 major nations, ranging from biplanes, and armored cars of the 1920s to the mid-century Japanese Mitsubishi Zero and the fighter jets and main battle tanks of today. Instead of simple hit boxes and health points, War Thunder immerses you in the action by precisely simulating vehicle damage. Use the X-ray view to see how a shell penetrated an enemy tank and blew it to pieces. Better yet, with three game modes [music] ranging from fast-paced arcadey fun to hyper realism, War Thunder has something for everyone, even those without a PC or console. Because now War Thunder is

available on iOS and Android, too. So, whatever your device, you can download War Thunder for free right now. Jump straight into customizing your tank or plane into a one-of-a-kind machine. Then immerse yourself in the intense combat of War Thunder, where incredibly detailed vehicles, realistic graphics, and authentic sound effects make the finest game ever made for fans of military history. And for a limited time only, new and returning players who haven't played in 6 months, who use our links below, will receive an exclusive bonus pack, including multiple premium vehicles, an exclusive vehicle decorator, 100,000 silver lines, and 7 days of premium account so that you can hit the battlefield running. So, use our

links and jump into War Thunder for free today. Now, back to Japan. Still, there was one western concept about which the oligarchs agreed with these radicals. They both hated democracy. [music] However, it seemed to those in charge that a small concession to a sliver of the public could be valuable to solidify their legitimacy. So, this new

constitution also established a national legislature with the barest democracy [music] possible. Its upper house was hereditary and less than 1% of Japan's population could vote [music] in the election of the lower house. In turn, this diet, a German name, introduced a tiny modicum of democracy to Japan. Yet, what began as a mere inkling [music] soon grew far beyond the expectations of the oligarchs as members of the Diet's lower house immediately pushed their power over the national budget to the limit, challenging [music] the supremacy of the oligarchs and emperor. In turn, its powers slowly grew. In 1918, a commoner was appointed

prime minister for the first time, and with him soon [music] came two crucial reforms that not only strengthened the Diet's lower house, but made it far more [music] democratic. The first was the precedent set by his own election. Because from then on, prime ministers would largely be drawn from the ranks of the elected members of the Diet or the leaders of elected parties [music] rather than bureaucrats, aristocrats, and military officers as was [music] previously the norm. Moreover, government cabinets were also reformed to reflect the diet's political parties rather than just the old guard. These were serious leaps forward in the democratization of Japan, which before being cut tragically short in 1932 saw some further crucial advancement in the form of massive suffrage expansions. In

1918, just 5% of the adult population of Japan had the right to vote. [music] To join this small club, you had to be a man and you had to pay at least 10 yen every year in taxes. But in 1920, [music] the Diet reformed the rules, doubling the population with access to the vote. And just 5 years later, in 1925, Japan finally saw universal male suffrage, this time nearly quadrupling the number of infranchised citizens to [music] nearly 40%. Suddenly the diet was accountable to a huge swath of Japanese society. Its leadership

composed of actual elected representatives. [music] This sea change was summarized in a single groundbreaking word coined by an elder statesman mean ponchuki [music] meaning roughly the principle of the people as the base. In other words, where political power in Miji Japan had once flowed from the top down, it was [music] starting fitfully to flow in the other direction, from the bottom up. Yet, this process was fundamentally disadvantaged. Japan was becoming more democratic in spite of the oligarchic Maji Constitution, not because of it.

[music] Imperial advisers, the privy council, the de's upper house, and most importantly, the military were autonomous outside of any form of popular control. The emperor and his advisers [music] still got to appoint the prime minister and his cabinet. Choosing them from the lower house and the political parties was [music] merely a novel convention, not a rule. Expansion of suffrage meant only so much under these conditions. So, Japan was at a crossroads with real democratic progress made, but [music] a lot left to go. Further democratization was

possible, but it would depend on the civilian government and political parties remaining popular, proving themselves capable of solving the nation's [music] problems and confronting those who sought to revoke the people's power. But as the roaring 20s drew to a close, the cracks [music] already began to show. Corruption long plagued the unaccountable Maji oligarchy, but the expansion of the Japanese electorate didn't seem to change [music] the problem. Elected representatives proved eager to leverage their newfound power into bribes from Japan's [music] massive industrial firms looking for lucrative government contracts. Moreover, competing parties did little to offer competitive policy visions to the public. Instead, focusing

on exposing their rivals corruption. [music] And finally, every time a party was in power, it used its authority to tilt the electoral playing field in its favor, ensuring that no election held during this period was truly free or fair. As one leading Tokyo newspaper put it, at the time, "The political parties have almost completely neglected to engage in debate and examination of national policies and instead make frantic efforts to expose scandals and look into the secrets of their enemies. It was a cycle of hypocrisy and naked self-interest that generated skepticism among the public and fertile grounds for the rejuvenation of the revolutionary ethos of Sono [music] Joey revered the emperor expel the barbarians especially among the officer corps of the military. [music] Yet corruption and incompetence was merely the beginning of Japan's problems. By 1930 the Great Depression

had made its way across the Pacific [music] and Japan was hit hard. Within a year in rural areas, peasant household [music] income dropped over 50% while industrial production fell by more than 25. In this era of hardship, [music] a rash of tenant and labor disputes broke out, creating a sense of deep social unrest. The civilian government in the diet proved unable to manage the crisis, [music] refusing to pass any relief program for stricken farmers or the urban unemployed. Yet the most devastating incident for Japanese democracy would happen beyond its borders.

Since their victory in the RussoJapanese War in 1905, Japan had maintained an army garrison here in the Chinese region of Manuria to guard one of their prizes, a critical railroad line. But by 1931, one staff officer was tired of serving as a mere railway guard. Ishiwara Kanji had bigger dreams for himself and for Japan. He was convinced his nation had an international imperial [music] destiny and that it was locked on a path to conflict with the United States and China. Yet the timid civilian government in Tokyo [music] thwarted that destiny by refusing to make war with China and humiliated the nation by agreeing to arms reductions treaties with America and Europe. So Kanji in the spirit of

those who once united under the banner of Sono Joey determined he must act. With the help of a few close confidants, Kanji staged a bombing of the rail [music] line and blamed the attack on Chinese troops. Back in Tokyo, the civilian leadership attempted to stop the army from escalating in response, but the local command indulged their own instincts without waiting for a signal from the Diet or the emperor. Within weeks, the Japanese army had launched a serious invasion. By the end of the year, Manuria was all but conquered.

Kanji's actions were a clear violation of Japanese law, but there would be no punishment. It certainly wouldn't come from within the military chain of command. And thanks to the convoluted and anti-democratic Maji Constitution, the civilian government had almost no leverage over the armed forces. So the governing cabinet simply approved the army's actions in Manuria retroactively and then resigned. There was a brief attempt to form a unity government between the parties to reign in the military. But the preceding years of

corruption and mudslinging had poisoned politics too much. They couldn't agree to work together. Instead, Inukai Suyoshi was named as the next prime minister in December of 1931. He immediately set to work attempting to pass [music] relief for the depression and address the military's growing power. But on both fronts, the damage was done. Japanese democracy was on its

last legs. The military was fully free of civilian control. And the emperor himself was too [music] intimidated to do anything about it. Yet even so, the highest officers in the military couldn't simply step in and publicly dissolve the civilian government. Sono Joey meant that they couldn't be seen acting without the emperor's [music] approval, but they could, as they'd done with Kanji, merely allow the zealots further down the chain of command to do their dirty work for them.

Still, there was a civilian who would prove essential. Inou Niso. [music] Inou had spent his youth aimless, existential, and cynical. In 1923, he finally found his calling [music] when he returned to his home village in Japan. Penniles from travels in China and visited a Buddhist temple. There,

after days of prayer seeking a path forward, Inou [music] heard a faint voice calling out to him, proclaiming him the future savior of his nation. Filled with a sense [music] of purpose, Inu developed his religious philosophy, a vision for how to save Japan. In short, he revered the emperor [music] as divine and destined to unify the world into a single Japanese empire. But because the Maji restoration had betrayed the emperor, [music] Japan needed a second restoration that would bring the country under direct imperial [music] rule and destroy the corrupt ruling elites. His worldview was almost apocalyptic. As he put it,

>> destruction is itself construction, and the two [music] are one and inseparable. >> At first, this proved off-putting to potential followers, but as crisis gripped the [music] nation and the politicians fell short, that changed. Inaway found his devotees among a small group of about a dozen young men, all unemployed and hopeless thanks to the Great Depression of 1930. At around the same time, Inaouay first [music] made contact with a small cadre of young naval officers based near the temple where he worked who shared his contempt for [music] the civilian government. In 1931, Inou relocated to Tokyo where he and [music] his followers earned the affectionate nickname the League of Blood from local arch nationalists. The

League was in Tokyo because Inaway had begun plotting an act of construction [music] by deconstruction with his allies in the Navy. This was the plan. The League [music] would strike at 10 captains of industry and important officials while their allies in the Navy would work [music] with some civilian and army accompllices to achieve the same in a second wave. But when the time came, eight of the cultists [music] lost their nerve, eliminating only two of their targets, Dan [music] Tkuma and Inu Junosuk. But the plot was far from over. About a month later, the second

[music] wave of assassins descended on Tokyo. At about 6 p.m. on May 15th, 1932, they broke down a door in the prime minister's residence and found their target, [music] a meek old man who invited them to sit and chat. After Prime Minister Inukai's death, his assassins and more co-conspirators across Tokyo attempted to complete [music] a total coup. Their failure was

spectacular and we cover it in detail in the bonus [music] podcast available on our Patreon. But despite the hack job, it was clear the premiership was no longer safe for party politicians. There would be more, more inways, more renegade officers until the military [music] got their way. So the emperor appointed a former admiral, someone his advisers [music] hoped would satisfy the military without emboldening them to take further measures. By this policy of appeasement and the virtual acquitt [music] of Inukai's killers in court marshal, Japan's war-hungry officer corps had succeeded in creating a permission structure within the military and [music] Japanese society more broadly, which allowed for terrorism in the nebulous name of Sono Joy. But mere

terrorism for terrorism's sake was not the end they had in mind. They wanted power [music] and they wanted war. For the next four years, the military continued to assert its independence [music] until, following one more junior officer coup attempt in 1936. The government finally threw [music] in the tower. Less than a year later, Japan, finally under military dictatorship, provoked a second [music] massive escalation with China, initiating the Second World War in Asia. It would go on

to cost nearly [music] 30 million lives and ended with the military government's unconditional surrender. It can be said then that Japan's Rubicon, its final terrible turn to fascism and war was [music] in 1932. Yet the insanity of this year owed so much to the Maji restoration of 1868, a revolution from above which explicitly rejected democracy and enshrined the military's independence from the rule of law in a deeply flawed constitution. Ironically, this constitution also built the very institutions that would challenge the oligarchy's rule. By 1918, a new crop of politicians who owed their success to Japan's limited electorate were rising in prominence and prestige, and the imperial court had to accommodate them to maintain stability.

Reluctantly, the old guard handed some power to these politicians who used the opportunity to expand suffrage. But hobbled by their own self-interest and the continued existence of unaccountable institutions, including the military, the politicians failed to establish the legitimacy of this new semi-democratic regime. Moreover, their incompetence exacerbated the crisis of the depression, leaving them open to attacks from the forces that had been reluctant to share power in the first place. Throughout all of this, the military continued to play a prominent role in politics. And it would be the actions and selective inactions of the armed [music] forces that would play the decisive role in destroying Japan's struggling democracy. Indeed, in the

words of the political theorist [music] and former spectacles guest Francis Fukuyama, "Absent in autonomous military, it would be perfectly possible to posit a counterfactual history where Japan evolved in a more English-style [music] democratic direction. The struggles of the civilian government were the necessary precondition for the failure of democracy. But without a military constitutionally insulated from civilian authority and the rule of law and possessed by Sono Joey, a nationalist ideology that Fukuyama says celebrated the honorbound ethos of the old military aristocracy. It's possible that the struggles of Japan's early elected politicians would have been nothing more than a period of trial and error out of which the democracy emerged stronger and more legitimate than before. In the apocryphal words of Prime Minister Inukai Suyoshi, "If we create a period when dishonest acts of officials are done away with and politics are discussed by means of true words, assassinations [music] would disappear." Though this would

sadly not come to pass in his time, the failure of democracy in pre-war Japan was hardly inevitable. It was killed in its infancy by men with guns who at the critical moment decided that it was no use talking anymore. August 17th, 1949, 3:09 a.m. Passenger train 412 is approaching the village of Matsukawa, Japan. So far, the journey on

the To<unk>hoku mainline has gone smoothly, but disaster is only 60 seconds away. For the last two months, Japan has been inflamed with railroad terrorism. In July, the president of the Japanese National Railway Authority was kidnapped and run over with a train. Days later, someone tampered with another train, causing it to lose control and crash into a platform, killing six. And here, someone has removed pieces connecting two portions of the track and shifted the rails several feet apart. Disaster is only 30

seconds away. The motive for all these attacks is obvious. Since July, over a 100,000 railroad workers have been fired. Between the public and private sector, over 2 million have lost their jobs, while Japan's economy remains shattered [music] by the Second World War. Despair is widespread, and communists have been growing in power throughout the country's powerful trade unions. They were the first to lose

their jobs in July and now disaster is only train 412 derails catastrophically. Two men are killed instantly. 49-year-old engineer Ishida Sho and 27year-old fireman Itito Toshi. The assistant engineer, 23-year-old Moi Masai, lives just long enough to [music] gasp to the train's conductor. >> The train was sabotaged.

But who did it? 20 [music] communists were quickly charged and convicted. Their motive, like I said, was obvious. But why did they have a motive? Why were so many people fired so quickly? And why

were communists the first to go? It wasn't a policy the Japanese had decided on. Instead, it was imposed by American authorities who had occupied the nation since the end of the war. Officially, they were there to help Japan transition from a Bellacose imperial state into a pacifist democracy. And when the occupation began, that's what they did.

But over the last year, that mission faded into the background. Now, America was intent on releasing war criminals from [music] prison, locking up communists instead, and returning Japan's wartime leaders to power, even if it meant using the CIA to fund their political campaigns. So, the communists struck back. At least that's what everyone thought. Except after 14 years of trials and retrials, those 20 individuals were ultimately acquitted by the Tokyo High Court. The whole thing

was a sham. But if they didn't do it, who else had a motive? According to the accused, they were set up, framed for an inside job by the American authorities who sought to paint communists as terrorists [music] to validate and accelerate their pivot away from an inclusive democracy and toward anti-communism. The question of who really sabotaged the tracks at Matsukawa is one that goes to [music] the heart of Japan's post-war history, how it became the nation we know today. And it's a dark story of how an idealistic mission transformed into a cynical plot to bend Japanese politics to American ends, whatever the cost.

Bribery, theft, espionage, even a prime minister on the CIA payroll. Japan 1949 is the story behind the scars, the deep wounds in the country's democracy that have never truly healed. [music] The story of Matsukawa is the story of a battle [music] between democratic idealism and cynical anti-communism. And that story begins with this. The constitution of Japan exhibit A, the idealist's greatest achievement. It was

adopted in 1946 by the Japanese de or legislature. But it was not written [music] by them. Instead, it was drafted by the Americans who after World War II occupied Japan, political scientists, legal scholars, and historians, and the occupation's supreme commander, Douglas MacArthur, the idealistin chief. The Constitution exudes idealism. Article 9 renounces war forever, a vital condition given Japan had recently started a conflict that killed 30 million people throughout Asia. Articles 11 through 40

enshrine individual rights, including the classics like freedom of speech, political participation, and religion, but also some absent from the American [music] Constitution, like rights to equal education, academic freedom, freedom of thought, privacy, and crucially for the Matsukawa case, freedom of workers to organize and bargain collectively. In the same spirit of idealism, MacArthur's very first act as head of the occupation was not to punish, but to liberate, freeing all of Japan's 2500 political prisoners, including many leading [music] communists. At the same time, he gave 200 of Japan's wartime leaders [music] the opposite treatment, deeming them most responsible for instigating the war, MacArthur labeled them class A war criminals, banished them forever [music] from public office or government employment, and imprisoned many of them to await trial for their crimes. Idealism was on the march, but the tragedy at Matsukawa was brewing already because that idealism [music] had blind spots. Because MacArthur's idealism didn't stop at politics, he also set about building a democratic economy, which meant dismantling the zybasatu or mega corporations and generally deconentating economic power.

Conspicuously missing from these objectives in the war shattered country, however, was economic growth. And so we land at exhibit B, the bulletin board, the primary means of communication amongst the working class. All over Japan, advertisements for communist gatherings appeared on these boards as newly released party members rebuilt their power. [music] At the same time, MacArthur's democratic economy froze. Growth went flat and unemployment exploded. [music] In turn, support for

the communists grew, catapulting them into leadership roles in Japan's constitutionally empowered labor groups, including the National Railway Workers Union. One former president of a labor group recalled >> MacArthur in the early stages of the occupation didn't merely tolerate but welcomed the participation of communists in such important bodies as the central and local labor relations commissions. It was of course merely an extension of MacArthur's and the occupation's democratic idealism. Everyone had a right to participate and [music] express their beliefs. But new centers of power were developing under MacArthur's nose, particularly the occupation's secretive military intelligence unit, G2, headed by MacArthur's close confidant, Major General Charles Willoughby, who was increasingly skeptical about the wisdom of MacArthur's idealism. To Willoughby,

the great threat wasn't a resurgence of the militant nationalism that had just caused the war, as [music] MacArthur feared. It was communism. So Willoughby exploited G2's secrecy, went behind MacArthur's back, and began building an anti-communist [music] spy network in Japan. To do that, Willoughby needed expertise, and he needed money. He needed Kodama Yoshio.

In China, Kodama hadn't just been a vital intelligence officer in the Japanese invasion and occupation, which killed tens of millions. He'd actually made off with $175 million worth of stolen Chinese gold and diamonds. He was exactly the sort of [music] man G2 needed, but he was also exactly the sort of man MacArthur locked up and branded a class A war criminal. But by 1948, the ground was shifting beneath MacArthur's feet. Communists were turning the tide in China's civil war, and rumors swirled that a Sovietbacked invasion of Korea was on the horizon.

>> [music] >> And so we arrive at the doorstep of the Matsukawa incident, exhibit C, the Ryder letter, penned by one of MacArthur's subordinates, General Charles Ryder, in October 1948. It's nothing less than a mutiny against MacArthur's idealism. [music] On the one hand, we find ourselves bound to act in the best interests of the United States government and handling the communist problem. And on the other hand, we as an occupying force are committed to the sponsorship of a democratic form of government in Japan. Can we then maintain Japan as an oasis in which communism may flourish in direct opposition to the stated position of the United States government? The answer is

an emphatic no. In other words, according to Ryder, it was time for democracy to take a back seat to national security and anti-communism. And Washington agreed. That same year, George Kennan, the architect of America's [music] Cold War strategy, traveled from Washington to Tokyo to read MacArthur the riot act. His demands were in line with Ryder's criticism, end the ambitious economic experiment, reduce the influence of the communists, and begin releasing class A war criminals [music] from prison. Matsukawa

was now inevitable. By December, Kurama Yoshio was a free man, and he was soon working with Willoughy's G2 to smuggle precious metals out of China, Kurama's specialty, to fund the Takamatsu Plan, a blueprint for a vast and centralized Japanese intelligence operation to fight communism at home and abroad. Meanwhile, in February 1949, Joseph Dodge, a Republican bank president, arrived in Japan. Officially, he was sent by President Truman as a financial adviser to MacArthur. In reality, he was there to take charge and attack the root of communist power in Japan, MacArthur's stagnant [music] democratic economy.

Dodge's message to Prime Minister Yoshida was clear. He would have to pass a balanced budget, and that meant slashing government spending. It took months of wrangling before Yoshida finally caved. But in April 1949, Japan's DEAT passed the budget. Now the scary part. The government had to fire

about 30% of its employees. The Japanese National Railway Authority or JNR alone had to shed 100,000 jobs. On July 1st, each railroad division received orders from JNR President Shimoyama Sadonori in Tokyo with the numbers to be fired or kubikiri translated literally decapitated. Officially, the firings were to be decided according to efficiency and seniority, but influential communists were among the first to figuratively lose their heads when the layoffs began on July 4th. The next day, JNR President Shimyama suffered a more literal Kubikiri. He was

found in pieces, scattered around railroad tracks in Tokyo, run over by a train. The official autopsy determined on account of the minimal blood at the gruesome scene that Shimoyama had been dead for some time before someone laid his body on the tracks. Despite his murder though, on July 14th, the second and final round of Kubikiri carried on as planned. The next day, a train careened into the suburban Mitaka station, killing six waiting passengers. [music] Its controls had been tied down, causing the crash. And on August 17th,

far from Tokyo, passenger train 412 derailed near Matsukawa, killing three. In all three attacks, [music] authorities quickly blamed communists in the railroad labor unions. The cause for suspicion in the Matsukawa case is obvious. For one, railroad workers, railroad terrorism, connect [music] the dots. But more importantly, the communist workers had clear motive and means. As for motive, a 100,000

railway employees had just been laid off. And the only thing that angers communists more than mass layoffs [music] are mass layoffs that especially target communists. As for means, railroad sabotage isn't an easy business. It requires heavyduty tools not readily accessible in postwar rural Japan, unless you happen to work in railroad maintenance. But even with the tools, a lone sabotur couldn't manage it. This had to be a conspiracy, [music]

and nothing rhymes with conspiracy like communists. Despite the clear motive and means, however, the only physical evidence was a couple of tools apparently stolen from a nearby JNR rail maintenance supply shed. But the shed was broken into, so that didn't actually prove the conspiracy involved workers [music] with access to it. What the police did have were confessions. They picked up a former rail maintenance worker, 19-year-old Akama Katsumi in September. 10 days later, Akama

confessed and named four communist union [music] members in Matsukawa as the ring leaders. One of them then did the same, naming a handful more communist accompllices, and so on until the police had 20 communists under arrest. Except there were a few problems. For one, as time went on and new evidence arose, [music] police invited their suspects to revise their detailed confessions to remain consistent with the facts. So much for reliable evidence. For another,

internal police documents later revealed that police focused almost exclusively on members of Japan's railroad union, ignoring other possible suspects. And finally, not all 20 [music] suspects were communist. In fact, one wasn't the one who kicked it all off by fingering a handful of [music] communists in the first place. Teenager Akama Katsumi. And he [music] only confessed after police threatened to kill him and told him some communists had already blamed him and that he should get even with [music] them. And those are just the highlights

of the shoddy police work. I mean, this rabbit hole is deep. If you want more, check out our podcast on Patreon and Nebula. But [music] that's enough to get us set up and look at the alternative theory that this [music] was a frame up job by the American government. For one, the motive is equally obvious as the communists.

Willoughy's G2 had one mission. Disrupt [music] the growth of communism. We know their Japanese agents like Kodama were engaged in shady activity like smuggling often alongside American counterparts. It isn't a stretch to imagine a false flag. And what better way to do that than the Matsukawa incident? I mean,

railroad workers, railroad terrorism, connect the dots. And in the aftermath of those layoffs, who else would anyone blame? Back then though, almost nobody [music] knew about G2. Back then, nobody knew a thing. There's a reason the case spent 14 years in court in retrial after appeal after retrial until the Tokyo High Court finally declared the defendants not guilty. It was a rural

investigation with basically zero physical evidence to go off of. As a result, we'll likely never know who sabotaged the tracks at Matsukawa. But today, we do know some things they didn't know then. We know that G2 was building its strength, carrying out clandestine acts far more complex than this, like Kodama's smuggling plot, and we know the cynics like Willoughby couldn't have asked for a better excuse to justify abandoning Japan's democratic experiment and pivoting to anti-communism. Matsukawa they argued and most believed was the culmination and ultimate indictment [clears throat] of MacArthur's idealistic project.

Toleration, freedom, corporate trust busting, worker power. They were all mistakes which bolstered communism and inspired terrorism. And today, thanks to the slow declassification of documents, we know what happened next. We know that in 1949 everything changed. In short, the idealists lost and the cynics took charge, undertaking a secret project to build anti-communist [music] politics in Japan, whatever the cost. This is a

letter from MacArthur to Prime Minister Yoshida from June 1950. Before the trial of the accused saboturss [music] had even wrapped, MacArthur ordered him to remove and exclude the full membership of the central committee of Japan's Communist Party [music] from public service. The Red Purge was no longer an unspoken priority like in 1949. It was now official policy. Those not quietly purged in the 1949 mass layoffs were quickly and loudly fired by 1950 thanks to Matsukawa. By 1951, as

communists were being purged for their politics, Japan's recently freed war criminals were suddenly depurged, permitted to participate in politics once more. A darkly poetic reversal of MacArthur's first steps after the war to free political prisoners and punish war criminals. One of these collaborators was Oata [music] Takura, a former top intelligence official in Japan's wartime cabinet and a suspected class A [music] war criminal. After being depurged, Ogata dove right back into politics, winning a deot seat as a member of Prime Minister Yoshida's Liberal Party, Japan's main conservative party. His return to high office was swift. By

1953, the year after the occupation's end, he was deputy [music] prime minister. Yet, America's war against communism in Japan didn't end with the occupation. It just went underground. This is a CIA memo from 1955 documenting a meeting between a CIA officer and an asset cenamed Pocapon. Pocapon's real name, Oata Takura. That's right. Oata,

by now the leader of Japan's ruling political party, was literally a CIA asset, and he delivered huge dividends. In this meeting, Ogata's providing his handler information that only someone in his position at the highest level of Japanese politics could offer. information about the personalities of leading politicians, the dynamics of interparty rivalries, and updates on a proposed merger between Japan's two largest conservative [music] parties, the Liberals and the Democrats. Oata assures his American handler that the merger to consolidate [music] a single anti-communist conservative party is in its quote final stages, offers negotiation details, and predicts that he himself will [music] become the first prime minister of this party. Unfortunately for the CIA, however, Oata died unexpectedly in 1956. Luckily for

them, the roster of Japanese war criminals happy to take CIA money to combat communism ran deep. Next up to the plate was Kishi Nou. Kishi had been imprisoned with Kodama Yoshio, and he was a special case because as a cabinet minister in 1941, he'd literally signed Japan's declaration of war against America. Yet, in this bizarro world the anti-communists built, he didn't just return to politics. In 1957, he became the leader of the newly merged Liberal Democratic [music] Party, making him America's most important ally against communism in Japan. That same year, he visited

America [music] to play golf with President Eisenhower and throw out the first pitch at Yankees Stadium. We can't say for sure whether Kishi himself was a CIA asset, mainly because there are loads of files on him that the agency still refuses to release. But we do know that it was during Kishi's tenure as leader of the LDP and prime minister of Japan that the party and its candidates began regularly receiving huge payouts from the CIA. Tens of millions of dollars were given to the party [music] over the remainder of the 1950s and throughout the 1960s which funded their rise to power in Japan. It's hard to overstate just how successful this CIA LDP collaboration was. In the 70 years

since the party's founding, it's been in charge of Japan for 65. But as the 1950s drew to a close, it wasn't yet clear just how dominant the LDP would be. On one hand, the economy was finally turning around. On the other hand, the Japanese left seemed to be getting their mojo back. Although the Communists were sidelined by the Red Purge, the Japanese Socialist Party was a serious contender in the 1955, 58, and 60 elections. It

was this very socialist threat that motivated the CIA to work so frantically to support and fund Kishi's LDP. Yet, that nearly backfired because a big source of the socialists popularity was that even as nobody truly knew what was happening with the LDP and CIA, it wasn't a secret that Kishi was extremely buddy buddy with America. And a lot of Japanese were by this point a little fed up with being treated like America's little brother. This all reached ahead in 1960, another insane year that made Japan what it is today. So, go watch that video next. Meanwhile, in 1959,

Japan's Supreme Court granted the Matsukawa defendants a retrial. And in 1963, all of the defendants convictions were, to the shock of Japanese society, overturned. They were acquitted on all charges. The defendants, thanks to rights enshrined in MacArthur's Constitution, then sued the government for redress, alleging they'd been intentionally framed at the behest of American officials. Yet, they never were able to prove their case. Many

government files on the period remain strictly [music] classified. In turn, the Japanese people have been denied any real certainty about who was ultimately responsible for the deep and fatal divisions that plagued Japan in 1949. As [music] such, there remains something unsettled, even warped about Japanese politics [music] today, thanks to this turbulent period and the occupation's dramatic pivot away from idealistic democracy building to cynical [music] anti-communist real politique. This pivot was in some ways built into the occupation process from the start. Regardless of the can do, idealistic and democratic spirit of the initial occupation and the constitution it produced, it remained an occupation. There was always a risk

that the needs of Japanese democracy would come into conflict with the interests, whether real or merely perceived, of American officials and national security. That's the nature of an occupation. It's not a democratic process, but something imposed from above by a foreign regime with its own designs. That isn't to say when we look at the broad sweep of modern Japanese history that the occupation fell short of everything MacArthur hoped for. Japan today is a liberal democracy. The

Matsukawa defendants received their day in court [music] and were ultimately acquitted. Citizens enjoy civil and political rights, freedom to vote in fair elections, and a high standard of living in a market economy. But Japan's politics remain dominated by a single party. Despite its unpopularity, despite many scandals, perhaps because in the formative years of Japan's democratic culture, it was stunted as clandestine American operations intentionally smothered political competition and produced a regime more tolerant of secrecy and corruption than of ideological diversity and disagreement. those essential qualities of a healthy democracy.

I >> received this afternoon a message from the Japanese government. I deem this reply the unconditional surrender of Japan. There's this moment after World War II where the world is suddenly changing [music] really quickly and Japan is being completely remade. Because armed with an unconditional surrender and the atomic bomb, America could do anything to Japan. But when soldiers under General Douglas MacArthur entered Tokyo, their assignment [music] wasn't to punish the country that had just started a war that killed 30 million people.

Instead, their task was to rebuild Japan and more importantly to transform it into a peaceful democratic nation. And today, that's what Japan has become, a democratic country famous for its technology and innovation and for its peacefulness. But this American transformation didn't happen overnight, and its success was far from guaranteed. [music] [cheering]

There was a time when anything was possible. A time when leading politicians declared friendship with communists and swore opposition to America. When massive crowds dominated the streets [music] of Tokyo, storming parliament, attacking American officials and chanting Yankee go home. When many believed Japan was on the verge of a socialist revolution. That is until this wave of resistance hit its final crescendo. when in one year, three

enormous [music] events combined to set Japan on the path to becoming the country we know today. First, a new treaty with America. Then, the largest protest in the country's modern history, and finally, a brutal samurai sword assassination televised for the entire country to witness. But these three events don't just explain why Japan is the way it is today. Because this story actually helps explain a fundamental truth about why every society is the way it is. This is Japan 1960, the year that

made a nation. This is the year of blood.

The American occupation of Japan began with nearly boundless idealism. Immediately, the political and military leaders responsible for the conflict were arrested, many charged with war [music] crimes, while the emperor was forced to renounce his divinity and endorse a shockingly progressive [music] constitution. This new founding document established Japan as a liberal democracy, of course, but it went further, guaranteeing equality between men and women and enshrining the rights of workers to unionize and self- advocate, measures absent [music] even from America's own constitution. At the same time, large farms were divided and redistributed, and massive monopolistic corporations were slated to be broken up. Old hierarchical Japan was quickly giving way to a new democratic Japan.

But perhaps the biggest [music] break from the past was the Constitution's Article 9. The Japanese people forever renounce war as a sovereign right. Land, sea, and air forces, as well as other war potential, will never be maintained. These were massive, controversial social changes. But despite some discontent, [music] Japan's path to democratic modernity seemed clear. Until one day, everything

changed. Here in Russia, you've seen why we are [music] spending billions of dollars in defense production. >> Communism was spreading, and suddenly America was no longer basking in the post-war glow of victory. A new [music] war was on, the Cold War. Idealism vanished. Instead of a progressive

democracy, Washington now needed a forward military base with a stable, friendly government. Most of the war era leaders, experienced and reliably anti-communist, were suddenly pardoned and allowed to seek political office. Few renounced their wartime actions. Instead, communists were now purged from the government, and many progressive policies favoring organized labor and the break up of monopolies were abandoned, even reversed. Article 9 remained in force, but America did allow the formation of a small pseudo military, the Japan Self-Defense Force.

What came next, however, was downright humiliating. As a condition of the occupation's end, America proposed a treaty. It stipulated the American military could freely station and move troops throughout Japan without being under any obligation to defend the country in the event of an attack. And the treaty had no expiration date. Japan had no choice but to accept. So by the

time the American occupation ended in 1952, a lot of the early progress made restoring security, dignity, and self-respect to a new democratic Japan had been undone. This security treaty was humiliating and it caused a serious identity crisis as Japan was torn between that initial post-war optimism and a new cold war pessimism where nothing mattered except stability and anti-communism. A contest over the fundamental question of what kind of nation Japan was going to be. So, Japan is gripped by an identity crisis. Two images show who was winning this fight by 1960 in the diet, Japan's parliament. This shows how many seats

each party controlled after the 1955 election. These are the two biggest parties, the Liberals and Democrats. They're both conservative and they're totally dominant. But here's the diet after the next election. The two biggest parties are just gone. Except they're

really just hiding because this is the Liberal Democratic Party, a sort of conservative super party formed in a merger that was actually organized in part by the CIA who wanted Japan's anti-communist parties to join forces. Heading up the new party was this guy, Nou Kishi, a war criminal and former minister in the wartime government. By 1957, he was prime minister, and he had two core goals. First, revise the Constitution, eliminate Article 9 and remilitarize Japan, and second, [music] renegotiate the humiliating security treaty with America. Now, treaty renegotiation was widely popular in Japan, not just with the rightwing. So

when Kishi, after 3 years of haggling with the American government, secured key concessions, mandated consultation with the Japanese government about American troop movements, a defense commitment from America for Japan, and a 10-year term of treaty renewal rather than it being indefinite, he expected to be hailed as a hero. But there were two problems. While treaty renegotiation was widely popular, revising the Constitution was anything but. Most Japanese wanted nothing to do with war, and eliminating Article 9 to remmilitarize the country threatened a return to those dark days. Moreover, Kishi wasn't a hero. He was a horrible

man who'd helped steer Japan into a devastating war from which he massively profited while the rest of the country suffered. Mr. Kishi, he was also just elitist, arrogant, and corrupt. He openly disdained the media and the Japanese public as beneath him and centralized power in an inner circle of allies. Under Kishi, many feared a comeback of the old Japan. As a result,

he'd galvanized not only the left, but a wide swath of Japanese society against him. And when he attempted [music] to force through legislation expanding police powers to stifle this widespread public descent, protesters took to the [music] streets and forced him to back down. By January of 1960, even though he'd seriously improved the treaty terms, nobody trusted him, and mass resistance was guaranteed. Instead of calming things down, Kishi had fired the country up. The fight for Japan's future was getting uglier. But Kishi didn't

care. He wanted to get the job done. Still, months of massive protests unnerved some LDP legislators, so he delayed the vote on the treaty until May 19th, the last day of the diet's session. But even then, Kishi couldn't be sure he'd get his way. He needed more time, so he moved to extend the session. But

the opposition saw it coming, and they blockaded the halls of the diet, barricading the speaker in his office. Here was an unprecedented confrontation between the two sides of the core identity crisis facing Japan. And millions of Japanese across the country were watching it unfold on their television sets. For hours it dragged on until finally Kishi called police into the diet. An unprecedented move and had the officers physically carry the opposition members one by one. Some

literally kicking and screaming out of the building. Then, mere minutes before the session expired at midnight, a mass of officers assembled and forced the speaker through the remaining crowd and up to the rostrm. A 50-day extension was carried. But to everyone's shock, with only his own party present in the chamber, Kishi went further. He called an immediate vote on the treaty. It

passed unanimously.

That core conflict over Japan's identity was heating up, moving from the ballot box to boxing bouts as both major parties resorted to force to either obstruct or jam through a political agenda. Kishi won this round, but the treaty's opponents weren't finished. In their view, Kishi had made it clear he'd stop at nothing to get his way, and maybe they should do the same. Crucially for the opposition, the diet is biccameal. While the lower house voted on May 20th, Japan's upper house still had a say in the matter. They couldn't

reject the treaty outright, but they could delay the bill until the next election when a new lower house might reconsider. If the upper house didn't intervene, however, the treaty would automatically ratify in 30 days on June 19th. Coincidentally, the very day President Eisenhower was scheduled to make [music] the first US presidential visit to Japan. convenient timing for a victory lap for Kishi. But hardly anybody in Japan wanted to grant him the satisfaction. Soon hordes

of citizens took to the streets every day featuring a major protest somewhere in the country. The energy had transcended partisan politics to encompass a majority of the population. These weren't just student radicals or urban laborers. They were office workers and housewives. Even a number of conservatives fed up with Kishi's suicidal politics began funneling money from Japan's business establishment to left-wing groups organizing [music] the protests. Still, the diet's upper house

wasn't budging yet. But the whole exercise was turning into a real problem for Kishi until on June 10th, just over a week before the treaty was slated to ratify, it got a whole lot worse. Ahead of his arrival, Eisenhower sent his press secretary, Jim Hagerty. But on the way from the airport to meet Kishi, Hagert's car was assaulted by protesters who surrounded the vehicle, cracked the windows, and caved in the roof, all while shouting anti-American slogans. Eisenhower's security, and by extension, the viability of his visit was called into question. A massive embarrassment

for Kishi and a coup for the protesters. It was a small victory, though, because time was running out. The protesters had staged massive demonstrations, unprecedented strikes, even intimidated the president of the United States. Yet still, the country was hurtling toward the ratification date without a hint of delay from the diet. It was now or never. They needed to do something big.

On June 15th, 1960, tens of thousands of Japanese gathered before the diet building. They were faced by 5,000 police officers. At first, the protests were nonviolent. One group even managed to break into the diet compound where they peacefully occupied a garden, sang songs, and gave speeches. Elsewhere in the vicinity, though, a cohort of right-wing counterprotesters assaulted the demonstrators using planks driven through with nails. Melee ensued. Now

things were completely out of hand. The police, who'd been instructed to exercise restraint, now decided the time for such things was over. They attempted to force the protesters out of the diet compound, beating many of them unconscious. Blood began to run, instigating a mass panic. In a crowd crush that followed, Mijiko Kba, a female student at Tokyo University, was trampled to death.

>> Japan, fanatic students and leftist groups rioted for days on end. >> By midnight, Kishi had given police full authority to clear the building out. But out here, the protest, inflamed by Michiko's death, raged on. Kishi contemplated calling in self-defense force troops, but his cabinet talked [music] him down. Instead, he announced he would resign within the month.

Eisenhower canled his visit. It would be another 15 years before a sitting US president first set foot in Japan. Still, protests continued to rock the country, reaching their peak on June 18th, one day before the treaty's automatic ratification deadline. As one student protester put it, despite US approval of the new treaty, I felt certain that the revision would fail in the face of such widespread opposition, a conviction shared by the adults around me. However, the upper house remained silent and on June 19th, the treaty was ratified.

In one sense, the Japanese left and the broader protest movement had failed. It was a critical victory for the conservative side of Japan's identity crisis. The treaty was ratified and the country had taken a clear step toward US alignment, which was more or less legally locked in until the treaty was due for renewal in 10 years. But in another sense, the opposition had scored a major victory. Eisenhower backed out and Kishi resigned, proving that two could play political hard ball. In turn,

neither had this episode truly settled the fundamental question about what kind of nation Japan would become. If anything, the choice in the upcoming elections seemed more polarized than ever as the socialist party leader Injiro Asanuma visited the Chinese Communists, still not recognized by Japan as the official government, where he treated with party chairman Mao Dong, gave speeches declaring his friendship with China and opposition to America, and returned to Japan wearing Mao's signature outfit. Asanuma wasn't just a radical. He was popular. Famous for his shabby dress and for living in public housing his whole life, Asanuma connected with the public about as well as Kishi repulsed it. By contrast, if a

ma suit and shabby clothes defined Asanuma's radicalism and appeal, wire rimmed glasses and double- breasted [music] suits defined the LDP's new leader. Kishi's Minister for International Trade and Industry, Hayato Ikada. This was the uniform of a graduate of an elite school, an economist, and a finance minister. Hardly the look of a man destined to repair the party's elitist reputation. But it wasn't just Eicada's clothing that seemed to doom his odds. Indeed,

his party had chosen him because he was thought to be an empty shirt, someone with no real base of support within the party who could stand in until the impending election determined the better man for the job. After all, I's career was littered with political missteps. Back in 1950, he'd infamously suggested that Japan's poor should cope with high food costs by eating more cheap barley and less expensive rice, prompting comparisons to Marie Antuinette. Worse still, IA had been trade and industry minister once before in 1952, but had lasted less than a month after he was quoted in the press, remarking coldly, "Even if five or 10 small businessmen commit suicide, it can't be helped." Asenuma, the everyman, couldn't have asked for a better opponent. But he had

more than I to contend with. On October 12th, 1960, Anediro Asanuma stood on stage for a debate inside this building in Tokyo with Ikada seated a few feet away in the front row. Millions were watching on TV when suddenly a man rushed on stage and seemed to collide with Asanuma. He wielded a wakazashi, a kind of shortsord. And as he lunged at Asanuma a second time, he was tackled to the ground, but it was too late. The

asalent's first strike had been a deep blow through the ribs. Oanuma died within minutes. It was Japan's first political assassination since the war. The killer was a 17-year-old right-wing [music] radical who would hang himself in jail a few weeks later after scrawling long live the emperor on his cell wall in toothpaste. Most believed the murder would buoy support for the socialists, both for reasons of sympathy and because it reinforced the fear which spread under Kishi's leadership. That

behind the LDP in the shadow of Japan's rightwing lurked violence and terror. However, just days after Asanuma's death, IA stood before the diet to give a speech. [music] Where many expected characteristically direct and concise remarks, where Kishi might have even made a campaign speech, IA shocked his colleagues by delivering an impassioned eulogy for Asanuma, reciting the lyrics from one of his 1920s [music] campaign songs and commending his colleagues commitment to the public good. His words left many in tears. But this wasn't just a one-off performance.

The storming of the diet had been traumatic. The death of a protester, tragic. But seeing a colleague stabbed to death mere feet away. That changed Iicada. Gone were the wire- rimmed glasses and double- breasted jackets. He

adopted chunky plastic frames and simple suits. The clothes of a man who no longer considered himself above the people. Nor was Iicada's transformation limited to a new outfit. He now fully grasped the gravity of Japan's political chaos. He saw how Kishi's confrontational winner take all politics had taken his country to a very dark place. Politics was too existential, too

polarized, too violent. In his campaign, Iicada sought to bring himself closer to the people, touring the country to discuss food prices, unemployment, and other kitchen table issues, promising, if elected, to double Japan's national income within a decade, and to abstain from the Gulf and lavish geisha parties so beloved by his predecessor. It worked. In the 1960 election, the LDP gained a number [music] of seats as Japan's left wing shrank. More importantly, Iada kept his word. While

in office, he never did play golf, nor [music] was he seen at any parties. He attended studiously to governance, and though he died of cancer before his promise [music] to the nation could be realized, I policies doubled Japan's national income in just 7 years. But his most lasting legacy was his abandonment of the LDP's platform of constitutional revision. Article 9 would stay. Japan would not remmilitarize. But not

everyone celebrated Iicada's achievements. Kishi, for one, lamented the move away from constitutional revision, while many LDP members decrieded his administration in general as do nothing. A critique IA seemed to embrace. As his close confidant and future prime minister Kichi Miyazawa recalled, the issue was not what policies should be followed, but how policies should be decided in the diet. And this issue was not really a joking matter. In America or Britain, this how

has been decided as the result of a long history and centuries of tradition. It might take Japan many more years to get to that point. Ikada's attitude was that in order to promote the healthy development of parliamentary democracy, the conservative party, but also the progressive parties as well, should exercise a bit more self-control. By nature, the younger the democracy, the more difficult and delicate this exercise of democratic leadership.

Ikada didn't just moderate the LDP. He moderated Japan. By abandoning his party's more divisive and extreme policies, he diffused the most potent criticisms from Japan's left, resulting in a political system which the LDP has more or less dominated ever since. These highly stable politics have brought benefits, encouraging Japan's meteoric economic growth during the 1970s and 80s, while Eicada helped institute a less winner take all, more consultative legislative culture in the diet. But it has brought downsides as well. Political

choice in Japan is very limited. Police regulations have rendered large-scale protests a nearly extinct form of political speech, and economic successes have given way to near paralyzing stagnation. In one sense, this story is ultimately about one simple trade-off that defines practically every political question. This is a spectrum of political possibility. At the far left is chaos.

Think of war, revolutions, even anarchy. There's no telling what politics might look like in a year, a week, even a day. The horizons of political possibility are wide, even boundless. But the cost of such opportunity is everpresent instability and the threat [music] of violence. At the other end is autocracy.

Politics is stable, consistent, and reliable. Society is largely static. When it's good, it's great. But when it isn't, there's little that can be done to change it. Most regimes fall somewhere on this spectrum, trading between the benefits of opportunity and stability. Of course, some regimes, like

Putin's Russia, have the worst of both worlds. Extremely narrow political horizons and an unpredictable, everpresent threat of violence meeted out by a capriccious dictator. But the spectrum is useful because it articulates this principle that to gain in either opportunity or stability requires some sacrifice in the other. A political system can't afford boundless opportunity and reliable stability and safety. Liberal democracy as a regime attempts to straddle the difference, providing democratic means to increase political choice and possibilities while at the same time constraining that choice within inviable principles of individual rights, increasing stability. [music]

Where exactly each nation sits varies because every society, particularly its leaders, must make this choice in formative moments. For Japan, 1960 was that formative moment. And with the support of most Japanese, Eicada made a choice. Faced with the horrors of pre-war fascist chaos, the devastation of a suicidal nationalist war, and the resurgence of domestic political instability and conflict, Japan chose stability. Japan chose economic prosperity. And in turn, Japan chose

narrow political horizons, a system governed largely by one party where political disputes are resolved quietly in backroom deals rather than in public brawls and polarized elections. In many ways, Japan is less democratic for its [music] choice, less responsive to the needs and demands of its people, and less tolerant of public disscent. However, it remains fundamentally a democratic society. At what point that trade-off between stability and opportunity, between safety and freedom becomes unacceptable? It's a difficult question indeed.

Remember to download War Thunder for free, whether you're on PC, PlayStation, Xbox, or mobile. To kickstart your engines, make sure to use our links in the pinned comment or video description for a massive bonus pack, including multiple premium vehicles, in-game currency, and more. And if you made it this far, thanks for watching. If you enjoy videos like these, consider supporting our efforts to tell stories that matter to democracy by grabbing some merch like this poster, dropping a super thanks, or joining our Patreon. Thanks for watching.