---
video_title: "The Insane Way Portugal Solved Drugs"
video_id: almk1NhgGcE
channel_name: "Spectacles"
channel_id: UCgQ7Amr6fvCJyVlCwEi1bLw
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=almk1NhgGcE
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Watch the full video to learn more.
---
In 2001, Portugal did something totally insane. They decriminalized possession of all drugs. Back in the9s, Portugal already was the heroin capital of Europe. And when they tried a war on drugs, increased arrests, harsher sentencing, etc., things just got worse.

So, they decided to try something different. But decriminalization wasn't giving up the fight. This was a lastditch effort to do something, anything to stop the destruction drugs were causing. As Dr. Gulauo, the architect of this policy, said, "We are dealing with a chronic relapsing disease, and this is a disease like any other. I do not put a diabetic in jail."

And guess what? It worked. Since 2001, Portugal has gone from having some of the highest rates of drug overdose deaths, drug use, and drugrelated disease in the developed world to having some of the absolute lowest. And to do that, they used four key concepts. First, dissuasion.

Instead of punishing people for drug possession, Portugal tried to dissuade addicts by offering them medical, legal, and social assistance. This encourages addicts to seek treatment, not run from the authorities. Second, paso or the step. Portugal meets addicts where they are. As Dr. Gulauo says, "Our approach

is incremental. Our system works by asking citizens what he can give at that given moment. People don't recover from addiction in a day. The process takes time and Portugal's approach recognizes this." Third, Maya or the weave. The

Portuguese have an intricate system of interlocking parts from the dissuasion committees to clinics all the way to programs that help recovering addicts find jobs. And finally, they're committed to recuperas or rehabilitation. The point of decriminalization was never to normalize drug use. It was to help people get off drugs. Every aspect of the system, the dissuasion, the step, the weave, it's all oriented toward that goal. to never

return to the terrible state of the 1990s. If you want to learn more, including how other places haven't quite gotten this formula right when they've tried decriminalization, watch the full video below.