---
video_title: "If I could Put a Plaque Anywhere in London..."
video_id: EdhbPHjzdU8
channel_name: "Hank Green"
channel_id: UCOT2iLov0V7Re7ku_3UBtcQ
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EdhbPHjzdU8
video_date: 2026-08-19
video_description: |
  Honestly, glad to have taken a little breather so I could finally finish this video, which I've been working on for at least two years!! Thanks so much to Keith Moore at the Royal Society and Spencer Weinreich (who is a historian of prisons!!) for taking the time to chat with me so I could get deeper into this story.
  
  CREDITS!
  Videographer for the Royal Society Stuff
  James Hennessy
  
  Lady Mary's Voice
  Rosianna Halse Rojas
  
  Music
  The Harmonious Blacksmith
  George Frideric Handel
  
  Wandering Soul
  Gabriel Lewis
  
  Strings in Solitude 2
  Hanna Ekström
  
  See the Conquering Hero Comes
  George Frideric Handel
  
  
  SOURCESSSS
  Ann Tompion: crime, trial, death sentence, pregnancy, pardon/transportation, etc
  Old Bailey, Trial of Thomas and Ann Tompion (honestly the whole thing is worth reading...it's a much longer record than most!) https://www.oldbaileyonline.org/record/t17201012-5
  Old Bailey records: https://www.oldbaileyonline.org/
  Spencer J. Weinreich, “Unaccountable Subjects,” esp. pp. 23–30, note 128: https://academic.oup.com/hwj/article/89/1/22/5687228
  
  Newgate Prison / Old Bailey
  London Museum, History of Newgate Prison: https://www.londonmuseum.org.uk/collections/london-stories/history-londons-newgate-prison/
  City of London, Central Criminal Court: https://www.cityoflondon.gov.uk/about-us/law-historic-governance/central-criminal-court
  
  Plague of Athens
  Thucydides, History of the Peloponnesian War, Book II: https://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/text?doc=Thuc.%202.47
  “the same man was never attacked twice, never at least fatally” https://cts.perseids.org/read/greekLit/tlg0003/tlg001/perseus-eng6/2.51.1-2.51.6
  What caused it: https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7118959/
  
  Smallpox / variolation background
  CDC, About Smallpox: https://www.cdc.gov/smallpox/about/index.html
  CDC, History of Smallpox: https://www.cdc.gov/smallpox/about/history.html
  WHO, History of Smallpox Vaccination: https://www.who.int/news-room/spotlight/history-of-vaccination/history-of-smallpox-vaccination
  NLM, Variolation: https://www.nlm.nih.gov/exhibition/smallpox/sp_variolation.html
  Arthur Boylston, “The Origins of Inoculation”: https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3407399/
  
  Early inoculation
  Royal Society, West Africans / Onesimus: https://royalsociety.org/blog/2020/10/west-africans-and-the-history-of-smallpox-inoculation/
  James Jurin on Welsh inoculation: https://catalog.folger.edu/record/822425
  Royal Society, Chinese insufflation / smallpox archive: https://makingscience.royalsociety.org/in-focus/smallpox-in-the-archives
  
  Lady Mary Wortley Montagu
  “The smallpox so fatal...” Letter from Adrianople, 1717: https://cyh.rrchnm.org/primary-sources/157.html
  Royal Society, Lady Mary’s Letters: https://royalsociety.org/blog/2024/04/lady-marys-letters/
  Biography: Anita Desai's introduction to The Turkish Embassy Letters (Little, Brown, 1994).
  Royal Society on Maitland inoculating her son and earlier Royal Society reports: https://makingscience.royalsociety.org/in-focus/smallpox-in-the-archives
  
  Charles Maitland / Newgate experiment / James Keith / Elizabeth Harrison
  Charles Maitland, Mr. Maitland’s Account of Inoculating the Small Pox (1722), incl. pp. 19–20 on Elizabeth Harrison: https://archive.org/details/bim_eighteenth-century_mr-maitlands-account-o_maitland-charles-surge_1722
  Weinreich, pp. 24–30: https://academic.oup.com/hwj/article/89/1/22/5687228
  Old Bailey prisoner records: https://www.oldbaileyonline.org/
  
  Ruth / Richard Mead
  Richard Mead, A Discourse on the Small Pox and Measles, pp. 88–89: https://archive.org/
  
  Public controversy, clergy, and party politics
  Weinreich, esp. pp. 29–33: https://academic.oup.com/hwj/article/89/1/22/5687228
  Edmund Massey, A Sermon Against the Dangerous and Sinful Practice of Inoculation (1722): https://archive.org/
  I didn't have a copy but Weinreich cites David Parrish, “A Party Contagion”: https://doi.org/10.1111/1754-0208.12216
  
  Inoculation mortality statistics
  James Jurin statistics summarized by Royal Society: https://makingscience.royalsociety.org/in-focus/smallpox-in-the-archives
  
  Nurse developing pustules after exposure
  James Jurin, “An Account of a Remarkable Instance of the Infection of the Small Pox”: https://makingscience.royalsociety.org/items/rbo_11_62/an-account-of-a-remarkable-instance-of-the-infection-of-the-small-pox-by-james-jurin
---
There's a lot of good plaques in London. You should read them. But, if I could put my own anywhere in the city, it would be here or possibly on the other side where it's hard to see. It's a little bit of a other side of London story. The whole story isn't all that necessary here, but I'm going to tell it to you anyway. On September 20th, 1720,

Elizabeth Cole went down to the Temple Stairs because she wanted to take a ferry across London and across the Thames. At the time, there was only one bridge across the Thames, London Bridge, and taking a ferry would be a far more pleasant way to make the journey. At the stairs, she found a couple already in a ferry [music] who offered to basically share the ride with her. But, halfway through the journey, the woman, Ann Tampion, said to her husband, Tom, that she had forgotten the papers they needed. So, they got off the ferry at Dowgate, leaving Elizabeth to travel alone to the Pepper Alley Stairs.

But, when Elizabeth arrived and she went to pay the ferryman, she found that her purse was gone. Unfortunately for Ann and Tom Tampion, Elizabeth was carrying a lot of money that day, like over a thousand dollars in today's currency. And that was enough that Ann Tampion, who was later in her trial called the most ingenious pickpocket in all of London, was sentenced to death. But, the law was in kind of a weird spot with this because a whole lot of people were being sentenced to death in London at the time, way more than anyone actually felt like killing. So, very often people's sentences were converted, and one of the things they were often converted to was transportation, which meant being shipped away to one of England's colonies to be a laborer. Ann

was pregnant at the time, so was able to plead her belly, basically saying, "You can't kill me. There's a person inside of me." It seems that her pregnancy would have just delayed her execution until after the birth of the child, but as was common at the time, her death sentence was changed to transportation to the Americas, and so she remained at Newgate until a ship was available to take her there. This is a nice little spot in London. This is Old Bailey and this is Newgate Street.

>> Yeah, the Old Bailey question was the Roman wall. The Newgate was a new gate in the Old Bailey that was not new a thousand years ago. But we stick with our names. >> And this building here is generally called the Old Bailey. >> Let's cross the street and not not get hit by a car so we can see it a little bit.

>> Impressive building. This was what was built when Newgate Jail was knocked down. You probably guessed Newgate Jail was not a nice place. That's correct. This is where Ann Tiobeon and and six other prisoners were first given the opportunity to perhaps not be transported to the Americas and instead have a scientific experiment performed upon their bodies.

>> The world is full of strange things happening for reasons we do not understand, but that was even more true in 430 BCE during the plague of Athens. We do not know what disease caused this plague. There's been lots of arguments about it. But writing about the plague afterward, Thucydides says, "Yet it was with those who had recovered from [music] the disease that the sick and the dying found the most compassion. These knew what it was from experience and had now no fear for themselves, [music] for the same man was never attacked twice, never at least fatally."

This is a fairly easy thing to notice about a disease, especially one with really specific symptoms like smallpox. People only very rarely got it twice. >> [music] >> Thucydides is reporting this pretty much as common knowledge. I think that we have known about acquired immunity for many millennia. Now, this probably doesn't need to be said, but smallpox is very bad. It is very infectious. It

causes [music] extreme suffering with survivors often being disfigured or even blinded by the disease and [music] around 30% of people who are infected with it die. It's also the only human disease we have ever [music] eradicated, one of our great achievements as a species, but that story [music] had to start somewhere and it started with people noticing things like this. >> Gives the date here, being the sixth day of the interruption, grew delirious in the night, got out of bed in spite of opposition of two nurses that attended him. Seizing one of the nurses by the neck with his bare arms, he pressed her forehead against his naked breast when covered with the smallpox. What then happens is that she contracts smallpox but in quite a limited way. So,

the forehead which was exposed, she she starts getting pustules there. >> The wonderful people at the Royal Society invited me in to try and get a little bit more information on this. Thanks very much to Brady Haran for helping set that up. But you can see how we might go from like people only ever get smallpox once and a person exposed in one particular way has a mild case to well, perhaps we should expose people to smallpox in one particular way. People just couldn't believe that there was nothing we could do. So, perhaps we

could trigger smallpox in an ideal season or at an ideal age or when an expert was nearby. And once people were inducing smallpox, perhaps because of the knowledge of reports like the one Keith just told me about about contracting smallpox through the skin of the forehead and having a milder case, one of the ways people started doing this was by taking the dried material of smallpox blisters and placing it into scratches on the skin. This turns out to work really well for some smallpox specific reasons. But we did not know why or how any of this worked. We just kept noticing that it worked. And we

don't know when this started or indeed if it only happened once. It seems to have been discovered independently several times. An enslaved West African man in America, Ansumus, reported this practice to his enslaver. There are also probable reports of this practice in Eastern Europe and India and perhaps strangest of all in Wales, just three days walk from London. And China also had like a centuries-old practice that instead of scratching the skin, would blow specially prepared ground-up scabs into people's noses. But for this story,

the one we're telling right now, the most important culture of smallpox inoculation was definitely in Turkey. >> A propos of distempers, I'm going to tell you a thing that I am sure will make you wish yourself [music] here. The smallpox, so fatal and so general amongst us, is here entirely harmless by the invention of engrafting, which is the term they give it. There is a set of old women who make it their business to perform the operation. You may believe I am well satisfied of the safety of the experiment, since I intend to try it on my dear little son.

>> Uh she lost her brother to smallpox. She died, her favorite brother. Uh she herself had had it, and she was a renowned society beauty. So, it ruined her complexion because of the pustules, the really scars on your on your face and body. So, she she realized how important it was to have some kind of treatment for this thing.

>> Lady Mary Wortley Montagu. My god, I would love to tell you the her whole bizarre life story. When she was just young Mary Pierpont, she was courted by many men. Her father promised her to a man that she hated called Clotworthy Skiffington. I know nothing about Clotworthy Skiffington, except that Mary did not want to marry him, and also his name was Clotworthy Skiffington. So, I

did want to tell you about that, at least. But, she managed to elope outside of the wishes of her parents with a man with whom she would end up having a long, unhappy, and distant marriage, Edward Wortley Montagu. I'm going to have to leave out a lot here, like the details of her absolutely vicious feud with poet Alexander Pope, and her close friendship with the future wife of a prime minister, a friendship that people indicated at the time might not entirely just be friendship. Though, that might just have been part of people really wanting to attack her. She did not just make friends, Lady Mary. We know a great

deal about this woman and it is all worth knowing, but for our story, after her marriage and after she had nearly died of smallpox, which did not just ruin her complexion, but resulted in her eyelashes and perhaps eyebrows never growing back. When Edward became the ambassador to the government of the Ottoman Empire, Lady Mary joined him in Constantinople. In Turkey, Lady Mary made it her business to integrate herself some into society and when doing that is when she first witnessed this class of women who were expert in placing the pus from smallpox blisters into scratches in people's arms. Lady Mary was, of course, focused on smallpox. Her experiences with the disease had been horrible and possibly more terrifying. She was now mother to

two small children. There in Turkey, it seems likely to me that her children felt more protected from smallpox than they would be back home in England. So, before she left the country, she had a doctor, Charles Maitland, inoculate her oldest child, a boy. Now, similar procedures had actually already been known in England, but Lady Mary and also that doctor, Charles Maitland, weren't just going to bring knowledge of this, they were going to bring advocacy for it. And that advocacy would be the beginning of a triumph and a society-wide argument that we are still continuing to this day.

>> There's more than 100 people just eyeballing it. >> Yeah, and and you can kind of look down and just see um not only who it was, the ages. You can see quite clearly here they tend to be the younger side of the equation, so that they're children, teenagers. Very mild outcomes, of course. >> Weirdly, um the Royal Society had been informed of this as early as the 1690s. So, in China they

would they would powder up a person and blow it up your nose. Uh but for some reason they never acted on it. >> People have to advocate for things for them to get done. >> Yeah. And you know, Lady Mary was uh an aristocrat. She knew the right people.

She could promote it. >> At the Royal Society, they were able to bring out for me Charles Maitland's actual handwritten book of notes on inoculations given. And the first page tells quite a story. The first name at the top is Lady Mary's, written in place of her daughter's name. This first smallpox inoculation in London was apparently of some concern. Dr. Maitland

wanted to wait until it was less dreary in town, but Lady Mary insisted. Dr. Maitland made sure that there was more than one doctor present and often checking on the girl as she progressed through a mild fever and the emergence of a few pox on her arm. Now, one of those doctors, James Keith, himself had a young son and had lost two other children to smallpox just a few years before. And so that is why the second name in this book is Peter Keith, James Keith's only surviving son. Now again,

Lady Mary was an aristocrat and she was friends with powerful people. And one of those powerful people was the King of England's daughter-in-law and future Queen of England, Caroline. Caroline had five living children at this point, including an infant, and her oldest daughter Ann had already survived smallpox. Both Caroline and her husband George, who would become George II, had had smallpox. And of course, they knew how terrible and how dangerous it was. But no one felt comfortable risking

this new procedure on the royal children without more data. And so we return to our other story. Remember our other story? Elizabeth Cole is at the Pepper Alley Stairs. She has just had her purse stolen. And Ann Tompion, who would be

accused, tried, and convicted of that theft. We know so much about Lady Mary Wortley Montagu's life, and I'm glad we do because it was a remarkable life. And hers is that first name in Charles Maitland's book, but the fourth name is Ann Tompion's name. And everything we know about Ann, we know from the proceedings of her trial, which of course makes that information pretty suspect. Like a lot of it was presented by people making a case against her. But

we do know that at the time of her arrest, she was around 25 years old, the claim that she was the most ingenious pickpocket in all of London. Perhaps. It seems that she had something of a reputation, and the records of the trial also indicate that her home was being run as a brothel. And another interesting thing that we know is that her husband was the nephew of a famous and celebrated clockmaker, but he seemed to have fallen in with a not great crowd. Now, in the trial, her husband and her produced a line of witnesses saying that they'd never left the house that day, but Ann ended up being convicted while her husband, somehow, was not. Nobody ever said life was fair.

Ann then spent most of the next year in Newgate Jail. We do not know what happened to the baby that she was pregnant with, but that baby would have been born or not sometime in that year. During that time, she was awaiting the ship that would take her away to the Americas. But then, she got this offer. With permission from the king, Charles Maitland was able to go to Newgate with a deal.

>> A small group of prisoners could avoid transportation and be set free if they participated in an experiment. >> Six of those prisoners appear directly under Peter Keith's name in Maitland's book. The seventh was left off. We will get to that. Now, the proceedings of the Old Bailey from this era are digitized and searchable, so we can read about each of these people and their crimes.

Mary North, 36, originally convicted of shoplifting, but then somehow she either avoided transportation or she returned early from the colonies, for which the punishment was death. Elizabeth Harrison, 19 years old, a housekeeper who stole just a huge amount of money from her mistress. John Cawthry, 25, convicted of stealing his master's wigs. John Alcock, 20, who stole a horse. Richard Evans, 19, who was sentenced to hang after stealing 14 yards of Persian silk. And of course, Ann Tompion, 25,

the most ingenious pickpocket in all of London. But not on this list is Ruth Jones. Ruth, 18 years old, was also enlisted in this study after stealing a skin of Morocco leather with the value of 6 shillings. So, the official Newgate 6, who are in Charles Maitland's book, were given the Turkish version of inoculation. Material from smallpox blisters was placed into a cut on the arm or on both arms. Ruth was given a

different procedure than the rest of the prisoners by a prominent physician, Richard Mead, who was trying his own version of the method reported from China that was not actually that similar to the method reported from China that he had kind of just made up. And Ruth's symptoms were much worse than the other prisoners. Her case is not covered as part of the experiment. I can't tell you how we ended up doing a separate experiment on this poor girl, but we did, and it did not go as well. This trial was followed in public. It became

something that people read about in the newspapers, and it was fairly contentious. A lot of prominent clergy opposed this procedure. They argued that intentionally giving someone a disease would be interfering with the will of God. And inoculation like immediately got tangled up in party politics as well. The royal family and the political party they were kind of part of, the Whigs, were associated with the experiment. Tories were more likely to

oppose it. This seemed to emerge almost entirely from where pre-inoculation identities lied rather than any particular ideology or understanding of the procedure. I find that interesting. We do do this. Let's be honest with ourselves. Now, the Newgate experiment

itself was, of course, tiny, but it was the first step of more and more people signing up to get the procedure, which allowed doctors and scientists to get more and more data. As the numbers of inoculated people got bigger and careful statistics were kept, it became very difficult to doubt that inoculation was not dramatically safer than natural infection. And here's a weird thing. Five of the six prisoners that got the Turkish method had the mild smallpox response the doctors were hoping for. Richard Evans though did not, apparently because he had already had smallpox, information that he kept from them because he wanted to get his pardon. And

if he had told them about it, they wouldn't have let him in the experiment. And he did get his pardon. So, good work, Richard Evans. But how do you test whether or not this procedure actually conferred immunity? Well, they paid young Elizabeth Harrison to go work at a school that was having an active smallpox outbreak. And for 6 weeks, she

worked nursing the sick. I find this last part terrible, but it's true. Charles Maitland even had her share a bed with an infected student. And she never developed the disease. Shortly thereafter, King George's grandchildren also started getting the procedure.

>> As her highness Princess Caroline, aged nine, was also inoculated at St. James, 17th of April, 1722. She began to sicken fifth, sixth after the operation. The ninth, the smallpox appeared. She had a mild, regular disease. About 300 very

large pustules. 300 >> 300 pustules is mild. >> Wow. >> Yeah, which lasts until the 6th of May. And then dried and scuffed off.

>> Now, this was not the end of the story. Of course, many people continued to oppose variolation, saying that it was too dangerous, that it was interfering with the will of God. And importantly, researchers at the time sidestepped the question of how this worked. And instead, they just took detailed notes to check whether it worked. And indeed, they found that it did. Of course, it

was a far worse tool than the tools we have today. Indeed, it was worse than Jenner's vaccination, which would first be administered more than 70 years later. But these people who brought the process to England, who advocated for it, and the people whose bodies were placed on the line by their state, were a part of this story. There's a tendency, I think, to want to attribute the creations of humanity to individual humans. But when did smallpox first begin its journey to eradication? Like

was it when humans first noticed that some diseases could only be caught once? Was it when Chinese practitioners first started to try and infect people in more ideal ways? Was it when we started trying to really track outcomes with more precise statistics? Or was it when the political argument was finally settled? Or was it finally the coordinated teams of people contact tracing and closing in around outbreaks year after year until we finally had a last case?

Most of the plaques you will see going around London are famous people who did famous things. Bob Marley lived here, Ada Lovelace lived here, Ian Fleming lived here, Napoleon III lived here. Or they might be important events. The first flying bomb fell here. Or maybe something a little more trivial. I like

plaques. They help you feel not just the physical space of a place, but it's temporal space. All of these spots take up time. John Lennon lived here and now just some guy does. Ann Tompian was just one of the people of London. A

pickpocket, a criminal, probably. A 25-year-old woman pregnant, terrified to be shipped away to another world and entered into a life of forced labor. Given a chance [music] because of the boldness of another woman, an aristocrat, a lady, but also herself a mother, also herself terrified not of transportation, but of losing her children the way she lost her beauty and her brother. >> [snorts] >> Ann Tompian stealing Elizabeth Cole's purse was not the first or the last step on the journey to [music] eradicate smallpox. It was not even a necessary step, but it was a step. It was her body

along with those of the other Newgate prisoners that helped one society start down a path that others had already been on. And And it's good to spend a little time thinking about her. Cold and pregnant and scared but bold and clever [music] and kind of a badass just like Lady Mary was. And after winning her freedom and her immunity from smallpox and Anne Toombs disappears from the historical record. Perhaps she straightened out and lived a normal life but I kind of like to think that she kept picking pockets and was just never caught again. So if you go to

London head to where the Pepper Alley steps used to be. There's no plaque. But it's all part of the story. Thank you to the Royal Society and especially librarian Keith Moore for showing me around. And also huge thanks to Dr. Spencer Weinreich for taking the

time to chat with me about 18th century criminal justice and prisons generally and the Newgate prisoners specifically. His 2020 paper [music] unaccountable subjects is such a good read and helped so much with this though unfortunately it's not available for free anywhere on the internet. Also thank you to Anita Desai for the short but lovely introduction to Lady Mary that precedes the copy of Turkish Embassy letters that I got and of course thank you to all of the amazing writers and editors who together build