---
video_title: "Why is cheddar cheese orange?"
video_id: YrvA7kw5OTQ
channel_name: "Hank Green"
channel_id: UCOT2iLov0V7Re7ku_3UBtcQ
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YrvA7kw5OTQ
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  PS please don’t eat Sun Basin soap!! You can buy it for non-snack use from Good Store: https://good.store
---
I just found out that cheddar cheese is a scam that is so old that everybody loves it now and nobody cares anymore. I just found this out because I was obsessively googling the ingredients of Sun Basin Soap, which is what this is. This is not cheddar cheese. This is Sun Basin Soap. But there's a reason why it looks so much like cheddar cheese. So

this is Trail Blazer. Smells like citrus and sage. It does not smell like cheddar cheese. But it does use the exact same food grade coloring as cheddar cheese, which is annatto seed. So this is the seed. They grind up the seed. You can

get various shades of red and orange and yellow with this seed. Trail Blazer actually uses different concentrations of it to get like a sunset effect, so it doesn't quite look like cheddar cheese. But annatto is a very good coloring for soap because it is fat soluble and soaps are made of fats. And so is cheese. But why do you want to color the cheese in the first place? Well, it turns out when

the people who were making cheddar cheese centuries ago fed their cows with the great like summertime pasture grass, a lot of carotene would make its way from the plants they were eating into the cow, into the milk, into the cheese, and it would make the cheese more yellowy or even orange. And that of course was considered to be the highest quality cheese, the yellow or even orange cheese that you would get from the summertime cows. But the rest of the year or for the people who didn't have high quality pasture, those people would still get cheddar cheese made just like cheddar cheese, but it would be considered to be lower quality cheese because it wasn't the summertime cheese. And so they started to put annatto seed into the milk to make the cheese look more orange. And to this day, we still do that. Cheddar cheese is only orange

because centuries ago cheese makers were scamming their customers. But that's not really the point of the story. The point of the story is that Sun Basin Soap uses all natural ingredients. That does not mean you can eat it. If you kind of want to, I understand, but that would be a waste because this is the best soap I've ever used. I care that it's made from a

secret recipe of food grade oils right here in Montana. I care that our packaging is beautiful and plastic-free. I care that all of the profit from Sun Basin Soap is donated to charity. I care that right now we've got some screaming deals.