---
video_title: "Pretty Amazed by How Spot-on This Learning Personality Quiz Was..."
video_id: AyXLiWEdGA4
channel_name: "Hank Green"
channel_id: UCOT2iLov0V7Re7ku_3UBtcQ
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AyXLiWEdGA4
video_date: 2026-01-10T20:10:05+00:00
video_description: |
  You can take the quiz here: https://link.gostudyhall.com/45Cd3OS
  
  And you can check out everything Study Hall has to offer at https://gostudyhall.com
---
All right, we're going to take the study hall quiz. We're going to see how study hall could help me and you could take the quiz and you can see how it could help you. You got to answer these questions different for me. What best describes me right now? Probably college is not for me in the moment, but I am interested in gaining new skills. I'm

working and exploring ways school might help me progress my career. Probably not at this point in my life. I think about it sometimes. I think, and this is a terrible truth, I think about economics. I think about getting like a masters in economics sometimes, which tells you too much about me. How much time do I have

to dedicate each week? I'd say 1 to three hours. That seems doable to me. I definitely think I wouldn't have four to seven hours. Now, we're going to go next. What's my mindset? What are my

main motivations for learning right now? I want to learn new skills to advance my career. I want to dive into something cool and fun. Well, that's definitely true. I'm testing the waters, building my confidence, seeing if college is right for me. That's not me. I want to

learn new skills that will help me get into college. I think I'm somewhere in between these two things. Like, I always do want to level up my skills. and I'm always looking to pivot my career, though not in ways that anybody would expect. So, I'm just going to say that I want to dive in and do something cool and learn for fun. How do you feel about

my educational journey right now? I don't know if school's the right move for me. I have doubts, but if I'm going to do this, it's now or never. Feel pretty good about continuing my education. I know I can handle this. I'm

ready to go all in. I think of all of these, I am most unsure if school is the right move for me. Though maybe not in the ways that are typical for people who might be taking this quiz. What's holding me back from continuing my education? I'm focused on my career right now and not on school. That seems

fair, but also I don't have the time. I'm juggling too much. Yeah, I think it's more that one, honestly. And then just the fun questions. I'm spending a free afternoon in a thrift market. I

come across a table with a sign that says, "Please take one item. What do I take?" A composting kit? Probably not. Probably not. Uh that I don't have the

time for that right now. A classic English literature book. A documentary box set. How business and money rule the world. I don't know. That sounds like

the kind of YouTube video I'd watch. The latest issue of a magazine titled Power and Politics in Your Backyard. Yeah, I'd take that. How do you like learning new things? I like to learn collectively. I

need some time alone to assess everything. Get my hands dirty is the easiest way. Yeah, definitely that. Organizing all the information and following a logical plan of attack. No, getting my hands dirty is definitely me.

Your friends are planning a trip to the beach. How will you help with the planning? I'll be making sure we bring everything. Definitely not. That's not me. Looking up the history of the area.

Yeah, that's me. That's You got me. You saw You see me studying the weather report? No, I'm just going to go. I'm gonna go and it's going to be rainy and I'm gonna be like, I guess. But I found

this cool place nearby. It's the largest tree in in San Diego. Uh, we got to build our results through assessing a let's build it. Build it. I'm the curious explorer. Look at me. Look at

me. Bold and creative thinker. Uh, a little about me. I'm the Indiana Jones of learning. Brave, curious, always up for a challenge and stealing artifacts that probably don't belong to my culture. No, they got some learning

strategies for me, which is absolutely me. project-based learning. That's how I've done almost all of the best learning of my life. Uh, and then gamified for sure, self-explanation also. Obviously, I do it constantly on this YouTube channel. That's like my

whole job. And there's also like a checklist of stuff I can do. So, depending on where you are on your journey right now, my career is my priority. Totally fair. But what if a little learning could make a big impact?

I could take intro to psychology, do human communications, do code and programming. I actually probably should take a code and programming for beginners class at this point just so that I can have a better idea of what's going on when I work with other people and systems that do that stuff. Uh so I can communicate better in that those situations. Game skills that boost your leadership communication and problem solving abilities. So it totally makes sense. Whereas if maybe I was looking to

go more into school right now, there would be suggestions about that. Not just like watch a video or take a course on YouTube, but maybe actually get involved in a way that could deliver college credits for me, which is what Study Hall does. If you don't know, study hall is a way to go from like watching YouTube videos to actual college credit that you can use in school to get you further toward a degree for lower cost than you would otherwise pay. It's a it's a shared project between Crash Course and Arizona State University and the people at YouTube. And there are a ton of study hall courses that you can get into right now that are starting on January 13th.

I'm recording this on the 9th. I'll probably upload it on the 10th. And then you'll have like 3 days to see if you can scrap together 25 bucks and the time and the dedication to say I am going to take this course. communication, college math, US history, code and programming, government, intro to psych, macroeconomics, sustainability and real world stats. Everybody should take a stats class. This is one of the main

bees in my bonnet. People need more stats. But we also do have some on demand classes that you could start at any time, including composition and world history. Importantly though, a lot of these classes you can also take on demand, which allows you to have 365 days to finish the course. Now, if you could pull off the cohort version, I think that's better because the structure is good. If your schedule

isn't set up for it and you're self motivated, you can do most of these courses in an ondemand format which just gives you a sort of deadline free way of taking the course, but you do have to finish it in 365 days. And you could check it out. You could check out the stats class, see what you'll learn, see how it's graded, see the modules that you will take, see who your instructor will be. You could do that with math, you could do it with communication, you could do it with US history to 1865. This is a lot of stuff that you will need on a bunch of different degree pathways. You can get those credits for

much cheaper through this system than if you were at a traditional school. You pay $25 to start the course and then at the end if you like your grade, you can pay $400 to get that credit which can be transferred to a bunch of different schools all across the US. And also you get that information in your head and it's going to be helpful to you for your whole life. So check it out at go studyhaul.com. Now let's play

connections fourth list. Cardinal direction cardinal direction. cardinal direction. Eightball, solo cup, three ball, six mafia. Eightball, three ball, six mafia. Solo cup, non-b blonds.

There's only one non-b blonds. So, we know what that what that category is going to be about. Actually, famously, there are four non-bonds. O, thin ice, three ball, heart emoji ch Oh my. Well, I see it. Two chains, 36 mafia, and one

direction. Everybody, great. Now, this is easier for me because I know who Fornon Blondes are and 36 Mafia is. But that's might not be the case for a huge slice of America, but I'm 45 and very online and I know who 36 Mafia is from a penguin dance on Tik Tok. I actually did the penguin dance, but I didn't do it on Tik Tok. I recorded it and then put it

out just for people who have supported Complexely through like Patreon or Crash Course Coin and also filled out the survey that we do. You never know when you're gonna get a cute little fun little dance from Hank, but you really do have to be pretty deep in in order to get them. So that's one. Let's shuffle those up till they're clumped. Then we've got a ball forth, thin ice, cardinal, lest Lest O CH. Those are all

in the same category. I'm just going to come out straight ahead and say those are in the same category. Something is going on. Cuth, fourth, solo cup. They red things. Heart emoji.

Cardinal. The three ball is red. I feel like the three ball is red. Do I know the ball colors? Is that just in there?

Three ball is red. The eightball is black. The nineball is yellow stripe. That's weird. I know that one. Is the

one yellow? I think the one is yellow and the two is maybe blue. And the four is purple. This is in my head. The five is orange. What the heck? How much pool

did I play in college? That's all I can do though. The six I don't know what the six is. The seven I don't know what the seven is. The eight is black. And then I

think it must repeat from there because the nine and the one are both yellow. But like I definitely feel like the three ball is red. So that's the important thing. Did I get all those right? I would be amazed. Like I never

think about the colors. So it's that just like I could I'm just picturing them and seeing the the ball. I did I mean I I did play some pool in college. There was free pool. There was free pool at the little like canteen. Hard emoji

three ball cardinal solo cup. Okay. And then that leaves us with thin ice limb. O lest cuth forth eightball. Oh.

Oh. Thin ice behind the eightball out on a limb and in the deep end. These are objects that you can be prepositionally related to in metaphors to indicate procarity. Is that that's going to be a long category title, but that's a thing. Uh and that that leaves us with uh o cth lest and fourth. I mean, I called that

hardcore. Like I I did not know the category. They just like looked like it. But I know the category now, which is that they are the wait for it, the Cardinal directions. They left a hit for us. Thank you, winner. That's awesome.

The Cardinal directions uh with the first letter changed. Yes. What? [laughter] That's amazing. Okay. Now, uh I think

that the next one is probably 36 Mafia, two chains, four non-b blonds in One Direction because that's harder for most people than it is for me. And then thin ice, deep end, limb, and eightball. And the the t the title is going to be objects to which you can be uh prepositionally related to in metaphors to describe procarity. Is that going to be all the words? Am I going to get that one perfectly? it.

Okay, I'm actually pretty proud of that. That's I used them. Okay, good job. This is a lot of words. And then and then this one's just gonna be red.

Okay, well should have just been red. Okay, let's see. That one was pretty hard. I had an easier time of it because Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I got I

think I kind of got lucky with just like the knowledge that I had though. Actually, most people got um Oh, the green was the hard one. Okay. All right. Most people most people got that. Musical artists, they know about

36 mafia. New York Times people are cooler than you think, you know. You know, all right, everybody, go study hall.com. Check it out. Just like one

way to try and make like just make the on-ramp into education a little less steep. That's what we're going for. Check it out. See if it might be right for you. New cohort start in a matter of days. Very few days. Get out there. Get

in the world. Do this thing. Okay, let's go.