---
video_title: "How Big of a Deal is this Cancer Vaccine?"
video_id: DgeRVUSuGvQ
channel_name: "Hank Green"
channel_id: UCOT2iLov0V7Re7ku_3UBtcQ
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DgeRVUSuGvQ
video_date: 2026-08-22
video_description: |
  Moderna and Merck announced that they have completed a Phase 3 trial for a vaccine that significantly improves outcomes for people with melanoma (the most deadly form of skin cancer.)
  
  This is very exciting...but /how/ exciting is it? And could it mean not just a new cancer therapy but a whole new /class/ of cancer therapies? I think it could very well be both. 
  
  
  SOURCES
  
  THE PRESS RELEASE
  https://www.merck.com/news/merck-and-moderna-announce-phase-3-interpath-001-trial-of-intismeran-autogene-plus-keytruda-met-endpoints-of-recurrence-free-survival-rfs-and-distant-metastasis-free-survival-dmfs-in-patient/
  
  Melanoma staging and mutations
  https://www.cancer.gov/types/skin/patient/melanoma-treatment-pdq
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4580370/
  
  Keytruda and checkpoint inhibitors
  https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/types/immunotherapy/checkpoint-inhibitors
  https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/drugs/pembrolizumab
  
  immune-mediated colitis
  https://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/drugInfo.cfm?setid=9333c79b-d487-4538-a9f0-71b91a02b287
  
  MHC I
  https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK459467/
  
  How the therapy works
  https://www.merck.com/news/merck-and-moderna-announce-phase-3-interpath-001-trial-of-intismeran-autogene-plus-keytruda-met-endpoints-of-recurrence-free-survival-rfs-and-distant-metastasis-free-survival-dmfs-in-patient/
  https://doi.org/10.1200/JCO-26-00835
  
  Clinical Trial for just the Covid vaccine plus keytruda
  https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07597070?utm_source=chatgpt.com
  
  The paper that identified the weird effect with covid vaccines and keytruda
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-025-09655-y?utm_id=97760_v0_s00_e0_tv4
---
Hello. So, Moderna's stock just did this. Investors are thinking it is likely they have created something of some value. I think that they have. I've also seen a ton of awful just terrible, embarrassingly bad takes about this on the internet, including there's a vaccine for skin cancer, which is my favorite thing where you say a truth sentence that puts a huge lie into people's heads. But like, interestingly

to me, like I don't care that Maderna's stock price went up. I don't own Maderna stock. I did once, but now I don't do that anymore. I buy index funds because my job is to make YouTube videos, not make my money into more money, which I don't think I would be any good at anyway. But that's not what the video is about. I just finished the second draft

of my uh book about the biology of cancer. So, this is now like a rough area of expertise for me. Certainly not like deep understanding, but like where we are at with our understanding of cancer and helping people understand that. Ideally, that's what I've been working on. And so as I read through both like what's actually known and what's been said by Maderna and Merc and what people are saying, I've gotten frustrated. So I'd like to talk about

what we know so far about this trial and also whether Maderna's stock price is much higher right now just because they have a therapy or did it jump a lot because they have a new way of treating cancer that might work in a lot of different situations because often that second thing is not how it works. But in this case, it might be and I think there's some good evidence for that. But first, let's look at the actual press release from Merc and see what it says. Merc and Madna announced phase three. So this is a phase three trial. That's the

big one that costs a lot of money. There were over a,000 people in this trial. Interpath, that's just the name of the trial. And then in smearin is the name of the medicine. Plus kituda, which is another medicine that was given alongside it.

We'll talk about why both of those were given. It met end points of recurrence free survival. So that was the primary endpoint. This is a little confusing because it sounds like the point at which the trial ends, but it is not that. It is a preddecided upon outcome that everyone has agreed is the outcome that judges whether the treatment actually works. And it doesn't even

actually end the trial. Like this trial is continuing to go so that they can get more data. But they had predetermined moments where they would look at the data and if the group that was getting the treatment was doing like better enough by a predetermined amount than the group that wasn't getting the treatment, that's the primary endpoint uh based on recurrence survival. So it met the primary endpoint which is recurrence-free survival. So that's people who are still alive and also have not had a recurrence of the cancer. So

there's still no visible sign of the cancer in their body. All of these people started with it says so in patients with completely resected stage 2B24 melanoma. So completely resected means that uh these people had melanoma and this is important. So if they had 2B melanoma that would just be in their skin. They would have it removed. There

would be no sign of the disease in their body anymore. But with 2B melanoma, there is a pretty good chance that it's going to come back. Hydroguven therapy is when you give a cancer patient a medicine, even though you don't see any cancer in their body, but you know that there might be like microscopic disease somewhere, little cells left over that will pop up later on. And in some portion of people, it would never come back. They would have gotten all of it with the surgery or some other system of the body would clean up the cancer. But

we know that people in this group have some risk of the cancer coming back if they had stage four, a very high chance of it coming back. But importantly, there's like more than one stage 4 now. Like researchers and doctors are treating it this way. It's different for different cancers, but in this case, not every stage 4 patient was able to be in this trial because they had to have completely resected stage 4 melanoma. And if they had mets in their brain and their lungs and throughout their whole lymphatic system, that person would not have been eligible to be in the trial because there would be no way to remove all of the visible sign of disease from their body. But if they had like one met

in their lungs, they basically took out all of it from their skin and all of it from where they could get at it in the body. So only patients that were able to have their melanoma completely surgically removed were able to be in the trial. So some stage 4 patients would not be eligible, but the ones that were got in the trial. So now you can read the title of this press release and know what it means. Merk and Maderna announced phase 3 interpath 001 trial of intermeiran autogene plus kitruda met the end points of recurrencefree survival and distant metastasis free survival in patients with completely resected stage 2 B24 melanoma and then let's look at the first paragraph here.

So we have this trial. It's evaluating this adgiant treatment. So a treatment given to people with no visible disease but who are at high risk of recurrence. And it's insismeirn autogene. So three different names of this into smearin v940 or mRNA 4157. Um and this is a

novel investigational mRNA based individualized neoigen therapy. I think I'm going to save explaining what the therapy actually is for until we get through this paragraph. But keep that in your head. We're going to explain what a neo antigen therapy is. Jointly developed by Merc and Maderna in combination with Kitruda. So now let's

actually talk about what Kituda is. So Kruda is a checkpoint inhibitor. So in the body, your immune system cells are there to go and attack things that should not be there. And sometimes those things are from outside of the body, but sometimes they're from inside of the body. So your immune system is really good at cleaning up cells that might be cancerous. If a cell looks very strange,

and [sighs] I think we're going to talk about why a cell looks very strange when we talk about neoigen therapy, so let's not do that yet. If a cell looks weird to the immune system, then the immune system be like, you don't look like you're a normal cell. You look like you're behaving strangely. You've got all kinds of signs to me that I should get you. It'll get it and it'll like label it for destruction or the cell will just straight up destroy it. But a cancer

cell that looks super weird. Some cancer cells get around this by not looking very weird. But some get around it by looking super weird but displaying the like a lot of a particular label on the outside of their cells that says I'm normal or not really I'm normal but like stand down. Checkpoint inhibitors break that system. So they they just like gum up that system so that te- cells can no longer basically detect that signal and then they will go after any cell that they want including however the cells that were healthy cells that were displaying that tag to say te- cells don't kill me which is why kitruda and other checkpoint inhibitors can increase the risk of a bunch of stuff but you know primarily like autoimmune diseases so you can get really bad colitis where the immune system is attacking the colon and some of the people that's so severe that they have to go off the medicine.

So, in cancer therapy, you might think like, oh, the bad thing about uh a side effect or an offtarget effect is that you're having this side effect, but really the worst thing is that you can then no longer take the medicine. Your opportunities for therapies have gotten narrower and the cancer is going to be less controlled. But Pembbrismab, which is Kruda, has turned out to be and other checkpoint inhibitors have turned out to be very effective against melanoma because melanoma cells are super weird. They look very strange, but they're able to hide from the immune system with this sort of like one weird trick. And so they're really reliant on that one weird trick. You take that trick away and then

they're very vulnerable. Like you can kind of imagine like if you take a really advantageous trait away from anything, it suddenly wouldn't have a niche anymore. Like if you made giraffes not have long necks anymore, they'd be stuck. They'd be like, "Oh, now I'm just a freaking horse. I'm not as good as all the other horses." I actually don't

know. Maybe giraffes would be f. No, they wouldn't. That's why they have long necks. So in that same way, you take that trait away from melanoma cells and suddenly like all of their weirdness is available to be spotted by the immune system, which is why many patients are actually cured by complete resection plus. But not all. We're trying to make

it better. We're trying to take where we are at and make it better. So merc's antiPD1 therapy. So PD1 and PDL1, that's the the checkpoint system that it interferes with. uh in patients uh with completely resected stage 2B to for melanoma the trial mets primary endpoint and it made its secondary endpoint. This

represents the first positive phase 3 readout for an individualized neo antigen therapy and for an mRNA based cancer therapy and also it is the first phase 3 study to demonstrate clinically meaningful improvement over kitruda alone a standard of care amunotherapy in the adgiant setting for patients with resected melanoma. So now let's actually talk about how this cancer vaccine, this neoigen therapy works. What do those words mean? But to talk about that, we have to talk about MHC1, major hystocompatibility complex one, WHICH IS THE COOLEST THING THAT YOUR body does. So it's insane. So how can

your immune system tell the difference between a healthy cell and a cancer cell? You have this weird cell that's got a bunch of weird mutated DNA that's producing weird unusual proteins or too many of a certain kind of protein, not enough of a certain kind of protein. And then you have healthy cells that are all like they don't look alike. Like a nerve cell looks different from a lung cell looks different from a skin cell. But there is like a limited number of kinds of cells in the body. It's many, you

know, hundreds or thousands depending on how you count. But there is a specific number of them and they all do specific tasks and thus they have specific proteins in them helping them do those tasks. How do you tell the difference between one of those cells that's doing the thing it's supposed to and a cell with a bunch of mutated DNA uh messed up epigenetics that's producing too much of a protein or producing weird broken proteins that are being coded for by mutated DNA? How do you tell the difference if you're your body? The way that it does this is insane, and I love it, which is that at any given moment, a healthy cell in your body is going to be chopping up proteins inside of itself and then displaying those proteins on its outside. Not the proteins, like

pieces of it, little pieces of protein. And if you're a healthy cell, you've got the right kinds of proteins. You don't have like weird proteins that should not exist in the body. Now, different kinds of cancers. This I should have started the conversation this way. There is no

such thing as cancer. There are only cancers. Cancer is a way that disease happens. It is not a disease. It be it would be like calling viruses a disease.

Viruses are not a a disease. They are a way that diseases happen. Cancer is not a disease. It is a way that diseases happen. I know that we say that cancer is a disease. We're wrong. Infection is

not a disease. Right? Infection is a kind of disease. Uh like heart disease is not a disease. It is a category of diseases. Cancer is not a disease. It is

a category of diseases. Please we can do this. So, there's a bunch of different kind of cancers. They all work super differently. Melanoma is a specific kind of cancer and it has a ton of mutations, like way like as many mutations as you might expect for a cancer. Melanoma has

more. Cancers are all happening in different ways. They're just cells that have escaped the normal controls of the body and they're replicating themselves uh a bunch. And if if a cell is able to make more of itself, then there will be more of that cell. And that's how cancer works. And cancer cells have to evolve

different traits depending on the lifestyle that they're going to live in the body. And if they have a ton of mutations, then they're going to have a ton of evidence of those mutations on their surface unless they break MHC1 that major the like, you know, flagging system that I just talked about. Melanomas don't break that system. Instead, they use this other system, the PD1 system, the checkpoint system, which is why Kitruda is effective as an adgiant for resective melanoma. But we can perhaps do better. And the way that

we can do better is by training the immune system to look specifically for this like the specific kind of weirdo that not like all melanoma patients have, but that a particular melanoma patient has. They have one specific kind of weirdo descended from one cell that went rogue. And the question for a long time now has been, can we train the immune system to go after the specific weirdo that this specific patient has? And the answer now is definitely yes. In this circumstance though, we're not sure what the exact numbers here are. I've

seen so many people saying like Maderna cured melanoma. That's not what happened. This is exciting. This is very good news. And it's for reasons that we're going to get into maybe more exciting than even those people think.

But it is not maderna cured melanoma. It's not maderna cured skin cancer. It's not maderna cured cancer. So you have this weird cell. It's a cancerous cell.

It's replicating itself a ton. It's going to kill the patient if we don't do anything about it. And because it's able to completely hide from tea cells, it doesn't care whether it's displaying a ton of weirdo signals on its surface. And because melanoma tends to have such a high mutational burden, it's going to have a lot of these flags on the outside of it that's going to be identifiable by the immune system as a troublemaker as something strange that should not be in the body. So just Kruda alone can really help with the situation, but not entirely. We still have patients who get

their melanoma completely cut out and then they geta and then their cancer still comes back. So what you want to do is really activate the immune system to go after these specific cells when there's just microscopic disease. The immune system, the tea cells are going to go after it's going to find them. And so that is what this therapy does. They cut the melanoma out of the patient.

They sequence its genome and then they stick that into a bunch of very smart algorithms. This is why people say like this was made was this was done by AI. This was not this was done with the help of some machine learning systems. This was not a cancer the this is another thing I saw that it's like a cancer therapy that was like thought of by AI not at all what happened it is a cancer therapy that leverages machine learning in a very effective and amazing way the machine learning step is basically saying okay here are the mutations that we found here are the proteins that that's going to code for inside of this cancer cell and then let's like guess at how MHC is going to cut up those proteins and and stick them on the outside of the cell we're going to guess at what those identifiable flags are going to look like and what the best ones, most identifiable ones are going to be for the immune system. And then we're going to code for that with some mRNA. We're going to put the that mRNA

inside of a like a vaccine vehicle. We're going to put that into the patient. It's going to get absorbed by a cell. All that mRNA is going to get coded into actual proteins and those proteins are going to be displayed to the immune system as things that it should be on the lookout for. That's that's the therapy and that's how it works and it does work. This all has to

be done super fast, which is why mRNA is such a useful technology here because we can go from like code in a computer into actual molecules with mRNA really fast. And then the body further does the work of like getting that information to the immune system and then the immune system further does the work of looking for things that have those neo antigens. We hadn't gotten to the term yet. So the antigen is the thing that activates the immune system. So like if you're allergic to peanuts, there's like a specific antigen in the peanuts that's going to activate your immune system. So

basically they're creating these neo antigens that are going to be like specific to the cancer. And they're creating a bunch of them. So I think like up to 36 of them per patient were identified and coded for and put into the vaccine that was put into the patient to train the immune system to be on the lookout for these cells. Now does this cure every patient? I'm sure no.

What percentage of patients does it cure? We don't know. We have the stage two results. So, this was the stage three. We know some stage two stuff.

They said that the the side effect profile was the same as stage two, which is good news. They didn't find any new side effects. And there's going to be a bunch like Kruda on its own. Sometimes people aren't able to take it. And checkpoint inhibitors, you know, we're we're probably going to make better ones, but almost by definition, they're going to have offtarget effects. They're

going to result in the immune system attacking some stuff that they it shouldn't attack. The whole idea of this PD1 system is it is being used by some healthy cells to tell the immune system, stand down. There will still be some patients who, you know, their melanoma can't be completely resected and maybe Kruda plus this new therapy can help those people, maybe even cure some of them, but like that's a a patient that has a really diverse population of cancer cells, that's going to be tricky for the immune system to figure out. This is important to remember. Not only uh are different patients, do do they have very different cancers from each other? Even if it's the same like kind

of cancer like melanoma, an individual can have populations of cancer cells that are different from each other. They're going to be descended from the same cell. They might share a lot of like reliance on certain traits. They might share a bunch of mutations that are going to be displayed on the surface of the cell. But if you have a really big population of cancer cells, there's going to be a lot of diversity and that's going to allow for those cells to have a higher chance of being able to escape uh any therapy, which is in general why it's so much better to catch cancer early. That's one of the reasons

because the longer cancer exists in a body, the more diverse the population gets, the harder that population is to sort of like find its one like controllable mob. You're just getting my whole book here. Uh trust me, it's it's there's more and it's better and it's not going to come out for like a year. So, you'll have forgotten all this. We know the overall survival of the of like kit to patients uh with rective melanoma because we've been treating people like that for a long time now. But you want

to keep these trial participants going so that you can get their overall survival numbers which you can't get until like that time passes. Like you can't you don't know what the 5-year overall survival is until 5 years. Oh, and it actually says the phase 2b results for this. So we can look at the the smaller trial that they did for phase 2. 49% reduction in the risk of recurrence or death, which is huge.

That's amazing. That's amazing. And a 59% reduction in the risk of distant metastasis or death, which is that's great. That's in comparison with people getting Kitruda which already was a substantial leap forward in treating melanoma. The big question here is not does this work. It obviously does. The

big question is to what extent will therapies like this work in other kinds of cancer. So melanoma is like poster boy for this specific kind of therapy because it has such a high mutational burden. It's going to have a bunch of these weird MHC flags on its surface uh because it's going to be making a bunch of weird proteins. So that gives us a ton of potential neo antigens to put into the mRNA vaccine. Question is would this work for a cancer that has a lower mutational burden which is pretty much every cancer outside of melanoma. Now

there are others that like immediately so in general the ones that are well treated by checkpoint inhibitors would be the kinds that we'd say immediately we should be testing to try and see if we can do similar things for those kinds of cancer like for example uh lung cancer in smokers. So lung cancer in non-smokers has a lower mutational burden, but lung cancer and smokers because they've been exposed to so many carcinogens tend to have a high mutational burden, tend to respond well to Kruda and so could potentially be a great opportunity for this. But other cancers have much lower mutational burdens like pancreatic cancer for example. But the reason I am excited about this, the thing that I haven't really seen people talking about in the frame of this news is that we have a trial was very small. It was 16 patients, but it was a very similar thing. It was a stage one trial. So that

wasn't randomized. It was 16 patients got the therapy. They didn't put anybody else in in a therapy for pancreatic cancer patients. And they did a very similar thing. This was Biontech, not Berna. and they created individualized

cancer vaccines based on the mutations that the cancer had after removing it. So after a surgery and of the 16, weirdly eight of those people did not mount an immune response at all to the vaccine. So their body just kind of didn't notice it existed. And those people had normal outcomes. Uh by which I mean bad. But the other half, the

eight people uh who did mount an immune response, they had much better outcomes. I don't have that study in front of me, so I can't tell you exactly what it looked like. I just I remember this. I'm editing this video and I just wanted to give a little more context around the pancreatic cancer thing that I was mouththing off about. So, a couple of things. First, confirmed the people who

mounted an immune response had much better outcomes than the people who didn't. 16 people in the study, eight responders, eight non-responders, which just by chance they split down the middle. But more importantly than that, one, there were no stage four patients in this trial because they all had to be be people who could have all of their cancer removed, which with pancreatic cancer in a stage four situation, you can't cut it all out. It's too much of a mess in the gut. In fact, having it be surgically removable at all is a rare situation with pancreatic cancer.

Pancreatic cancer, one of the reasons it's so dangerous, there's others, is that it's often diagnosed late because it's deep in the gut. You don't get a lot of symptoms. your symptoms. I shouldn't say this because it's terrifying, but your symptoms are basically tummy problems. And we all have tummy problems. Uh, and I looked

this up, 20% of pancreatic cancers are uh able to be completely removed at diagnosis. And I mean, it might not only be useful in the adgiant setting. We don't know. But in this case, the only thing we tested for was whether it was useful as an adgiant after complete resection with no evidence of disease after surgery. So they had stage one, two and three patients in here. So when

I first heard about this study, I was imagining like pancreatic cancer patients as a whole. And I should have been imagining the subset of pancreatic cancer patients who have completely reectable pri pancreatic cancer at diagnosis, which is a much smaller subset and a subset for whom we already had much better prognosis than the average pancreatic cancer patient. Okay, thank you for coming to my mini TED talk inside of my larger ramble. Okay, bye. So we have this proof that this can definitely have a a really great outcome in melanoma patients which is a little bit not surprising. Now if it really

wasn't surprising I would have b bought a bunch of merna stock 6 months ago and I didn't do that but so it can't be that unsurprising but the fact that it might work in pancreatic cancer is wild. Now there are a ton of caveats with that pancreatic cancer trial. if it would work in pancreatic cancer, which has a much lower mutational burden than melanoma on average and also ever. I mean, m melanoma has so many mutations, it's crazy. Then you could expect that this this therapy wouldn't do what a lot of cancer treatments do, which is like, oh, we found this new potential therapy.

We're going to try it on the kind of cancer that we know it'll work best on. It works really well with that, and then we're like, oh, let's try it with everything else. And then it doesn't work very well, or it only works a little bit. And it's sort of like another little tool in the toolbox to do a little bit of control, but it isn't curative the way that it was with like the one thing that it would clearly be best at. So with this therapy, the one thing it would clearly be best at is melanoma, specifically in combination with Kruda. But if you have a kind of

cancer that's hiding from the immune system in different ways, and there are a bunch of ways that cancer does this, like glyopblasto, for example, hides from the immune system a bunch of different ways. So I wouldn't expect it to work well here, though. There are also trials with GEO. So maybe somewhat unsurprisingly, it's working really well in the kind of cancer you would expect it to work pretty well in. But then in addition to that, you have it maybe working in a pancreatic cancer, which isn't like the poster child for a kind of cancer that this therapy would be good at. That's super exciting. That's

the the actually to me most exciting thing about this. So we have like stage three proof, which is like the burden of proof is really high for stage three. So we have the stage three proof. We have this stage two numbers that are very good. And then we have this stage one evidence that's not super strong that it might work at a cancer that isn't really the ideal candidate for this kind of therapy. That's exciting. We had this

idea of precision medicine where we were say, okay, we got to make we like what's happening is that these cancers are all very diverse from each other. They're all very different. And we did have some success with like a kind of like a couple steps into precision with you know when you hear about triple positive breast cancer, there are different receptors on the outside of the breast cancer. it has all three of the ones that you might want to target where a triple negative has none of the three that you might want to target and that's a a worse situation. But if you aren't seeing one of those things that you can target, you're not going to give them that medicine. So that's like one step

down the precision pathway where you're looking at the specific cancer cells and there are different groups within the population of humans who get these cancers. But this is different. This is like real precision where we're saying we are going to train the immune system to go after these specific antigens that we know are likely being displayed on the outside of these cells. We don't know it for sure. That's what the machine learning algorithms are all about. Trying to identify which things

are going to end up on the outside of the cell. And that's also the thing that I think could definitely get better about this kind of therapy. Like if we are able to prove that you can get te- cells access to these cells and then that we can train the tea cells to look specifically for the cancer cells to take them out then the thing that you want to get better at is identifying like what is the thing that's making these cancer cells look different from healthy cells. So, how do we get better and better and better at identifying which neo antigens are going to be the things that are likely to be real true flags that the immune system should learn and if it learns will help the patient clean up any distant disease. So, it's really good. It's great news.

I've seen it interpreted in some of the most infuriating ways I could imagine, but it's great news. It's very cool. And in some ways, I think it's cooler than people are saying. In other ways, you know, it's not like again, when you say things like a 59% reduction in the risk of distant metastasis or death, you're not saying a 100% reduction in the risk of distant metastasis or death. Different patients with different stages are going to have those numbers be different. But those data will all be

coming out relatively soon and it's going to be very expensive because at the moment, this is a very hard thing to do. Now, if it becomes something that works in a lot of different cancers, like I could see this being useful not for every cancer, but for a lot of different cancers and it could potentially be less burdensome in terms of side effects because a lot of people are given just like straight given a bunch of chemo as their adguant and that can have a bunch of side effects and you could also imagine us getting more and more precise with it so that the side effects get lower and lower and lower. So, it's extremely exciting. I'm very excited about it and I've been told that people would like my thoughts on today's connection. So, I'm going to play connections now. That was a longer video

than I expected. [laughter] Oh, what? No, no, it's just a the the picnic blanket pattern. I should ignore that, right? I feel like I should ignore that. Picnic basket. Breeze ants. All

picnic things. Pickle. Pickle. Also a picnic thing. It's a picnic. It's a

cinch. It's a snap. It's easy. Pickle's the opposite of that. I was worried for a second that like the red ones should be the opposite. If it was these, then

it was like a picnic, a snap, and a pickle. up. Like if it's not red, then it's the opposite. And so a picnic and a pickle, like it'd be easy or hard. But now I don't think that that's what's happening because there are four of these. Got two of each in it. Maybe

that's a clue. I don't know. Should I worry about that at all? Should I not think about it? Oh jeez, I didn't mean to do that. I I went to hit shuffle.

Okay, it they're not changing. They're staying in the same place. Does it mean anything? I'm not going to get purple first, everybody, cuz I hit the wrong button. To obscure is to hide mask and blanket. Yes. Yeah. Blanketed. I think

that that's one of the meanings of blanket. Rio makes me feel like there's something. There's a word thing going on here cuz I don't know. Like nobody knows what that word means. Coco. Rio. These

are Pixar movies. Misspelled. Rio. Coco. Soul. What's the other one? Or are they

Pixar? I don't know. Whatever. Animated movies. Ants. Blanket. Mask. Hide. Not

hide or obscure. Basket. Is it ants with a Z? Is the title Is the name of that movie Ants with a Z? Okay. If it is,

that would leave us with baseball, ball, pickle ball, football, and basketball. It is. It's ants with a Z, everybody. Homophones of CGI animated films. I love I love it. I love I love

connections, everybody. And then a football, basketball, baseball, and pickle ball. All right. Well, I would have got the reverse rainbow IF I HADN'T MESSED UP. THAT COUNTS. That was weird to have the

colors three of five. The colors meant nothing. I've actually got a streak going finally. I think a 10 10 streak. Doing better in the brain.