---
video_title: "Answering Your Cancer Questions"
video_id: ht6apJ2nG6k
channel_name: "Hank Green"
channel_id: UCOT2iLov0V7Re7ku_3UBtcQ
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ht6apJ2nG6k
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  The Shirts are here:
  https://store.dftba.com/products/hank-green-the-moons-of-saturn-shirt
  https://store.dftba.com/products/hank-green-galilean-moons-shirt
  
  And Casey is also doing wall prints of both of the designs! 
  https://www.inprnt.com/gallery/miski/moons-of-saturn/
  https://www.inprnt.com/gallery/miski/moons-of-jupiter/
  
  
  
  
  Books Mentioned
  Rebel Cell  Kat Arney https://benbellabooks.com/shop/rebel-cell/ 
  The Cheating Cell Athena Aktipis https://press.princeton.edu/books/hardcover/9780691163840/the-cheating-cellawAm2DWNvz8ZtwdsyNEwKeBm9MBks6DSuFb3DNBOdpePQmBU
  For Blood and Money Nathan Vardi (the ibrutinib / Imbruvica book) https://wwnorton.com/books/9780393540956 
  A Series of Catastrophes and Miracles Mary Elizabeth Williams (the melanoma-patient memoir) https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26025623-a-series-of-catastrophes-and-miracles
  The Gene: An Intimate History Siddhartha Mukherjee https://www.simonandschuster.com/books/The-Gene/Siddhartha-Mukherjee/9781476733500 
  The Emperor of All Maladies Siddhartha Mukherjee https://www.simonandschuster.com/books/The-Emperor-of-All-Maladies/Siddhartha-Mukherjee/9781668047033 
  
  
  Sources
  
  The Intismeran trial
  https://www.merck.com/news/merck-and-moderna-announce-phase-3-interpath-001-trial-of-intismeran-autogene-plus-keytruda-met-endpoints-of-recurrence-free-survival-rfs-and-distant-metastasis-free-survival-dmfs-in-patient/ 
  
  The BioNTech trial that missed it’s end point : IMcode001
  https://www.annalsofoncology.org/article/S0923-7534(25)02443-3/fulltext https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03815058
  
  COVID-vaccine + checkpoint-inhibitor study 
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-025-09655-y https://www.mdanderson.org/newsroom/research-newsroom/-esmo-2025--mrna-based-covid-vaccines-generate-improved-response.h00-159780390.html
  
  and follow-ups highlighting flaws.
  https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2025.11.03.25339367v2 https://www.cancertherapyadvisor.com/news/covid-19-mrna-vaccine-may-not-improve-outcomes-with-icis-as-previously-reported/
  
  Melanoma derives from cells that can activate systems for travelling through the body
  https://molecular-cancer.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12943-018-0773-5 
  
  Jimmy Buffett’s skin cancer
  https://www.skincancer.org/blog/jimmy-buffetts-death-puts-merkel-cell-carcinoma-in-the-spotlight
  
  Vaccines that prevent viruses that increase cancer risk
  https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/risk/infectious-agents/hpv-and-cancer https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC12300508/ 
  Epstein Barr vaccine would be great!!
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41541-026-01486-w
  
  Hodgkin lymphoma descends from mature B cells but isn't called a "B-cell lymphoma"
  https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK499969/ https://www.cancer.org/cancer/types/hodgkin-lymphoma/about/what-is-hodgkin-disease.html
  
  Give treatment before surgery to shrink a tumor for cleaner resection (neoadjuvant therapy)
  https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/types/neoadjuvant
  
  Limits of ultrasound
  https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/ultrasound/about/pac-20395177
  
  SciShow on Chemo Curls
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PhAWyOuIedc
---
Quick note, I got a lot of comments from people saying that they would indeed like the Jupiter Moon shirt to come back. And there's only seven days left in the pre-order period. So, for those seven days, you can indeed order both the Saturn Moon shirt and the Jupiter Moon shirt, both designed by Casey Helski. We will then close the sale and print up the exact number of shirts that got ordered. Okay, now the actual video.

So, I can't help myself. I was looking through the comments on the video that I made about the melanoma vaccine. Thanks everybody for watching that. And I got a bunch of comments that are great questions and I can't help but not answer great questions. And so, I'm going to do that to the best of my ability. We're going to start. Hank, why

isn't your hair curly anymore? It's been bug bugging me for the longest. I don't know when you started watching, but my hair used to be curly because it how it came back after chemo. Often times after chemo, hair will come back curly. We don't really know why. There's a

sideshow video about it if you want to watch that. But then over time, usually it straightens back out and that indeed has happened for me. And this is my nor my my hair texture that I had before cancer, though it's not quite my hairline that I had before cancer. That probably has more to do with being older by a few years than it does with anything else. Hank, what is the disadvantage of calling cancer a disease? I'm not being a dick or

anything like that. I just don't get how it matters. This is a great point. Like, it matters so much to me. >> I'm editing this video and I I realize that I say here, I don't think cancer is is a disease. The point I'm making in

the other video is that cancer is a category of diseases. It's a way that disease happens. It is not itself a disease. An individual cancer, a lung cancer or a skin cancer, that's a disease. So, just for clarity, I'm not There are people who actually believe that cancer is fake and that's not where I'm at. So I wanted to be clear about

that before I get into why I think it's important that we consider cancer to be the broad category of kinds of diseases rather than imagining it itself to be a disease. Okay, back to the video. The big reason why it matters is that people think that we are going to develop a cure for cancer and we've always thought that. But you can only think that there can be a cure for cancer if you think that cancer is a disease. If cancer is not a disease then you cannot cure cancer. You can only cure cancers

because there's a bunch of different cancers. So like in that way it's really important to me just like you cannot cure all viruses with one antiviral treatment. You cannot cure all bacteria with one antibacterial treatment. We have lots of different antibacterials that work differently well on different bacteria. Different antivirals that work differently well on different viruses.

We have different anti-cancers that work differently well on different cancers because cancer is not a disease. It is a class of diseases. And sometimes you get an antibacterial that works on a bunch of different bacteria and sometimes you get an anti-cancer that works on a bunch of different cancers. But they're diverse. they're different from each other and that's why we cannot cure cancer. We can only cure cancers. Uh and

the other reason is just that I like think that it's more accurate and I think that it's important to try and get closer to truth and that's a really fast way to get closer to truth is if you start stop imagining that a melanoma and a lung cancer are the same disease. They are not at all. Catherine just sent me her connections today. We'll play it at the end. We'll see if I do any better than her. That's a hilarious one. That's

a hint though for me. If it's effective on metastasized cancer cells, why not test it on visible cancer? it would be much easier to see if it works. Maybe the lack of clarity is intended to hide something. Wow. This question went from

being what I would call a great question to a little bit of a weird question. In fact, we have tested a very similar situ like drug with melanoma patients who have not had completely rected melanoma and it did not meet its end point. So, the way that we talked about in that video how this trial met its end point, it basically got to the difference between people who were getting the medicine and people who were getting the control. Those were different enough that they said, "Okay, we can call this trial successful." This other trial, which was a Biontech trial, there was a difference, but it wasn't a big enough difference that it met the end point.

That's bad and really expensive. This was phase two. It wasn't a phase three trial. But that's a bad outcome. Nobody wants to duplicate a bad outcome. And

so, they wanted to try it in a pure adgivant setting where there was no visible disease, which is something that we know is a good situation for people who are taking amunotherapy because the immune system can have a really hard time penetrating tumors. There's a bunch of different reasons why the micro environment of the tumor is less hospitable to the immune system than the average piece of the body. So having actual tumors, these like nests, these clumps of cancer cells, those can like act as pseudo tissues that actually do things and one of the things that they can do is dampen the immune system. Sometimes just kind of by chance, other times intentionally like they actually evolve that trait. So I don't think that the lack of clarity is at all intended to hide something. In fact, there is no

lack of clarity here. Especially we treat cancers in specific situations and an advent setting with no evidence of disease is very different than a setting where there are metastases that you can't remove and because of that the treatment protocols are different in those situations and the situation in this trial was very clear. I guess is a substantial difference between the treatment group and the control group. Why is melanoma such a big problem? That doesn't sound right. It's a good

question and I understand why you qualify this. It's one of the most visible cancers. It sits on the outside of the body. It's a distinctive obviously different skin color. My mom had pre-blenoma, got it removed before even stage one, and it already looked fairly noticeable then. So, a few

different things going on here. There's do people actually identify it early and there's why is it dangerous once they don't identify it early? Like there are plenty of cancers that if you identify them at the same stage as melanoma would be less dangerous than melanoma, especially before the advent of checkpoint inhibitors. But to start first, lots of people don't identify it early because it's not on a part of their body that they see very often. It might be on the scalp under the hair. It

might be on the back where they can't see. Other people might not be seeing their back very often. and it might be on the bottom of the foot. It's a weirdly common place for melanomas to happen. My doctor thought I had a melanoma on the bottom of my foot. It

turned out I stepped on a pine cone when I was a child, which is what I told him. I was like, I've had that since I was a child. And it happened after I stepped on a pine cone. And he's like, that's not how that works. But I swear that's what happened. And then there are

situations where melanomas can get quite deep before they get big. And this is just like a luck of the draw thing it seems like. And the depth is what matters. The size on the skin is not what matters. So those things can correlate. But there are times when a

melanoma can be quite small but have penetrated quite deeply. And by the time it penetrates deeply, it can metastasize really easily, which is another thing about melanoma that's bad, which is that it metastasizes really easily. So, I'm going to give you the bare basics here because I don't know much about this, but we think that melanoma kind of descends from a cell type that has access to a group of genes that it should not have access to that allows the cells to sort of travel more easily through the body. That's all I'm going to give you, but it's worth giving you because it it helps us understand that like the body is very complicated. Like this is 30 trillion cells, thousands of different cell types, all figuring out how to work together to make a body work. And some of those cells have very

different abilities than other kinds of cells. And if a cancer evolves from one kind of cell, it will have a totally different set of abilities than if it evolves from another kind of cell. And another thing that melanoma has that it shares with a lot of cancers is that it has evolved ways to not care about the number of mutations that it has. Melanoma's way of doing this is different than a lot of cancers. But a healthy cell with the mutational burden of melanoma would kill itself. But

basically a prerequisite for a melanoma developing is losing the system to for identifying or reacting to the amount of mutations that a cell has developed. But it allows it to have those mutations and to hold on to those mutations which allows it to have more diversity, allows it to have more ability to escape the body's controls. Quick comment, consider trying to stick to the non-brandamed drug names. This is really tricky because when I'm trying to communicate to a broad audience, one pimbrab like slides out of the brain. It sounds like every other math. There's a lot of

nonsense syllables going on there. And I could say kitruda, checkpoint inhibitor, pemlesab or pembro. All those words would be great. I mostly in that video said checkpoint inhibitors. I said kitruda a bunch specifically and I know that that's not ideal. I'd rather say

pimbrilismab. I would but more people have heard of kitruda than have heard of pbrillismab. More people have heard of checkpoint inhibitors than have heard of a specific map. It's tricky. I completely agree with you that like in an ideal world I would always use the non-brand name actual name of the molecule. But like I'm I'm trying to

balance a bunch of different stuff at the same time. Did I miss the book title concept announcement? That's fab that you're doing a book on the biology of cancer. I am. I there hasn't been like that much announcement of it. I just

been talking I've been working on it for like 3 years. So, I just been talking about it generally. I think that the title is out there, but I'm not going to announce the title yet because it could still change. Since we're using machine learning to predict how cancerous cells will look, is it isn't it possible that the model will predict a protein pattern that's actually present in healthy cells? No, I don't think so. That seems

very unlikely because these are not proteins that healthy cells have. So, it's not just that it's a protein pattern that a healthy cell would have. There's proteins that these cells are making, especially melanoma, that are not coded for by any healthy cell because they don't exist in any healthy cell because they're the result of mutations. Do you speed your videos up by 20% to make them shorter? Kind of. I

don't actually speed up the audio, but I do cut out a lot of gaps so that they will go faster. Next is actually not a comment from YouTube, but it is a email that I got from a PhD student at MIT about the specifically this study that was like people who got checkpoint inhibitors and the COVID vaccine had this survival advantage. And he points out like a very good set of problems with that paper. The mouse data is pretty good, I'll say. But as far as the human data go where we did this observational study where we looked at people who got the pbrillismab and didn't get the COVID vaccine and the people who got the pebbly and did get the COVID vaccine and the people who got the COVID vaccine had this survival advantage. Well, there's one way in

which like definitely that analysis was done poorly, which is that like if you got the COVID vaccine like 75 days after you got Pembrillismab, then they call out a person who got the COVID vaccine and Kitruda and they have a survival advantage. But that requires that they survived for those 75 days. And this is something you have to be super careful about in observational studies is not giving one of your groups a built-in survival advantage. And this kind of does that. So you can't get the COVID vaccine if you died in those 75 days. So

imagine two people who definitely would have gotten the COVID vaccine on day 75. One of them died, one of them didn't. The one who died is in the not COVID category and so they're a person who died and the one who lived is in the co is in the COVID vaccine category and they're a person who's more likely to live longer because they lived at least 75 days. And then there's another potential problem here where if you're looking for people who definitely didn't get the COVID vaccine, then you're like, well, what about like looking at people who got cancer in 2015? They definitely didn't get the COVID vaccine. They

didn't get an mRNA vaccine at any point because didn't exist for another six years. But that group might have a survival disadvantage just because we know more about how to treat people with pebrismab now than we did in 2015. And so they might have gotten the same medicine, but they might not have gotten exactly the same care. There were some other potential things that would mess with like how we're counting, when we're counting, how we're creating these groups that are all like in the details of observational studies. I'm not going to go into the weeds of because like I don't totally understand. But there was

a I think it's a pre-print right now a study that like reran this data and found that if you try and correct for all these things you go from like the COVID vaccine group being at 55% and the other group being at 30% to uh basically the same. So 45 versus 43% with a confidence interval that's way broader than that. So those are the same number. So if we remove these sources of like data bias, I'm not talking about like researcher bias. We removed the sources of like weird things where you know somebody gets into the COVID trial group because they were still alive to get the vaccine which is all to say thank you to these researchers for doing this work and thank you for sending me this email.

I am going to try to edit that part out of the video because I think it's adding a complexity that doesn't need to be added and if we look closer these results do not seem to be strong. Dope. That's super helpful. Have you done anything on the midjourney ultrasounds? All these therapies combined with easy access to low side effect imaging is going to put an end to cancer. It's an

exciting time for the world. I mean, I could do a whole video on full body ultrasounds, but the thing that would come out of that is these are one among many tools for looking inside of the body and they have drawbacks just like any tool for looking inside of the body. And they will certainly not replace a PET scan. They will not replace an MRI. They do different things. One of the

things ultrasounds hate is air. Everything gets super messed up around the chest where there's a bunch of air inside of you. It gets messed up by bone and so that can mess up the head. It can mess up the chest as well because there's all these ribs. It's good for abdominal stuff and I think that like whole body imaging can give you good abdomen stuff. I don't know. It's going

to be best for like body comp. So stuff that happens before the bone, before the air, like body fat and muscle percentages. A lot of people who are super into like optimization will be into that. But the number of cancers that that will catch or result in being found early is going to be very low. And there's lots of cancers that it simply couldn't catch. Like even an MRI, which

is a longer, more expensive procedure, is not going to catch a lot of cancers because it's also bad in certain circumstances. We need lots of different kinds of scans. It's great that we have lots of different kinds of scans. I don't have anything against these like whole body ultrasounds, but I don't think that they're as revolutionary as the marketing materials would have you believe. may ask what the books that you read on what we know about cancer were.

Would love to read them. We've got Rebel Cell and The Cheating Cell. Books with very similar pre You can't see them unfortunately. Books with very similar premises, but both very good for blood and money is amazing. It's about the development of ibutinib. Imbuacica.

ImbuA is the brand name. Ibbrutinib Brutin's tyrosine kinace inhibitors is the medicine. And so it discusses like the how it happened like how how like really gets in the weeds of how a particular treatment was developed and like the finances of that which is all upsetting. There's a series of catastrophes and miracles which is about a melanoma patient who was right on the edge of dying when checkpoint inhibitors were first being developed and she happened to be a science writer. It's amazing book. I don't think that hers

was Pembrismab. I think it was epilimab but see you're not going to remember these words. I'm making sense of cancer. We've got the gene. We've got and of course we've got the emperor of all maladies up at the top there. There are

some others that I on the shelf somewhere but I those are ones that I suggest. That's probably enough to start with. As I understand it, cancer is a cell that has a random genetic mutation that makes it reproduce very fast. But when I think about how many possible ways a cell could become cancerous why is there just one standard skin cancer, for example, there's not. Why does every cell become uh from a part of a body become one kind of cancer? So there's

definitely not just one kind of skin cancer. There's a bunch. There's basil cell. There's squamas cell, there's melanoma, >> but there's others. Like the one that Jimmy Buffett died of was a totally different I can't remember the name of it, but a totally different kind of skin cancer. But there's not just one way.

The way I talk about this in my book, like imagine the body has like armor against cancer everywhere. But there's like some little holes in that armor. And those holes are the different kinds of cancer, the ways out. And so the ways to escape the body's control. And importantly, it isn't just a cell that has a random genetic mutation that makes it reproduce very fast. It's a cell that

has one mutation and that one makes it a little bit more likely to grow out of control and then another one and that one makes it a little bit more likely. And as it starts to grow a little bit more, if one of those cells and particularly if one of those cells develops a mutation that lets it mutate more quickly. One of the scariest things that can happen to a cancer is it can develop a change that allows it to be bad at copying its DNA which introduces more mutations more and more and more. particularly that mutation can be tied to the same pathway that also identifies mutations and causes the cell to kill itself if it gets too many. So that was a dumb thing to do is have those two things be controlled by the same gene.

But there are multiple different kinds of lung cancer. So in my last video I was talking about non small cell lung cancer and there are small cell lung cancers and those are different. They evolve from a different cell line of the lung. There's different kinds of ovarian cancer. Brain cancer can be several different kinds of cancer. And then you

have tissues that are very bad at causing cancer. They have like really good armor. Probably never met someone who's had a heart cancer. And then of course there's like a billion types of lymphoma because there's a bunch of different lymphosytes. There's a bunch of different cells of the lymphatic system. There are different B cell

lymphas. So there's like like different cells that come from a B cell. B cells are are for whatever reason I mean there's reasons but I can't remember them. They're good at becoming cancer. Uh so there's a bunch of different bell lymphomas. I think that Hodgkins is a B

cell lymphoma. I mean like not really. We don't call it that. I had to ask the question differently because it was like no it's not a B bell lymphoma but in fact it does descend from mature B lymphosytes but it's not a B cell lymphoma why don't worry about it I wonder if this could reduce the disease burden in patients with later stage cancer enough to make resection more of an option probably not just because we have done that study but there's no reason before having done that study to think that maybe we could do that we do that with some chemotherapies where we actually give the patient chemotherapy before cutting the cancer out to make the margins clearer if like you've got a cancer that's sort of doing this it's got like its fingers all through a bunch of stuff. You can give chemo, shrink it down, and it might become more of a rectable tumor. We do do that. So far,

it doesn't look this this therapy would be particularly great about that. Dumb question. Why get a vaccine for a disease you already have? Can we call the therapy a vaccine if you already have the disease? Maybe I missed this explanation. No, I probably should have

added a couple of sentences about this. So, yeah, like a vaccine is something that trains the immune system and you can give people a vaccine for a disease that they already have and it can help them. So even with a virus you can do that. It's unusual and now we have better tools than that. Instead of giving you the vaccine so that your immune system eventually produces the antibodies you just give them the antibodies. Like early in co people

would get these infusions of monoconal antibodies. And that was basically the thing that your immune system would create but we were creating them in a lab and then giving them to people. But in the case of this cancer vaccine, you don't want to give it to people who don't have cancer. Well, one, it's a vaccine that's specifically designed to attack individual persons cancer. though you wouldn't be able to cuz you can't design a vaccine for a cancer that doesn't exist. But there are two

confusing things here. One, we do give people cancer preventing vaccines that are vaccines against viruses that cause cancer. So HPV causes cancer. We give people HPV vaccines so that they do not get HPV so that they do not get cancer. And there are other viruses that cause cancers that we should be giving people vaccines for, but we don't have like Epstein bar. Great example. Hodkins is

often Epstein mediated. So like Epstein bar is the virus that causes mono and it increases your chances of all kinds of later in life health problems because it can stay in your cells and that can cause a bunch of different problems later in life. So if we could make it so nobody got Epstein bar we'd solve a lot of health problems for people later in life and that would be great. We don't right now have a good Epstein bar vaccine though people are working on one. The question of whether we could actually get it into people. I think

that we eventually would be able to dumb but we've got a lot of like cultural baggage around vaccines right now that we need to get over I think will happen eventually but it's tricky. But then also there are some cancer vaccines that people are thinking about giving to people who are at very high risk of certain kinds of cancer. So people like smokers for example, you could imagine giving them like a preemptive vaccine to activate their immune system against a cancer that you don't know is there but might very well be. So that's something that people are actually exploring. But in this case you can call it a vaccine.

A vaccine is not something that prevents you from getting a disease. It is something that wakes your immune system up to a potential pathogen or a potential cause of disease. And so you could do that before that you get the disease, but you could also do it after you get the disease. In the case of this treatment, this is a vaccine that you would get after you have gotten the disease to activate your immune system to go after that disease. And then we're going to end with this. How long until

it gets political? I really don't think it will. So I think that there are some people there are certainly comments on my video from people who are like, they caused this cancer with the mRNA vaccine and now they're saying they're going to cure it with the and no like obvious but like that's just people with their anchor on their fear of vaccines. But this kind of cancer vaccine is being given to people who are already have like a high chance of dying of cancer. Nobody doesn't like that. Like to

increase somebody's odds of not dying of cancer is good. And we're also like the thing people don't like about vaccines, the thing that scares them is that they feel compelled by some broader authority to get one. Whereas if you're in a room with a doctor and the doctor's like, "If you take this cancer vaccine, your chance of recurrence goes from 20% to 5%." You just take it. You know, like you just take it. Some people are going

to be like, "It's an mRNA vaccine, though, and I'm scared of those." And the doctor's going to be like, "Oh, let me show you the trial data. We'll have a conversation about it. I'll listen to your concerns and I'll let you." And like some people won't take it. But it

will never be political because this isn't something that we're going to like make people do. There are certain circumstances where with young people, so with children, there have been times when this has gotten political with chemotherapy where we've been like, "Okay, this person is 16 years old. They have Hodkdin lymphoma that's curative. If they don't get the curative treatment, they're going to die." And a parent is like, "I don't believe in this." There have been times when that

has gotten political, which makes sense to me. And so, you could see that situation getting a little bit political, but it doesn't tend to inflame the thing that people are really scared of here. I don't like the idea of something being inject being like injected in me or my child's body when we are otherwise healthy. These are not otherwise healthy people. These are people who may die of a very debilitating and terrible disease. You

know, it's not like nice to die of melanoma. So you spent a little bit of time understanding, you know, not just the sort of talking points of the antivax movement, but the actual underlying fears. This doesn't seem like the kind of thing that would actually activate those underlying fears. So I'm not worried particularly about it getting political, which is good. And I said that I would play Connections and see if I do any better than Catherine did. It's August 24th. It's my brother's

birthday. Happy birthday, John Green. Though of course that's not when this is being uploaded. I've got a 14-day streak. And we've got Soul is a kind of fish. And so is Tang. And so is Pike. In

addition to being a part of the shoe, which you got soul and heel as well, an arch, uh-oh, an eyelet, which is also a part of a shoe. What are we doing here? So, we've got a full on two categories that contain soul that have four things in them. That is amazing. So, that's not helping me. That is so hard to do.

Kayfabe is like fake part of wrestling. It's like, is it real? Is it not? Oh, that's a wrestling thing. Heel is a wrestling thing. All right, fish. It is.

Arch. That's a wrestling thing, isn't it? Maybe a chief is as well. Or a face. I know that a face is a thing in the A team. So like a face is like a p a part

of a conj job who is just like really trustable. Crime beset chief main that also might be a wrestling thing. I'm not familiar with wrestling stuff but I feel like heel kayabe and arch are wrestling things. Jobber is a hilarious chief ex love. I hadn't looked at that one.

Deserve is weird because it doesn't feel like that's it really like it kind of means one thing. It contains the word serve. Serve set. Serve, set, let, ace. Oh, they're they're they're tennis things. They're tennis things. Ace,

serve, let the purple baby. See? No. What? What? Mullet is also let,

but that's a fish set. Isn't let a thing? Oh my god, that's so tricky. No, I just did the same freaking thing Catherine did, didn't I? I did. I did.

Oh my god, that is so frustrating. Oh man, I could I should have done this. Okay. Soul, mullet, pike. Oh, that is so frustrating. Soul, mullet. It really

sucked me in. That is a good puzzle. Soul, mullet, pike, and what? Tang. And then I feel like serving love, but you I don't know. I've got no way to

know. Ilet feels It feels like it's eyelet. Kayfabe, heal, ace, ma, prime. Oh, no, wait, wait, wait. Prime, main, chief, and arch. So like the the like

main thing like an arch enemy, a prime, a chief. Okay. All right. Well, I've got it now. And then we've got kayfabe heel is a jobber, a wrestling thing, and a face. It's not not this is all this.

This is definitely right. So kayfabe, jobber, heel, and face, which would leave leave me with eyelet, love, serve, and beset. God damn, that sucked. I should have looked at Catherine's again and been like, "Oh, it's going to suck me into a false purple." Oh, okay. And then um I

guess probably kayfabe heel jobber and face like people in like pro wrestling lingo. I don't know what a jobber is. And then probably Tang Mullet soul pike for the green. Nope. Well, I mean good lord. That was a tricky boy. 6% of

people really sucked us in with that purple winner. Oh man, that was a good one though. I like I think that you could still get this shirt. I don't know when this video is coming out, but I I think that it's still available. Probably for another less than a week.

Okay, bye.