---
video_title: "What is a cancer vaccine?"
video_id: YSh_OTlqqj4
channel_name: "Hank Green"
channel_id: UCOT2iLov0V7Re7ku_3UBtcQ
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YSh_OTlqqj4
video_date: 2026-08-28
video_description: |

---
Three different things that people might mean when they say vaccine and cancer. Like this is a vaccine for cancer and that's confusing. So, I want to talk about it. Number one, you might be talking about it a vaccine that prevents a disease that increases the risk of cancer. HPV being the big one of these.

So, you can take the HPV vaccine and that will make it so you don't get HPV and if you do get HPV, that increases your risk of cancer. So, fewer people will get cancer if they get the HPV vaccine and that's good. Then you have a really weird thing that's just experimental now, which is a vaccine to actually prevent you from getting a cancer. And this is not something that like normal folk would get. You'd have to be at a very high risk of a specific kind of cancer. If you have a genetic

predisposition, they've started to test these therapies that can like wake your immune system up to the fact that you might get this cancer and that would decrease your risk of getting that cancer if you have a high risk of getting it already because of a genetic predisposition. That's all in like early trials right now, but the thing that is in much later trials that looks like it really will become a therapy for people is a vaccine for people who have already got cancer. And that seems weird because we tend to think of vaccines as a thing that prevents people from getting a disease, but in this case, what we're looking at is people who have had their cancer surgically removed from them, but they have some risk of having that cancer come back. The trial that was done that went really well was for melanoma patients. They had all of the visible sign of melanoma removed from their body, whether that was from their just the skin or whether they had some lymph node involvement or even some distant metastasis. Those patients were

then given two different things. One, they were given a checkpoint inhibitor, which is a kind of medicine that basically breaks the system that melanoma cells use to hide from the immune system. That's already standard therapy for melanoma patients. You give them this so that the immune system has a chance to go and try and find those weird cells that might be hiding places that might cause a recurrence of the cancer later. But then, to give those patients an even better chance, we trained their immune systems by taking the cancer out of the body, so that's step one, sequencing the genome of that cancer, and then looking at what weird proteins it might be developing, and then training with a vaccine the immune system to go after it, like be on the lookout for those specific weird proteins. If you watch my video on

Hank's channel, you know that it's a little more complicated than that, but that's a half an hour long video, which you can go watch. Basically, we are training the immune system to go after cancer cells that we know might be there. They might not be, and maybe the immune system would find them on its own, but we're training them to go look out for these specific proteins that the cancer cell we know is producing. And that way, if there's any little bits of cancer still hiding in the body, the immune system will be able to more accurately and quickly identify and destroy them. And that's super freaking cool. The fact that we can make a

vaccine, like individualized vaccines for each individual cancer patient's cancer. That's dope, and I love it. And the only problem is that it's going to be extremely expensive. But it is helping a lot of people. Already there are people alive right now who otherwise would not be.