---
video_title: "The Trick Pseudoscience Always Uses"
video_id: DpGU8NARX-s
channel_name: "Hank Green"
channel_id: UCOT2iLov0V7Re7ku_3UBtcQ
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DpGU8NARX-s
video_date: 2026-01-28T17:00:34+00:00
video_description: |
  Check out Crash Course Scientific Thinking here: https://www.youtube.com/crashcourse
  
  And you can get the shirt here: https://complexly.store/
---
I've been spending a lot of time thinking about what science like actually is. In part because I've been working on a crash course series that is recently launched. It's called Crash Course Scientific Thinking. This is not as simple as one might expect it to be. It's going to be fraught. There's a

great deal of disagreement about what precisely science is, but I'd like to hit you with a three-phase definition. And this is just me. This isn't the Crash Course team, and I'm not an epistemologist or whatever, but I am a science communicator. So, here's how I think about it. The first phase of the definition is what science actually is.

The second is narrowing down into what science currently is. And then the third thing is talking about what pseudocience is, which helps me solidify my understanding of the first two things. And I'm going to try to do all of this as quickly as possible. But you will see that this video is not short. So I'm not the kind of guy who thinks that the first person to ever do a science was born in the last 500 years. Like Isaac

Newton, huge scientist. People say he's like the best scientist ever. He's definitely a doer of science, but he didn't do many of the things that we would now consider to be proper science. Science for me, and this is just me, is anytime you're listening to the universe and learning from what you hear back. And then if it is more than that, it is also figuring out how to intentionally ask the universe questions in ways that get the universe to deliver an answer.

So, if you notice that the river floods most years, you have listened to the universe. If you noticed that planting a seed from a red rose gives you more red roses, you have listened to the universe. I think that on its own is science. But for those of us who may want more than that, I am willing to allow that perhaps it only really becomes science when you ask a question of the universe designed to get an answer. If I cross a red rose with a white rose, will I get red roses or white roses or pink roses? Now you're

asking the universe questions. And when I say the universe, I don't mean this is just a thing about the like space and stars and stuff. I mean any piece of the universe and roses are a piece of the universe and a river is a piece of the universe and you are a piece of the universe. I think that people have always done this. I think that people did it like before there were humans.

This is how we ended up in a world with beer and bread and cloth and salted meats and pimmens. Science is listening to the universe and asking it questions it will answer. But that is not what we mean when we say science nowadays. There is a different thing. a structured thing that is a real thing that kind of has the same name. It is a thing filled with

experts and equipment and error bars. And it is a thing that is an outgrowth of asking the universe questions, but it's also an outgrowth of a philosophical movement that began not that long ago and has continued to evolve since then. And I also have a working shortorthhand for that thing that I'm going to hit you with now. These are still people listening to the universe and asking it questions in ways it will hopefully answer. But they also had literally one single idea that changed everything and created scientific journals and the structure of a paper and randomized control trials and peer review and the entire field of statistics. It goes like this. Your

ideas sound interesting. Could you let me check your work? Now, this idea didn't really grow out of people like wanting to be really nice to each other and like get to the truth as a team. It grew out of people thinking they were right and wanting to disprove the people who disagreed with them, which is not really supposed to be a motivation of science, but it is. And what that motivation created was an expectation that the methods of an experiment and the data created through those methods would be made available for other experts to inspect. The scientist's job

became to convince other scientists and not with argument, not with like power and prestige lorded over them and ostracizing people who disagreed, not by like hiding all of their data and encoding it in secret notebooks like the alchemists did. Not by closing down defensively, but by opening up. This is a cultural change that created what we now call science. And it meant the development of a bunch of tools. And those tools are now what we call science. The scientific method, the

preference for ideas that are falsifiable, testing, treatment against controls, standardized statistical tools for determining how likely it is that a result could happen by chance. The format of a scientific paper, all of these systems were built by scientists because they got tired of other scientists saying to them, "Okay, you might be right, but I remain unconvinced." All of these tools were developed as ways to speed science along. If everybody understands a tool or a procedure or a statistical measure, then it gets much easier to check each other's work. And if anyone ever says like, "I don't want to tell you how I got my data, but it is real and it's true." They just get laughed out of the

room. That's not science. That's politics. That's lawyer. Scientists do a different thing than that. And if

they're not sharing their data, if they're not saying, "Hey, you try. You do a replication. You show me what what happens when you do it." Then that's not science. And this caused a transition from here are things that we know and if you'd like to challenge those ideas then I will defend my ideas using whatever social and rhetorical power I have to instead I believe this is right and I will defend my ideas by letting you do the experiment yourself and if you come up with like some other explanation then I will further refine my experiments to try and ensure that I am right. You hear

about this experiment about the swan neck flask a lot where people were arguing about whether life could just arise spontaneously or whether it would have to be seeded by other life like only from a cell can a cell come and there were lots of people arguing about this and people developed I'm not going to get into details here they developed a series of experiments that each time someone said okay yeah I see what you did there but what if you do this it's very important to understand nobody would have done these experiments nobody would have designed better and better and better experiments without one argument, but more importantly, two, without doing this all in public where everybody could see it and everybody could argue it and everybody could like come up with their own theories about what was going on. So, this is what science has become. When we say science, what we usually mean, well, sometimes we mean like a body of knowledge. That's definitely not what science is. Science isn't all the facts in the fact book.

When we say science now, what we what we tend to mean is it's a bunch of tools for making evidence uncovered by asking the universe questions difficult to challenge and thus much more likely to be right or at least if you know there's epistemologists in the chat. What is truth? But at least more representative of reality. Science is our attempt to be less wrong over time. By the way, science is our attempt to become less wrong over time. That is a shirt that

you can get and it will help support Crash Course if you want to get it. Now, I also think it's definitely true that this rigid box of what science currently is is limited. And it's not necessarily even reflective of the actual processes of science. Lots of science doesn't fit neatly into the scientific method. There's a huge amount of noodling around and taking things apart and putting them back together again and and like seeking out personal inspiration and motivation and discoverydriven tinkering. It's

that's all that's all very important to science. As is people feeling strongly about their ideas being right and having fights with people who disagree. that doesn't like fit into the framework of objectivity. But it is still a thing because science is done by humans and we're working with this software. Galileo, let me hit you with Galileo.

Everybody talks about Galileo like he was the one rational actor in a giant world of idiots who wouldn't take their blinders off. But Galileo's telescope was bad. Like it was the best one of the best ones that had ever been invented. But it was it was bad. It would show weird artifacts. It would show double

stars. People thought that perhaps the moons of Jupiter that he was seeing through his telescope were just the artifacts of the glass lenses. And they might have been right. Like he felt like he had a good explanation for the solar system in his guts and he had some good evidence to support it. But there were perfectly legitimate arguments against his perspective and they fought about this because they liked their ideas, which I do still see happening in science these days all the time.

Ultimately, Galileo turned out to be right, but he might not have. He was wrong about a whole bunch of other stuff. Like when he was proposing that the earth was going around the sun, he wrote that that also explained the tides because as the earth moved around the sun, the oceans would like slosh around. And that's that's like not good. That's like bad science. Like people at the

time, they'd known for a long time that the tides were linked to the movement of the moon and had nothing to do with the sun. Kepler was actively publishing about it at the time, but Galileo could not accept this weird idea of things acting on each other from a distance, even though that's the very thing that was keeping the Earth going around the sun. Anyway, it's great. It's great. You know, it's not perfect. And I have no

idea where I would have sat on that debate at the time because it was all very mysterious and confusing. And no one would have proved anything to anyone if there weren't a bunch of people all trying to prove each other wrong, but being required by culture or etiquette or their own sensibilities to not just argue rhetorically, but to make their methods and their data and their tools available to other experts. So everything everything in science is emergent of these two things. One, I am listening to the universe and I am trying to ask it questions it will answer for me. and two, I am open to the ideas of others, but only if they will let me check their work. That's the

majority of the story, but I do want to finish this off by kind of checking my work. And I want to do that by looking at something that definitely is not science, which will have the added advantage of explaining what pseudocience is, which is great because I think everybody misunderstands it. We sometimes use the word pseudocience is just like stuff that's wrong. You know, anything that's pseudocience is like somebody making a claim that's wrong. That's not what pseudocience is. Being

wrong happens even in science. If just being wrong made something pseudocience, then physics before 1905 was kind of pseudocience. Pseudocience is also not like stuff I personally disagree with or stuff that makes me uncomfortable. Science says here's my idea and here's the method I used to get it and here's the data I got and here's what I think it means and if you think I'm wrong, here's everything I used so that you could check for yourself. You could do the replication. Outgrowing from all of

this is all of the tropes of science. It's the papers, it's the citations, it's the graphs, it's the stats, it's all the stuff. Pseudocience is a way of marketing ideas by making the ideas sound sciency, like attaching the legitimacy of science to those ideas without actually performing any of the actions of science. It borrows the graphs and the citations and the terms and the confident tone because those tropes are persuasive and they are legitimizing. You latch on to the credibility of science without engaging in the hard parts of science. The messy

and expensive and time-consuming work of science and the annoying part of being like, "Okay, here it is. Check my work. Here, critic. You disagree with me. Have at it." You know, that uncomfortable

part. They don't have to do that part. They sometimes say that they do or that they will or like I'm open to all interpretations, but when they get feedback, they are invariably antagonistic to that feedback. And there is one thing that I don't I've not actually seen people talk about this that much that actually outlines for me kind of what's going on with pseudocience and I'm trying not to be too mean about it. I'll try. One of the

things about scientific discoveries is that they're usually like not that interesting. And even when they are, they're like confusing and they require a lot of knowledge to understand what the heck is going on. Like they'll tell you that they detected gravitational waves, but what what is a I don't know what that is. They'll tell you like maybe uh the cosmological constant isn't constant and and you're like okay and that's the interesting stuff, right? Like almost all of actual science like any individual paper that gets published like you don't care. It's not at all

interesting to you. Here's a good example. There's like a little controversy in biology right now and it's in a corner and like nobody talks like it's not like a a big thing but it's interesting to me there's this question of whether it might be possible for a lineage of cancer cells to over time evolve into a free-living organism and whether that has actually happened and there are some potential candidates for existing living single-sellled animals that might have evolved this way. Now most people disagree with this. They don't think that this has happened.

But there are people doing research and writing papers to argue about whether it might be possible and if so whether it has happened. Some people are writing papers analyzing the genomes of these single-sellled animals and talking about how they may have evolved. And other people are writing other papers and talking about other ways that those particular genomes might have evolved. And it's all very specific to taxonomy and genomics and like all these little details. And the most likely thing that will come of this is that someday everyone will agree that actually everything is the way that we thought it was. But even the interesting outcome

that a line of cancer cells could become a free-living organism isn't that interesting, right? It probably I don't think it would make headlines. Like I'd want to make a video about it, but I probably wouldn't. It'd probably be too busy and I probably wouldn't make the video. And I would guess that if this video gets watched by 100,000 people that maybe one of them has heard about this idea. It's called the scandal

hypothesis. Maybe two. I have talked to lots of cancer biologists. I have never met a cancer biologist who has heard of this idea. It's interesting and I like it because it's it's an example of where there actually is debate in science.

There's lots of places like this. There's lots of debates going on in science. They just aren't about the things that pseudocientists bring up. And we're about to find out why. Because most of science is way more boring than the scandal hypothesis. It's figuring

out a new cell signaling pathway or cataloging the feeding strategies of a species of frogs or developing a new and better method for estimating the number of red dwarfs in the Milky Way. And you'll notice something. Pseudocience is never going to touch any of that. Pseudocience is always, and I'm not saying sometimes, I am saying always, it is always about some very attentiongrabbing thing. Sunscreen. You

thought it was good, but it's actually bad. Vaccines. You thought they were good, but they're actually bad. Diseases can be cured in simple ways that nefarious groups are hiding from you. The pyramids were actually created by an ancient civilization or possibly aliens or possibly both. I think these ideas

are very interesting. Like, I think that the idea that a line of cancer cells could potentially evolve into a free-living organism is pretty cool, but it's definitely not as cool as aliens building the pyramids. That would be a really big deal. That would be exciting if we found that out. And certainly like a freelancing cancer lineage is not as vitally important to my life as cures for disease is being hidden from me. If

I had to imagine the most interesting attentiongrabbing idea possible, there'd be an element of like this thing that everybody thinks is good is actually bad. Like that's very attention grabbing. There'd also probably be an element of like a powerful force that is doing something nefarious to me who is unpowerful. The idea of being manipulated and controlled by something much more powerful than me, especially if that's like somewhat shadowy or if I'm like supposed to trust it, but actually I shouldn't trust it. So again, kind of a a good thing is actually bad vibe. And then the final

thing that I'd toss in is like and it is causing direct and immediate harm not to you because like that's bad, but what what about even worse than that? It's causing direct and immediate harm to your child. So imagine a thing that we thought was very good that turns out to be very bad that's being imposed on you by a powerful thing that's much more powerful than you and it's doing direct and immediate harm to your child. And I think that you've probably got the thought in your head by now, but I'll just say it out loud. That's the idea that vaccines, which we had previously thought of as like a very good thing, actually are bad and are doing direct and immediate harm to children. And all

these people who say that they're just trying to do the best for you, they too are. You think they're good, but they're actually bad. Man, I tell you what, this this thing you think is good is actually bad. Top tier clickbait. Like that gets you so many views. I mean, you're

talking to the guy who knows. Pseudocience is the act of taking something that would be super interesting if it were true and then surrounding it in the tropes of science to make it seem more true and more legitimate. you don't do good statistics. You've got citations, but they link to blog posts. And you never ask anyone who might disagree with you to critique your ideas. But if you're

savvy, you'll say that you do. You'll invite it because that makes it look like you are doing something that's more like science. But then when they actually do critique you, you don't like go back and try to make your data better. You don't respond to it. You don't do science better because you never did science in the first place.

You just read stuff. You didn't have methods. You didn't really even do statistical analysis. you just sort of like were making a case because there was a a lot of attention to be gained by making that case. There are legitimate controversies in science. There are

places where people disagree. There is not currently consensus around whether or not a lineage of cancer cells can become a free-living organism. But this process where people get extremely focused on the most attention-grabbing ideas possible and then surround those ideas with the vibes of science without actually doing any science, that's pseudocience. From our little exercise here, what becomes quite clear is that pseudocience isn't a knowledgebuilding strategy. It is an attentionbuilding strategy. Which is why I'm not surprised

that it has become more common in our very attention competitive era. I think this helps show us what science is and isn't. Science isn't arguing like you're a lawyer. Though sometimes scientists do this, and I don't like it when they do. I think that it demeans science a little bit when you pop on the internet and you start arguing like a lawyer. I I I don't

know the best way to deal with those sort of sets of problems that we've got right now, but that's not how I like to do it. I like to try and do it in a way that like accepts that people have a different view of the world. This is much more labor intensive and I feel like uh is a little bit screaming into the void because I don't know how to not do it just one person at a time, but whatever. What science is not, it is not arguing like you're a lawyer, where you fight for your idea, truth and nail, truth be damned. Science is where you argue like a scientist and you do that by using a lot of builtup infrastructure around open critique and shared data and shared methods and shared strategies for processing data. And yeah, it turns out

that the pseudocientist is largely ignored by the institutions of science because it doesn't fit in. It's not doing the science part. And there's no way for that to be clear to the average person. And so this can actually be advantageous to the pseudocientist. they don't actually have to care about that.

Maybe because they know that they are right regardless. I think that some people certainly I think this is mostly the case. Mostly they know that they are right regardless of what the universe is telling them. And so they're out there looking for anything that will confirm their perspective and then they latch onto that as truth. And I think that in part it's because ideas that are very attention grabbing, we tend to find them easier to believe. Like there's a weird

thing about people. There's research that if a if like a phrase rhymes, we're more likely to think it's true than the same meaning in a non- rhyming phrase because the rhyming phrase is easier to pay attention to. Isn't that weird? It's so strange. And so like this very easy to pay attention to idea of pseudocience, which is like maybe aliens did the pyramids. It's very easy to pay

attention to. It's a cool story, very exciting. Our brains can actually think, well, if a thing is easier to pay attention to, it's actually more likely to be true. Or if not that, then like I enjoy this story and so I'm going to look for reasons why it might be true. And maybe enjoy is the wrong frame because of course vaccines being dangerous is not an enjoyable story, but it is a titillating story. It is an

attentiongrabbing story. It is a it is a salient story. That's like the real word here. And I hesitate to use the word salience because I think it's not like a well-known word. We should all know it more. But at the at the root of

pseudocience is salience. It's how easy is it to get someone to pay attention to this topic. Whereas at the root of science is truth. And those are two very different things. So that's pseudocience. People who don't really

have an interest in engaging in all the messy slow esoteric processes of science even though those are the processes that developed for actually coming closer to truth. And instead they take all the legitimacy that that long process has built over centuries and they connect to it. They perform it. They wear it as a costume. Pseudocience is the process of attention merchants wearing science suits. And they could not exist without

the trust gained by the winds of science which makes it remarkable that they continue to exist while intentionally or I don't know if intentionally I don't know if I should imply intentionality but while undermining science. So by looking at that one thing that is not science, this helps me see what science really is. And that is bigger than just the current methods we have. Our current methods for asking questions about the universe, which we call science, is an outgrowth of our long-ived innate ability and desire to listen to and learn from the universe. And that outgrowth has been standardized because it makes it more useful. But that

standardization can also make it more limiting. There are many ways to uncover evidence about the world. and we've worked out some truly truly powerful tools that have delivered remarkable gains, including my continued existence on the planet. But sometimes when you create a bunch of standardized rules, it makes it harder to do certain kinds of exploration of the universe. And I think that's something that we should be cautious about. And I will defend

science from charlatans more interested in looking sciency so that they can get attention or push their predetermined narrative. But I will never tell you that science is locked into a rigid box, must always follow the same methods, or can exist only in a world of pure objectivity, especially that last one. Because a huge amount of scientific progress has come from accepting that objectivity is very difficult, if not impossible to attain. And so experiments must be designed to reduce or eliminate opportunities for human bias creeping in. Science can and will change its methods as new and better methods are developed. And all along the human will

remain the individual person who suddenly thinks to themselves wait what if you know like that that piece that inspiration that human thought piece that's also part of it but it is kind of nothing without all the other parts. Science is a set of tools for making inquiries of the universe. It is how we become less wrong over time. And we must remember the tools we have know them well and seek to create new ones. And I love love love watching that happen. But

as we say here, everything we know is something we figured out. And I learned so much from working on and hosting the new Crash Gor scientific thinking course which we just recently started uploading. One episode is maybe two episodes are out now. And I had an idea. I thought it would be very cool to interview Megan Mafairy who is the executive producer of Crash Course about how Crash Course works, about how science works. also just chat about like

the world of information in pseudocience and why we've never done a crash course on math. Everybody, here is that chat with Megan, the executive producer of Crash Course. But before that, yes, you can get this shirt. Science is our way of becoming less wrong over time. You can get it right now, and I do not know for how long, but you can get it right now at complexity.store. There's also,

as you might expect, a link in the description. >> So, currently I'm executive producer at Crash Course. We have two kind of teams within Crash Course. One is the editorial team and that's made up of writers and editors and then the other side is the production team and that's made up of producers and APS and video editors and I kind of lies between the two sides. So for any given series we begin by developing a curriculum. We

write scripts and then those things evolve into videos that we shoot and edit and add animation and design and elements to. >> Yeah. So you are what one might call the boss. >> I am what what one might call the boss. Yes. At the time of doing scientific

thinking, I was the editorial director, so I was only the boss of the word stuff. And now I am the boss of all the stuff. >> You did come from the editorial side. I always am surprised that like at Comic-Con you think more about Chris Hemsworth than whoever wrote that movie because what did Chris Hemsworth do? He came out and he said the words. So for

clarity, what's my job? I should say I am the host of scientific thinking. My job was not in this case. It is sometimes, but in this case, it was not just Hank, show up and say the words on the teleprompter. You actually did get me involved, which I appreciate. It was

a really fun process, but the editorial is like the foundation that everything is building on, and it has to be good. And it's not just the foundation. It's like the building materials that you're building around. >> Yeah. I mean, I think something unique about Crash Course relative to the rest of YouTube is that everything is built on truly a curriculum. So, we don't

start by just researching and outlining an individual episode. We start by like considering the scope of an entire subject and deciding what needs to go into that frame. Like what makes the cut of a crash course because we're not going to do a full semester. What are we going to exclude? And also, in what way are we going to present it? So, are we

going to go chronologically? Are we going to do case studies? Are we going to do a thematic approach? All these questions are like well before we have our first video title or our first even episode script in that way. It's like the education the education is really like the big hidden iceberg of crash course is like that got to know what we're going to teach before we start teaching it and making it engaging and digestible. And that is so much

harder than you might imagine. We can't just like hit a textbook until it becomes a crash course video. And I think scientific thinking is a good example of this because we started out with a pretty different goal. Even it wasn't even like how do we teach this topic? It was to the level of topic selection. Like what is the actual

course going to be here? What's our big goals? I can't remember how it started though. Do you remember how it started? >> Yeah. Our friends at HHMI, the Howard

Hughes Medical Institute, came to us with an idea for a five episode series on the scientific process. We saw the seeds of of a really exciting series, but it was really zoomed in to like, okay, what exactly is peer review at this very specific point and what we did with your help cuz you brought in the focus of like you're not exactly a scientist, you're a science communicator primarily. So zooming all the way out to people's experience of science communication which begins in their brains with our cognitive biases I should say and also begins at the beginning of time in the entire human condition of trying to figure out what is and how things work and why. So we end up starting with, you know, helioentrism and like looking the sky and thinking, hm, makes sense that we're at the center of things and then science as an invention that helps us to become less wrong, I think is what your shirt says. Become less wrong about our sort of intuitive assumption.

>> When you get philosophical about it, it gets messy because it's like what is knowledge? What are things? What is truth? There is a definite and clear path toward better representations of reality. And that's definitely true.

Helioentrism is a much better representation of reality than geocentrum is. And then, you know, if you're working on the initial perspective that it's all going to be circles because of course, why would anything be imperfect in the heavens? If the sun is at the center, that's less wrong. But if everything's ellipses, then that's still once again less wrong than circles. This is a tricky thing for people because of course they intuitively we think that truth exists.

And then the epistemologist entered the chat and were like, "Get out of here. Oh, stop making things complicated. Can I hit you with something that is not about this topic?" >> Yeah. But I've been working on a different model for bias, which is sort of taking it out of me and putting it into the world by talking instead about what's easy to pay attention to. Because

of course I like I I think about almost everything through the lens of attention. But I think that that's a good lens because what else do we have? And I think that like there's this weird thing happened in the last 30 years where we just kept identifying new cognitive biases. [laughter] >> There's like a hundred now. They all have cute names.

>> Yeah. Yeah. You go to the Wikipedia page and it's like the window pane bias. >> Yeah. We got to get one named after us.

>> That feels a little bit like what happened. A bunch of people are like, I got to come up with one so that I can be in the Wikipedias. I think that a lot of not maybe all, but a lot can be just thought of through the lens of what is easy to pay attention to and what is hard to pay attention to. And that actually is very clarifying for me because of course it's easy to pay attention to things that I have been paying attention to recently. instead of bias which feels like this flaw that I have in me. This is like a problem that

we had writing the the script is that like we are aware that a lot of people are going to come into this thinking that bias is something that only bad people have and that it is something that you need to eliminate from yourself. But in fact this is not at all the case. This is like a normal human thing. And then what science is is trying to create structures that filter the bias out of the final product. And when I think of it through an attentional lens, it becomes more clear to me what bias actually is. And it also

becomes clear to me that like that I don't have like a thing that is wrong with me. I have a systems for interpreting the world and like they are not necessarily going to lead me toward the best explanation for reality. >> We talk about this in we have a crash course lecture with Amanda Montel that's about uh like the linguistics of cult language and and persuasion. And we talk about bias as hard coding in the human OS OS human. I think it connects to what you're saying because you're you're kind of just talking about the water we're swimming in. And the idea is that like

when OS human was launched, we were, you know, running from lions and and things like that. The water that we were swimming in was incredibly different. And these biases were strengths. And now the water we're swimming in is attentional uh [laughter] war warfare. >> Yes. So suddenly the biases are not not

necessarily flaws in every sense, but they're pulling us away and toward things that they weren't evolved to I was going to say designed to do, but evolved to do it would be more correct. >> And also they are existing inside and being constantly exposed to the most well optimized machine for constructing salience of all time. Salience is like such an important word that like when I say it to people I get like a 50-50 hit rate of like wait what's that which is just like how easy something is to pay attention to. It's like a second level thought. There's like attention and then there's like a quality an object can contain that is like how easy is it for me to pay attention to this? It's

something that we all know about because it's like all of marketing. You know you put the pretty person on the billboard. at the person who like your attention is drawn toward their symmetrical face and the social internet as constructed or the content platforms as constructed. It's not even that social anymore. I am in this landscape of people whose job it is to compete for attention. We will do

anything and crash course is in that space for trying to compete for attention. This is something we always talk about at Crash Course which is we want to be very educational and we also want to compete in the landscape of like the attentional warfare. We want to be in that space competing because it drives us to make stuff that pulls people in and then keeps them watching. Whereas, you know, the average classroom environment is like, you're here and you're stuck here and don't look at your phone and you're being you're paying attention to this thing. And we don't have to be optimized the same way that a Tik Tok does. We want to be a little bit

in like a foot in both worlds so that we really are incentivized to optimize for holding attention. >> Yeah. I was just saying to someone the other day that we were competing with Mr. beast but [laughter] not very well. We actually have a lot of boundaries up around what we're willing to do and what we're trying to achieve. I think we're

in this really interesting middle ground where I think you can think of education and textbook education as taking all the noise and stripping away the stuff that we don't want you to pay attention to and just leaving what we want you to know which is so boring. I think the work of crash course is to look at the textbook and I use textbook broadly. I don't always mean literally a textbook, but to look at the stuff that we want people to know, which has been completely stripped bare of anything that might actually hold their attention and then search for an interesting story, an interesting hook to put the like attentional incentives back in. Not all of them in all different directions, but a few like wellplaced strategic ones so that we're working with OS human if we want to call it that we're working with how people are motivated not like just fully giving ourselves over to the kind of abyss of of Tik Tok or whatever. >> So there's a lot of people on the team.

So once we figure out what our topic like what we're actually going to be talking about, what happens to a crash course? We start by developing like we talked about a curriculum that that underlies the series and we work with subject matter experts in order to do that who are usually um freelancers because we can't have every single subject matter in house at crash course. Then yeah with then we're we're starting to look at scripts for each series. So we have writers our in-house senior staff writer Jamie Chambers was a big player on this. We also had Maya Lannon of the study hall team write for this series and in about a week they explore about us most crash course episodes have 20 or more sources at the end of them.

So they write just like a massive term paper of a exciting video script. Then we the scripts are edited by a number of people for this series. Uh Gary Redden was our script editor. The script editor focuses a lot on making sure everything is digestible, everything is broken down enough and also making it interesting, making it compelling. And then our our subject matter expert reviews everything. We get everything fact

checked. >> Was I ame on these scripts? >> You were. Yeah, we had our HHMI bio interactive folks be kind of science SME and then you were kind of the science communications SME series kind of Yes. Yes. kind of transcends. But then we

shoot the video with a host which was you >> and Sage. We had we double hosted this one. >> Yes. And Sage uh who Sage Bad Naturalist is her channel and we're really excited. She's she will soon be fully hosting our Crash Course Geology series. But we were

it was fun to have her as a kind of special correspondent for this series. The producers and then our design team really do a ton of work to bring the video to life. Our producer for this series was Julie Levitzky. And I mean, producers think about B-roll, they think about animations, they think about any sort of visual that you're going to see on screen, as well as pacing, sound effects, things like that. And one really cool thing that Julie came up with for this series was we have a metaphor in one of the episodes about scientific knowledge being an accumulation of pebbles. Like an

experiment is like one pebble and it like bounces down the road and eventually when we get to consensus, we have like a massive pile of pebbles. And so Julie communicated to our design team this idea of like a bouncing orb that you see animated throughout the series. And there are these moments where, for example, in our episode on peer review, there's a mistake in the orb. So it's glitching. It's glitching. And then at

at a certain point, it bounces down the road and you see it kind of eject after the the correction has happened and then, you know, continue bouncing along. And these sorts of subtle things I don't think folks think about all the time, but they really help make the information stick and make make the series memorable and unique. >> And then the editors to design the production. >> Yes. And it never ends, right? And we we

also have >> Somebody's got to upload it. Somebody's got to do a thumbnail. >> We have folks build Yeah. building sets and video editors on our team. Bridget Kenderson worked on this one. Then

someone's got to upload it. Someone's got to watch how it performs. And on and on and on. I'm sure I didn't name everybody, but that's kind of a snapshot of the process. >> Have you ever read uh Measurement by Paul Lockhart?

>> No. >> So, we've never done a math course on Crash Course. >> No. >> People may be suspicious about why that is. Can you talk about why you think that is?

>> Our sister series, Study Hall, has done some math courses. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. >> We are not sure how to make it interesting. We're not sure how to make

it visual. Like, I think we could. I think if we really committed to it, we could do it. I think we have a lot of wordy humanities minds on the crash course team and so no one has really taken up the banner of we're going to the truth is like no one has pushed hard enough to make this thing happen that feels a little bit outside of our normal storytelling abilities. Math math 2 you could say is like in education there's the content and then there's the application and this is like the application where you actually learn the thing and encode it into your long-term memory. And what we do at Crash Course

is provide content, provide resources, and then we trust that people are on their own or in their classroom doing the application. With something like math, we we've also never done like a writing course. We've talked about it, but that's the same thing. It really feels like the content is the application in such a major way. So, it's been, like I said, I think probably not impossible, but difficult for us to figure out exactly what our role is as storytellers there. I think like a

philosophy of math would fit right into what Crash Course does, but an actual practical math class would require us to do some reinvention. >> Excellently phrased with regards to application. Orin, my son, super into math and like what it really comes down to is like putting a bunch of math problems in front of him and having them get increasingly trickier and then seeing him figure out how he will respond to the trickiness, which is a joy. You know, like when he surprises me and I like I give him something that I'm like, well, this is going to be one where he asks me for help and then he doesn't and he gets it AND I'M LIKE, WHAT'S HAPPENING? You're a baby. How did

you do math? >> That's amazing. >> But this is why I bring up Paulart's measurement. There's this problem with math education and I think that eventually we should do something. But I don't know if it's like a philosophy of math, but I would love if it takes a similar approach to Lockheart, which is everything that you've been shown in math class is as if you were to take a history class and it were all you knew was a list of names and dates. He

doesn't say this, but like this is kind of the vibe. And like all story has been stripped out of it and all human effort has been stripped out of it. And I'm not just thinking like, you know, Pythagoras was a freaking cult leader and math was the like secret language that that they must keep secret from everybody else and they had a weird magic cult around it. I'm thinking here's something that it doesn't seem like you'd be able to figure out. Even if something is like x^2= 2x, you give that to me and I'm like, I don't know. I I got to do

algebra to that to figure it out. What did I just say? I don't know. I have no idea how to figure out the answer that I mean I actually could figure out that one, but like anything where there's like this the same number on the same variable on both sides. I can figure that out with algebra, but I couldn't just figure that out in my mind the way that I could totally figure out like 4 - x= 12. Like that's easy. I could figure

that out in my mind. But once there's the same variable or variables on both sides or multiple variables, it's like I can't do any of that. But then like what I say is, oh, I'd need to do algebra to figure that out. And then I just would and then I'd have the answer. What? Like

what actually happened there? I I feel like I went through all of algebra without understanding that an equal sign is a claim. >> Yeah, that's f Wow. Yeah, put that on shirt. [laughter] >> That's merch.

>> That's what happens to most people. But that then the people who like are good at math are just in part the ones who like understand what's happening that there's a bunch of human effort that went into discovering tools with which we could do seemingly impossible things. The quadratic equation, I hate it. I'm not a fan. But like somebody figured out the quadratic equation and now we can do really weird stuff that doesn't seem possible to do. I feel like there's a

math there that has the exposition but not the application but that makes the application more interesting that we should someday do. >> Something we think about at Crash Course all the time is how we expose the human effort or the constructedness of the knowledge that we're sharing. and the constructedness going all the way back to when the information was first discovered or argued, but also the constructedness of our choices as crash course makers. Sometimes we'll be like, we chose this to share this artifact for art history, but not this one because there's like not a lot of information about this one. The information was lost as part of the slave trade. And um so

all of the sort of like meta decisions that go into what get surfaced in a crash course we try to bring to light and make part of the learning when we can. I I mean I think it's a completely worldchanging mind-blowing perspective shifting thing to understand that like human knowledge is all constructed. There's lots of people who will buy into that for history and for literature and for science even. But math because it of this sort of universal language ethos around it, it feels somehow different that we uncovered it from a from a tablet buried in the earth and it was given unto us in in a really unique and singular way to like open up the perspective of constructedness in into a math space I think is really fascinating. When I was doing TikTok a lot, there was a a question I got and she approached it from the perspective of being very kind of embarrassed that she was asking the question and she was like, "Did we invent math or did we discover it?" And I'm like,

>> "Oh my god, >> what a perfect, beautiful question." But I want to move back to scientific thinking because we were talking about all of these choices that we make. So spoiler, one of the things we talk about in scientific thinking is the construction and the arrival of consensus. And I hadn't really ever spent that much time thinking about that. You know, we talk about there is scientific consensus around certain ideas. You know, atomic theory, climate

change. Nobody thinks that this stuff is wrong. There are still people who do think that atoms aren't real. There's a lot less of them since we were able to kind of photograph them. And I'd like to make a video about this someday. But the

thing that that really surprised me about this is that even as a science communicator, this is like embarrassing. I had kind of put like into my head that there are just things that we like know and things that we are like still iffy about, but like there's a process through which things go from that we're iffy about to being certain about and that takes a huge amount of time. And so like necessarily we are at different parts on the spectrum for things currently. And this is tricky because of course you don't want to say to people we might be wrong about X Y and Z but like there's different levels of consensus. There are certain things for which when we say we have consensus, it is not just like a bunch of people like got together in the room were like, I like your idea. It sounds good. It's

like people hated each other and fought kind of in in often times pretty assholy ways over these things. They really wanted to prove they were right. And there's every arrival of consensus almost necessarily requires a group of people who are really bummed about it. You know, like they they kind of would rather have it gone another way. I'm I'm almost embarrassed to say that in the process of helping to write and host this series, I learned a lot about science.

>> I think consensus is a fascinating topic and such an important one. Hank, I think your next invention needs to be a website. Is there consensus.com? Because there's not like a place where you could have a question and then be and then find out if there's scientific consensus on the answer.

>> It could be you. You don't have to have it be [laughter] me. >> It could be. It's not necessarily very easy to like draw a line from the thing you're wondering about to whether or not there's consensus on it. And consensus, you know, just like so many other things we talk about in the series, there's like a scientific definition of consensus and there's a colloquial version of consensus. So, so that can

be, you know, tricky. Our colleagues at HHMI Bio Interactive described it for me as a field where we're still learning things like climate change, but where there is consensus on a broad that it's human-caused and that it exists and that it's accelerating. The new studies are like adding bumps to a basketball. The basketball is the consensus. It exists.

We know what shape it is. We know its properties, but we're looking at like very minor questions within them. And those are like individual bumps on the basketball, which I think is I've thought about a lot since then because I think as a consumer of science media, science news, a person trying to make sense of nutrition, a personal safety, things like that. Sometimes you read a headline that's a bump on a basketball and you feel destabilized about the existence and the properties of the basketball as a whole >> or you feel like this has changed the shape of the basketball much more than it has. >> Right? That's what I mean. So like

nutrition is a good example because it's very hard to know from like a headline spoken to you from the voice of a news reporter on TV. Just this week a study came out of France. It was really welld designigned, really big study that indicates that certain preservatives increase your risk of cancer. It's a good study. It's welldesigned. And when

I say this to you, you're like worried about preservatives. It was such a large study though that they were able to tease out extremely small effects. So the reality is that the effect is one not really something that I would worry about. Like I'm used to looking at odds ratios and being like, "Oh, 1.16.

I don't know. I got to live my life." I do lots of things that are dangerous. Driving in a car is much more dangerous than eating a turkey. Not a turkey, but processed a whole turkey [laughter] in one.

>> Eating a turkey is actually very dangerous, >> right? A live turkey is like high risk. [laughter] >> Going out of the yard. Yeah, you probably should cook it first. Something that has really stuck with me too from this series that relates to this is absolute risk versus relative risk. But

yeah, in a study like what you're talking about about preservatives raising your risk of cancer, we're talking about relative risk, right? If you're now 10 times more likely to get cancer if you eat sliced turkey every day, that means nothing unless you know how likely you were before. So, you know, I'm I'm getting texts from my well-meaning mom all the time of don't eat sliced turkey or things like this because this shocking and terrifying rate of cancer increase, but if the chances before were 0001% and you times that by 10, the chances are still remarkably low and we just don't communicate that in the media. And I that's the kind of like lens that I I hope that this series can offer to people that helps us live that helps us be less stressed by everything we read and encounter. >> To close the loop on this uh first it was like a 10% increase not like a 10x increase your 10% increase in your relative risk in this study. So so a

small effect. And second uh importantly this isn't like to like super new information for most of these preservatives. And a really interesting piece of this is that one of the preservatives that they found had an increase to your risk of of certain kinds of cancer. If you drink any alcohol at all, 99% of your exposure to this preservative is a natural component of wine. If you drink wine, you're getting like so much more of this preservative than you would get from bacon. And then also, you find that a

lot of these preservatives naturally occur in fruit in relatively high levels because fruits need preservatives. And like they get into like mechanistic stuff. But the the thing that's important about this study is really not personal choice. It's epidemiological. So it's like societywide decisions where like oh we might be able to reduce the number of cancers that occur in a country that has millions of people or hundreds of millions of people by like thousands. And like that's good, but

like are we just counting bumps on a basketball? I would say that the bumps on a basketball thing seems a little bit in the case of climate change like they're differentized bumps. Sure. >> Because like sometimes it's like you do a really important study on the effects of water vapor in the atmosphere, which you know we don't have. We don't have scientific instances around how soon the Atlantic circulation is going to shut down. Like the AOCH could shut down.

Some people think it's going to be in the next 20 years and some people think it's going to be in the next 2000. And that's very important. You know, that's not just a basketball bump. If the AOC shut down, then we would have a very big problem on our hands. We don't have consensus around those things. But

here's another thing that we didn't get in into in the series that I think is very interesting. I think people would be well served to know that there are some actual crazy ass ideas in science. >> Interesting. Yeah. What do you have in mind?

>> Well, I just I I'm writing this book about the biology of cancer and so I have like cancer examples. So, there's a crazy ass idea that I think is wrong that cancer is in fact a bunch of switches being flipped turning on an ancestral form of cellular life. And so there's all these like things, these preserved genes from an older way of single-sellled living that just got preserved through chance and that those things are being turned on. It is true sort of conceptually and poetically that cancer is a reversion to a single cell lifestyle. That is absolutely true. It's

a component of a multisellular organism turning to a single cell lifestyle and then evolving through natural selection not based on the sort of success of the colony of cells but the success of the individual. That is what cancer is definitely. But there's this kooky idea that a lot of like people are trying to find out if this is true that there are these actual preserved genes and they're turning on these genes that actually have no purpose in a multisellular organism. That requires a huge amount of you know scientific knowledge to understand like why it would be interesting why it would not immediately be accepted and what kind of work you have to do to try and accept this idea. We definitely explored talking about something adjacent to this, I think, which is that like if you go back in history and look at continental drift.

People thought that was like an embarrassingly stupid idea, right? That the continents used to be attached and that they separated apart. Like, oh, you just look at a map and they look like they vaguely fit together and like that seems idiotic. And that was that's was how it was. And with the benefit of hindsight, we know that of course that was true. And it eventually passed the

bar of you know scientific scrutiny >> right we got all this other data that also were explained by it >> right I don't think we ended up including that I think we wrote a script about that because what we wanted to explore was this idea that sometimes a kooky idea seems kooky because we haven't accumulated enough evidence yet but it's the beginning of the scientific process and sometimes it seems kooky because it's kooky and I think where we struggled and we eventually just scrapped it because you can only do so much in a seven episode series is like going back to our attentional ecosystem that we're living in. We didn't really want people just vibing out on like, oh, maybe flat earth were just at the beginning of the scientific process and actually that might be [laughter] true. >> You know, we didn't want >> people uh like selectively choosing which koogie ideas might be scientifically possible and which ones might not be. And it was in a context of like such a splintered media environment. and it felt dangerous to poke at that without being able to offer the tools of like really assessing the kooky ideas. I think that really points

to so much about the series is like how can we help people navigate science media now in in the world we live in now which is a unique one. >> It is uh and like there's a piece of me and I know that we had this conversation that like wants to be less aware of now. It wants to be less aware of the controversy. I think that of course we anchor on controversy because it's salient. Whenever we are having arguments, you never see the things we agree about. Why would you focus on the

things we agree about? But it is also true that our audience is going to be anchored on the present things that they're that are currently being argued about. And then ultimately, you kind of do have to accept that we need like a is there consensus.com? But like having spent, you know, the last two and a half years inside of cancer biology, like I'm aware that the consensus around how cancer operates and how best to treat it has changed a lot in the last 30 years.

And that's, you know, all within my lifetime. And I don't think that we're done with that. And I think that it has like implications on people's health. But it doesn't, interestingly, it's not like it turned out that apricot pits were the cure to cancer. The consensus has changed a lot, but it hasn't changed in the way that the pseudoscientific salespeople were saying that it would, which has not prevented them from continuing to say the old stuff that they've always said. I talk about this

in the video that this is going to be connected to. I talk about how pseudocience actually really does a pretty good job of outlining what science actually is. Because what pseudocience does, it's different from like, you know, astrology, which isn't pretending really to be a science. It's mystical. It's supernatural. There are

times though when you can see it start to act in pseudocientific ways where people like talk about the science of astrology and then you're in the realm of pseudocience and and what's happening there is you're borrowing the credibility of science by acting out its forms. So you put in citations, you put in graphs, you talk about statistics, you talk about government data and oftentimes with a very strong intent toward pulling somebody away from scientific consensus and and toward something that you can control and sell. And that to me helps me understand that like it's all these tropes that like science invented a bunch of tools for which to accomplish goals and now you're play acting them. You're wearing them as a costume but you're not actually doing them. And it's very hard for the average person I feel like to tell the difference between those two things.

Like if it has a bunch of citations it just feels more scientific even if the citations are like blog posts from antivaxers. >> Yeah. I do think that like that's what takes me back to the is thereconsensus.com the lens for understanding consensus because I I think one thing we really try to get across with this series is that science is both dynamic as you're saying last 30 years we've learned so much about cancer but it's also incredibly stable and I think as a consumer of science media sometimes the dynamism of science and new studies coming up and pseudocientific contradictions coming up you can feel like there's no stable ground underneath you like everything is moving all the time. But with an awareness of the broad areas of consensus brought into that then you understand that like the dynamism is within really sturdy kind of pillars that you can hold on to. And I think

that's that's [laughter] like my hope for >> for viewers is the like you can again coming back to the like you can rest you can live like they're the ground is not shifting all the time [laughter] with every new study. They're like new wrinkles. They're not new foundations necessarily. Our tools are so good now that a lot of times the effect that you see are things we have figured especially when it comes to health. Things that we figured out that are very small effects and like really don't need to have an impact on your life. And it's

not research being done for a bad reason. It's not research being done because you know they're trying to get attention. They're trying to do epidemiological studies but we live in such a hypercompetitive information environment. Like I just think that that's the destabilizing thing because anything that will get attention will be framed in the most salient way possible, >> right? which is the individual.

>> Yeah, of course. Yeah. Like I don't care about I don't care about societywide cancer rates. I care about me. >> I care about if I can make a choice that's going to preserve myself, you know?

>> Yeah. And epidemiologists never think about themselves. The people doing this study, [laughter] they probably eat just as much turkey as everybody else. Whereas like back in the 50s when people started doing research on smoking, they were like, I got to stop smoking BECAUSE THE EFFECTS WERE HUGE. Like we're talking about like effects that are a hundred to a thousand times larger than the effects we see now and were much easier to tease out but you know still took a long time which we talk about in the series.

>> We do. Yeah. We talk about the sort of intentional muddling of scientific controversy by folks who had interests in that doubt and in that controversy. Yeah. >> Megan really thank you for coming and chatting about what we're up to um and how Crash works and how science works and your new position as a boss. I hope

that it goes well. >> Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Also, you're relatively new position. We were

[laughter] talking before we started of having an 18-month-old living in your house, >> right? Yeah. I hope that part goes well, too. Thank you. Always always a pleasure to talk with you.

>> Yeah. Thank you to Megan for the chat. Thank you all for watching the whole thing. And yes, you can still get this shirt. Probably hasn't gone out of stock in the period of time that you spent watching the interview. So, that's

that's a win. But, it's available now. There's a link in the description.