---
video_title: "O discurso de Trump sobre o “potencial assassino” – legendado em português"
video_id: 5whvjIBRhTc
channel_name: "Felipe Moura Brasil"
channel_id: UC6goPLJfPWENPXAPeiTtJCQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5whvjIBRhTc
video_date: 2026-04-26T18:51:03+00:00
video_description: |
  O jornalista Felipe Moura Brasil legendou em português os principais trechos do primeiro discurso de Donald Trump sobre o “potencial assassino” Cole Thomas Allen, que tentou invadir o jantar dos correspondentes da Casa Branca com o presidente dos Estados Unidos, em Washington, na noite de sábado, 25 de abril de 2026.
  
  O procurador-geral interino dos EUA, Todd Blanche, também falou com a imprensa na coletiva.
  
  Assista, acompanhe diariamente o programa Análise dos Fatos (íntegras na aba “Ao vivo”; cortes, na aba “Vídeos”) e seja membro do canal: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC6goPLJfPWENPXAPeiTtJCQ/join.
  
  Assista também à entrevista com o senador Alessandro Vieira, feita por Felipe Moura Brasil e Igor Coelho no Flow News: https://www.youtube.com/live/JoR7IE_p9RE.
  
  Assista ainda ao episódio de quarta-feira, 22/04/2026, do podcast Levante, sobre o cessar-fogo entre EUA e Irã, entre outros temas internacionais: https://youtu.be/Z8kRoyLfqY0.
---
Well, thank you very much. That was very unexpected, but incredibly acted upon by Secret Service and Law Enforcement. This was an event dedicated to freedom of speech that was supposed to bring together members of both parties with members of the press. And in a certain way it did, because the fact that they just unified, I saw a room that was just totally unified. It was in one way, a very beautiful thing to see a man charge a security checkpoint armed with multiple weapons. And he was taken down by some very brave members of Secret Service and they acted very quickly. And I've just released for purposes of transparency, clarity. I've ordered it to be put out. You probably have it by now. Put out on truth and put out on many of the platforms. It tapes showing the violence of this thug that attacked our Constitution and also showing how quickly Secret Service and Law Enforcement acted on our country's behalf. Really did a great job. An officer was shot, but say by the fact that he was wearing obviously a very good bullet-proof vest. He was shot from very close distance with a very powerful gun. And the vest did the job. I just spoke to the officer and he's doing great. He's great shape. He has very high spirits and we told him we love him and respect him. And he's a very proud guy. He's very proud of what he does, Secret Service agent. And we looked at all of the conditions that took place tonight and I will say, you know, it's not a particularly secure building. And I didn't want to say this, but this is why we have to have all of the attributes of what we're planning at the White House. It's actually a larger room and it's much more secure. It's got its drone proof. It's bulletproof glass. We need the ballroom. That's why Secret Service. That's why the military are demanding it. They've wanted the ballroom for 150 years for lots of different reasons, but today's a little bit different because today we need levels of security that probably nobody's ever seen before. But everyone owes a tremendous debt of gratitude to the courage of law enforcement, the law enforcement and working with the DC police and just spoke with the mayor. And when we're finished, the police chief is going to take over and discuss it also from their viewpoint. But they also performed exactly as they were supposed to and you see the attacker in different positions, but you also see the attacker totally subdued and under control. So as you know, this is not the first time in the past couple of years that our Republicans been attacked by a would-be assassin who sought to kill. In Butler, Pennsylvania less than two years ago, you know, although that story and in Palm Beach, Florida, a few months after that, we came close. We really had, again, we had some great work done by law enforcement, but in light of this evening's events, I asked that all Americans recommit with their hearts and resolving our difference peacefully. We have to resolve our differences. I will say you had Republicans, Democrats, Independents, Conservatives, Liberals and Progressives. Those words are interchangeable perhaps, but maybe they're not. And yet everybody in that room, big crowd, record-setting crowd, there was a record-setting group of people. And there was a tremendous amount of love and coming together. I watched and I was very, very impressed by that. But we were first late and I were taken very well care, very quickly, very quickly rushed off the stage. Vice President JD Vance was here. It was likewise beautifully done. He was just saying how quickly everybody acted law enforcement, secret service in particular in this case, but law enforcement, Marco had the same thing. Pete was there. Pete didn't want any help. He didn't want anybody to help. He doesn't want anybody to help him, but he did get something new. And I think you also said that it was very impressive. So with that, I'd like to ask Todd Blanche to come up and say a few words and tell you it's already underway. The man has been captured. They've gone to his apartment. I guess he lives in California. And he's a sick person, a very sick person. And we don't want things like this to happen. I think it's very important that I say, though, and I told the representatives of the evening that it's such a beautiful job. It was such a beautiful evening. And again, they're talking about free speech in our Constitution. That's what it's all about. Not just White House correspondents. It's really, it was really based on free speech in our Constitution. But I said very importantly that we'll do it again within the next 30 days. It will make it bigger and better and even nicer. So I just want to thank everybody that was involved. I also want to thank the press, the media. You've been very responsible in your coverage. I will say I've been seeing what's been out. You've been very responsible. So Todd Blanche, I'd like to say a few words. I know we're going to have cash. And then you're going to go on. We can ask, I guess we can take a couple of questions. I want to thank the first lady for, that was a rather traumatic experience for her. There was a lot of action taking place up there very quickly. But again, the response time was really incredible. And we're going to reschedule. We're going to do it again. We're not going to let anybody take over our society. We're not going to cancel things out because we can't do that. We wanted to say tonight, I will tell you, I fought like hell this day. But there was protocol that said police, sir, because they didn't know a lot of, there was a lot of action going on and they didn't know could there be probably a loan shooter, but we'll find out. We'll find out very quickly. They have it very well under control. I want to thank everybody very much. And God Blanche, please. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Tonight you saw the very worst and the very best of this country. You saw the very worst by the actions of that coward that the president just talked about. But you also saw the very best because you saw law enforcement do exactly what they're supposed to do. And you'll see the videos come out. I expect very shortly and you'll see law enforcement do exactly what we want them to do. And so I echo what Mr. President, what President Trump just said that we are extraordinarily grateful and appreciative of the men and women of law enforcement that did their jobs and I including one who was injured. This investigation is ongoing. I expect you will see charges filed shortly. The charges should be self evident given the conduct. But as you'll hear, there will be multiple charges surrounding the state. The shooting around the possession of firearms and anything else that we can get on this guy. There's a president for you and perhaps law enforcement as well. What is the level of confidence that this was a lone actor? My impression is he was a lone wolf, a wack job. He's a crazy people. He's a crazy people. And they have to be dealt with. We had that in the second attempt as you know, he's spending life in prison. Because if you let him out, they'll probably, you know, if he serves ten years or fifteen years, you let him out or probably try it again with somebody else. There's sick people. We have a lot of sick people. But you're going to know, I think very shortly, you're going to know Todd a lot about him. You're going to know a lot about him.