---
video_title: "How Tokyo Beat the Housing Crisis"
video_id: ACTY1Bo5Tro
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ACTY1Bo5Tro
video_date: 2025-12-15T06:36:34+00:00
video_description: |
  Every major city in the Western world is in a housing crisis. Rents in New York, London, and Sydney are spiraling out of control. Yet, Tokyo—the largest city on Earth—has had flat or even falling rent prices for 20 years. This video investigates the "Tokyo Model," arguing that while the West protects buildings, Japan protects the right to build, creating a hyper-flexible city that regenerates itself every 30 years.
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
Imagine two city skylines at night. One is New York City's glittering yet hiding a harsh truth. Rents have doubled in the past decade, pricing out nurses, teachers, and cab drivers. The other is Tokyo's endless expanse. Equally vibrant yet remarkably affordable. In London,

young professionals squeeze into flats and pay fortunes in rent. In Tokyo, similarly, tiny apartments rent for a fraction of the cost. How could the world's largest metropolis, Tokyo, be an affordable place to live when Western mega cities have become playgrounds for the rich? This is the puzzle we're here to unravel. Tokyo and New York are both global capitals bursting with tens of millions of people. Yet, their housing situations could not be more different. New York

and London have seen housing costs skyrocket over the past decade. Median home prices in these western cities have jumped well over 50% in just a few years, and rents have surged by double digits annually during peak years. In London, home prices rose an astonishing 441% over 20 years, fueling an affordability crisis. By contrast, Tokyo has barely budged. Rents in Tokyo Prefecture increased only about 20% total over 15 years, a gentle rise that New York or London sometimes see in a single year. Housing in Tokyo is so abundant that the typical Japanese renter spends just

approximately 13% of their income on rent compared to approximately 30% for Americans. In short, Tokyo offers a major metropolis lifestyle at a fraction of the cost of its western peers. These divergent outcomes stem from how each city handles a fundamental issue, housing supply. Tokyo continuously builds new homes at a pace unheard of in the West. In 2014 alone, the city of Tokyo started construction on 142,000 new housing units, more than the entire country of England, 137,000 starts, managed that year. Over the decades since the 1960s,

Tokyo has tripled its housing stock, while New York's grew only about 1/3. This relentless development has kept Tokyo's market slack. Plenty of vacancies and options, so landlords can't jack up prices wildly. Meanwhile, New York and London have built far fewer homes than needed. New York, for example, often adds only approximately 20 to 30,000 units per year, not nearly enough to meet demand. The result, a shortfall and runaway cost of housing in New York versus stable prices

in Tokyo. Tokyo's population is still growing, 14 million in the city, 37 million metro. Yet, it has avoided a housing affordability crisis that grips cities half its size. Clearly, Tokyo is doing something differently. Before we dive into Tokyo's secret source, let's understand how stark things have become in Western mega cities and what happens when housing supply falls woefully behind demand. In New York City and London, the housing affordability situation has gone from tough to

downright dire. Both cities have seen explosive price growth that far outpaces incomes. In London, an entire generation has been priced out of home ownership. Town houses that sold for £150,000 in the 1990s now fetch millions. London rents have climbed so high that even dualincome middle-class families struggle to afford a modest flat. Over 330,000 London households sit on waiting lists for

subsidized housing as of 2024. And an increasing number of people find themselves homeless or in temporary accommodation. Grim indicators of a housing system in crisis. It's little better in New York City. Rents in Manhattan hit record highs year after year, and even formerly affordable burrows like Brooklyn and Queens have seen rent increases of 30 to 50% in a span of just a few years. In 2022, some New Yorkers faced annual rent hikes as high as 80% when pandemic

era discounts expired. The median Manhattan rent blew past $4,000 per month, and tenants across the income spectrum have been squeezed. The consequences extend beyond individual pain. They threaten the city's social fabric and economic vitality. When only the wealthy can buy homes or rent decent apartments, cities risk becoming gilded ghettos. London and New York have in effect

become playgrounds for the elite as families and young workers flee in search of affordability. Key workers, teachers, nurses, firefighters can no longer live near the communities they serve. Companies in London and NYC complain that talent is harder to attract when even a good salary barely covers a shoebox apartment and consider broader impacts. As housing costs redistribute wealth to property owners, inequality deepens. The Financial Times noted how western housing booms have pitted young against old, enriching longtime homeowners while locking out younger generations and newcomers. People who might move to London or New York for opportunities

simply can't because housing is too expensive. A phenomenon economists warn stifles growth and innovation. In short, housing inaction in these cities hasn't just made life harder, it's undermining the city's futures. New York's government at least recognizes the crisis. Mayor Eric Adams lamented, "How are we allowing Tokyo to do things better than us?"

He's proposed a plan to accelerate construction of 100,000 new homes, pointing enviously to Tokyo's ability to keep housing costs down by increasing supply. London's leaders too acknowledge the need for tens of thousands of new homes per year. Yet year after year, targets are missed. Why? Part of the answer lies in policy and politics. The very rules that govern building differ vastly

between these western cities and Tokyo. To see the path out of this crisis, we need to understand how Tokyo achieved housing abundance where New York and London failed. This brings us to the first major factor. Who controls the rules of the housing game? Tokyo's affordability miracle starts with an unexpected hero. Zoning laws. On paper, zoning might sound dry, but it essentially decides

what can be built where. And in Tokyo, the answer is just about anything. Just about anywhere. Since 1968, Japan's national government has set flexible pro-development zoning policies that override local nimiism, not in my backyard opposition. Japan established only about a dozen standardized zones for the entire country. And crucially, almost all of them allow housing by

default. Except for heavy industrial areas, a residential building can be built as of right on virtually any parcel of urban land in Tokyo. In other words, if your building plan meets the basic code and size limits, you don't need a special permit or neighborhood council approval, you can just build it. High-rise, mid-rise, single family home, small apartment above a shop. Tokyo's zoning welcomes all these forms in a given district. It's an inclusive approach that actively encourages

mixeduse neighborhoods. Walk down a Tokyo street and you might see a quiet shrine next to an apartment block above a cafe. That's not a zoning violation. That's by design. The city can react organically to demand. As one Tokyo architect puts it, if more housing is needed in a given area, the

zoning already allows it to sprout like a flexible framework rather than a cage. Contrast this with New York or London. In the US and UK, zoning and planning rules are dominated by local governments, city councils, burough councils, neighborhood boards, each with power to throttle development. Zoning in many western cities is exclusive. It divides land into rigid single-use zones, so-called uklitian zoning, where, for example, large swavthes of a city are reserved only for lowdensity houses. If all those lots have homes on them already, well, you're not

allowed to add more, even if demand is sky-high. Changing the rules means running a gauntlet of community meetings, political hearings, and likely facing a wall of nimi opposition. In New York, any significant project outside existing rules triggers the dreaded ULURP process, a multi-month public review, and local city council members wield veto power over reszoning in their district. This means a single council person or vocal group of neighbors can kill a new housing proposal on a whim, and they often do, fearing congestion or just change itself. Endless bickering, hyper local regulations, historic preservation laws, environmental reviews. Much proposed new

housing gets dragged out or outright killed in the US. One housing expert notes. In collectivist Japan, by contrast, national authorities decided that housing abundance is in the public interest and they didn't give local nimbies much room to interfere. As Alan Durning of Sighteline Institute says, "The key in Japan is the extreme concentration of decision-making at the national level." Local complaints about a new apartment on the block. In Japan, officials essentially shrug

and say, "Sorry, nothing we can do. The broader community's need for housing simply outweighs one street's objections." In effect, nimism can't exist. There is no local veto. The numbers show the impact of these differing systems. Under Japan's permissive zoning, Tokyo averages over

130,000 new housing units in the city each year, and even more if you count its far suburbs. Under America's localist system, the much larger New York Metro manages a fraction of that. New York City proper initiated under 30,000 units in 2020. It's not that Tokyo has more demand or more land. It doesn't. The city is dense and essentially built out. It's that Tokyo's rules actually

let developers build to meet demand. By contrast, in places like California, local zoning strangled supply so much that statewide laws had to step in to legalize things like duplexes on single family lots. Baby steps toward a Japanese-style approach. Japan solved this decades ago. Since the late60s, every year, Tokyo has more homes than households, maintaining a surplus rather than a shortage.

Tokyo's zoning also makes it easy to build up when needed. If an area is booming, nothing stops a wave of taller apartment buildings from replacing older low-rises as long as they follow basic height floor area rules linked to road width. In fact, broad swaths of Tokyo that were once industrial or underutilized have seamlessly transformed into residential areas with mid and high-rise apartments. No years long reszoning battle required. A great example is around Tokyo Bay. Old warehouses and factories gave way to gleaming apartment towers when demand

shifted thanks to flexible zoning allowances. London and New York, on the other hand, are infamous for zoning paralysis. In London, height limits, heritage views, green belt restrictions, and local objections make building new homes a herculean task. Hence, London consistently undersupplies housing. In New York, experts point out that although 80% of new units technically use as of right zoning, that figure is misleading. It's because anything needing a reszoning is

so ownorous that developers rarely even try. The byite capacity is largely maxed out. Only approximately 20% of residential land in New York City is even theoretically able to host more housing under current zoning. Meanwhile, Tokyo's additive zoning means even commercial zones allow residences. So developers have vast latitude to choose sites. The outcome in Tokyo

needing a special variance or plan approval is rare, the opposite of New York. When discretionary approvals are required in Tokyo, say a massive redevelopment, they can still face delays and local push back. But such cases are exceptions to the rule. The rule in Tokyo is if you follow the code, go build it. The result is a steady flow of new housing that keeps prices in check. Of course,

this free-for-all approach comes with trade-offs, which we'll discuss later. But first, let's look at another rather counterintuitive factor in Tokyo's housing success. A cultural habit of tearing things down and rebuilding, a practice that Western cities generally avoid. Tokyo's ever refreshing cityscape might be the secret ingredient keeping housing supply plentiful. Walk through a neighborhood in Tokyo and you might be surprised how new everything looks.

Buildings seldom appear older than a few decades because often they aren't. In Japan, there is a long-standing tendency, part cultural, part practical, to rebuild structures every 30 to 40 years or so. Unlike in London or New York, where a 100-year-old brownstone or Victorian terrace is cherished and preserved, a 40-year-old house in Tokyo is often seen as outdated or even unsafe. In fact, Japanese homes depreciate in value over time instead of appreciating. After a few decades, a house might be considered literally worthless. Only the land holds value. When an owner moves out

or passes away, frequently the house is torn down and replaced with a new one rather than resold as is. This phenomenon, sometimes called scrap and build, means Tokyo's housing stock is in a constant state of renewal. It sounds wasteful and indeed has drawbacks. But one undeniable effect is a continuously high rate of housing construction. Even when the population isn't booming, builders stay busy replacing aging homes with new units. Housing starts in Tokyo, therefore stay elevated,

adding supply or at least substituting new for old so that quality and safety improve. As one observer noted, constant rebuilding is a big reason Tokyo's housing starts are so high. While the net increase in homes is a bit lower since some new construction just replaces old homes, often the replacement brings an increase in density. Say turning a single family lot into a small apartment building. Little by little, Tokyo's neighborhoods densify through this evolutionary rebuild process, adding more units. Why do the Japanese rebuild so much? Historically,

rapid postwar urbanization and several catastrophes set the pattern. After World War II, Japan had to house a population that swarmed from rural areas into cities like Tokyo and do it fast. Many homes built in the 1950s to60s boom were cheap and not meant to last generations. Then there's the constant spectre of earthquakes. Building codes in Japan are updated frequently to improve seismic safety, especially after events like the 1981 code overhaul and the 1995 Kobe quake. An older house is often deemed structurally inferior by modern standards. Culturally,

there's also less attachment to the idea of a house as an heirloom. Japanese homeowners fully expect their house to lose value and be gone in 30 years. In fact, they have a term for old homes. Jongu chuko meaning used housing said almost with the same lack of reverence as a used car. Meanwhile, Americans fawn over pre-war brownstones, and Britain's prize their Georgian and Eduwardian homes. This difference is profound. Impermanence is accepted in Japan. Even

the country's most sacred Shinto shrine at Eay is ritually rebuilt from scratch every 20 years. A powerful cultural symbol that nothing material is truly permanent. As one planner noted, there's not a premium associated with older housing in Japan. A 1920s house in Tokyo isn't charming. It's likely seen as subpar and tear down ready. So, when a home reaches the end of its short life,

owners often do the bare minimum and rebuild rather than invest in pricey renovations. A whole industry is geared toward this cycle. Japan has five times more architects per capita than the US in part because there's constant demand to design custom new homes for rebuilds. Homebuilders market new models aggressively, akin to how car makers roll out new car designs. Some of Tokyo's most iconic modern buildings arose on sites of previous ones that had outlived their short lifespans. This cycle has big housing supply implications. In the West, if a neighborhood is

full of 100-year-old houses that residents fiercely defend, adding units is extremely hard. Those structures aren't going anywhere, and often preservation laws protect them. In Tokyo, a neighborhood of 30-year-old houses is essentially a land bank waiting to be redeveloped. The minute the market demands more housing there, those houses can be knocked down with minimal fuss and something bigger built. Again, as of right, in many cases, each rebuild is an opportunity to add another apartment or two, or to combine plots for a larger building over decades. This means Tokyo

can organically increase housing density without needing vast new trackcts of land or major top- down urban renewal schemes. The downside, Tokyo's cityscape can feel like an endless construction zone and often lacks the historic charm of older cities. Beautiful landmarks are sometimes casualties of redevelopment. Case in point, the famous Nakagin capsule tower, a modernist icon from 1972, was demolished in 2022 after just 50 years because it fell into disrepair and the land was too valuable to leave underused. Even the beloved old Harajuku train station, built 1924, was torn down recently to make way for a larger, safer structure. These losses can be heartbreaking

to preservationists. Tokyo's rebuild habit also means neighborhoods change character quickly. A cozy alley of wooden houses might sprout a tall condo, jarring to some, and architecturally, the city can appear haphazard. A Financial Times writer frankly observed that modern Tokyo can be spectacularly ugly in places, a jumble of mismatched buildings with little open space, where high quality tends to mean just won't fall down in an earthquake. harsh, but there's truth in it. The Japanese public has largely accepted less aesthetic cohesion

and less nostalgia in exchange for more housing and safety. By stimulating building, they stimulate the neighborhood, as one Japanese professor put it. A continuous renewal that keeps the city young for housing affordability. The scrap and build culture is undeniably helpful. It prevents the situation common in New York or London where a limited stock of aging homes turns into a prized finite commodity that only grows more expensive. In Tokyo, homes are not treasured

investment assets. They're consumables that get replaced. So, owners don't mind new development nearby as much. They're not banking on their homes eternal resale value. Japanese homeowners generally don't plan to fund retirement by selling their house. It'll be nearly valueless by then.

This removes a huge psychological and political barrier to development. In the US, homeowners often oppose new housing because they fear it will hurt their property values or neighborhood character. In Tokyo, property value trajectories are different and neighborhood character is that it will change. People invest less of their ego in their house and more in the idea that the city itself evolves. As a result, development isn't the enemy. It's seen as part of improving the city.

Tokyo's everchurning rebuild engine coupled with its liberal zoning has ensured that the housing supply stays ample. But there's one more pillar to Tokyo's affordability that we need to examine. It's superb mass transit. Without it, Tokyo's housing success wouldn't be possible because transit is what makes all those new homes in far-flung areas livable. If zoning and constant rebuilding are the rules that make housing possible, Tokyo's mass transit is the machine that makes that housing usable. Greater Tokyo's rail and subway system is a dense web

of private railways, commuter lines, and subways that reaches almost everywhere people live. That matters because it means new housing does not have to squeeze into a tiny, expensive core. Tokyo can add homes far from the center and still give people a realistic commute. In other words, trains turn far away land into close enough land. As architect Jorge Al-Mazan has pointed out, people can move further out for cheaper, larger homes and still reliably get where they need to go because the network is so complete and so dependable. In Tokyo, it's normal to live 30, 40,

even 60 plus kilometers from the center and still reach major job areas in under an hour on a fast, frequent train. That 1-hour circle is the real affordability trick. The bigger the area you can reach in a reasonable time, the more places you can build and the less pressure sits on any one neighborhood. This also changes the shape of the city. Instead of one super expensive downtown like Manhattan or London's zone 1, Tokyo runs more like a web of many centers. Places like Shinjuku, Shibuya, Ikibukuro, and Shinagawa are not secondary spots.

They are major hubs stitched together by rail. Jobs and services are spread out so people can live in many different places without being cut off from opportunity. That's hard to copy in carheavy cities. In a car dependent metro, moving outward often means trading cheaper rent for long traffic choke travel and fewer jobs you can reach without pain. Tokyo avoided that trap by building transport capacity outward as the city grew. So each new line opened up more land for housing.

A clear example is the Tsukuba Express, which opened in 2005 and made commutes from parts of Ibaraki much more practical. Then new apartments and towns quickly followed along the stations. Repeat that pattern for decades and you get a huge metro area that is dense but spread across a wide radius, not trapped in one tiny bubble. There is a cost, crowding. Rush hour trains can be brutal, and the phrase commuting hell exists for a reason. The average commute is about an hour and many

rides are standing room only. But Tokyo commuters are often choosing that over the alternative. Long highway trips in daily gridlock. Rail companies and government keep adding capacity. Longer trains, better signals, more trains per hour because demand never stops. The key point is that

Tokyo's transit keeps the city from hitting a hard wall on housing. Suburban stations are not empty park and ride lots. They are many city centers with shops, offices, and mid-rise buildings. Many new housing projects cluster around these hubs, and private rail firms often act like developers, building homes and malls near their own stations because they know the trains make the location valuable. Seen from above, Tokyo's train lines spread like roots, and housing blooms along them.

That tight fit between transit and building is one reason Tokyo can add homes at scale while staying far more stable than cities where growth gets stuck behind weak transit and tight rules.