---
video_title: "ANA’s Big Bet: How One Airline Built the Dreamliner"
video_id: HvTLsJb6v-A
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HvTLsJb6v-A
video_date: 20251212
video_description: |
  Airlines usually buy planes "off the shelf." But the relationship between All Nippon Airways (ANA) and the Boeing 787 is different. ANA wasn't just the first customer; they were the co-creators. 
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
In 2004, a Japanese airline made a bet that would redefine air travel. All Nippon Airways, better known as ANA, placed the largest launch order in Boeing's history for a plane that didn't even exist yet. This was a highstakes gamble. 50 brand new Dreamlininers worth around $6 billion at list prices, years before the first one would ever take off. Fast forward and ANA not only became the first to fly the Boeing 787 Dreamlininer, it now operates the world's biggest 787 fleet. The 787

was promised to be a gamecher, a midsize airliner that burns 20% less fuel than the Boeing 767. It was built to replace for ANA. That meant huge savings and new routes that were never possible before. But that dream nearly fell apart. In January 2013, smoke billowed from the electronics bay of an ANA787, forcing an emergency landing and the unprecedented worldwide grounding of every Dreamlininer. Yet, even in that crisis, ANA didn't quit on the plane it helped create. First,

what does it mean to be a launch customer for a new aircraft? Essentially, it's the airline that signs up first to buy a brand new model, often working closely with the manufacturer in design and testing. Launch customers are critical. Their early order signals confidence to the rest of the industry. They often get to influence the plane's design details and in return gain a head start with the new technology. But there's a flip side. They also take on risk. If the aircraft runs into

problems or delays, which many new planes do, the launch customer feels the pain first. It's a bit like being first in line for a new gadget. You get bragging rights and input, but you might suffer the early bugs. In the early 2000s, Boeing was formulating an ambitious new jet. The plan wasn't to build a bigger jumbo or a faster cruiser, but rather a fuelee efficient midsize plane that could fly long distances cheaply. This became the Boeing 787 Dreamliner. A departure from previous designs.

Unlike traditional airliners made mostly of aluminum, about half of the 787's airframe is carbon fiber composite, a lighter, stronger material that helped cut weight dramatically. Coupled with new high bypass engines and advanced aerodynamics, the 787 was advertised as 20% more fuel efficient than similar midsized jets of the previous generation. In an industry where fuel is often the number one expense, a 20% savings is a holy grail. The Dreamliner was also packed with passenger friendly features, higher cabin humidity and lower altitude pressurization for comfort, larger dimmable windows, and an electrical architecture that replaced many bleed air systems. Equally revolutionary was how it was built. Boeing spread 787 production across a global supply chain

of over 50 partners. Major sections, wings, fuselage barrels, etc. would be built in places like Japan, Italy, and South Carolina, then flown to Everett for final assembly. This approach aimed to save money and involve key overseas industries. But, as we'll see, it also contributed to delays.

At the conceptual level, Boeing's bet was that the 787 could enable a new kind of route network. Rather than using huge jumbos to connect mega hubs, the traditional hub and spoke model, airlines could fly long and thin routes, non-stop flights between smaller cities profitably. A mid-sized plane with long range would let passengers skip layovers and go pointto-oint. This idea appealed to many airlines in the mid200s and none more so than all Nippon Airways. Why?

To answer that, let's look at how ANA became the Dreamliner's launch customer. On April 26th, 2004, ANA stunned the aviation world by announcing an order for 50 Boeing 7E7 Dreamlininers. This was the official launch of the 787 program. And ANA's order was huge. In fact, it was the largest launch order Boeing had ever received up to that time. It included 30 short- range 7873s and 20

longrange 7878s. A clear sign that ANA intended to use the Dreamliner for both domestic Japanese routes and international flights. For context, ANA wasn't even Japan's biggest airline then. Japan Airlines was larger internationally. ANA was known for its extensive domestic network, so it was counterintuitive that a Japanese domestic carrier would spearhead a cuttingedge longhaul jet. But ANA had vision. They saw the 7E7 as the ideal replacement for their aging Boeing

767 fleet and a ticket to expand globally without the risk of giant planes. This bold move meant ANA was deeply involved in the 787's development from day one. Boeing and ANA engineers collaborated on design requirements, seating layouts, range, fuel efficiency targets to ensure the plane would meet ANA's needs. ANA's faith gave Boeing a credible customer to attract others. As ANA's then CEO MO Yamamoto later said at the Dreamlininer rollout ceremony in 2007, "Our faith in Boeing's dream was the impetus for this runaway best-selling new aircraft in history." By that 2007 rollout, Boeing

had accumulated 677 orders from 47 airlines before anyone had even seen the plane fly. A testament to how persuasive the 787's promises were. And it all started with ANA's leap of faith. Of course, being first in line also meant weathering the storm of delays, and there were plenty. Originally, Boeing had promised ANA the first 787 would arrive in time for the 2008 Beijing Olympics.

But developing so many new technologies at once proved challenging. The global supply chain ran into snags. Parts arrived late or didn't fit, and Boeing had to redesign sections on the fly. The first flight of the 787 slipped from 2007 to late 2009, and certification took another 18 months. In the end, ANA's first Dreamliner was delivered in September 2011, a full 3 and a half years behind schedule. For ANA executives, it must have been frustrating. They had 50 expensive

jets on order that were nowhere to be seen, while their existing fleet aged past its prime. Yet, ANA stuck with Boeing throughout the delays. As launch customer, they were invited into the testing process. ANA pilots were the first customer crews to fly the 787 in test flights as early as May 2010. ANA even helped Boeing conduct operation validation trials in Japan in mid 2011, flying the Dreamliner on simulated routes to see how it held up in real airline conditions. This

close partnership was unusual. It underscored how deeply involved ANA was in the 787's design and rollout. In fact, ANA became Boeing's first non US launch customer for a new widebody aircraft ever. That's a big deal when you consider Boeing's previous iconic jets 70774777 all had American Airlines as their launch partners. The 787 was truly a global project.

Finally, in late September 2011, ANA's patience paid off. Amid celebration in Everett, Washington, Boeing handed over the very first 787 Dreamlininer to ANA, tail number JA801A. A few days later, on October 26th, 2011, ANA operated the world's first passenger flight of the 787, a special charter from Tokyo Narita to Hong Kong. It was a moment of triumph. On board that flight were ANA's CEO Shinichiroito, Boeing representatives, media, and even some superfan passengers who had bid in a charity auction for a seat. One person paid over $30,000 to

be part of this historic journey. Upon landing, the aviation press heralded the Dreamliner as the next big thing in air travel. ANA wasted no time putting their new toy to work. Within days, they began scheduled domestic 787 flights, Tokyo to Okyama and Hiroshima. And by early 2012, they started the first regular international service, Tokyo Haneda to Beijing. In January 2012,

ANA launched the 787's first longhaul route from Tokyo to Frankfurt. For Boeing, the Dreamliner's entry into service with ANA was hugely symbolic, a proof of concept that an airline could now fly long routes profitably with a midsize jet. For ANA, it was the beginning of a new chapter, one where a plane they had helped Midwife to life would, they hoped, give them an edge over competitors. Now, the story turns to how ANA actually used the 787 and the strategy it enabled. Once ANA had the 787 in hand, it started doing something new. Flying places that previously

weren't feasible as non-stops. The Dreamliner unlocked what airline planners call long and thin routes, long-d distanceance flights with fewer passengers. ANA's leadership realized they could bypass traditional hub-to-hub routes and connect secondary cities in different continents directly thanks to the 787's efficiency and smaller size. This became a cornerstone of ANA's international expansion in the 2010s. A perfect example came in January 2013. ANA inaugurated a non-stop flight

from Tokyo Narita to San Jose, California, right into the heart of Silicon Valley. It was the first ever Asia-bound longhaul flight from San Jose, nearby San Francisco, had all the traffic before. Would such a route work with a big 777 or 747? Absolutely not. too many seats to fill and too costly for a midsize city. But with the 787-8 seating around 158 passengers in

ANA's configuration, it was just right. In fact, ANA's CEO noted that a route like San Jose Tokyo wouldn't make economic sense on a larger aircraft, but it does with the more efficient 787. The flight proved popular among tech travelers, and ANA soon went daily. This small city pairing was exactly what Boeing had promised. the Dreamliner letting airlines fly where the people are, not just where the hubs are. ANA repeated this pattern across the globe. In 2015, they announced a new

Tokyo Brussels service flown daily with a 787-8. Brussels Belgium had no direct flights to Japan at the time, despite tens of thousands of passengers traveling between the countries each year. Those travelers had been stuck connecting through other hubs, Frankfurt, Amsterdam, etc. ANA's CEO, Osamu Shinobi, touted that by offering the only non-stop Japan Belgium link, ANA would dramatically improve access for travelers. The route launched in October 2015 and gave ANA a brand boost in Europe, showing they could join city pairs that even larger carriers hadn't connected. Similarly, ANA

used 787s to open Dusseldorf 2014 and Mexico City 2017 and to add secondary cities in Asia. Perhaps the boldest move was in 2019 when ANA launched a direct flight from Tokyo Narita to Perth, Australia, a 9-hour trek to a relatively remote city on Australia's west coast. It was the only direct flight between Japan and Perth. This one really underscored the long and thin philosophy. Quantis and JL had tried Tokyo Perth decades ago with larger aircraft and couldn't sustain it. But with the Dreamlininer's economics, ANA could make it work. The 7878 they assigned had

just 184 seats, yet it could fly the approximately 7,400 km route efficiently. Business travelers and tourists suddenly had a convenient connection between Japan and Western Australia, fueling both economies. By leveraging these routes, ANA quietly built up a robust international network that complemented its big hub routes. Between 2010 and 2015, ANA added service to six new cities in Europe and North America, something that would have been very hard without the 787. In fact, the growth spurt helped ANA overtake some European carriers in market share.

By mid decade, ANA had become the second largest carrier in the Europe Japan air travel market, surpassing Lufanza in annual passengers between those regions. That's astonishing when you recall that ANA was once seen as a primarily domestic airline. The Dreamliner was giving ANA global reach, one thin route at a time. And it wasn't just longhaul routes. The 787 also allowed ANA to reinforce important routes that were thinner than a 777 could handle. For instance, ANA could

deploy a 787 on medium demand routes like Tokyo to Vancouver or Seattle, where a 777 might be too big, and a 767 lacked range. This flexibility, being able to rightsize the plane to the route, became a competitive advantage. It meant higher load factors, fewer empty seats, and better profitability on each flight. The midpoint of our story, then is the turning point where the Dreamliner shifts from a delayed promise to a strategic workhorse. letting ANA fly in new ways. Now, let's dive deeper into why the 787 was such a versatile tool for ANA. Essentially,

the Swiss Army knife of their fleet. ANA called the 787 indispensable to its future plans. And it's easy to see why. The Dreamliner wasn't just a one-trick pony for long haul flights. It proved useful across ANA's route network. Think of it as the Swiss Army knife of planes.

Fuel efficient enough for long international routes, but also economical on shorter flights with the capacity and comfort to please passengers on both. One big reason is fuel efficiency, the trait the 787 was built around. For ANA operating in Japan, fuel costs have always been a headache. Japan has no domestic oil production, so jet fuel is imported and priced in dollars, meaning Japanese airlines feel the pain when the yen is weak or oil prices spike. In 2013, for example, ANA's fuel bills surged due to a drop in the yen's value, contributing to a quarterly loss. Enter the 787. A 20% fuel burn reduction was like a pressure release valve. ANA estimated that

once all its Dreamlininers were flying, they'd save about 10 billion yen, 130 million US in fuel costs every year. That's real money, roughly equal to the airlines entire net profit in some years. In an industry of thin margins, such savings can decide whether a route is viable or not. We have concrete numbers to illustrate this. Boeing noted that the 7878 was designed to burn 20% less fuel than the Boeing 767300 ER it would replace. For a 14-hour flight, Tokyo to Boston say

at early 2010's fuel prices, that translated to about $13,000 less fuel cost per flight. Multiply that by hundreds of flights a year, and you see how ANA could open routes like San Jose or Brussels and still turn a profit. Even on shorter flights, the 787 had an edge. ANA's analysts found the 787 uses roughly 10% less fuel on a 1 to2hour hop compared to a 767. Short flights don't get the full benefit of aerodynamic efficiency, but savings are savings. In Japan's domestic market,

where ANA flies highfrequency routes like Tokyo to Saporro or Fukuoka, that 10% fuel reduction added up, especially as oil prices climbed over $100 a barrel in the early 2010s. But the Swiss Army knife utility of the 787 for ANA goes beyond fuel. It's also about right sizing, capacity, and range. ANA structured their 787 fleet with multiple layouts. Some 7878s were configured in a highdensity domestic setup, 240 plus seats with lots of economy, while others had an international layout, approximately 184 seats with premium cabins. The fact that the same aircraft type could

be tweaked for different roles, was a logistical win. It simplified pilot training and maintenance. A pilot trained on a 787-8 could also fly a 787-9 with minimal additional training, and mechanics carried one common set of spares for many routes. By 2019, ANA had introduced all three Dreamliner variants, the 7878, 7879, and 78710 into its fleet, making it the first Asian airline to operate every model. Each variant became a tool in a specific niche. The 787-8, the smallest,

excelled at thin long hauls and medium routes, and even some domestic flights where its range wasn't needed, but its fuel efficiency was. The 787-9, a stretched version, carried more passengers and became ANA's workhorse for long international routes with roughly 240 to 250 seats. It started replacing larger 777s on some routes, delivering similar range at lower cost. The 787-10, which ANA introduced around 2019, is the longest variant with up to 330 seats, but slightly less range. ANA deployed these on busy regional routes like Tokyo, Singapore, and high demand domestic legs where capacity was needed, but ultra- long range wasn't. Essentially,

the 78710 started to replace aging Boeing 777300's on shorter services, offering nearly the same capacity with 25% better fuel efficiency per seat. As ANA integrated more Dreamlininers, the aircraft quickly formed the backbone of ANA's long haul fleet. By 2016, just 5 years after first delivery, ANA already operated 50 Dreamlininers, more than any airline in the world at that point. Those 787s alone made up a double-digit percentage of ANA's total fleet and an even larger share of its seat capacity. They also became central to ANA's branding. The carrier prided itself on being an

early adopter of technology, which resonated with Japanese customers. On board, passengers noticed the quieter ride and nicer cabin atmosphere. Surveys showed higher customer satisfaction on 787 flights, and ANA heavily marketed the Dreamliner's features like the humidity and the cleaner air to differentiate itself, especially in business class. It's worth noting that ANA consistently earned Skyr's five-star ratings starting in 2013 and won airline of the year awards in 2013 and 2018. achievements the airline attributed partly to product improvements, including advanced aircraft like the 787. One reason ANA was so committed to the 787 project is that Japan Inc.

itself was deeply invested in the Dreamliner success. In fact, about 35% of the entire 787 airframe is made by Japanese manufacturers, more than any Boeing jet before it. Key components like the wings, fuselage sections, and doors were designed and built in Japan. For example, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, MHI, developed and produced the 787's carbon fiber wings, a crown jewel of the design at its factories in Nagoya. Kawasaki Heavy Industries built forward fuselage sections and the main landing gear well, while Fuji Heavy Industries, now part of Subaru Corporation, built the center wing box and other structures. This wasn't just contracting. These

companies were risk-sharing partners, investing their own resources into the program. The Japanese government actively supported this industrial partnership through groups like the Japan Aircraft Development Corporation, JADC. Japan coordinated its aerospace firms to collaborate with Boeing and Japanese banks helped finance development. So when ANA stepped up as launch customer in 2004, it wasn't merely buying a foreign airplane. It was also bolstering a national effort to advance Japan's aerospace technology. In a sense, the 787 was partially made in Japan, and that gave ANA

extra incentive to see it succeed. It's telling that ANA and Japan Airlines JAL, historically fierce rivals, both ordered the 787 early. JAL ordered 30 plus Dreamlininers not long after ANA, even while in bankruptcy restructuring. There's a strong political and economic tie between Japanese airlines and Boeing going back decades, often attributed to US Japan relations and Japan's role as a Boeing partner. The 787 took that relationship to new heights. Consider this. Prior

to the 787, Japanese suppliers provided about 21% of the Boeing 777's parts. With the Dreamliner, that jumped to 35%. In exchange, Boeing understandably expected Japan's airlines to purchase the jet in large numbers, and they did. For Boeing, having ANA as the launch customer was a strategic win, not only commercially, but diplomatically, it virtually ensured JAL would follow suit, which it did, locking in Japan as a 787 stronghold. Sure enough, by the time the 787 entered service, nearly half of all Dreamlininers flying in the first year belong to ANA or JAL. Japan was 787 country from the get-go. This industrial connection also

explains why when the 787 program hit trouble both in development and later with the battery issue, ANA remained loyal. The airline wasn't just a customer, it was a partner. Boeing's then CEO of commercial airplanes, Ray Connor, noted in 2016 that ANA is a valued Boeing customer and has been a vital partner on this program. And in 2019 when ANA received its first 78710, Boeing's sales VP is Mner said, "We continue to support ANA, which now includes the entire 787 family and will soon include the new 777X, highlighting how the relationship spans multiple airplane programs. In other words, ANA's support of the Dreamliner was tied to Boeing's support of Japanese industry and vice versa, a two-way street. Politically, it's also worth noting that

Japan's government likes having its flag carriers at the forefront of aviation technology. Being the first to fly a new high-tech jet in Asia was a prestige item for ANA and for Japan. Remember the spectacle around the 787 rollout on July 8th, 2007. The date itself, July 8th, 2007, was chosen as 787 broadcast worldwide with ANA's livery and logo prominently displayed on the prototype. Mino Yamamoto of ANA spoke at that event about being proud that this epic-making aircraft will be delivered first to ANA and the people of Japan. That national pride theme ran deep.

He even poetically noted it was rather poetic that a plane called the Dreamliner, offering new technology and environmental mindfulness, would help ANA fulfill its mission of offering dreams to people around the world. Clearly, ANA saw the 787 as more than a metal tube with wings. It was a flagship project for showcasing Japanese innovation on the global stage.