---
video_title: "The Last Miracle: Why the World Will Never See Another Japan"
video_id: vOTgi8PniA8
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vOTgi8PniA8
video_date: 2025-12-08T11:25:00+00:00
video_description: |
  In the 1980s, Japan wasn't just a rich country; it was a sci-fi civilization. It rose from nuclear ash to become the world's second-largest economy in 30 years, threatening to overtake the US. Since then, China, South Korea, and India have risen.
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
At the height of Japan's late 1980s economic bubble, reality seemed to warp. In Tokyo, a mere parking lot was worth more than all of New York's Central Park. The tiny 3.4 square kilometer Imperial Palace grounds were valued higher than the entire real estate market of California. Japanese corporations were on a global shopping spree. Mitsubishi's real estate arm bought a

controlling stake in New York's Rockefeller Center for $846 million in 1989. And that same year, Sony acquired Hollywood's Colombia Pictures for $3.4 billion. It was as if Japan Inc. could buy the world. And for a moment, many feared or hoped it might. This era defied economic gravity. The

Nikki stock index surged sixfold in one decade, starting around 6,000 in 1980 and cresting near 39,000 by the end of 1989. every year brought new market highs, minting paper millionaires by the thousands. Tokyo's glitzy Ginsa district jumped so much that one square meter sold for 32 million yen, approximately $230,000. Japan's stock market alone made up 45% of global market capitalization at the peak, with the US a distant second at 33%. Trillions of dollars in speculative wealth were created virtually overnight. In 1987, gains from Japanese stocks and property amounted to roughly

$3.4 trillion, equivalent to well over a full year of GDP. But this stunning ascent, what observers called the Japanese economic miracle, didn't come out of nowhere. Japan's path from postwar ruin to 1980s superpower was paved by a unique alignment of historical forces. How did Japan achieve this once in a century boom? And why have we never seen another country replicate a Japan-style miracle

since? To understand that, we need to rewind to the end of World War II and the forging of an unprecedented geopolitical bargain. In the 1980s, Japan's economy seemed unstoppable. Even other wealthy nations looked on in awe and alarm. By 1988, Japan had become the second largest economy on the planet, a position it had held since overtaking West Germany in the late 1960s.

Its GDP reached about $5 trillion at the peak, an astonishing 2.5 times the size of Germany's and over four times that of China's at the time. And Japan accomplished this with a population of only approximately 120 million. In per capita terms, Japan in the 1980s and early 1990s was the richest large country in the world, even outstripping the US on some measures. The island nation had risen from wartime ashes to a level of affluence and technological prowess that prompted bestsellers like Japan as number one. Observers wondered if it was just a matter

of time before Japan overtook the US to become the largest economy overall. The economic statistics from this era boggle the mind. The Nikki 225 stock index soared by nearly 500% during the 1980s with exuberant gains of plus 40% in 1988 and plus 29% in 1989 alone. At one point the total market value of Japanese stocks was 45% of the world's equity market. Nearly half of all global stock wealth was tied up in Japan. For comparison, the entire United States accounted for just 33% at that time.

Japan's banks and industrial giants dominated rankings of the world's largest companies. In 1989, seven of the world's 10 biggest firms by market cap were Japanese. Tokyo's vibrant financial center was a wash with cash, credit, and confidence. Meanwhile, land and property in Japan became the priciest on Earth. By late 1980s, Tokyo's prime real estate had no real comparison.

A single downtown Tokyo car park was allegedly worth more than all of Manhattan's Central Park, and the land beneath the Imperial Palace was valued greater than all of California. In 1987 alone, Tokyo land prices jumped 58%. The frenzy fed on itself. Rising stock prices drove corporate wealth higher which enabled more land purchases which in turn bolstered collateral for more loans and speculation. Japan's corporate empires, the Ketsu conglomerates had easy access to credit and used it to bid up assets everywhere. Culturally, this boom transformed Japan. It upended the

country's famously straightlaced social norms with a mania for speculation and luxury. The cliche of diligent, frugal salarymen gave way briefly to an era of indulgence. Ordinary people bragged about getting rich off stocks. Young professionals queued around the block to watch electronic stock tickers and swap tips. Companies lavished perks on employees and urban legends abounded of extravagant spending. Corporate parties where geisha were flown in by helicopter or absurd

gifts like a $1,000 pet cat to woo a sweetheart. We just thought it would never ever stop, recalled one financia of the time. A sense of technoutopian optimism pervaded the national psyche. Japan had mastered modernity, and the future belonged to it. Nowhere was this confidence more evident than in technology and industry. Japan utterly dominated sectors like consumer electronics,

cameras, and automobiles. Sony, Panasonic, Toshiba, Canon. These brands became synonymous with quality and innovation. The Sony Walkman, for example, defined portable music worldwide. Toyota and Honda were conquering global auto markets famed for reliability. By the late 80s,

Americans were buying nearly one out of every three cars from a Japanese maker, and US icons like Ford were on the defensive. In advanced industries, Japan also excelled. It produced the bulk of the world's memory chips, lasers, and precision instruments. In 1988, Japanese firms held six of the top 10 positions in the semiconductor market. And by some measures, Japan's share of high-tech manufacturing output even exceeded America's. Internationally, this

era sparked both admiration and alarm. To some, Japan's success was a blueprint, the pinnacle of efficient manufacturing and long-term strategy. To others, it was a threat. Commentators in the West freted about being economically eclipsed. Popular books warned of a rising sun buying up American assets. US Congress held tense hearings on the trade imbalance. The perception was that

Japan Inc. had a unified plan to outco compete the West using quality manufacturing and patient capital to systematically capture industries. Indeed, by 1989, a US bestseller was titled The Coming War with Japan, reflecting the anxiety of the time. Yet, we know in hindsight that this story did not simply continue upward to Japanese global dominance. In the early 1990s, Japan's economic party came to an abrupt end. The stock market crashed and the property bubble burst,

sending the nation into decades of stagnation, the infamous lost decades. But why? To answer that, we must look at how Japan got to the 1980s miracle in the first place. It turns out that Japan's rise was propelled by some very special geopolitical tailwinds, conditions that no longer exist today. Japan's postwar economic miracle didn't happen in isolation. It was nurtured under a unique

geopolitical umbrella provided by the United States during the Cold War. In the aftermath of World War II, as Japan lay devastated, a grand bargain was struck. Japan would focus on economic recovery while America guaranteed Japan's security. This strategy, initiated by Prime Minister Shigaru Yoshida, became known as the Yoshida Doctrine. The US Japan Security Treaty of 1951, revised in 1960, cemented this arrangement. America stationed troops and warships to defend

Japan. And in return, Japan could essentially outsource its defense and concentrate on growth. For Japan, this was an incredible free ride. Through the Cold War decades, Japan spent a mere 1% of its GDP or even less on its military, an informal cap in place. By the late 1970s, the US handled the heavy lifting, even maintaining bases in Okinawa and elsewhere at its own expense, about $2 billion per year by recent estimates. Japan's small self-defense forces never had to

project power abroad. This meant that billions of dollars that other countries would pour into armies and weapons, Japan instead poured into factories, technology, and education. In essence, Japan's economic output got a boost because it wasn't diverting resources into building a massive military. Uncle Sam was footing that bill. The American alliance did more than save Japan money. It also provided a stable international environment for

trade. With the US as a steadfast ally, Japan had unfettered access to US markets and was welcomed into the Westernled trading system. During the 1950s and60s, as the Cold War raged, Washington saw a prosperous Japan as a bullwok against communism in Asia. Thus, the US tolerated Japan's protective economic policies in a way it likely wouldn't have for a non-ally. American officials often bit their tongues while Japan maintained high tariffs and closed certain markets to foreign competition in its early development years. This tacit indulgence allowed Japan to

nurture its naent industries behind tariff walls until they were strong enough to compete globally. A classic infant industry strategy executed masterfully by Japan's bureaucracy. Crucially, the US also directly fueled Japan's recovery in the early years. The Korean War 1950 to 1953, for example, was a turning point. With war raging on the Korean Peninsula just across the sea from Japan, the US military turned Japan into its supply base. American procurement orders

for everything from uniforms to trucks flooded Japanese factories. Companies like Toyota on the verge of bankruptcy after World War II suddenly got huge orders to build military vehicles and trucks for the US Army. This Korean war boom injected valuable foreign currency and demand into Japan's economy at a critical moment, jumpstarting industrial growth. From there, Japan rode the wave of the US-led global economic expansion. In 1964, Japan joined the OECD, the club of advanced economies, and its exports, steel, ships, textiles, then electronics and cars, found eager buyers around the world. The Japanese government played its hand shrewdly in this

environment. Throughout the 1950s and60s, Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry, MITI, orchestrated a strategic industrial policy. It funneled cheap loans and subsidies to targeted sectors, steel, ship building, electronics, automobiles, and tightly controlled foreign exchange and imports. Bureaucrats steered private companies toward technologies and industries deemed crucial for growth. At the same time, Japan kept its currency undervalued under the Breton Woods system. The yen was fixed at an extremely cheap 360 yen per US dollar until 1971,

which supercharged its export competitiveness. Effectively, the world was invited to buy Japanese goods, but Japan was cautious about buying from the world. This mercantalist approach worked wonders in the pro-f free trade anti-communist context of the cold war where the US and others mostly gave Japan a pass. By the late 1960s, Japan was often posting doubledigit GDP growth, the original East Asian miracle that later Asian tiger economies would emulate. An example of Japan's guided capitalism, the formation of ketssu networks. These were alliances of manufacturers,

banks, and trading companies that coordinated investment and production. During the high growth era, government policies encouraged the development of these corporate groups. Many evolved from pre-war Zibbatsu trusts. The Ketsu allowed Japan to marshall resources and maintain market stability internally. They also effectively blocked foreign companies from entering Japan's domestic markets. Member companies held stock in each other, keeping out hostile takeovers,

and they often sourced materials and components within their group. For instance, 83% of Japan development bank financing went to strategic industries like ship building, electric power, coal, and steel, often benefiting ketsu firms. Japan built a highly coordinated economy behind a shield of protectionism until its firms were efficient enough to overwhelm foreign competitors abroad. By the 1970s and 80s, this formula had turned Japan into an export juggernaut. But it also began to breed international friction. Japanese companies captured huge shares of

markets from semiconductors to automobiles and Japan ran enormous trade surpluses, especially with the United States. American consumers were gobbling up Toyotas, Sony's, and Panasonics, while Japan bought relatively fewer American goods. The outcome, a ballooning US Japan trade deficit that hit record levels in the 1980s. In 1985, the US trade deficit with Japan was estimated around $50 billion for that year alone, representing roughly onethird of America's entire trade deficit. Politically, this became explosive. US lawmakers drafted dozens of protectionist bills targeting

Japanese imports. Under pressure, Japan made some concessions, agreeing to voluntary export restraints on cars, opening certain markets, but the core imbalance persisted. The climax of this trade tension was the Plaza Accord of 1985. In a meeting at New York's Plaza Hotel, the United States, Japan, and European allies struck a deal to depreciate the US dollar and let the yen rise to reduce trade imbalances. Japan agreed to this coordinated currency intervention and over the next two years the yen's value roughly doubled against the dollar. The plaza accord did

help shrink the US trade deficit a bit but it had unintended consequences for Japan. A stronger yen made Japan's exports less unbeatable and squeezed manufacturers profits. In response, Japan's central bank flooded the domestic economy with cheap credit to save off recession. Japanese firms finding it harder to export also started investing their money overseas often back into the US buying real estate and companies hence those high-profile purchases like Rockefeller Center and Colombia Pictures. Thus, ironically, American pressure in the 1980s forced Japan to revalue its currency and liberalize, which then contributed to the late8s bubble. The Bank of Japan's low interest rates

after 1985 made borrowing so easy that speculation in stocks and property went into overdrive and Japan's trade surpluses while shrinking relative to GDP still pumped liquidity into the economy. As a contemporary noted, the Plaza Accord was intended to rectify trade imbalances, but instead it increased Japanese investment in the United States and generated new criticism of Japan's economic prowess. By the end of the decade, Japan's free ride was effectively over. The US and other trading partners were no longer willing to tolerate mercantile policies from an economic superpower. But Japan had already gotten enormously rich. The unique mix of circumstances,

US military protection, tolerance for Japan's trade strategy, and the timing of postwar global growth created a once-ina-lifetime runway for Japan to take off. By 1990, Japan had arrived at the pinnacle we saw. The geopolitical winds that lifted Japan were shifting. The Cold War ended. The US was becoming less inclined to give allies economic free passes, and global competition was heating up. Japan would soon find that dominating the hardwarebased 20th century economy was one

thing, but the software-driven 21st century would be a different challenge altogether. The world economy that Japan conquered in the 20th century was one built on heavy industry and hardware. Cars, ships, steel, semiconductors, consumer electronics. These were Japan's playing fields and it was unbeatable on them. However, as the 1990s and 2000s unfolded, the global economic center of gravity shifted towards software services and digitization. This

shift played to the strengths of Silicon Valley and other more software ccentric ecosystems, not Japan's. Simply put, the rules of the game changed and Japan struggled to adapt. Consider the tech landscape of the late 20th versus early 21st century. In 1989, the titans were companies like Mitsubishi Bank, Sumitomo Bank, Toyota, NT, and IBM. Many of them Japanese industrial or finance giants. Fast forward to today and the largest companies are names like Apple,

Microsoft, Google, Amazon, primarily software, internet, and platform companies. Not a single one is Japanese. In fact, the value of Japan's entire stock market today, the Nikki index, is smaller than the combined market cap of just two US tech firms, Apple and Nvidia. That astonishing comparison underscores how completely the torch passed from Japan's hardware era to the new software era. Japan went from owning nearly half of global stock value in 1989 to roughly 6% today. A dramatic relative decline as tech wealth migrated elsewhere. Why did this

happen? One reason is that Japan's corporate and innovation model was optimized for the integrated manufacturing age, not the open platform softwarecentric age. During its miracle years, Japan excelled at incremental improvement of hardware, refining manufacturing processes, achieving superlative quality control. Think of Toyota's lean production or Sony's craftsmanship. Its companies were vertically integrated and supply chains often kept in-house or within the Ketsu networks. This worked brilliantly for cars, consumer electronics, and appliances.

But as computing and the internet matured, the industry shifted toward a more modular softwaredriven paradigm. In the PC industry, for example, the Winel Alliance, Windows plus Intel, created a standard platform that lots of companies could build on. The value moved into software, operating systems, applications, and standardized chips. Areas where Japan had less presence. US antitrust and market forces in the 1980s had broken up old American hardware monopolies and given rise to a more decentralized tech ecosystem. By the 1990s, innovation was coming from smaller

risk-taking software startups and Silicon Valley venture garages, an arena quite foreign to Japan's large hierarchical firms. Japan's electronics giants missed many of these new trends. They were late to personal computing aside from some niche domestic PCs and they largely failed to dominate software or services. Japan did innovate in mobile phones early years before the iPhone. Japanese flip phones could do email, internet, and mobile payments. But these innovations stayed

confined to Japan's market. Often called the Galapagos syndrome, advanced but insular. When global standards like iOS/android smartphones emerged, Japanese phone makers like NEC, Panasonic, Sharp, and even Sony could not keep up internationally. Similarly, in video games, Japan led in console hardware, Nintendo, Sega, Sony PlayStation. But the broader software ecosystems, online gaming networks, mobile app stores later saw more competition from abroad.

The impact on market share was stark in category after category. Japanese dominance eroded once the playing field globalized and shifted to software ccentric or modular competition. A striking example in 1987 Japanese firms controlled 76% of the world DRAM memory chip market. By 2004 that share had plunged to just 3% as Korean and American firms took the lead. Japan's once mighty TV industry, remember Sony Trinitrons, saw its global share evaporate with the rise of Korean and Chinese manufacturers. Japanese companies made 95% of the world's DVD players in 1997, but only

20% by 2006 as production shifted to lowerc cost countries. In the 2000s, Japanese brands nearly disappeared from the top ranks of mobile phone sales globally, eclipsed by the likes of Apple, Samsung, and later Chinese brands. Even in areas where Japan started out technologically ahead, it fell behind in capturing value. A government study highlighted that Japanese suppliers provided about 70% of the components in Apple's iPod circa 2005. Things like the hard drive, display, etc., but only 20% of the components in an Apple iPad 2010. Why? Because the iPad had more of its

value in the central processing chip and software designed by Apple in California and in other foreign sourced components. Japan remained excellent at precision manufacturing. It still makes worldclass camera sensors, car parts, batteries, and so on. But the highest value in tech shifted to intangible software, user experience, and ecosystems. Those were not Japan's forte. Another factor was corporate culture and entrepreneurship. Japan's miracle years were

driven by large companies with lifetime employment norms and cautious management. Great for steady improvement, not so great for disruptive innovation. The 1990s and 2000s were an era of rapid change. The internet boom, do bust, then web 2.0, requiring nimleness. The US saw an explosion

of new firms, Amazon, Google, Facebook to name a few, that grew into giants. South Korea poured resources into a few chabled driven tech bets like Samsung's pivot to smartphones. China embraced a quasi capitalist tech sector that produced Alibaba, Tencent, Huawei, etc. Japan, by contrast, saw relatively few successful startups or major corporate reinventions in the digital realm. Its best known tech companies by the 2010s were mostly the same names from the 1980s, many of them shadows of their former selves. Think Panasonic, which had to restructure drastically, or Sharp,

which was bought by a Taiwanese company in 2016. Through the 1990s, Japan also dealt with the aftermath of the burst bubble, banks laden with bad debt, companies cutting costs, and consumers growing thrifty. It's hard to overstate how much this long stagnation sapped Japan's dynamism. The term lost decade turned into lost decades. From 1991 to around 2003, Japan barely grew. Deflation,

falling prices, became chronic. In nominal terms, Japan's GDP in 2023 was actually smaller than it was in 1995, $4.2 trillion versus $5.5 trillion. An unheard of situation for a developed economy.

While one might attribute some of this to deliberate deflationary policy and accounting, it's still roughly the same size economy in real terms as 30 years ago. The stagnation meant less investment in new industries. The government tried stimulus after stimulus, and the central bank cut rates to zero, but Japan mostly treaded water economically. A society that had been supremely confident in 1989 became more conservative and risk averse, reluctant to chase bold new ventures that might finally break the funk. This collective risk aversion arguably caused Japan to underinvest in the very industries like global internet platforms or software that were booming elsewhere. By the 2010s, the verdict was clear. Japan would remain a wealthy,

highly advanced nation, but it was no longer at the leading edge of growth and innovation globally. It still excelled in certain high-end manufacturing niches. From precision machinery to anime and video games, Japan continues to influence culture and tech, but it wasn't going to drive the world economy as it once did. In short, Japan's miracle was a product of a specific era, the hardware era. And once that era passed, Japan could not dominate the new game in the same