---
video_title: "How South Korea Perfected the Bullet Train"
video_id: -7MOpSyObBo
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-7MOpSyObBo
video_date: 20251217
video_description: |
  High-speed rail usually falls into two camps: The Japanese Shinkansen (wide, distributed power) or the French TGV (narrow, locomotive power). South Korea’s KTX (Korea Train eXpress) is fascinating because it started as a clone of one and evolved into the other. 
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
South Korea built a bullet train network that goes nowhere beyond its own borders. And that's exactly why it's become one of the world's most advanced. In a country effectively cut off from any international rail links by the DMZ to the north, South Korea had to optimize highspeed rail purely for its domestic needs. The result is a hybrid bullet train system, one that started as a clone of the French TGV, but evolved into something uniquely Korean, combining European speed with Japanese style precision. It's a system tailorade for Korea's mountainous terrain and dense cities with trains that accelerate like sports cars and glide through tunnels without making your ears pop. In a twist of engineering irony, the latest Korean bullet train isn't even

the one with the highest top speed. Yet, it might just travel faster in practice thanks to what's under the hood. How did South Korea turn an imported train into an indigenous marvel? And what does that story say about the country's approach to technology and innovation? This is the story of the KTX, the Korean train express, and how South Korea perfected the high-speed train. Let's start

with a quick snapshot of the playing field. South Korea's main high-speed rail artery runs diagonally across the country from the capital Soul in the northwest to the busy port of Busousan in the southeast. This corridor is incredibly important. It's home to about 70% of the nation's population and handles roughly 2/3 of Korea's passenger and freight traffic. Before high-speed rail, a train journey along this 412 km route could take 5 hours or more. Today, KTX trains

make the trip in a little over 2 hours, slashing travel times by more than half. The KTX network now spans over 650 km of dedicated high-speed lines, plus extensions on upgraded conventional tracks. It includes several lines branching toward other cities like Guangju, Mockpo, and Gangnong. Soul has multiple KTX terminals to send trains southward in different directions. At full tilt, KTX trains cruise at 300 km per hour, about 186 mph. On dedicated high-speed lines, they run on

standard gauge, fully grade separated tracks, meaning no road crossings, much of it through tunnels and over vioaducts to handle Korea's tough terrain. In fact, roughly onethird of the original Soul Busousan high-speed line runs in tunnels and another third on bridges. That tells you just how mountainous and densely populated the peninsula is, requiring extensive engineering structures to achieve straight, flat alignments for high-speed travel. The trains themselves are impressive in scale. The original KTX train sets are about 400 m long. That's four football fields,

seating nearly 935 passengers each. They were built with technology from France's TGV and designed to hit 300 km per hour regularly. Over the years, the fleet has grown and diversified and Korea has steadily expanded and improved its high-speed services. The stage is set. Now, let's rewind and see how it all began. Our story begins in the late 20th century. By the 1980s,

South Korea was rapidly industrializing and its main roads and railways were heaving with traffic. The government realized that the sole Busousan corridor, the nation's spine, desperately needed a faster way to move people and goods. Studies by French and Japanese experts suggested a high-speed railway could be the answer. Imagine cutting the 400 plus km journey to under 2 hours, a revolution in connectivity. In 1992, Korea officially launched the highspeed rail project. But first,

they had to choose a technology partner. There was a three-way international competition. France's TGV, Germany's ICE, and Japan's Shinkansen Builders all bid to supply Korea's new bullet train. After careful evaluation, the Koreans went with the French. In 1994, an alliance led by GEC Alstam, now Alstam, the maker of the TGV, won the contract. This choice was significant.

It meant Korea's first high-speed trains would essentially be TGVs adapted for Korean service. The KTX1, as the first generation came to be known, was based on the TGV Reszo model. Think of it as a French DNA train transplanted onto Korean soil. Each train had a power locomotive at each end and passenger coaches in between, a traction head design typical of European high-speed trains at the time. Alstam built the first few in France, then helped Hyundai Heavy Industries and Dew assemble the rest in Korea, transferring technology along the way. By the

time KTX service launched in April 2004, Korea had 46 of these TGV based train sets ready to roll. They were marvels of engineering for their day. 18 articulated passenger cars plus the two power cars, all stretching 388 m and loaded with French tech like TVM430 incap signaling. In trial runs, they could flirt with 330 kmh. Though in service, they were capped at 300 kmh. The KTX debut was a

huge national event. Suddenly, a journey that took half a day by car or old train could be done in a couple of hours, city center to city center. Ridership in the early days started slower than forecasts, but it grew steadily as people adjusted to the new option. By 2010, daily KTX ridership was around 100,000 passengers and climbing. The new trains weren't just fast. They also brought

comfort upgrades compared to older express trains and even to some overseas counterparts. In fact, although the KTX1 was based on the French TGV, passengers considered it more comfortable than its French cousin. The cars were pressurized against sudden tunnel air pressure changes, though not perfectly as we'll see, and featured large reclining seats. First class even had swivel seats that could rotate to face the direction of travel. A classy touch borrowed from Japan's playbook where rotating seats are common. Yet, the early KTX experience wasn't flawless. With such a

new system, there were inevitable growing pains. Some riders complained about pressure pops in their ears when the train blasted through tunnels. The seal on the KTX1 against air pressure changes wasn't sufficient for everyone. Korea is very mountainous, which means lots of tunnels. And when a bullet train enters a tunnel at 300 kmh, it compresses the air like a piston. Without proper

ceiling and pressure control, boom. Passengers feel that uncomfortable ear popping sensation. Engineers took note and plans were made to improve pressurization in future train designs. Another issue, half the seats in any train face backward, and many Koreans found riding long stretches backwards made them dizzy or nosious. The original KTX1 only had those rotating seats in first class, so economy riders were stuck facing whichever way their seat was fixed. This too would be addressed

in later models by making all seats rotatable. Despite minor glitches, the KTX was a gamecher. South Korea had joined the exclusive club of high-spe speed rail nations and it did so by absorbing foreign technology rapidly. But Korea wasn't content to just run imported French trains forever. From the start, there was an ambition to learn from the TGV technology and then develop something more domestic, more tailored to Korea's needs. This brings us to the next chapter in

the story. How a team of Korean engineers got to work on an experimental train that would push the limits and set the stage for a new generation. Enter the HSR 350X. While the KTX1 was still being delivered, Korean research institutes and companies started collaborating on a project to build a homegrown high-speed train. This was often dubbed the G7 project for 7th Nation to develop HSR Techch and later known as HSR 350X. The goal, create a train that could reach 350 km per hour in

tests, incorporating newer technologies and more Korean engineering expertise. In 2004, the HSR 350X prototype achieved a top speed of 352.4 km per hour, setting a new South Korean rail speed record. This was a big deal. It proved that local engineers could design and build a train capable of worldclass performance. The HSR 350X looked similar to the KTX1 at a glance. It still

had locomotive style power cars at the front and rear and was about 200 m long per set, but under the hood, it had some upgrades, lighter aluminum car bodies, more advanced motors and electronics, and improved braking systems. It was essentially a test bed for features that would later go into Korea's next commercial model. After proving itself on the test track, this design was refined and slightly modified for mass production. The result was the KTX-2, later officially named KTX- Sanchean, which entered service in 2010. The KTX Sanchean was Korea's first indigenously developed high-speed train to carry passengers. It still owed a lot to its TGV ancestry. For instance,

it used two traction heads, power cars, and eight articulated passenger coaches in between. But make no mistake, this was a Korean-built train manufactured by Hyundai ROM. It could cruise at 305 km per hour and featured a new nose shape to reduce drag and tunnel blast effects. Each set seated about 363 passengers in two classes, and multiple sets could be coupled for more capacity. The KTX Sanion also quietly fixed some of the earlier comfort issues. All seats in

both classes could now swivel to face forward and the pressure ceiling was improved over the original KTX1 to better protect ears in tunnels. Passengers appreciated the tweaks. Ride comfort was enhanced with better seats and a smoother ride thanks to refinements in suspension and track conditions. By building the KTX Sancheon, South Korea had demonstrated something important. The ability to absorb foreign technology and then innovate on top of it. The country's model of

technology development often follows this pattern. Import, learn, improve, and export. Whether in automobiles, electronics, or in this case, trains. By 2010, Korea had cut the cord from relying completely on foreignade train sets. But an even bigger revolution was on the horizon. One that

would truly set Korean high-speed trains apart from their French origins. Here's where our story takes a turn. Up until 2010, Korea's high-speed trains followed the same basic template. Power concentrated in locomotive units at the front and rear pulling unpowered coaches. This is the classic TGV approach. Very fast on open stretches, but with some limitations in certain situations.

Around the world though, high-spe speed rail was evolving. Japan's Shinkansen from the beginning used a different philosophy. Every car in the train had motors, making it an electric multiple unit or EMU. By the 2010s, European manufacturers too were shifting toward distributed power designs for their newest trains like Alam's AGV and Seaman's Velaro. Korea was about to do the same, spurred by its own unique needs and the success of an experimental project. The catalyst for

Korea's next leap was an experimental train called HMU430X high-speed electric multiple unit 430 kmph experiment. In 2013, this sleek prototype colored in black and white set a new national speed record by hitting 421.4 km per hour. In doing so, South Korea became only the fourth country after France, Japan, and China to test a train above 420 kmh on conventional rails. The HMU430X was a bold departure from past designs. It was a true EMU with no heavy locomotives at the ends. Instead,

its motors were spread throughout the train. This distributed power setup promised better acceleration and climbing ability, crucial for Korea's hilly terrain, and reduced weight per axle. Engineers found that by spreading out the traction, they could lighten the train and reduce the wear on tracks, which in turn lowers maintenance costs. The test results were convincing. Shortly after those trials, plans were made to translate the HMU's technology into the next generation of passenger trains. The idea was to build high-speed EMUs for actual service,

stepping away from the locomotive hauled model entirely. This is a pivotal shift in design philosophy. It meant the new Korean bullet train would have more in common with the Japanese Shinkansen than with the French TGV it originally licensed. Was that an admission that they chose the wrong model back in the '90s? Not really. The TGV style trains served Korea well for two

decades. But Korea's network had grown and its operational needs had evolved. The next trains had to handle more complex routes, including some steep winding sections on newly built lines to smaller cities. They also had to dart in and out of many tunnels without rattling passengers. A distributed power EMU was the right tool for the job. Now, welcome to the era of the KTX YUM,

the star of Korea's high-speed fleet today. Introduced in early 2021, the KTX YUM is Korea's first high-speed EMU train developed entirely with domestic technology. Even its name, YUM, meaning link or connection in Korean, signifies how it connects regions and people. It's a direct descendant of that Heu 430X test train. In fact, much of the technology on the KTX Yume was inherited from the HMU project, but packaged into a train optimized for realworld service instead of raw speed tests. So, what's different about the KTX EU? For starters,

it doesn't have big locomotives at either end. Unlike previous KTX generations that used traction heads pulling the train, the YUM uses distributed traction motors spread across the train's cars. A typical KTX Yume train set consists of six cars with the end cars carrying driver cabs but also seating and four powered intermediate cars full of motors and passengers. In other words, every car contributes to propulsion. This arrangement yields several advantages. High

acceleration and braking. Because multiple cars are powered, the KTX YUM can accelerate faster and break harder with regenerative braking. It can go from 0 to 260 kmh in about 12 km of track, and it reaches its cruising speed quicker than the older trains did. For a country like Korea, where distances between stops can be relatively short and routes have curves, this high acceleration is gold. It means even if your top speed is a bit lower, you can average higher speeds over a given distance. By the way, the KTXUM service top speed is 260 km/h, a notch

below the 300 plus of the earlier KTX1 and 2. But thanks to its quick get up and go, it can often maintain schedules just as tight on certain lines. Lighter and gentler on tracks without two massive locomotive units weighing it down, the KTX Yume has a lower axle load spread more evenly along the train. Hyundai ROM the manufacturer claims this lighter profile extends the lifespan of rails and reduces maintenance since no single point is grinding heavily on the tracks. Essentially it's kinder to the infrastructure a bit like the difference between a heavy truck and a series of lightweight cars driving over a road. Redundancy and reliability in a locomotive hauled train. If

one of the two power cars fails, your train is in trouble. In a distributed power EMU, you have many motors. If one or two motors fail, the others can usually compensate and keep the train moving, perhaps at reduced speed, but it can limp to the next station. This was highlighted by Corell, the operator, as a safety plus. The KTX YUM can operate even when one of the cars malfunctions because locomotion is distributed. Passengers immediately noticed some differences as well.

The KTX Yume's interior was designed with a lot of feedback in mind. For one, every row of seats aligns perfectly with a window. No more unlucky middle seats stuck at a wall. Seats are more spacious with extra leg room and wider armrests, addressing earlier complaints. And yes, all the seats still swivel, so they can be turned to face the direction of travel at the train's turnaround, meaning virtually everyone can ride facing forward if they prefer. Tech amenities also got a boost.

Each seat in KTX Yume has a built-in wireless charging pad and USB port, which is a rarity on trains anywhere. It essentially treats your personal devices like an airplane would. You have inseat power and even an entertainment display in some cases, making the ride feel more like a flight. Luggage racks are provided in each coach. No need to stow large bags at ends of cars like on older KTX. All of this contributes to a more comfortable, user-friendly experience for riders.

Crucially, the KTX YUM and its peers also benefit from lessons learned about tunnel aerodynamics. The latest trains have much better pressure sealing. As a KTX YUM approaches a tunnel, the ventilation system automatically closes flaps to seal the cabin, mitigating that sudden air pressure change. The train's noses are sleekly contoured to reduce the shock wave as well. The result, you no longer get that painful ear popping sensation every time you barrel into a mountain.

This tunnel optimization was absolutely necessary given Korea's geography. With so many tunnels, you want a train that treats them as non-events for passengers. The first route to be served by KTX Yum was the Jungang line connecting Seoul Chiongyangi station to the interior city of Andong. This line isn't a straight shot bullet highway like the main Soul Busan route. It's a winding mountain line upgraded for high speeds in sections with a mix of new tunnels and older curvy stretches. Here, the KTX Yumes strengths shine. It accelerates quickly out of stops, and its 260

km perph top speed is plenty for the relatively shorter sprints between stations. It slashed the travel time from Seoul to Andong from nearly 4 hours to just about 2 hours, making weekend trips and tourism in these regions far more feasible. Riddership responded immediately. Within the first year or so, nearly 1.8 million passengers rode the new service. The train was so successful that more

KTX Yume sets have been ordered and deployed on other routes like the line to the east coast city of Gangnong, replacing older KTX Sanion trains there. In many ways, South Korea's high-speed rail evolution with the KTX Yum represents a hybrid of philosophies. They took the best of the French approach, high-speed rail know-how, signaling systems, proven aerodynamics for high speed on open terrain, and later blended it with the Japanese approach, EMU configuration for agility and reliability on challenging terrain. The result is a hybrid bullet train system that's neither purely TGV nor purely Shinkansen, but a blend, a French engine with a Japanese soul, one might poetically say, and it's working brilliantly for Korea. Let's zoom out for a moment and consider how this compares globally. South Korea, despite its relatively small size and unique situation,

now operates a high-speed rail network and train technology on par with the best in the world. In fact, in some aspects, Korea leaprogged ahead. For example, the United States, a far larger country, still doesn't have a true bullet train as of 2025, whereas Korea has multiple generations of them. Europe's latest high-speed trains like France's TGVM or Italy's ETR 10000 have moved to distributed traction too, catching up to what Japan and now Korea have long recognized. If you want quick acceleration and efficiency, EMUs are the way to go. Historically, Europe favored

concentrated power locomotives. While Japan always used distributed power in its Shinkansen trains, China, which was a later entrant to high-spe speed rail, effectively imported knowledge from both and from the start built a vast network of distributed power EMU trains. Korea's journey is interesting because it started firmly in the European camp with TGVT tech and then pivoted. The performance payoff from that pivot is clear in Korea's context. On a short, curvy network, acceleration beats outright top speed. A train that can hit 350 km per hour is great. But if

your trip is only 300 km with intermediate stops and lots of tunnels, you'll never reach that top speed for more than a few minutes. It's better to have a train that's nimler, reaching 250 to 300 kmh quickly and handling hills and tunnels with ease. That's exactly what the KTX delivers. And if we compare travel times, the latest KTX services are extremely competitive. The fastest Soul Busan trains using another advanced model, the KTX San or even newer KTX Chong can do the trip in roughly 2 hours 15 minutes on the direct high-speed line. That's for a 417 km distance, comparable to Tokyo

to Hiroshima or Paris to Frankfurt. Korea achieves these timings despite having chosen a slightly lower maximum speed class for its newest trains. Again, emphasizing acceleration and efficiency. Then there's passenger comfort and experience where Korea's hybrid approach also shines. The French TGV influence gave KTX a smooth ride at high speed and a proven safety record. Decades

of TGV operation with no fatal accidents due to technology. The Japanese influence, whether direct or indirect, showed up in attention to detail, like those rotating seats, meticulous scheduling, and dealing with mountain geography, tunnel pressure management, for instance. Today's KTX trains are airtight, air conditioned, and quiet. Noise and vibration have been further reduced in the newest batches of KTX EU trains through refined bogey, wheel assembly, designs, and sound insulation. This incremental innovation means that each generation of train is a bit more comfortable than the last. Surveys of KTX passengers have indicated that overall ride comfort is high,

combining both the physical ease of the ride and the emotional satisfaction of speed and reliability. As one study noted, even though KTX was based on the TGV, Koreans ended up perceiving it as more comfortable than the original, likely due to these localized improvements.