---
video_title: "The \"Big Three\": The Story of China's State-Owned Airline System"
video_id: IfN1qUAuVo4
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IfN1qUAuVo4
video_date: 20251211
video_description: |
  This is the story of how China, after breaking up its monolithic Mao-era airline, deliberately created three national champions, each with its own designated fortress hub, to serve the country's economic and geopolitical ambitions.
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
You might think airlines are all about profit. It may surprise you to learn that China's three largest carriers have posted five consecutive years of annual losses, and that might be by design. These state-owned airlines operate nearly 1,900 aircraft in total, making up one of the largest airline fleets on Earth. They once carried hundreds of millions of passengers per year. Yet, they function less like private companies and more like strategic instruments of the Chinese state.

In China's skies, business success isn't measured by profits alone, but by national objectives. First, some context. When we say state-owned airlines, we mean carriers majority owned or controlled by the government. China's big three. Air China based in Beijing, China Southern, based in Guanghou, and China Eastern, based in Shanghai, are the primary state-run airlines.

They are national carriers intended to ensure air connectivity across China and internationally. Unlike fully private airlines, they answer to government shareholders and often prioritize government directives. For example, minimum airfare levels and route rights in China have historically been set by the state regulator. These carriers are what economists call national champions, large enterprises backed by the state to achieve national goals, connectivity, economic development, technological progress, even if that means lower profits. To understand why China's airlines operate this way, we need to go back to their origins. Let's define one key entity,

CAC, the Civil Aviation Administration of China. In the early days, CAAC wasn't just a regulator. It actually ran China's airline as a single monopoly. Essentially, before the 1980s, there was one Chinese airline, often just called CAC Airlines, and it was the government. With that in mind, let's see how we went from one state airline to three and why. China's modern airline

system was born from reform. In 1987, as part of Deng Xiaoing<unk>s economic reforms, the Chinese government decided to separate airline operations from the aviation regulator. Up until then, CAAC, the regulator, had run all civilian flights. The reform meant CAC would focus on regulation and its airline division would be broken up to encourage efficiency and competition. Over the next few years, 1987 to 1991, the CAC monopoly was split into six regional airlines. This is

when the familiar names emerged. Air China was created in 1988 as the Beijing based flag carrier, even inheriting CAC's airline codes. China Eastern Airlines was launched in 1988 to serve the eastern regions from Shanghai. China Southern Airlines followed in 1991, centered on Guangha in the south. Three other regional carriers, China Southwest, China Northwest, and China Northern, also spun off during this period to cover other parts of the country. The idea was that multiple

airlines would improve service and profitability through competition, ending decades of one airline monopoly. However, the initial breakup led to a fragmented market with many smaller state-owned airlines. By the late 1990s, China had dozens of airlines, some struggling with inefficiency and safety issues. The government soon saw the need for consolidation and coordination. In 2002, the CAC announced a major industry reorganization. The smaller airlines would be merged into three large

groups centered on Air China, China Eastern, and China Southern. Under this plan, formally approved in January 2002, each of the big three absorbed certain regional carriers. For example, Air China merged with China Southwest, China Eastern took over China Northwest and Yunan Airlines. China Southern absorbed China Northern and Shing Jang Airlines. By the mid 2000s, the big three airline groups had been solidified. Together, they would carry the vast majority of China's air passengers,

roughly 80% of all domestic travelers, according to forecasts at the time. One policy change in 2002 went even further in entrenching the big 3's positions. The CAC declared it would eliminate disorderly competition on key routes by restricting which airlines could fly between China's top hubs. In practice, this meant only airlines based in those cities were allowed to operate flights among Beijing, Shanghai, and Guanghao. All other carriers, the smaller second tier airlines, were barred from those inter hub routes. If you weren't one of the big three,

you couldn't fly the lucrative Beijing Shanghai or Shanghai Guangha routes, for example. The goal was to prevent price wars and ensure each major hub became the stronghold of its hometown airline. Indeed, after this rule, ticket prices on those trunk routes rose as competition thinned. The CAC also began fostering a hub and spoke system. Smaller airlines were told to feed traffic into the big three's hubs instead of competing on long routes. In short, by the early 2000s, China had

deliberately engineered an airline structure with three dominant state-owned carriers, each protected in its own region. By the midpoint of our story, the big three airlines are established. Now we raise the stakes. These airlines are not just businesses. They're strategic tools of the Chinese state. You might think an airlines job is simply to sell seats and make money. But in China,

the big three serve broader national interests, economic, diplomatic, even technological. Consider how closely the government directs major decisions. The Chinese state is the majority shareholder in all three carriers, which means political priorities can steer corporate choices. For instance, the government coordinates where these airlines fly and where they base. Air China remains the flag carrier in Beijing, often handling important diplomatic routes like state visits. China Eastern anchors, Shanghai, China's commercial hub, supporting trade

and finance links. China Southern in Guangha connects the Pearl River Delta and beyond. These aren't just market choices. They align with national development plans to elevate Beijing, Shanghai, and Guangdong on the world stage. In fact, even the massive new Beijing Daxing airport was designed with China Southern and China Eastern in mind, expanding their presence in the capital alongside Air China. Because profit isn't the sole motive, the big three can be mobilized

by the state in ways foreign airlines are not. During the CO 19 pandemic, for example, China's state airlines flew special government arranged missions to serve national needs. In early 2020, when Chinese citizens were stranded overseas, the government organized charter flights by these carriers to bring them home. One Chinese vice foreign minister noted that by April 2020, China had sent at least nine chartered planes to repatriate over 1,400 nationals, many of them students, from countries hit hard by CO. These were essentially rescue flights, often operated by the big three at the government's request rather than for profit.

Around the same time, Chinese airlines undertook huge airlift operations for medical supplies. The Civil Aviation Administration, CAAC, arranged 178 charter flights to deliver medical experts and 2,635 tons of health equipment abroad in spring 2020. It's clear that when crisis struck, China's airlines acted as extensions of the state, repatriating citizens, and fing aid. Western airlines, by contrast, largely left such missions to governments or charged commercial rates. Another arena where strategy trumps economics is fleet procurement and industrial policy.

Aircraft purchases are typically pure business decisions elsewhere, but in China, they have geopolitical weight. In 2022, the big three airlines jointly placed a blockbuster order for 292 Airbus A320 Neo family jets announced all on the same day. This coordinated order was one of Airbus's largest ever, worth around $37 billion. China Eastern agreed to buy 100 A320 Neos, China Southern 96 and Air China 64 plus 32 for its subsidiary. Observers noted the timing. This deal

came while Boeing's 737 Max was still grounded in China and amid US China trade tensions. It signaled a strategic tilt toward Europe's Airbus over US Boeing. Shortly after, China doubled down on its own aircraft industry. In 2023, all three big airlines each committed to purchase 100 COMAX C919 jets. China's new homegrown passenger plane. China Eastern was the C919's launch customer,

already flying a few, and Air China and China Southern lined up as the next operators, receiving their first C919s in 2024. Ordering 300 domestically made airliners, 100 per airline, is not a move driven by short-term profit. It's about jumpstarting China's aerospace sector. The big three under state guidance are essentially guaranteed buyers for Komac, helping China reduce reliance on foreign jets. This coordinated procurement, huge Airbus deals alongside massive COMAC orders illustrates how the airlines act in concert as an arm of national strategy. In short,

by the midpoint, we see that China's airline system is not purely economic. These carriers are instruments of policy. They secure China's global connectivity on the country's own terms. They can be tasked with missions that serve the public interest or geopolitical goals. And they support strategic industries like aircraft manufacturing by aligning their business decisions with the state's plans. This sets the stage for how the system actually works dayto-day and what

consequences, good or bad, arise from running airlines as a branch of government strategy. So, how does China's state-owned airline system function in practice? Let's examine the consequences of this model, the outcomes we see in the aviation market. Four key features stand out. Fortress hubs, limited direct competition, coordinated fleet decisions, and a capacity to respond to national emergencies. We'll also consider a major critique of this system,

inefficiency, and why supporters argue it's worth it. China's big three carriers each rule their home turf. Air China dominates Beijing, China Eastern dominates Shanghai, and China Southern dominates Guangha. These primary hubs are like each airlines fortress. The 2002 policy that barred outsider airlines from flying between Beijing, Shanghai, and Guangha cemented this arrangement. It essentially granted duopoly routes among the three cities to the big three only.

For example, only Air China and China eastern fly the busy Beijing Shanghai corridor since Air China is Beijing based and China eastern is Shanghai based. Competitors from other cities cannot enter that route. The same goes for Beijing Guangha Air China and China Southern only and Shanghai Guangha China eastern and China southern only. This means on key interub routes passengers have at most two choices both state carriers. The big three also enjoy dominant market share at their hub airports. At Shanghai's two airports, for instance, China Eastern and its partner Shanghai

Airlines reportedly account for about 40 to 50% of all seats, the largest share by far. Similarly, Air China handles a large chunk of traffic in Beijing, especially at Beijing Capital Airport, and China Southern carries the lion's share in Guanghou. The fortress hub system means limited direct competition on many routes. Instead of aggressively invading each other's bases with price wars, the big three generally focus on their own hub and spoke networks. They do compete at the margins. For example, all three might fly to popular tourist destinations like SA or Kuning

from their hubs and there is some overlap on major city pairs. But by and large, each airline has a privileged position in its region. Second tier airlines like Hainan Airlines, Shaman Air, Spring Airlines, etc. face an uphill battle getting prime slots at the big hubs or attracting customers away from the wellestablished big three networks. In fact, the government historically encouraged smaller carriers to cooperate or code share with the big three for feeder traffic rather than go head-to-head. The result is that China's domestic market while large has been less fiercely

competitive than say the US market. Prices on major routes have been kept relatively stable aside from promotional fair wars via travel agents in the early 2000s and each big airline has a guaranteed customer base in its region. This stability was intentional. The CAC explicitly sought to avoid disorderly competition that could destabilize the state carriers. For consumers, fortress hubs can be a double-edged sword. On one hand, each of the big three has built up very

comprehensive route networks from its hubs, which means if you live in Shanghai, China Eastern can connect you to almost anywhere domestically and many international destinations via a transfer in Shanghai. The same goes for Air China through Beijing or China Southern through Guangha. These carriers have essentially become like regional monopolies that guarantee connectivity. On the other hand, fewer competitors on each route can mean higher fairs and less incentive to improve service. If Air China is the only airline or one of two flying a route you need, you're stuck with their schedule and price. The government's bet was that the benefits of organized growth and

strong hub carriers outweighed the downsides of reduced competition. Another consequence of China's state-guided approach is unified strategy in fleet expansion. We already touched on how the big three coordinated big jet purchases under state influence. In practical terms, this yields economies of scale and bargaining power. For example, by ordering aircraft in bulk together, the Chinese airlines likely secured better pricing from Airbus. It also sends a

signal internationally. As mentioned, the 292 Airbus order was widely seen as Beijing's vote of confidence in Airbus amidst strained China US relations. Similarly, the alignment on buying the domestic COMAX C919 ensures that planes commercial viability. No one doubts there's a market for the C919 when each major airline is taking 100 units by government decree. The big three even coordinate on technology and training because of shared fleet choices which can save costs.

All three operate large fleets of Airbus A320 and Boeing 737s, for instance, and now will all operate the C919, meaning the CAC can implement training programs and maintenance facilities that benefit all state carriers collectively. There's also a national security and self-reliance angle. Relying on foreign aircraft, Boeing Airbus is a vulnerability in the eyes of Chinese planners. So the airlines are being used to bolster a domestic alternative. The coordinated procurement of comarmac jets is essentially guaranteed market entry for a new product that otherwise might struggle. By comparison, no US airline would buy a fleet of jets just to support

an American aircraft manufacturer unless it also made business sense. In China, that decision is centrally influenced. The same dynamic played out with aircraft engines, navigation systems, etc. where Chinese airlines adopt homegrown tech when instructed to build national capability. One vivid recent example of geopolitics affecting fleet. In 2023, Boeing actually took back several

737 Max jets that had been built for Chinese customers because those deliveries were stalled due to tariffs and political standoffs. US China trade tensions led Chinese airlines to effectively freeze out Boeing for a few years. not officially stated, but in practice, very few Boeing orders were finalized while the trade war simmered. Instead, Airbus got a windfall. Boeing's CEO lamented that geopolitical issues cost them one of their largest markets. And indeed, Reuters

reported that Boeing had to repatriate planes from China because Chinese airlines wouldn't take delivery under the tariff conditions. This is not a normal commercial scenario. It reflects state level conflict influencing airline behavior. As we look to the future, China's big three airlines face a crossroads of post-pandemic recovery and geopolitical headwinds. The pandemic's aftermath has left them financially bruised, and global politics are introducing new uncertainties. Yet,

their role as strategic state assets is, if anything, being reinforced rather than diminished. Let's break down what's next in three parts. financial struggles, slow international rebound, and geopolitical constraints, and how each ties back to the systems nature. By 2025, the big three are only starting to climb out of a deep financial hole. The CO 19 pandemic was arguably the biggest crisis in the history of modern aviation, and Chinese airlines were hit especially hard due to the prolonged border closures in 2020, 2021, and 2022. Air China, China Southern, and China Eastern

all posted large losses each year. In fact, they remained loss-making through 2023, making it 5 years in a row in the red. This is unprecedented. Even during global industry rebounds in 2022 to 2023, China's airlines lagged. Globally, airlines returned to profit in 2023, but Chinese carriers did not. The government has had to step in with support. Besides the 2020 capital injections

mentioned earlier, there have been subsidies and policy measures to aid the airlines. For example, in mid 2022, China's government offered temporary cash subsidies per flight to help airlines cover fuel costs and pandemic disruptions. Essentially, Beijing intervened to ensure its airlines survived the drought. Now, with China's borders open again as of 2023, the carriers are trying to regain their footing. Domestic travel has bounced back strongly. In 2023, all three big airlines saw

domestic passenger numbers at or above prepandemic levels. Chinese travelers were flying around the country in huge numbers once zero COVID ended. For instance, Air China carried 118.5 million domestic passengers in 2023, 28% more than in 2019, a sign of pent-up demand. China Southern carried about 132 million domestically, slightly above 2019 as well. So on the home front, things

are looking much better. International travel, however, is still lagging far behind. In 2023, the Big 3's international passenger volumes were only around 50% of 2019 levels on average. Air China, for example, flew about 6.7 million international passengers in 2023, which was less than half of what it flew in 2019. China Eastern and China Southern saw similarly

tepid international recovery. Despite their best efforts, many planes on longhaul routes were far from full. There are a few reasons. Lingering travel restrictions. Some countries only gradually lifted entry rules for Chinese travelers. Slow processing of visas. caution by tourists

and limited flight schedules initially. Even by early 2025, China's international air capacity, seats or flights offered remained around 20% below prepandemic 2019 levels. In other words, they still haven't put back 1/if of their international flights. This slow rebound means the airlines are losing out on lucrative international revenue, which is critical for profitability. Routes to North America and Europe, which were cash cows, are still not fully restored. Business travel

is also down. The big three have had to rely on the domestic market, which fortunately is huge, to keep revenues coming in. It's a testament to the scale of Chinese domestic travel that despite almost no international flying for years, these airlines survived at all. But financially, they have accumulated debt and seen their cash reserves depleted. Rebuilding balance sheets will take time. Industry analysts forecast that Chinese airlines might only

return to profitability in 2024 or 2025 and even then modestly. Indeed, for 2024, the big three were expected to still collectively lose money, marking a fourth year of losses.