---
video_title: "How a Cheap Fighter Became Japan’s Most Expensive Jet"
video_id: 9R57Fk-L5gg
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9R57Fk-L5gg
video_date: 20251222
video_description: |
  To the untrained eye, the Mitsubishi F-2 looks exactly like a US Air Force F-16. But it isn't. It is slightly bigger, significantly heavier, and costs three times as much. 
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
Imagine taking a proven $30 million fighter jet and pouring in so much extra tech that it ends up costing four times as much. Japan did exactly that. The result was a sleek blue fighter that looks like an F-16 at first glance until you notice the larger wings and the oversized price tag. In fact, Japan's Mitsubishi F2 Viper Zero turned out to be the most expensive F-16 ever built, with each jet costing around 11.9 billion yen, over $100 million, more than double the price of a Russian Sue30 fighter, and more than double the cost of a F-16. Why would anyone pay so much

for a modified F-16? Today, we're diving into the surprising story behind this aircraft to find out. The Mitsubishi F2 is a multi-roll support fighter, essentially a light fighter bomber, developed for the Japan Air Self-Defense Force, JASDF, in the 1990s. Although it was jointly developed with the United States and shares a lineage with the F-16 Fighting Falcon, the F2 was Japan's first domestically produced supersonic fighter since the 1970s. It officially entered service in 2000, marking a milestone for Japan's aviation industry.

Only 94 F2s were built in total, a tiny fleet compared to the thousands of F-16s around the world, but each one was packed with cuttingedge technology. This aircraft was purpose-built for Japan's unique defense needs. It has a longer range and larger payload capacity than a standard F-16, and it was among the first operational fighter in the world to be equipped with an AESA radar active electronically scanned array, giving it advanced detection capabilities. With a top speed of Mach 2 and a combat radius of over 450 nautical miles, 830 plus km, the F2 was designed to cover Japan's vast maritime territory. It replaced the older supersonic Mitsubishi F1 and supplemented Japan's fleet of F4EJ Phantoms and F-15J Eagles, filling a critical role as a modernized fighter that could strike ships at sea while still performing air defense duties.

In short, the F2 matters because it kept Japan's fighter development alive into the 21st century, and it gave the country a high-tech tool to defend its shores. The story of the F2 begins in the early 1980s. Japan's military planners knew they needed a replacement for the aging Mitsubishi F1 attack jet, and they were keen on developing indigenous aerospace know-how. In 1985, the Japanese Defense Agency, JDA, formally launched the FSX program, short for future support experimental aircraft, to study a next generation support fighter. The wish list was ambitious.

The new plane should carry up to four anti-ship missiles, plus several air-to-air missiles for self-defense, have state-of-the-art avionics, including a secure Japanese-built data link, and achieve at least a 450 nautical mile combat radius on anti-hship missions. Essentially, Japan wanted a small fighter that could pack a big punch against enemy fleets while patrolling far from its home airfields. Initially, Japan considered designing a brand new aircraft domestically to meet these requirements. After all, Japanese industry had successfully built the F-15J under license in previous years, and defense contractors argued that creating a new fighter indigenously would advance their engineering skills and industrial base. At the same time, the JDA surveyed existing foreign fighters to see if any could be adapted. They looked

at the American F-16 Fighting Falcon and FA18 Hornet, the European Penavia Tornado, and others. The conclusion, no off-the-shelf fighter met all of Japan's needs. For example, none of those jets could haul four large anti-ship missiles without significant modifications. Japan seemed poised to pursue an allnew domestic design by 1985, which caused excitement in Japanese media. The prospect of a cuttingedge homegrown fighter made headlines. However, building a fighter from

scratch is expensive and timeconuming, and this is where geopolitics intervened. The mid1 1980s were the height of the US Japan trade friction era with American officials often worried about Japan's burgeoning high-tech industries and a ballooning trade deficit. The United States government was not keen on Japan developing a completely independent fighter that might one day compete with American exports or reduce Japan's reliance on US defense technology. In 1987, under the Reagan administration, US Defense Secretary Casper Weinberger and others began strongly pressuring Tokyo to make FSX a joint US Japan project instead of a solo Japanese venture. This pressure came amid broader tensions. For instance, that same year, a scandal broke about a Japanese

company, Toshiba, illegally selling sensitive machinery to the Soviet Union, which heightened US concerns about tech transfers. Facing the possibility of strained US Japan relations, the Japanese government reconsidered its plans. By October 1987, a political compromise was reached. Japan agreed to base the FSX design on an American fighter, the F-16C Fighting Falcon, and to develop it jointly with the United States. This decision, announced at Japan's Security Council, essentially meant the FSX would be a modified F-16 rather than an allnew pure domestic plane.

Many in Japan's aviation community were disappointed. They felt the project had been derailed by American interference, forcing Japan to abandon a clean sheet design. Some Japanese lawmakers and engineers openly criticized the deal as one-sided, pointing out that Japan would share its best new technologies with the US, pay hefty licensing fees for American components, and end up with a jet that was only semi-indigenous. Nonetheless, the agreement was set. The FSX would go forward as a joint program with General Dynamics, the F-16's manufacturer, as the primary US contractor working with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, MHI, in Japan. Under a memorandum

of understanding signed in 1988, the development workshare was split 60% Japan and 40% US. Japanese industry would lead the design modifications, final assembly, and integration of new systems. While the Americans would provide F-16 technology and expertise to appease US industry and lawmakers, it was also guaranteed that 40% of the F2's production by value would go to American contractors. In fact, the manufacturing plan was almost symbolic in how it divided work. MHI built the forward fuselage and wings right wing. Kawasaki built the mid fuselage and doors.

Fuji Heavy Industries built the tail and one wing, left wing, leading edges. And General Dynamics/ Lockheed Martin built major portions of the other wing and the aft fuselage. In other words, each F2 would quite literally be half Japanese and half American in construction. Even its wings were split between the two nations factories. This international partnership also meant an exchange of technology. The General Dynamics agile Falcon concept, an experimental F-16 variant with a

bigger wing that had been studied in the mid1980s became a starting point for the new design. Meanwhile, Japan insisted on incorporating its own advanced technologies like composite materials and an indigenous radar into the aircraft. The stage was set for a unique fighter, one that started as an American design, but would be re-engineered to fulfill Japan's specific requirements. With the political wrangling settled and the F-16 chosen as a base, Japanese engineers got to work making the FSX truly Japanese. This is where our story pivots from diplomacy to engineering.

The joint development officially kicked off in the late 1980s, and almost immediately, Japan began introducing innovations that significantly diverged from the original F-16 design. One of the first major changes was in the aircraft's wing, a critical factor given Japan's demand for more range and payload. Engineers enlarged the F-16's wing, increasing its area by about 25%. The new wing was broader in span and root cord, wider where it meets the fuselage with a slightly adjusted shape, including a forward swept trailing edge. A bigger wing would generate more lift, which is great for carrying heavy weapons and fuel, but it also adds weight and stress to the airframe. To compensate, Japan pioneered the use of co-cured composite materials for the wing's

construction, molding the carbon fiber skin and underlying structure together in one piece using an autoclave process. This was the first time such technology was applied to a production tactical fighter's wings. The payoff was a lighter wing despite its larger size, which helped preserve the F2's agility and range. In fact, the composite wing not only saved weight, but also had a side benefit of reducing the radar cross-section a bit since radar absorbent material was used on leading edges. The wing technology was so advanced that it ended up being a two-way street.

As part of the deal, the United States got access to Japan's composite wing expertise and later incorporated some of those manufacturing techniques into its own programs. Next, the design team addressed the airframe size and payload. To meet the range requirement, the F2's fuselage was stretched slightly to hold more fuel. The nose section was made longer and wider than the F-16s in order to accommodate an advanced radar system. Japan's choice of radar was groundbreaking. The F2 would mount the J/AppG1 AESA radar developed by Mitsubishi Electric. This

electronically scanned array radar allowed for faster target tracking, higher resolution, and multiple target engagements simultaneously. A huge upgrade over the mechanically scanned radars of earlier fighters. The F2 and a handful of upgraded USAF-15C's became the first fighters in the world to carry AESA radars operationally, beating even the USF22 Raptors radar into service by a couple of years. The enlarged nose of the F2 gave space for this powerful sensor and its cooling systems. The F2's tail surfaces were also upsized. The horizontal tail plane grew by about 20% in area

to maintain stability with the larger wing and added weight. The overall airframe was reinforced in key spots to handle higher loads. For instance, Japan planned for the F2 to carry heavy anti-ship missiles on its wings. So, the wing pylons and structure had to withstand that weight and the stress of low-level flight. The landing gear might look similar to an F-16s, but it was beefed up for a higher maximum takeoff weight. The F2's max takeoff weight is around 22,100 kg versus about

16,000 kg for an early F-16A. Even the canopy was redesigned. Instead of the F-16's single piece bubble canopy, the F2 uses a three-piece canopy with a central reinforcing frame. This was done to improve bird strike resistance since the F2 might be flying at low altitude over water where birds are a hazard. It's a small detail, but it shows how almost every aspect of the jet was reconsidered for Japan's mission set. One of the most significant differences is in the

weapons loadout and hard points. A standard F-16 has three underwing pylons per wing, plus wing tip missile rails and a centerline station for a total of nine weapon stations. The F2, in contrast, has four underwing pylons on each wing, plus tips and center line, giving it eight underwing hard points and 11 stations in total. This design was directly driven by the requirement to carry four large anti-ship missiles. Typically, two ASM1 or ASM2 missiles can be slung under each wing, whereas an F-16 would normally carry at most two harpoonsiz missiles total, one per wing. By

giving the F2 more weapon stations and a stronger wing, the designers enabled a single F2 to haul an impressive anti-ship arsenal. It can still carry self-defense air-to-air missiles on the wing tip rails at the same time, and it retains an internal 20 mm cannon for close-range engagements. The avionics and electronics were another area of major customization. While the F2 borrowed the flight control logic of the F-16's agile flybywire system, Japan wrote a significant portion of the software and flight control laws are new. The cockpit was fitted with large multi-function color displays built by Yokagawa and even a pioneering holographic headsup display HUD from Shimadzu Corporation. Very advanced for the 1990s. Mitsubishi Electric provided an integrated

electronic warfare suite for threat detection and jamming. Essentially, the F2 was given a custom Japanese electronics package, a mix of domestic and some US components. For example, the communication and IFFF systems had contributions from Rathon and others, but the radar mission computer INS and electronic countermeasures were largely homegrown. The result was that an F2 pilot had a very modern cockpit by late '90s standards with all the sensors integrated for maritime and air combat roles. Japan even ensured compatibility with a domestic data link system for secure communications between F2s and other JASDF assets which was a national requirement from the start.

Finally, the engine of the F2 remained essentially the same as late model F-16s. The GEF110-GE-129 after burning turboan producing around 29,000 lb of thrust with afterburner. Japan decided not to develop a new engine which would have been enormously costly on top of everything else. So they license built the F110 in Japan manufactured by IHI. With roughly a 1:1 thrusttoe ratio at combat load, the F2's performance in speed and acceleration is similar to an F-16C. It can reach

about MAC 2.0 at altitude. The key differences are really in how far it can go and what it can carry. By the time all these changes were hashed out, more than 95% of the original F-16's engineering drawings had been altered for the F2. The family resemblance is there. An F2 still looks like a

cousin of the Falcon. But make no mistake, the Mitsubishi F2 is a distinct machine with its own identity. Japanese developers even gave it a local nickname, Viper Zero. Viper is what American pilots affectionately call the F-16. and zero hearkens back to the legendary A6M0 of World War II and denotes type zero in Japanese naming. The moniker signals that this isn't just an F-16.

It's a uniquely Japanese take on the platform, blending old and new. It wasn't all smooth sailing during development, though. Pushing the envelope with that composite wing led to some teething problems in testing. During flight trials in the late 1990s, the prototypes experienced issues with wing flutter and minor structural cracks, as well as some avionics bugs. Engineers had to reinforce parts of the wing and tweak the flight control software to eliminate the flutter at high speeds.

These fixes caused the schedule to slip a bit. The testing phase was extended and the planned service entry was delayed from 1999 to 2000. Despite these hiccups, by the end of the 1990s, the F2 had proven itself in flight tests and was cleared for production. Let's recap and compare the F2 to the F-16 block byblock, because the details really drive home how far Japan went in reimagining the Fighting Falcon. Airframe size and weight. The F2 is slightly larger, about 1.3 ft, 40 cm, longer

than an F-16, with a wingspan of 11.1 m versus the F-16's approximately 9.8 m. Wing area is 34.8 m, 375 ft, roughly 25% greater than the F-16's 28 m. This gives the F2 a higher max takeoff weight

around 22.1 tons, 48,700 lb. In essence, it's a bulked up Falcon that can carry more fuel and ordinance. The larger tail and slightly stretched fuselage ensure it remains stable and controllable with those changes. Materials to manage the increased size without a big weight penalty, Japan made extensive use of graphite epoxy composits in the wings and other structures. The F-16's wing is

all metal. The F2's wing is primarily composite, making it lighter and somewhat reducing its radar signature. This was cutting edge in the '90s, a precursor to later fighters like the F-35, which now also use a lot of composite materials. Radar and avionics. The F2's J/APG1 radar was the world's first fighter mounted AESA radar. For comparison, F-16s of that era had the AN/APG-68

mechanically scanned radar, and the US wouldn't field AESA on its frontline fighters until the 2000s. The J/APG1 gave the F2 excellent detection range and the ability to track multiple targets, ideal for spotting low-flying cruise missiles or small ships against the clutter of the sea. Coupled with that, the F2 introduced a new digital flight control and cockpit system with three large LCD multi-function displays and an advanced HUD. By contrast, 1990s F-16s had smaller monochrome displays and older analog instruments. The F2 also integrated an indigenous electronic warfare suite and digital data link tailored to Japan's needs. Hardpoints and payload. The F2 can carry roughly

8,000 kgs of weapons/ fuel externally, including up to four ASM1 or ASM2 anti-ship missiles, usually two under each wing. A contemporary F-16C might carry two Harpoon anti-ship missiles and two wing tanks at most. In a similar configuration, the F2's extra pylons also allow more flexibility. It can carry missiles, drop tanks, or jamming pods in various combinations. Notably, Japan often equips the F2 with both anti-ship missiles and a pair of medium or short-range air-to-air missiles during training exercises, essentially letting it act as a multi-roll platform that can defend itself while striking naval targets. The internal weapon is the same

M61 derived 20mm cannon JM61A1 for strafing or close combat. Engine and performance. Both F2 and late F-16s use the General Electric F110 engine, approximately 29,000 lbs force thrust. In terms of raw speed and acceleration, the differences are minor. The F2 is plenty fast, MAC 2 class, but its larger wing gives it a slightly lower wing loading at the expense of a bit more drag. That

translates to better maneuverability at slower speeds and heavy loads, good for dog fighting or carrying big missiles. But an unladen F-16 might retain a slight edge in top speed or climb just due to being smaller and lighter. In operational use, both are nimble fourth generation fighters, but the F2 was optimized to carry heavy loads without sacrificing handling. In summary, the F2 is to the F-16 what a tuned customized car is to a stock model. It's the same basic vehicle, but so many parts have been swapped out or upgraded that its capabilities and character are unique.

Japan took the F-16's core DNA, its agility, reliability, and cost-effective size, and grafted on enhancements for range, payload, and technology. The result was a hybrid, part Falcon, part cuttingedge experiment. And like any good experiment, it wasn't cheap. It's worth noting that all these modifications drove the cost way up, which is why the F2 ended up infamous for its price. The R&D program cost roughly 327 billion yen, about $3 billion, double what was originally estimated. Because only about 90 odd aircraft were produced, the development cost per plane was very

high. When you amatize it, each F2 effectively cost nearly four times as much as a standard F-16 off the production line. Even factoring out development, the flyaway cost of 1 F2 was around 12 billion yen, greater than $100 million in early 2000s yen. For comparison, at that time, a brand new FA18E Super Hornet, a larger carrier capable fighter, cost maybe $55 to $60 million, and a Russian Sue30 was even cheaper to buy. So, the F2 was in a league of its own price-wise.

Japan was essentially paying a premium to fuse its domestic tech with a proven airframe in limited numbers. This cost controversy became a political hot potato domestically with media dubbing the F2 Golden Eagle or other nicknames implying it was overly expensive.