---
video_title: "The Greatest Mistake in US History"
video_id: dPLLH-BFQJ8
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dPLLH-BFQJ8
video_date: 2026-05-03T09:11:59+00:00
video_description: |
  For decades, we were told that globalizing trade and bringing China into the WTO would democratize a superpower and create unprecedented American wealth. Instead, it gutted the industrial heartland, sparked a multi-hundred-billion dollar intellectual property heist, and set the stage for the explosive 2018 trade war.
  
  Voiced by:
  
  Tom McKay
  https://www.instagram.com/tmckay715/
  https://www.youtube.com/@UC8blX3YnHDG9e9_E9KjPK6g 
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Sources:
  
  Intellectual Property & The 1990s
  
  USTR Special 301 Reports (1989–1996): Documenting systemic IP violations and the 1991 formal investigation.
  
  The IP Commission Report (2017 Update): Estimates U.S. economic losses from IP theft at $225B to $600B annually.
  
  China's WTO Entry (2000)
  
  President Clinton’s WTO Speech (March 8, 2000): Outlining the economic and democratic doctrine behind granting China normal trade status.
  
  OpenSecrets / Public Citizen: Data on corporate lobbying expenditures for the PNTR campaign.
  
  The "China Shock" & Job Losses
  
  Economic Policy Institute (Jan 2020): Report detailing the 3.7 million American jobs lost between 2001 and 2018.
  
  "The China Syndrome" (Autor, Dorn, Hanson - 2013): Landmark economic paper detailing the localized labor market devastation.
  
  Local Industrial Collapse
  
  Maytag Closure (2007): Corporate filings and reporting on Whirlpool's acquisition and the subsequent Newton, Iowa plant shutdown.
  
  Vaughan-Bassett Furniture: U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC) 2004 anti-dumping investigation into Chinese wooden bedroom furniture.
  
  Made in China 2025 & The 2018 Tariffs
  
  Made in China 2025 Blueprint (May 2015): The State Council’s official 10-year tech dominance strategy.
  
  Rhodium Group Data: Tracking the $46 billion peak of Chinese tech acquisitions in the U.S. in 2016.
  
  USTR Section 301 Report (2018): The official findings on forced technology transfers that triggered the initial $34 billion tariff package.
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
At exactly 1 minute past midnight on July 6th, 2018, a single line of text entered chapter 99 of the harmonized tariff schedule of the United States. This modification imposed a 25% import tax on new pneumatic rubber tires, stock pumps, spherical roller bearings, lithium primary cells. It targeted 278 specific products originating from the People's Republic of China. This was a $ 36 billion initial tariff package. It triggered immediate retaliation. Within months,

that escalation engulfed $200 billion of Chinese imports under crippling 25% levies. American distributors scrambled to overhaul supply chains. The retail price of a Chinese-made space heater jumped from 48 to $60. Trade flowing from China to the United States plunged by 8.5%. The global

economic order fractured. China was dethroned from its long-held position as America's largest trading partner. Mexico and Canada elevated to take its place. Public consciousness branded this exact event as the opening salvo of a sudden unprecedented trade war. You saw the headlines.

You watched the cable news anchors panic. Everyone acted like this conflict started on this exact day in 2018. But the underlying reality reveals a vastly different timeline. The tariffs enacted in 2018 did not represent the beginning of the conflict. They marked the explosive culmination of a 30-year economic standoff. The true genesis of this trade war lies buried in the forgotten

intellectual property battles of the early 1990s. It lies in the highstakes World Trade Organization debates of the year 2000. And it lies in a slow generational erosion of the American industrial heartland. Let's look at the baseline. In 1990, the US trade deficit with China was $10 billion.

By 2000, it hit 83.6. 6 billion by 2010, $273 billion. By 2018, $419.2 billion. Foundational

friction between the two economies began decades before any 25% tariff took effect. From its inception in 1989, the United States Trade Representative published an annual special 301 report. China appeared on every single priority watch list. The core grievance centered on rampant piracy and the forced transfer of technology, American intellectual property faced systemic expropriation. This ranged from Hollywood motion pictures to highly sensitive software. In May of

1991, the United States initiated a formal section 301 investigation. They identified four critical deficiencies in Chinese trade practices. One, the absolute absence of product patent protection for chemicals and pharmaceuticals. Two, the total lack of copyright protection for American works. Three, deficient overall copyright regulations. And four, completely inadequate protection of

trade secrets. The United States threatened billions in punitive tariffs. In response, Beijing would sign sweeping agreements promising massive crackdowns only to completely ignore the enforcement. By 1996, American trade officials found that Chinese customs authorities were doing absolutely nothing to stop the export of pirated goods. The government was taking zero action against massive factories turnurning out illegal optical discs. In downtown Shanghai,

state-of-the-art facilities operated in broad daylight. Employees in crisp white coats oversaw Americanmade machinery. That machinery molded, encoded, laminated, and painted a new pirated CD every 7 seconds. Every 7 seconds. We aren't talking about bootleggers selling mixtapz out of a trunk. These were massive state-of-the-art government tolerated factories turnurning out

pirated American software. By the late 90s, 99% of all computer software in China was stolen. 99%. analyses place the annual cost to the US economy from counterfeit goods, pirated software, and trade secret theft between 225 billion and $600 billion. The trade secret share alone cost the economy between 180 billion and $540 billion annually. This industrial espionage ranged from

household goods to advanced aerospace components. It operated as an illegal subsidy. It allowed Chinese firms to slash research and development costs by simply absorbing American innovation. The persistent friction over intellectual property and market access set the stage for the most consequential economic policy decision of the modern era. China spent 13 years negotiating entry into the World Trade Organization. And on November 15th, 1999, the United States and

China finalized a bilateral excession agreement. The pact mandated steep reductions in Chinese tariffs. It dropped agricultural tariffs to an average of 17.5%. It slashed automobile tariffs from 100% down to 25% by 2006. It required the elimination of import quotas. It granted

foreign businesses the absolute right to import and distribute goods directly within China. But none of this happens automatically. To actually execute this agreement and open the floodgates, the United States Congress had to make the single most consequential economic vote of the modern era. They had to grant China permanent normal trade relations or PNTR. Since 1980, the United States granted China normal trade status on a conditional annual basis. We subjected the nation

to yearly reviews regarding its human rights record and immigration policies under the Jackson Vanic waiver. PNTR stripped away this annual review. It permanently decoupled American trade policy from Chinese domestic conduct. The Clinton administration launched an immense political offensive to secure PNTR passage. President Bill Clinton delivered a defining speech on March 8th, 2000. He laid out the doctrine that governed American economic policy for an entire generation.

Clinton framed the agreement as a oneway street benefiting American workers. The United States required no new market opening steps. China committed to tearing down its protectionist walls. Clinton promised that American companies would export products without exporting jobs. Rejecting the agreement, he warned, would result in American competitors in Europe and Asia, capturing the massive Chinese markets. Clinton fra the economic argument merged seamlessly with

a geopolitical theory of transformation. The administration asserted that economic liberalization would inevitably fracture the Chinese Communist Party's monopoly on power. By joining the WTO, China imported the defining value of democracy, economic freedom. Clinton argued that the shift away from these state-owned enterprises stripped the government of its role as an ultimate employer, landlord, and nanny. It forced citizens into a private sector where they demanded greater political liberty. Information technology served as the ultimate weapon in the

administration's theory. Clinton noted that internet access in China had quadrupled from 2 million to 9 million users. He famously dismissed the Chinese government's attempts to censor the web as akin to trying to nail jello to the wall. Liberty, he declared, spread by cell phone and cable modem. Corporate America aggressively backed the initiative. The business roundt

representing executives from Boeing, General Motors, and Cityroup deployed $9.2 million in direct lobbying. Multinational corporations poured $58 million in soft money and political contributions into the campaign cycle. Governors from over 40 states and territories sent letters to Congress advocating for the passage of PNTR. A fierce coalition mobilized in opposition, warning of impending industrial catastrophe. The AFL CIO and the United Steel Workers spearheaded a massive

resistance. They generated 200,000 letters to House members. Labor leaders argued the agreement served multinational companies seeking to relocate factories to China and import cheap products back to the United States. This directly mirrored the devastating outcomes of the North American Free Trade Agreement. In fact, Representative Bernie Sanders denounced the legislation on the House floor. He predicted the pact allowed corporations to outsource American jobs to a nation paying

starvation wages of 20 cents an hour. He pointed out the stark hypocrisy of corporate executives praising China's authoritarian system while simultaneously dismantling the American middle class. Representative Sherid Brown highlighted the absurdity of normalizing trade with a partner engaged in rampant intellectual property piracy, currency manipulation, and the use of slave labor. Despite previous vows in 1992 to link trade to human rights, Clinton betrayed that promise in May of 1994, he completely severed human rights in China from US trade policy. This paved the exact way for the PNTR push. The corporate lobbying and presidential pressure overpowered the resistance.

The House of Representatives passed the PNTR legislation by a vote of 237 to 197 on May 24th, 2000. The Senate followed suit with an 83-15 bipartisan vote on September 19th, 2000. President Clinton signed the bill into law on October 10th, 2000. China officially entered the World Trade Organization the following year. Predictions of American export dominance failed to materialize.

What happened next destroyed the industrial heartland. The United States trade deficit with China exploded. It expanded from $83.6 billion in 2000 to $273 billion by 2010. The influx of cheap subsidized Chinese goods decimated the American manufacturing base in an economic phenomenon academics later labeled the China shock. The magnitude of the disruption exceeded all

macroeconomic forecasts. Trade deficit with China up 401%. Total manufacturing employment down 26%. Manufacturing share of private sector down 50.5%. Between 2001 and 2018, the surging trade deficit

eliminated or displaced 3.7 million American jobs. Manufacturing bore the absolute brunt of the devastation, accounting for 75.4% of the displaced positions. The macroeconomic data is undeniable.

Import competition from China caused nearly 60% of all United States manufacturing job losses between 2001 and 2019. In raw numbers, the United States shed 5.4 million manufacturing jobs between 2000 in 2011. That translates to an average loss of 1,276 factory jobs every single day. For over a decade, the daily attrition compounded the damage. A net total of 66,486 manufacturing establishments

closed their doors permanently during this period. The geographic concentration of the devastation amplified the economic trauma. Job losses clustered heavily in labor inensive manufacturing communities across the Midwest, the Deep South, and the South Atlantic. The reality on the ground was catastrophic. The academic models assumed that a laidoff factory worker in Ohio would simply pack up, move to a new city, and become a software engineer. That didn't happen. Displaced

workers didn't migrate. They just remained trapped in declining, hollowedout regional economies. laid-off personnel converted nearly one for one into the ranks of the long-term unemployed or exited the labor force entirely. The resulting economic scarring manifested in plummeting local tax revenues depressed housing prices and collapsing wages for high school educated workers. As employment vanished, reliance on government transfer programs surged. The localized economic

depression bred profound social crisis. It triggered measurable increases in childhood poverty, single parenthood, and mortality rates linked to drug and alcohol abuse. Macroeconomic statistics failed to capture the localized annihilation of century old industrial ecosystems. The story of American de-industrialization is written in the hollowedout factories of specific municipalities. Newton, Ohio stood for a century as the undisputed washing machine capital of the world. By 1924, Mag produced one out of every five American washers. They survived

the Great Depression completely unscathed. The Mate Corporation grew into an industrial titan. It served as the singular economic engine for the town of 15,000 residents. At is Zenith. The Matag facility in Newton employed over 3,000 workers. It provided full medical benefits, robust pensions,

and middle-class stability to one out of every five residents in the city. Employees viewed the company as a second family, bleeding May tag blue over decades of dedicated service. But the globalization wave broke the company. Facing immense pricing pressure from foreign imports and seeking cheaper labor, Mag faltered in the early 2000s. In 2006, the Whirlpool Corporation acquired MagG for $1.37 billion. Seeking the best cost and distribution metrics,

Whirlpool immediately initiated the liquidation and closure of the Newton plant. They shifted production to alternative facilities in other states and Mexico. By late 2007, the sprawling 1.9 million square foot manufacturing complex spanning 175 acres sat entirely vacant. The closure eliminated 1,800 local jobs in a single blow. It turned off the noise of the presses. It

halted the shipment of assembly lines. The sudden evaporation of the primary employer decimated the local tax base. The plant's heartbeat. The mechanical roar of presses and assembly lines that defined the town for a hundred years went completely silent. Workers lost the promise of 30-year retirements. They were forced to manage vacant properties or seek lowerpaying

employment. A similar devastation ravaged the furniture industry of the American South. The 1999 bilateral WTO agreement drastically lowered tariff barriers on wooden bedroom furniture. It opened the floodgates for lowcost Asian imports. Between 1999 and 2009, the North Carolina furniture manufacturing industry lost more than half of its jobs. In G, Virginia, the

Von Basset Furniture Company stood on the brink of eraser. Founded in 1919, the company anchored the town's economy as Chinese manufacturers dumped aggressively underpriced furniture onto the American market. Surrounding factories in Virginia and North Carolina shuddered by the score, John Bassid III spearheaded a relentless legal and political counteroffensive by proving that Chinese firms exported products at prices below the cost of manufacturing. Basset secured punitive duties on Chinese-made wooden bedroom furniture. This action successfully preserved 700 manufacturing jobs in Gex, but von Basset survived as a stark anomaly. The vast majority of its regional

competitors vanished permanently, relocating their entire supply chains to Asia. While the American manufacturing sector spent two decades bleeding out, the Chinese government wasn't just sitting still. They had already won the war for cheap consumer goods. Now they were preparing for the final phase. Chinese Premier Lee Kang signed the made in China 2025 initiative into action in May 2015. MIC25, the 10-year blueprint outlined a meticulous strategy to transform the nation from a

laborintensive workshop into a technologyintensive powerhouse driving high value production. The plan identified 10 core high- techch sectors for absolute global dominance. Next generation information technology, advanced robotics, aerospace engineering, artificial intelligence, new energy vehicles. The financial and regulatory architecture supporting MIC25 operated on an unprecedented scale. The government deployed hundreds of billions of dollars in state subsidies to bankroll domestic champions. They committed roughly $300 billion in 2018 alone.

The initiative mandated aggressive localization targets. It required Chinese domestic content of core materials to reach 40% by 2020 and a massive 70% by 2025. The semiconductor industry sat at the absolute center of the strategy. Independence from foreign microchips provided breakthroughs in other areas of technology currently out of Beijing's reach. The strategy did not rely solely on domestic innovation. State-owned enterprises and governmentbacked funds accelerated the acquisition

of foreign technology firms. Chinese acquisitions in the United States peaked at over $45 billion in 2016. Tech firms like Riot Games fell under full ownership of Tencent. And the industrial espionage escalated. State sponsored hackers began utilizing incredibly sophisticated tools to infiltrate the networks of global service providers, leaving almost no digital fingerprints. They were

siphoning highly sensitive commercial information and aerospace trade secrets directly to Chinese competitors. The revelation of the MIC25 agenda completely shattered the foundational assumption of the 2000 PNTR vote. The Clinton era theory posited that integrating China into the global trading system forced the adoption of free market principles and democratic norms. Instead, Beijing weaponized its integration. They utilized the immense wealth generated by the American consumer market to fund an authoritarian state capitalist machine. a machine explicitly designed to displace

American technological supremacy. The precise alignment of historical grievances triggered the explosive retaliation of 2018 when the United States Trade Representative launched a new section 301 investigation. The findings directly echoed the ignored warnings of 1991 and 95. The resulting report documented that China directed the systematic acquisition of United States companies to extract cuttingedge technology. They supported unauthorized cyber intrusions to steal trade secrets. They utilized forced technology transfer regimes to bleed American firms of their most

valuable assets. The 25% tariffs enacted on July 6th, 2018, the ones targeting lithium batteries, ball bearings, and aerospace components, they were not arbitrary selections. They operated as surgical strikes. They aimed directly at the 10 sectors identified in the made in China 2025 blueprint. The economic conflict dominating the modern geopolitical landscape does not represent a new war. It serves as the ultimate consequence of a 30-year policy failure. The United States

tolerated rampant intellectual property theft in the 1990s to maintain diplomatic equilibrium. It sacrificed its industrial heartland in the 2000s on the theoretical promise that globalized trade democratized an authoritarian superpower. The factories in Newton and G were gutted. Millions of workers faced permanent displacement and the trade deficit compounded into the hundreds of billions. Everyone thinks the trade war started with those tariffs in 2018, but by the time those tariffs finally fell, the global economic order had already undergone an irreversible transformation.