---
video_title: "Samsung’s $59BN Profit, Explained"
video_id: k2cxDrsIibo
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k2cxDrsIibo
video_date: 2026-07-27T10:35:11+00:00
video_description: |
  Samsung fell behind SK hynix in HBM and publicly apologised over concerns about its chip competitiveness. Less than two years later, it guided to nearly $59 billion in operating profit for one quarter. This video explains how the AI boom squeezed ordinary memory supply, why Samsung benefited so heavily, and why investors still think the boom may not last.
  
  Narrated by: Tom McKay
  https://www.instagram.com/tmckay715/
  https://www.youtube.com/@MetalRobotReviews
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  
  Source(s):
  Samsung’s profits and financial history
  Samsung — Q2 2026 preliminary earnings guidance
  Reuters — Samsung forecasts a 19-fold profit increase
  Samsung — Q1 2026 results
  Samsung — Q4 and full-year 2025 results
  Samsung — Q4 and full-year 2023 results
  Samsung — Full-year 2018 results
  Samsung — Full-year 2019 results
  Nvidia — Q1 fiscal 2027 results
  Apple — Q2 fiscal 2026 Form 10-Q
  HBM and Samsung’s earlier crisis
  Samsung — Official October 2024 apology
  CNBC — How Samsung fell behind SK hynix in HBM
  SK hynix — History of its HBM development
  Reuters — SK hynix briefly overtakes Samsung in market value
  Samsung — First commercial HBM4 shipments
  Samsung — HBM4 for Nvidia Vera Rubin at GTC 2026
  The memory shortage
  Micron — HBM3E consumes about three times the wafer supply of DDR5
  Micron — HBM growth reduces supply available for ordinary DRAM
  Micron — Downturn-era investment and production cuts
  TrendForce — Q1 2026 conventional DRAM price forecast
  Micron — Fiscal Q3 2026 results
  Micron — Supply outlook beyond 2027 and into 2028
  Foundry, devices and other consequences
  TrendForce — TSMC and Samsung foundry market shares
  Reuters — Samsung’s $16.5 billion Tesla chip contract
  Apple — Memory supply constraints and rising costs
  Reuters — Samsung’s chip-worker bonus agreement
  Reuters — Appliance workers’ July 16 rally
  Justia — California DRAM antitrust case docket
  US Department of Justice — Samsung’s 2005 DRAM price-fixing plea
---
On the 7th of July this year, Samsung Electronics issued preliminary earnings guidance for the previous three months. It guided to about 171 trillion Juan of revenue and 89.4 trillion one of operating profits. That operating profit at July exchange rates is somewhere around 58 to 59 billion US. And that's one company in 91 days. It is higher than Nvidia's latest reported operating

income. It's higher than Apple's. And it's about 19 times what Samsung made in that same quarter a year earlier. Day by day, the company was on track to earn close to a trillion one. But here's the strange part. If we also go back about 2 years ago, Samsung was actually in serious trouble.

Its chip division had issued a public apology. It had lost the race to the most important product in the semiconductor industry to a smaller Korean rival. And analysts were openly asking whether Samsung was still a top tier chipmaker. So how did it get from there to here? To answer that, you have to look at what the rest of the industry was doing. A year earlier, Samsung's operating

profit for the same quarter was about 4.7 trillion Juan. The new guidance was 89.4 trillion. That's a 19fold increase. That guided 3-month figure is also more than double what Samsung earned

in all of 2025. That whole year came in at 43.6 trillion. And if it is confirmed, it will be the third record quarter in a row. 20.1 trillion in the fourth quarter of last year,

57.2 in the first quarter of this one, then 89.4. For scale, Nvidia's latest reported operating income was 53.5 billion. Apple's latest was 35.9 billion. Just a quick note, these cover different

three-month periods, and Samsung's number is guidance rather than a final result. So, it isn't an exact comparison, but it shows us the scale. Now, some headlines called this the most profitable quarter in the history of technology, and there's a reason why. Even though it's still a projection, it already sits above what both of those companies reported. And those are two of the biggest names in technology. Now, the number that matters most isn't any of those. 89.4 trillion1

of guided operating profit on 171 trillion1 of guided revenue implies an operating margin of about 52%. What matters most is the fact that Samsung is a company that makes washing machines, refrigerators, and even televisions. Yet, despite these everyday products, the company is seeing a more than 50% margin. Or to put it simply, they are making 52 cents of operating profit every dollar of revenue. So, how are they making such enormous profits? Well,

Samsung has not released the quarter 2 divisional split at the time of this recording, so we can't say where this profit came from. But in the first quarter, Device Solutions, the chip business, earned 53.7 trillion Juan out of a group total of 57.2. So to put it in simpler terms, in quarter 1, about 94% of Samsung's operating profit came from semiconductors. Now, let's go back 3 years

to 2023. This is where that trouble actually started. That year, the memory industry had one of its worst years on record. Prices collapsed and Samsung's fullear operating profit fell to 6.57 trillion one. The chip division alone lost around 14.9 trillion. Now, if we compare that

to the quarter 2 guidance at the pace Samsung is now guiding to, it would earn that entire year's profit in about a week. Then the AI boom arrived and Samsung missed it. Nvidia's accelerators need a particular kind of memory called high bandwidth memory or HBM. Instead of laying memory chips out flat, you stack them vertically. Drill connections down through the silicon and place the finished stack beside the accelerator inside the same package. It's much faster and much harder

to manufacture. For years, HBM was a niche. The market was small, the yields were poor, and the development costs were hard to justify. Analysts, including Morning Star's Kazunori Ayito, say Samsung under prioritized HBM while the market was smaller and the manufacturing economics were difficult. SKH Highex, which was Samsung's rival in this niche, did the opposite. It commercialized

HBM first, built the early lead, and secured one of the biggest partnerships in the semiconductor industry with Nvidia. This partnership meant that SKH Highix's HBM memory would be designed into an Nvidia accelerator that would make it difficult to remove within that ecosystem. This is worth understanding because it explains why the lead held for so long. HBM is not a component you can swap. It doesn't sit in a socket. It's bonded into the same package as the processor on a

shared piece of silicon. And the whole assembly is validated as one thing. So changing the memory supplier isn't a purchasing decision, it's a redesign. The package has to be re-qualified. The timing has to be revalidated. And the yields on the new combination have to be proven before

anything ships. Which means that if a rival gets designed in first and their part works, you are not competing on price, you are asking a customer to redo engineering work that is already finished. By 2025, analysts put SKH Highix at around 61% of the HBM market. Micron at 21 and Samsung at 17. In October 2024, Samsung apologized. The statement came from Jun Yongyan, the vice chairman running

the chip division. He said the company had caused concern about its technological competitiveness and he acknowledged in writing that people were talking about a crisis at Samsung. Now, Samsung rarely makes public acknowledgements like these. Why? because they are one of the world's biggest conglomerates and businesses at these sizes rarely, very rarely point out that they might be in trouble. In June this year, SKH's common shares briefly overtook Samsung's in market value.

On that measure, it ended a run of more than two decades of Samsung's reign as South Korea's most valuable listed company. Now, Samsung pointed out that if you include its preferred shares, it was still the larger company, and that's a fair point, but just for a moment there, Samsung wasn't even the most valuable chip company in Korea. So, follow the story. A couple of years ago, Samsung lost the HBM race. And the year before that, its financials had been among the worst in the company's history. And they were still paying for it last month when SKH Highix briefly

passed them as the most valuable chip company in Korea. And yet 2 weeks later, they guided to one of the largest quarterly operating profits in tech history. But we won't truly appreciate what all of this means if we don't try to understand how these chips are actually made. Here's how it works. Memory chips are made on silicon wafers, round discs about the size of a dinner plate. And

the important thing about a fab, which is a chip factory, is that it can only process so many wafers a month. This limit, how many wafers can be produced in a given month, is a physical limitation. It comes from how much clean room space you have from the machines inside it and the fact that building another fab takes years, not months, but years. To put it simply, the total number of wafers the industry can produce in any given quarter is close to fixed. Now, here's where it gets complicated. HBM and ordinary memory compete for the same wafers. That's the DDR5

in your laptop and in ordinary servers. They start life in exactly the same place on the same wafers in the same fabs and then HBM adds more steps on top. Stacking through silicon vas testing advanced packaging and those two products are not equally efficient with the wafers they consume. According to Micron's own figures to deliver the same number of memory bits, HBM3e uses about three times the wafer supply that DDR5 does at the same technology node. With HBM4, the ratio is higher. There are

two reasons the ratio is that large. The first is area. An HBM stack needs vertical connections running down through the dyes and a base layer that manages the interface to the processor. All of that silicon has to come from somewhere. So a given wafer yields fewer usable bits than it would if you were making flat DRAM at the same node. The second is yield and it compounds through

the stack. Manufacturers do test individual dyes before stacking them precisely because of failure late in the process is so expensive. But the stacking itself introduces new ways to fail. The vertical connections have to line up. The bonding has to hold. The whole assembly has to survive

being thinned and packaged. And if a stack fails at the end of all that, you don't lose one layer. you lose everything. So, the number of good stacks you get out is lower than the number of good dyes you put in. And that gap has to be paid for in wafer. To put it simply, imagine the industry has

100 wafers to spend this quarter. Spend all 100 on ordinary DDR5 memory and you get 100 wafers worth of chips out of the other end. But if you want that same amount of memory in HBM form, 100 wafers won't do it. You'd need around 300. Now, when AI demand took off, all three of the major suppliers, Samsung, SKHEX, and Micron, shifted more leading edge DRAM capacity and investment toward HPM, which means they were burning through their wafers faster to make fewer chips. All this points to one

thing, a squeeze. And here's the part that makes the squeeze worse and the part most coverage misses. An AI server doesn't only use HBM, its accelerator uses it. The machine built around that accelerator also has processors in it. And those very processors also need ordinary system memory to run on. So every AI server that gets built adds demand for conventional memory at

the same time as the accelerator inside it is pulling wafer capacity away from conventional memory. So we see it as demand going up and supply going down. And HBM wasn't the only factor here. During the downturn, memory makers had cut back on new investment and they hadn't built much new capacity. So when demand started recovering, supply was already tight before HBM arrived.

HBM then made it worse. Trendforce quarter 1 2026 forecast that conventional DRAM contract prices would rise 90 to 95% in a single quarter. CT later estimated that DRAM average selling prices climbed another 44% in the second quarter with NAND up 53. These all feed straight through to profitability. Take Micron's most recent quarter. Revenue was 41.5 billion. Non-GAAP operating income

was 33.7 billion. And the non-GAAP gross margin was about 85%. And in a shortage, the biggest winner is whoever has the most of the product everyone suddenly wants. In this case, that's ordinary memory, and nobody makes more of it than Samsung. Samsung is the largest DRAM

producer and one of the largest nan suppliers. When conventional memory prices rise sharply, it has more conventional memory to sell than any rival. Now, to be clear, Samsung didn't plan this. They, after all, lost the HPM Race 2 SK Highix, and they lost it badly. But three things happened at once. The industry pulled wafers away from ordinary memory to make HBM. Memory makers had

already stopped investing during the downturn and demand was coming back. So prices went up. And the company sitting on the biggest pile of ordinary memory was Samsung. And on that HBM, Samsung is actually catching up. In February, it announced its first commercial shipment of HBM4, the generation after the one it fumbled. In March, at Nvidia's developer conference,

it said HBM4 was in mass production for Nvidia's Vera Rubin platform. Its first quarter results confirmed the first mass product sales had begun. So, the company that couldn't secure broad NVIDIA qualification for HBM3e is now shipping HBM4 into Nvidia's next architecture. Samsung expects its HBM sales to more than triple this year. Foundry is the other business Samsung has been losing at for years. Making chips to order for other companies is TSMC's world,

and Samsung doesn't disclose the division's profit or loss separately at all. But in June 2025, it announced a $16.5 billion supply contract with Tesla running to 2033 as identified by Reuters. So, the shortage explains why Samsung is getting these record profits, but it doesn't actually tell us whether Samsung actually fixed anything. HBM4 and Foundry will decide that. And on Foundry,

we still can't tell. Samsung doesn't report its Foundry's profit or loss separately, so nobody outside the company knows how it's really doing. So, that's the profit and where it came from. Now, here's what the market did with it. Over the 12 months to the 10th of July, Samsung shares had risen by well over 300%. On the 19th of June, they hit a high of 374,5001.

Then, on the 7th of July, the day Samsung issued that record guidance, the stock closed down 6.9%. At one point during the session, it was down more than 10. Reports showed that more than $80 billion dollar of market value was erased. By the 10th of July, it was about 24% below the June high. Part

of it was simply profit taking after a very big run. Since memory prices are also public, anyone watching this stock could see this quarter was going to be huge. So, by the time Samsung reported its earnings, nobody was surprised. The news was already priced in and on the market. You buy the rumor and you sell the fact. By the time Samsung confirmed it, the rumor was over. And to top it

off, revenue also came in slightly below what some analysts had expected. The wider Korean market was falling at the same time. And by the 8th of July, the KOSPI had fallen more than 20% from its June 19 record high and entered bare market territory. But the bigger reason is that investors remember what happened after the last memory boom in mid July. Depending on which forecast source you use, Samsung was trading at roughly 5 to seven times forward earnings. On that forward multiple,

this is where it gets interesting. A forward 5 to7 isn't actually high. Compared to Nvidia and other chip companies, the multiple is way lower. This just tells us that investors don't really expect the earnings to last. Go back to 2018, the last memory super cycle. Samsung's operating

profit that year was 58.89 trillion Juan, and that was a record at the time. The next year, it came in at 27.77 trillion. So, the profit fell by more than half in 12 months. And the cycle

that broke it is the same one we've just been describing, running in reverse. High prices tell every producer the same thing. Build. So they all start building at once at the top of the market when the money looks easy. But remember, a new fab takes years. So the factories they order at

the peak don't open at the peak. They open years later. And by then everything has changed. Prices have cooled. Buyers who panic bought during the shortage have full warehouses and stop ordering.

That's the moment all the new supply arrives. That's what a memory crash actually is. It isn't that demand disappeared. It's that everything the industry decided to build when prices were high finally shows up. Which is why what Samsung is building right now matters more than what Samsung is earning right now. So the market looks at 89.4 trillion Juan and it doesn't see a new normal. It

sees a peak. Now it is good to know that there are also other claims on this money. Samsung agreed a bonus arrangement with its chip workers worth 10 12% of the chip division's operating profit. much of it paid in shares. At anything close to current run rates, that is a very large sum. It

has caused a dispute inside the company because the people who make the phones and fridges and televisions receive a lot less. Appliance workers had announced a rally for the 16th of July to protest the gap. And in late June, a proposed class action complaint was filed in California naming Samsung, SKHENX, and Micron. It alleges the three coordinated to restrict supply and inflate DRAM prices and claims prices rose nearly 700% over 4 years. Now, just to be clear, these are allegations. Nothing has been proven. What is established, however, is that in 2005,

Samsung pleaded guilty to fixing DRAM prices and paid a $300 million fine to the US Department of Justice. Now, that history is not evidence in this present case, but it does provide relevant background to the allegation. So, let's answer the last question. Who pays for this? These are the companies buying the memory. Apple's latest quarterly filing says the company is already

facing supply constraints and rising costs for NAND shortage and DRAM memory. Apple expects those pressures to intensify and warns they could hurt demand, revenue, and gross margins. But of course, this doesn't prove that the full increase reaches consumers. That still depends on contracts, inventory, and company margins. But it does prove that even one of the world's largest device makers is already paying more for memory. Samsung's own device businesses face the same

market. Its phones, televisions, and fridges all need memory, and they are operating in the same component environment that is enriching Samsung's chip division. Samsung's internal transfer prices are not public, so we can't say exactly what its device units pay. In the fourth quarter of last year, the TV and appliance businesses actually posted an operating loss. In the first quarter of this year, the entire device division earned about 3 trillion one against 53 trillion from chips. And one last thing to note, these prices won't hold forever. But Micron currently

expects DRAM and NAND conditions to remain tight beyond 2027 and to improve only gradually in 2028. So we have to wait. On the 30th of July, Samsung publishes the full results and that's when we'll see the divisional breakdown, the capital spending plans, and what the company says about where all of this is going next.