---
video_title: "Why Singapore Airlines Runs a Budget Airline — On Purpose"
video_id: dpEFXQMSa68
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dpEFXQMSa68
video_date: 2026-01-20T09:11:26+00:00
video_description: |
  How does a premium, expensive airline like Singapore Airlines survive in Southeast Asia, the world's most competitive market for low-cost carriers (LCCs)? The answer is: it doesn't. It uses its own low-cost subsidiary, Scoot, to fight the budget battle for it.
  
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/behindasian
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/behindasia
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
It's a barmy evening at 35,000 ft. You're enscconced in Singapore Airlines luxury. Champagne flute in hand, gourmet dinner on linen, and a flight attendant addressing you by name. The ticket costs more than some people's monthly wage, but the experience is pure opulence. No frrills, no free meals, just standard blue seats accented with yellow crammed with holiday makers. Leg room

is tight, and you brought your own snacks to save money. The fair was so cheap it almost felt like a mistake. Two flights, two completely different experiences. Here's the plot twist. Both of these flights are offered by the same airline group. The lavish firstass suite and the bargain

coach seat. There are two sides of one strategy. Singapore Airlines, Asia's famed luxury carrier, has a secret weapon flying under the radar, an ambitious, lowcost subsidiary called Scoot. and together they're executing a pinser movement to crush the competition. So, how did a button-down five-star airline come to embrace a scrappy budget offshoot? Today, we'll unpack the story of Scoot,

how Singapore Airlines launched and scaled a low-cost carrier to fight back against a budget airline boom, and how this dual brand strategy allows the company to dominate both premium and budget travel without cannibalizing itself. The early 2000s brought a revolution to Asian skies. the rise of the lowcost carriers or LCC's. In Southeast Asia, new airlines like Air Asia were popping up with a simple promise. Now everyone can fly. Budget carriers slashed fairs

by stripping away extras. Suddenly, millions who never thought they could afford air travel were booking flights across the region. Pent-up demand was unleashed with families, students, and backpackers flocking to these no frrills airlines for the first taste of international travel. Southeast Asia became ground zero for the budget airline boom by the late 2000s. Asian lowcost carriers were grabbing a larger market share than in any other region. Malaysia's Air

Asia relaunched in 2001 with just two planes expanded explosively into a panasian empire, spawning affiliates in Thailand, Indonesia, the Philippines. even a longhaul offshoot, Air Asia X. Quantis launched Jetstar in 2004 as a lowcost arm spanning Australia and Asia. Dozens of new LCC's took to the skies, connecting second tier cities and holiday spots with fairs often 80% lower than traditional airlines. For the region's legacy carriers, this was an earthquake. Singapore

Airlines, SIA, consistently ranked among the world's best full service airlines, watched this trend with growing alarm. This is an airline known for exquisite service and top-notch safety with a sterling brand earned over decades. But SIA also operates from a small city state with no domestic market. For every flight, it must fill seats with international travelers. And suddenly many of those travelers were being lured away by budget alternatives offering good enough service at rock bottom prices. By around 2010, budget airlines had seized roughly a quarter of all seat capacity

in Singapore, Asia's financial hub. Air Asia's slogan, now everyone can fly, had become reality, and it posed an existential threat to premium airlines like SIA. If SIA ignored this segment, it risked seeding a massive chunk of the market and potentially losing the regional feed that filled its longhaul flights. One internal worry was that if SIA tried to match the low fairs, it would bleed cash, but if it didn't, it might fly half empty planes while budget carriers thrived. It was a classic innovator's dilemma. SIA's first attempt to ride the budget

wave came in 2003. It co-founded Tiger Air, a Singapore-based low-cost carrier. For a while, Tiger Air was kept at arms length. But while the Singapore operation saw reasonable traffic, the brand's Australian offshoot was a disaster, grounded by safety regulators and eventually shut down. The Tiger brand became a liability, confusing customers rather than capturing them. Simply put, Tiger Air wasn't roaring, it was limping. Meanwhile,

SIA's rivals were adapting faster. Quantis was successfully using its budget arm, Jet Star, to dominate leisure routes. Closer to home, even Malaysia Airlines briefly entered a shock alliance with Air Asia in 2011 to stem its losses. The Old Guard was under siege from all sides. Premium competition on the top end and budget disruptors on the low end. For Singapore's flag carrier,

the message was clear. Evolve or fade away. SIA's leadership knew they had to act decisively despite deep internal fears that a low-cost offshoot could cherished premium brand. Enter Go Chunfong, appointed CEO of Singapore Airlines in 2010. In 2011, Go made a bold call. SIA would launch an

allnew lowcost carrier built from scratch. The plan shocked many. SIA had long sworn by luxury. Now, it was jumping into the no frills game. Detractors, including some SIA executives, warned this could backfire, citing how other full service airlines tried and failed to run their own LCC's. United's TED comes to mind as a flop, though British Airways GO was actually profitable

before being sold. But GO saw no choice. Asia's budget airlines were growing too fast, outpacing full service carriers by a wide margin. SIA could either join the fight or keep losing ground. So, they plunged in, committing 280 million Singapore dollars to start the new subsidiary. They named

it Scoot, a cheeky colloquial name, nothing like the dignified Singapore Airlines. In fact, the name came to the team rather informally. As one executive quipped, "It was found with the help of an online thesaurus and a bottle of red wine." Many at SIA headquarters initially hated the name for sounding too frivolous, but that was precisely the point. Scoot was meant to be everything SIA was not. Fun, youthful, and a little quirky. In Australian slang, to scoot means to get going

cheerfully. And Scoot's culture was designed around a concept called scootitude. A spirit of being quirky, honest, and fun. This would guide everything from advertising to cabin crew jokes. The new airline signature color, bright yellow, as loud and playful as SIA's colors were elegant and restrained. When Scoot launched flights in mid 2012, it started with handme-down Boeing

777s from Singapore Airlines fleet. But that was just a stop gap. Scoot quickly transitioned to an all Dreamlininer widebody fleet using the modern fuelefficient Boeing 787, but configuring them to pack in maximum passengers. No first class, no lie flat beds, just a single crowded cabin plus a few Scoot Plus seats, formerly Scoot Biz, a modest premium economy offering for those willing to pay a bit more. With this highdensity layout, Scoot could spread costs over more seats, achieving a much lower cost per passenger. By 2019, Scoot's unit costs, excluding fuel, were estimated to

be 30 to 40% lower than Singapore Airlines, an enormous advantage in the low price game. That is a huge number, Go emphasized, highlighting how dramatically leaner Scoot was built to be. Operationally, Scoot was a different animal. It hired many staff from outside the SIA ecosystem, deliberately issuing the usual Singapore Airlines way of doing things. New pilots and crew were often on separate contracts, typically at lower pay scales than SIA's long-erving crew. The

hierarchy was flatter, no pampered corner offices or rigid corporate ladder. In fact, Scoot's first CEO, Campbell Wilson, was literally told to set up office far away from SIA's headquarters. He and his team worked out of a makeshift open plan space in an airport terminal to cultivate a startup vibe. Early employees recall everyone sitting elbow-to- elbow, improvising solutions on the fly. This scrainess became a point of pride. It also kept overhead costs low. Scoot's branding

leaned hard into Scooitude. Flight attendants cracked light-hearted jokes during announcements. Marketing campaigns were cheeky. At one point, Scoot ran ads teasing competitors or offered promo fairs with playful taglines. All of this signal to the target audience, typically young travelers and families on a budget, that Scoot was a different experience, not a cut rate version of SIA, but a brand with its own personality. As Wilson put it, they wanted to be the only airline with

Scooitude. By carving out this distinct identity, Scoot gave costconscious passengers a reason to choose them over rivals like Air Asia or Jetstar beyond just price. Building a new airline wasn't without turbulence. Scoot did face losses in its early years as it invested in new planes and routes. It steadily gained momentum and by 2015 it was carrying millions of passengers a year. But profitability was elusive at first, a common story for startup airlines. Still, SIA's

bet started to show promise around the mid2010s as Scoot's unit costs proved impressively low and its load factors, how full the planes were, climbed. In 2016, SIA made a decisive move to strengthen its low-cost game even further. Mid 2017 marked a turning point. Singapore Airlines fully acquired Tiger Air by May 2016 and now folded the short hall budget carrier completely into Scoot. The Tiger Air brand, which had been flying since 2004, was retired in July 2017. From that point on,

Scoot would be the sole low-cost brand under SIA's umbrella, operating both the short hall Airbus A320 family jets inherited from Tiger Air and its own haul Boeing 787 Dreamlininers. This merger was more than just a rebranding. It created a unified budget airline with scale and scope. By the end of that year, Scoot served over 60 destinations from Singapore, from nearby Malaysian and Indonesian cities to far-flung points like China, Japan, Australia, even Greece. With Tiger Air's absorption, SIA had effectively combined forces to present a two-pronged attack on the market. Think of it as a pinser movement strategy. On one flank, the flagship Singapore

Airlines would continue doing what it does best, offering a premium product for business travelers, luxury seekers, and longhaul flyers willing to pay for comfort. On the other flank, Scoot would aggressively pursue the price-sensitive leisure market, backpackers, budget vacationers, students, families looking for deals. The two brands were carefully segmented to minimize cannibalization. Scoot's routes and timings often targeted different customer needs or secondary cities that SIA didn't serve. Even on overlapping routes, SIA and Scoot coordinated schedules and pricing to avoid directly poaching each other's passengers. For example, if SIA flew a route in the morning

for business travelers, Scoot might fly it in the evening when vacationers prefer, charging a rock bottom fair. Over time, the walls between the two brands also became more permeable in a smart way. The group introduced things like interline agreements and combined loyalty rewards. An SIA customer could earn Chris Flyer miles on Scoot flights and Scoot passengers connecting onto SIA could have a single booking and baggage checked through. This was once unthinkable. The idea of

placing a premium customer onto a budget flight was heresy in the old SIA mindset, but it proved a necessary and sensible step. By 2018, Scoot was feeding over 20 additional destinations into SIA's network that the full service airline didn't reach itself. In other words, Scoot wasn't just a lowfair outlet. It became an integral part of SIA's hub strategy at Changi Airport. Group CEO Go Chunfong reflected that the SIA group had succeeded in becoming a leader in both full service and lowcost markets, something few airline groups in the world can claim.

Let's look at Australia as a case study of this Pinsir strategy in action. Australia is a huge air travel market for both tourists and business and it was an early target for Scoot. Singapore Airlines has long flown to major Australian cities Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide, primarily with premium service, multiple times daily in some cases. Scoot entered the scene going after the leisure segment. In 2012, Scoot's very first flights were to Sydney and the Gold Coast.

boldly undercutting incumbents. Today, if you want to fly from Singapore to, say, Perth, you have two very different options under SIA Group. Singapore Airlines offers a couple of flights a day with all the bells and whistles. A ticket might cost roughly 500 to 800 Singapore dollars round trip in economy and far more for business class. Scoot offers its own flights to Perth. Currently

around 12 to 14 flights weekly and increasing due to demand with fairs that can be as low as $279 Singapore dollars roundtrip for a no frills seat. That's nearly a 50% price difference. For a price sensitive traveler, Scoot is the obvious choice. For someone who values comfort or is traveling for work, SIA's mainline is worth the premium. Either way, the money ultimately goes into the same company's coffers. This double team approach has been tough for competitors

to counter. Take the Quantis Group for example. Quantis operates its own full service flights from Australia to Singapore and it has Jetstar as a lowcost brand. But Quantis' focus is split. It has shifted strategy to fly direct from Perth to London bypassing Asian hubs entirely. This retreat

left a vacuum in the Singapore Australia market that SIA and Scoot were all too happy to fill. between Scoot and SIA. They operate more flights between Singapore and Australia than almost any other foreign airline. In fact, Singapore Airlines has been one of the largest foreign carriers in the Australian market, even before Scoot. And with Scoot, that position strengthened. Air Asia X,

which once flew Malaysian budget travelers to Australia, doesn't even serve the Singapore Australia market directly. They force passengers to transit through Koala Lumpur. Scoot, however, flies direct, giving it a monopoly on non-stop budget travel between Singapore and down under. Meanwhile, premium Asian rivals like Cath a Pacific or Malaysia Airlines can't drop prices too much without hurting their yields. Scoot ensures SIA can match or undercut budget prices without tainting the Singapore Airlines brand. By 2019, the results of this strategy were

becoming evident. Scoot had flown over 65 million passengers since its launch. It had grown to a fleet of 48 aircraft serving 68 destinations. In Singapore, Scoot alone accounted for 14% of the country's total seat capacity and a dominant 43% of all lowcost carrier seats at Changangi airport. Essentially, nearly half of the budget airline traffic in Singapore was on Scoot, meaning the SIA Group was recapturing budget flyers that might have otherwise gone to competitors. And

importantly, Singapore Airlines didn't shrivel up in the process. It maintained its premium cache, still winning awards and topping surveys while letting Scoot take the knocks of the price wars. Financially, the dual brand approach took time to pay off. Scoot had a rocky start with losses, and even as recently as fiscal 2019, it saw a small loss of 15 million Singapore dollars, mainly due to rapid expansion costs. But the year before, it had turned a 78 million Singapore dollar profit.

A sign that when operating at steady state, the model could make money. Even when Scoot was in the red, SIA viewed it as a long-term play, an essential piece to prevent profit erosion on the main airline by lowcost competition. By late 2010s, both Scoot and Singapore Airlines were profitable, and the group had returned to growth. In 2017, SIA did face a rare quarterly loss, prompting a strategic review, but part of that review involved shifting more routes to Scoot, which we saw with Silair's roots being handed over. This is key. Having Scoot allows the SIA

group to flexibly deploy the right tool for each market. If a route isn't doing well with a full service product, they can try it as a budget service and cut costs. Conversely, if a budget route matures and higher yield demand appears, the group can consider upgrading it to SIA mainline or adding a premium flight alongside. It's almost like a chess game with SIA and Scoot coordinating their moves. Then came CO 19. The pandemic grounded airlines worldwide and

Singapore Airlines was hit particularly hard. With no domestic flights to fall back on, its fleet was largely parked for months. SIA posted its first annual net loss in its history during the 2019 to 2020 financial year. But the group also took bold steps to survive. It raised capital, cut costs, and prepared for an eventual recovery. Scoot, for its part, operated minimal services during the

depths of the pandemic, even some repatriation and cargo flights, but essentially had to b its time. When borders gradually reopened in 2022, something interesting happened. Leisure travel, vacations, visiting friends and family came roaring back faster than business travel. This played right into Scoot's wheelhouse. The SIA group was able to ramp up Scoot's operations very rapidly to capture the pent-up demand. By late 2022, Scoot was already operating at around 80% of its prepandemic

capacity, ahead of many competitors. And by end of 2023, it actually exceeded its pre-COVID capacity at 104%. Planes were full, really full. In the financial year ending March 2024, Scoot achieved a record load factor of 91.2%, meaning on average, over 91% of seats on every flight were filled with paying customers. Singapore Airlines mainline wasn't far behind at 88% load factor. Also a

record for them. These are remarkable numbers, among the highest in the industry. The postcoid rebound propelled SIA Group's finances to new heights. In the April to September halfyear of 2023, SIA Group reported a record net profit of 1.44 billion Singapore dollars. For the full

year ending March 2023, the group notched its highest profit in its 76-year history, about 2.68 billion Singapore dollars. Scoot contributed to this upswing, even achieving a record quarterly operating profit of 135 million Singapore dollars in late 2022 as travel surged. SIA's CEO attributed this success in part to the portfolio strategy the group had honed. Essentially, the ability to capture demand in different segments by deploying the right vehicles to the right markets, as the company put it. In plain terms, having both a premium and a budget brand meant they

could scoop up every ounce of demand from pent-up luxury travelers to costconscious holiday goers. Scoot became the sharp edge of the spear in the fight for post-pandemic market share, aggressively expanding routes and frequencies, for example, adding more flights to Perth and Sydney to meet surging leisure demand, while SIA Mainline focused on restoring premium services and longhaul connectivity. Today, Singapore Airlines and Scoot present a united front that covers almost the entire spectrum of air travel. The two brands have different images and cater to different needs, but they march in lock step towards the same goal. Keep the SIA group on top. This strategy,

once controversial, has proven its worth. However, the journey isn't over. Challenges loom on the horizon. The airline industry is cyclical. The postcoid travel boom is expected to normalize and even cool off slightly as more airlines re-enter the frey and add back capacity. Competition will intensify and ticket prices may come under pressure. For Scoot,

that means the ultra low fairs which drive its appeal could also shrink its margins, especially as fuel prices and labor costs rise worldwide. Full service carriers, including SIA, face their own headwinds. Global economic uncertainty could sap premium travel demand and upstart competitors. Perhaps new low-cost longhaul ventures or ambitious Chinese and Middle Eastern airlines will continue to challenge them. The SIA Group will need to stay nimble, ensuring Scoot remains truly lowcost and fun enough to win budget travelers. While Singapore Airlines continues

justifying its luxury premium with top-notch service and innovation, one area to watch is network and fleet strategy. In April 2024, Scoot began operating smaller Embraa E190-E2 aircraft, a strategic move to penetrate thinner secondary routes that are too small for their larger jets, but vital for feeding the wider network. And as travel patterns evolve, SIA will continually decide which routes are best served by Scoot and which by SIA, a dynamic allocation. The risk of cannibalization will always be present, but so far the group has managed it by maintaining clear differentiation. In the end, Scoot's success actually reinforces Singapore Airlines strength rather than undermining it. It gives the group a growth avenue it wouldn't have if it only stuck

to flying $10,000 suites and $5,000 business class tickets. It also puts them in a better position to crush outside competition because whatever a rival tries to offer, SIA can answer on one flank or the