---
video_title: "Why Singapore Airlines Flies Fewer People on Purpose"
video_id: 1Z3vUAGSzpE
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Z3vUAGSzpE
video_date: 2026-03-02T13:06:43+00:00
video_description: |
  If you look at the business model of budget airlines like Ryanair or Spirit, the math is simple: pack as many human beings into a metal tube as legally possible. But Singapore Airlines did the exact opposite. On their flagship Airbus A380s, they intentionally cut their First Class Suites in half (from 12 to 6). On their longest flight in the world (Singapore to New York), they removed the Economy cabin entirely. 
  
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/behindasian
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/behindasia
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
When analyzing the business model of modern ultra- lowcost carriers, the budget airlines that have fundamentally democratized and commodified global air travel over the past two decades, the underlying mathematics are brutally simple and entirely devoid of romance. The ultimate goal of network planners is to pack as many human beings into a flying metal tube as is legally, physically, and aerodynamically possible. Because their profit margins are razor thin, often amounting to just a few dollars of net profit per passenger, financial survival relies entirely on massive, unyielding volume. Every single inch of empty floor space represents a catastrophic loss of potential revenue. It is an industry where executives measure success by how aggressively they can shrink seat pitch, thin out the upholstery to the width of a coin, remove bulky galley kitchens, lock out reclining mechanisms, and unbundle basic amenities. all to

wedge one more row of paying customers into the back of the plane. To the budget airline, an airplane is merely a flying bus, and empty space is the ultimate enemy. But one of the most consistently profitable and critically acclaimed airlines on Earth executed the exact opposite strategy. In 2017, Singapore Airlines announced a staggering $850 million redesign of their flagship Airbus A380 fleet. Usually when an airline initiates a cabin retrofit and redesign of this immense magnitude, it is an exercise in defensive densification. Engineers

and accountants huddle together to figure out a way to shrink the bathrooms, narrow the aisles, and creatively squeeze in an extra row or two of economy seats to maximize raw ticket sales and drive down their cost per available seat mile or CASM over the remaining lifespan of the aircraft. But Singapore Airlines shocked the global aviation industry. They took their world-renowned ultra luxurious firstclass suites, a product that already stood at the absolute pinnacle of commercial aviation, and intentionally cut the capacity by an unbelievable 50%. The airline ruthlessly reduced the premium cabin from 12 suites down to just six. A year later, the carrier relaunched the longest flight in the world, a grueling 19-hour marathon route from Singapore to the New York area. The aircraft used for this highly specialized route, the Airbus

A35900 ULR, features a widebody fuselage that normally holds roughly 250 to 300 passengers on a standard longhaul international flight. Some highdensity charter airlines even pack nearly 400 people into this exact same airframe. However, Singapore Airlines configured this specific highly modified jet to hold a mere 161 people. There is no standard economy class on board whatsoever. Why is a major global airline operating in an industry notorious for microscopic margins and cutthroat competition actively engineering highly expensive ways to fly fewer people?

To truly understand this counterintuitive strategy, an airplane must be viewed not just as a vehicle of transportation, but as a piece of highly constrained, incredibly expensive flying real estate. Much like a commercial property developer building a skyscraper in the center of Manhattan, an airline has a strictly fixed amount of square footage. They cannot add an extra floor once the plane is in the air, nor can they magically push the curved aluminum walls outward to create more room. The fundamental job of airline management is to master a metric known in the industry as loper, the layout of passenger accommodations. In essence, they must maximize the revenue generated per square foot of cabin space. Economy class relies entirely on the

economic principle of volume. Because the margins on standard tickets are incredibly thin, airlines require hundreds of passengers per flight, packed closely together, just to break even on the massive baseline operating costs of jet fuel, crew salaries, maintenance, and airport landing fees. If an economy flight is only 60% full, the airline is almost certainly losing money on that specific sector. Conversely, premium cabins rely entirely on the economic principle of yield. A business class seat takes up significantly more physical floor space than an economy seat. Often

converting into a sprawling 6-foot lie flat bed and featuring massive entertainment screens, but the ticket commands a disproportionately higher price relative to the square footage it consumes. While a business class suite might take up three times the physical footprint of an economy seat, the ticket can routinely cost five, six, or even 10 times as much. Industry data consistently indicates that premium economy cabins, for example, can generate up to 33% higher revenue per square foot than standard economy class. You are taking up perhaps 50% more physical space, but paying 100% or 200% more for the ticket. It is the geographic sweet spot of airline profitability.

Historically, however, true international first class was actually a massive loss leader for airlines. It was a prestige product, an exercise in corporate vanity and national pride for legacy flag carriers dating back to the golden age of Panama. It often flew half empty or was quietly filled with loyal business passengers upgrading via frequent flyer points rather than paying hard cash. It acted more as a highly visible marketing tool to elevate the brand's perception than a direct profit generator. But by initiating an $850 million redesign to slash their A380 suites from 12 to six, Singapore Airlines fundamentally shifted this dynamic, they engineered a cabin layout that creates profound artificial scarcity, ensuring maximum yield per square foot. Why this

matters now? In an era characterized by intensely volatile fuel costs, heightened environmental scrutiny, and shifting global supply chains, airlines can no longer afford inefficient, unprofitable floor space. Mastering the complex mathematics of the premium cabin is the defining factor between record-breaking profitability and operational failure. In October 2007, Singapore Airlines made aviation history as the launch customer for the Airbus A380, the largest, heaviest passenger jet ever built. They introduced the world to the first ever enclosed suites in commercial aviation. Featuring sliding privacy doors, standalone leather armchairs,

and beds that could combine into a double sleeping area for couples. It was a monumental success that instantly redefined luxury aviation and set a new gold standard for the industry. However, a decade later, the competitive landscape had dramatically shifted. Rival carriers, particularly the aggressively expanding Middle East 3, Emirates, Etihad and Qatar Airways, had caught up and in some metrics surpassed them. Competitors introduced their own massive opulent suites, completely disrupting the market with gimmicks like onboard shower spars, walk-in cocktail lounges, and even flying multi-room apartments featuring dedicated butlers. The arms race of

aviation luxury had left Singapore's original 2007 design looking prematurely dated. Therefore, Singapore Airlines urgently needed to reclaim its product leadership position without completely destroying the aircraft's underlying economics. In November 2017, the airline unveiled an ambitious 4-year development program resulting in the aforementioned $850 million fleetwide retrofit. But the mechanism they used to achieve this highly anticipated upgrade was strictly constrained by the physical shape of the aircraft itself. In the original 2007 configuration, the 12 first class suites were located on the lower main deck of the aircraft. For the 2017 redesign, Singapore

Airlines made the strategic decision to move the firstass cabin up a level, migrating it to the upper deck to consolidate all premium seating, both first and business class, in one exclusive zone, completely separating their highest paying customers from the highdensity traffic below. But there was a severe geometric problem. The fuselage of an Airbus A380 is essentially two overlapping tubes creating an ovoid cross-section. The upper deck is fundamentally narrower than the main deck due to the inward curvature of the aircraft's frame as it meets the ceiling. To put this in perspective, the main deck measures an expansive 6.50 m in width, while the upper

deck measures only 5.80 m. Furthermore, the upper deck walls slope inward far more sharply, severely limiting the vertical headroom available at the edges of the cabin. Because of this rigid physical limitation, maintaining 12 suites while simultaneously attempting to increase the size, privacy, and luxury of each individual room was geometrically impossible. The walls simply would not fit. Therefore, the airline was forced to make a radical choice. They ruthlessly cut the

capacity. They installed just six ultra exclusive suites in a massive single aisle onetoone layout placed at the very front of the upper deck. To justify charging eyewatering premium fairs that routinely exceed $10,000 to $15,000 for a one-way ticket. The hard product had to be architecturally untouchable. In the old 2007 suites, the passenger seat mechanically folded down to become the bed, meaning the passenger had to choose between sitting or sleeping. In the new 2017 suites,

passengers are provided with both simultaneously. The space features a plush 21-in wide Prona FRA leather swivel chair for dining and working alongside a completely separate standalone 76-in bed. For couples traveling together, the mechanical divider between the first two suites drops flush to the floor to create a massive hotel-style double bed in the sky. The physical footprint dedicated to this space is immense. The largest suites located at the front in rows 1A and 1F measure a staggering 54 square ft each. For comparison, a standard

longhaul economy seat requires roughly 4 to 6 square ft of floor space. This means a single new suite occupies the physical equivalent of approximately 10 to 12 economy seats. But reducing the suite count from 12 to 6 was not merely a concession to the geometry of the upper deck. It was a highly calculated financial maneuver. By deliberately reducing capacity, Singapore Airlines manufactured intense artificial scarcity. In the world of ultra luxury, exclusivity is the product.

The airline ensured that the six-seat cabin would consistently fly filled with high-paying full fair customers rather than relying on non-revenue frequent flyer redemptions and free employee upgrades to fill empty beds. A consistently sold out sixuite cabin at full retail price generates vastly more reliable predictable profit with significantly lower catering and servicing costs than a 12 suite cabin plagued by unsold inventory. Furthermore, this strategic reduction at the front of the plane unlocked a massive, highly lucrative volume opportunity at the back. by moving the suites upstairs and utilizing advanced thinner carbon fiber composite shells for the 78 business class seats which require less physical depth while preserving passenger comfort. Singapore Airlines freed up the entirety of the massive 6.50 m wide lower deck. Because the main

deck is wider, they were able to optimize the real estate to its absolute maximum potential. They installed an expanded cabin of 44 premium economy seats and a staggering 343 standard economy seats sweeping across the entire length of the main deck. The grand irony of this strategy is brilliant. Even though they ruthlessly cut first class capacity by 50%, the total seat count of the aircraft actually increased from 441 to 471 seats, driving a highly lucrative 6.8% 8% increase in average seat density across the retrofitted fleet. They engineered a hyper luxurious,

intentionally space inefficient product for the ultra-wealthy to generate massive marketing value while simultaneously utilizing the newly available real estate to pack in higher yielding premium economy volume and dense standard economy seats. It was the perfect mathematical balance of yield and volume. On the double-decker A380, removing first class seats was a strategic choice to optimize revenue per square foot. It was a pure financial calculation driven by yield management, geometric constraints, and a desire to manipulate supply and demand. But when Singapore Airlines analyzed the daunting logistics of operating their longest route in the world, removing seats was no longer just a clever financial strategy. It became a strict, unavoidable physical requirement.

In the brutal world of ultra- longhaul aviation, sometimes flying fewer people is the only mathematical way a 300 ton machine can safely reach its destination without falling out of the sky. In October 2018, Singapore Airlines officially relaunched its non-stop service between Changangi Airport in Singapore and the New York area, specifically Newuk and later JFK. Covering a massive great circle distance of over 9,500 miles. The flight is an absolute marathon, regularly taking upwards of 19 hours, depending on seasonal headwinds, polar weather patterns, and the intensity of the atmospheric jetream. To physically fly a massive twin aircraft for 19 hours without stopping, the plane requires an astonishing amount of jet fuel. But aviation

is strictly bound by the unyielding laws of physics and aerodynamics. Every commercial jet in existence is certified with a maximum takeoff weight or m. This is a hard legally enforced structural limit determined by the strength of the landing gear, the wingspan, and the maximum thrust of the engines. If a fully loaded plane exceeds this structural limit, the engines cannot generate enough thrust and the wings cannot generate enough lift to safely clear the runway before the tarmac runs out. For the Airbus A35900 ULR ultra long range, the maximum takeoff weight is firmly set by regulators at 280 tons. To physically make it to New York without running the tanks dry

against prevailing winds, the aircraft must carry up to 165,000 L of aviation kerosene. This immense volume of highly dense liquid weighs approximately 130.6 tons. When that fuel weight is combined with the operating empty weight of the aircraft itself, the bare metal, the wings, the engines, the seats, the galleys, the electronics, and the crew sitting at roughly 142.4 tons, the plane is already weighing in at roughly 273 tons before a single passenger steps on board. If you do the math,

280 tons minus 273 tons leaves a razor thin, incredibly fragile mathematical margin of roughly 7 tons. That 7 ton margin is the entire allowable payload. That extremely tight weight budget must encompass everything that generates revenue. the paying passengers, their checked luggage, their carry-on bags, the heavy catering carts for multiple meal services, the drinking water for the lavatories, and the specialized heavy crew required for a 19-hour duty cycle. If Singapore Airlines attempted to fill this plane with 300 standard economy passengers, the mathematics instantly collapse. Let's break down the arithmetic. An average adult passenger combined

with their heavy checked luggage, carry-on bags, and the heavy metal frame, cushions, and wiring required for their seat, adds roughly 110 to 120 kg of weight to the aircraft. 300 passengers multiplied by 110 kg pushes the aircraft thousands of kg beyond its maximum takeoff weight. The plane would simply be too heavy to carry the necessary fuel required to safely reach the United States. it would be forced to make a refueling stop in Japan or Europe, entirely defeating the purpose of a premium non-stop route. Therefore, Singapore Airlines had to drastically reduce the payload. Their solution was brilliantly simple but economically terrifying. They removed the

economy cabin entirely. The A35900LR is explicitly configured with just 161 seats, 67 in business class and 94 in premium economy. By flying roughly 140 fewer people than a standard long haul configuration, the airline instantly shed thousands of kilograms in human body weight, baggage weight, heavy seat hardware, and catering supplies. By placing the aircraft on this strict, ruthless payload diet, the plane became light enough to legally and safely carry the massive fuel load required to cross the globe. But why specifically replace economy with premium economy and business class? Why not just fly a half empty plane? The answer is dictated by the brutal

economics of the fuel weight penalty commonly understood in aerospace engineering through the brigade range equation. Airplanes burn fuel just to carry the weight of their own fuel. According to longrange aerospace mission planning data, an aircraft burns approximately 3% to 4% of its fuel load per hour simply to carry its own mass through the air. It is the compounding interest equation of aviation. On a 19-hour flight, this weight penalty compounds exponentially. You are burning

thousands of pounds of fuel in the first 10 hours purely to haul the fuel you will need for the final 9 hours. A massive disproportionate portion of the total fuel bill for this specific flight, which can easily exceed $100,000 per crossing, is spent strictly on hauling unburned fuel across the Pacific Ocean. When baseline operating costs are this astronomically high, every single passenger that steps onto the aircraft must generate a massive yield to justify their physical weight on board the aircraft. Economycl class tickets, which fundamentally rely on volume to generate profit, cannot mathematically cover this immense compounding fuel burden. The margins are simply too low. The revenue generated by a $1,000 economy ticket is entirely devoured by the cost

of the fuel required to carry that passenger's weight over 19 hours. However, wealthy business travelers, highlevel corporate executives, and premium leisure flyers are highly motivated to pay $5,000 to $10,000 for a business class ticket just to avoid the hassle and exhaustion of a layover. Premium cabins consume vastly more physical volume inside the fuselage, which is fine because the plane has the physical floor space to spare, but they actually weigh significantly less per square foot than a densely packed economy cabin. There are fewer heavy metal seat frames, fewer heavy entertainment screens, and fewer dense human bodies per square meter of floor space. Therefore, the sprawling business class layout beautifully solves the physics problem of weight while simultaneously solving the economic problem of revenue. But historical data proves that this

specific all premium strategy is highly volatile and inherently dangerous. In 2004, Singapore Airlines flew this exact same 19-hour route using an older aircraft, the Airbus A34500. Eventually, to combat the exact same harsh weight limits and maximize revenue, they configured that specific plane with exactly 100 business class seats and zero economy seats. They had branded the aircraft series the leadership. However, there was a fatal flaw in the hardware. The A340 was powered

by four engines. It was a massive, incredibly heavy, inefficient gas guzzler. When the 2008 financial crisis hit and global oil prices spiked to over $140 a barrel, the underlying economics of hauling 100 people across the world completely collapsed. The fuel penalty of carrying four engines across the Pacific obliterated the revenue generated by the business class tickets. The route bled money on every single departure and Singapore Airlines was forced to completely abandon the world's longest flight in 2013 because it was no longer commercially viable to operate it. The only reason the math succeeds today is due to staggering technological advancements

in aerospace engineering. The modern twin engine A35900 ULR is built from ultra lightweight carbon fiber reinforced polymers and it burns roughly 25% less fuel per seat than its 4 engine predecessor thanks to its hypereefficient Rolls-Royce Trent XWB engines. Furthermore, to reach the required fuel capacity, Airbus engineers did not even add extra heavy auxiliary fuel tanks to the ulr. They simply modified the plumbing, routing, and sensors in the existing wing tanks to safely utilize 24,000 more liters of internal empty space that was already there. The precise combination of a significantly lighter payload, hyperefficient twin engines, lightweight composite materials, and high yield ticket pricing turned a former financial disaster into a highly lucrative flagship route.

But there is a highly credible counterargument currently developing against this exact premiumheavy strategy, proving that the aviation industry is never settled on a single solution. The Australian flag carrier Quantis is currently preparing to launch Project Sunrise, a massive unprecedented logistical endeavor aiming to fly 20 to 22-hour non-stop routes from Sydney to London and New York. Unlike Singapore Airlines, Quantis chose to utilize the larger, longer variant of the aircraft, the Airbus A 351000ULR. And crucially, unlike Singapore Airlines, Quantis is boldly including a large economy cabin. Quantis plans to fly 238 passengers across four distinct classes complete with dedicated onboard wellness zones to combat the physiological toll of ultra-long haul travel. How can Quantis successfully fly heavy economy passengers further than Singapore

Airlines while carrying significantly more weight? The answer lies in aggressive physical modifications to the airframe and a vastly different geographical market demographic. The larger A351000 has a heavily upgraded maximum takeoff weight of up to 319 tons, requiring specialized landing gear and reinforced wing structures. Furthermore, to ensure the heavier plane can stay airborne for 22 hours, Airbus is physically installing an additional 20,000 liter rear center fuel tank specifically for Quantis. Quantis is also an end-of-the-line carrier. Their

passengers are generally flying pointto-point to get to Australia, whereas Singapore relies heavily on connecting traffic. Quantis believes they can charge a premium even for economy seats because Australians are desperate to avoid agonizing layovers. So why didn't Singapore Airlines pursue this heavier, higher capacity option to sell more tickets? Because the fundamental laws of physics dictate that bigger planes carrying more weight burn exponentially more fuel. 20,000 extra L of jet fuel weighs nearly 16 tons. Singapore Airlines calculated that adding 100 extra

economy seats would require a heavier aircraft, which requires significantly more fuel to fly, which incurs a massive compounding fuel weight penalty. They determined that the profit margins on those 100 relatively cheap economy tickets would be entirely devoured by the massive amount of extra fuel burned just to carry the physical weight of those passengers across the Pacific. Quantis is forced to accept this penalty because Australia is a fundamentally different market. Singapore Airlines, however, strictly adheres to the low density strategy. They intentionally limit the weight, ruthlessly maximize the yield, and rely heavily on a deeply entrenched psychological phenomenon to drive the rest of their corporate revenue.