---
video_title: "Can Vietnam Build a $67 Billion Bullet Train?"
video_id: wfWacpYyZlM
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wfWacpYyZlM
video_date: 2026-06-21T06:39:33+00:00
video_description: |
  Vietnam approved the most expensive infrastructure project in its history: a $67 billion high-speed railway from Hanoi to Ho Chi Minh City. It could cut the trip from 30 hours to about 5. But the project also comes with huge risks: land, debt, ticket prices, foreign partners, and whether Vietnam can actually finish it by 2035.
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  
  Source list:
  
  AP News — Vietnam’s $67 billion high-speed railway approval, route, speed, timeline, and domestic funding rule.
  
  Reuters — Project approval, 1,541 km route, 2035 target, China railway cooperation, Lao Cai–Hanoi–Haiphong railway, and fiscal-risk concerns.
  
  Vietnam Government Portal / Chinhphu.vn — Official project resolution, 350 km/h design speed, 23 passenger stations, 5 freight stations, defense use, and passenger-first strategy.
  
  Vietnam News / VietnamPlus — Funding structure, state budget plans, public debt concerns, and wider infrastructure push.
  
  Vietnam Government News — Vietnam’s wider infrastructure drive, including 234 major projects worth about $129 billion.
  
  World Bank — Vietnam’s fiscal space and public debt context.
  
  IEA / EEA / UIC — Rail emissions, climate benefits, and construction carbon payback.
---
Vietnam approved the most expensive infrastructure project in its history in late 2024. It is a brand new high-speed railway estimated to cost $67 billion. To understand the sheer scale of this project, you just have to look at the map. The train will travel 1541 km. It will start at Nak Hoy Station in Hanoi in the north and it will run all the way down to Tutium station in Ho Chi Min City in the south. The trains are designed to run at 350 km per hour. Right now,

if you take the train from Hanoi to Ho Chi Min City, the trip takes about 30 hours. This new high-speed line will cut that trip down to just about 5 hours. Vietnam has actually talked about building this railway for many years, but the older plans were much slower and they were not supposed to be finished until 2045 or 2050. Now the government has changed its mind. They want to move fast. In fact, the new official plan is to start construction in 2027

and finish the entire route by 2035. That is an incredibly tight deadline for a project of this size. It tells us that Vietnam is no longer just dreaming about a fast railway. They are rushing to build it. But why now? Why is the government pushing so hard for this right now? The answer

is connected to Vietnam's next stage of growth. For a long time, the country was known as a cheap manufacturing base. But today, Vietnam wants to become a higher value economy. To make that jump, the country needs faster and better transport. It needs to connect major cities, factories, shipping ports, workers, and regional economies seamlessly. This railway is actually part of a

much wider infrastructure drive. The government is pushing hundreds of transport projects and looking for new foreign loans because they see infrastructure as a key engine for economic growth. But if you look at the details of the project, a very specific strategy becomes clear. The railway will cross 20 different provinces and cities. It will have 23 passenger stations, but only five freight stations. Because of this setup, some people thought the train would only carry

passengers. But official reports show the line will transport both people and goods and it will also serve defense purposes. So the accurate way to look at it is that the line is passenger first, not freight first. Even so, building a train that goes 350 km hour is very expensive. During the planning phase, government officials had to make a choice. They could build a slower train that

goes 250 km per hour to carry a lot more heavy cargo. Or they could spend more money to build a much faster train just for passengers. But when they ran the numbers, the choice became obvious. State media reported that building the 350 km per hour train would cost about 8 to 9% more money, but that faster speed would attract about 12.5% more passengers. In simple terms,

spending a little more money upfront will bring in a lot more ticket sales in the future. So, Vietnam chose the faster option. They will use this new line for quick passenger travel, and they will upgrade the old existing railway to handle the majority of the heavy cargo and slower freight. But wanting a high-speed railway and actually building one are two very different things. A $67 billion mega project is a massive gamble. And the hardest part is not

the technology or the trains. The hardest part is the land and the timeline. Look at the official schedule for 2025 and 2026. The government will choose consultants and finish their surveys. In late 2027, the real work begins. They will start clearing land and building the first sections of

the railway on their outer edges from Hanoi to Vin in the north and from Natrang to Ho Chi Min City in the south. Then between 2028 and 2029 they will build the middle section from Vin to Natrang. And finally the whole system is supposed to be running by 2035. Now to hit this deadline the prime minister explicitly asked for special mechanisms to speed up the procedures. Why did he say that?

Well because in Vietnam normal government rules are often too slow for a project this big. The route crosses 20 provinces and that means the government has to buy a massive amount of land and relocate thousands of families. If you look at past infrastructure projects in Vietnam, land clearance and resettlement always causes the biggest delays. If it takes too long to clear the land, the 2035 deadline is going to be impossible to meet. And that brings us to the question of funding. The official estimate is 67.34 billion, but the government has not yet released the final

detailed breakdown of how exactly that money will be spent. However, they have made one very clear rule about where the money will come from. The government says they will prioritize domestic funding. This means they want to use their own state budget, government bonds, and local money. They have said they will only accept foreign loans if those loans are cheap and if they do not come with strict political rules attached. This is a very important point. Vietnam wants to keep total

control over the project. They do not want to owe favors to foreign countries. But this financial plan introduces a massive question. Who will actually help Vietnam build it? Will it be China, Japan, Europe or domestic firms? This is where the engineering question becomes a

political question. China has already offered Vietnam railway loans, advanced technology, worker training, and engineering support. In fact, rail infrastructure has become a major part of cooperation between China and Vietnam. Now this does not mean China will build the entire north south line but it shows that picking a technology partner is highly political. But there is one more problem Vietnam has to solve after the railway is built. The ticket price. A high-speed train only

works if people actually use it. And in Vietnam the main competition is not the old train. The main competition is the airplane. Flights between Hanoi and Ho Chi Min City are already common, fast, and often cheap. So, Vietnam has to find a difficult balance. If tickets are too expensive,

ordinary passengers will keep flying. If tickets are too cheap, the railway may need heavy government support for years. This is why the project is not just an engineering gamble, it is also a demand gamble. Vietnam is betting that by 2035, the country will be richer, cities will be more connected, and enough people will be willing to pay for speed. And even if you solve the ticket price, you have to think about what happens after the construction is finished.

A high-speed railway is not just expensive to build, it's also incredibly expensive to operate. You have to pay to maintain the tracks, power the electrification system, staff the stations, and repair the high-tech trains for decades. To make a 350 km perh train work as a real system, it has to be frequent, perfectly reliable, and completely safe. If the government cannot keep the system running smoothly every single day, the economic benefits will disappear. This long-term financial risk is why financial officials and credit analysts are watching closely. Vietnam still has

room to spend, but this railway is not a normal project. It is a $67 billion commitment that will take years to build and decades to operate. If the project is delayed, if the cost rises, or if the ticket revenue is weaker than expected, the pressure will eventually fall back on the national budget. We also have to consider the environmental impact. Many people say that high-speed trains are great for the climate because they take people out of cars and airplanes, and that is true, but only after the train is running. Building a 1500 kmter railway requires millions of tons of

steel, concrete, and heavy machinery. Producing all of those materials creates a massive amount of carbon emissions upfront. The railway will only become truly green if millions of people actually buy tickets and ride the train for many years, which will slowly make up for the pollution caused during construction. Finally, we have to look at how this fits into Vietnam's wider trade strategy. While they are planning this passenger first train down the center of the country, they are also planning completely different standard gauge railways focused on logistics.

For example, Vietnam is planning a 391 km railway from Laokai to Hanoi to Hyong. This specific railway is designed to connect the Chinese border directly to Vietnam's capital and its largest northern seapport. It will carry both cargo and passengers, making international trade and manufacturing supply chains much faster. This shows us that Vietnam is building its economy in layers. The fast passenger first train will move people down the center of the country and the other logistics railways will connect their factories directly to global markets. So

by early 2026, the plan is set. Vietnam is ready to take its $67 billion gamble. But to succeed, the country has to answer four final questions. First, can it be built on time? The government has to buy the land and build the tracks fast enough to meet the 2035 deadline. Second, can

it be paid for and built without losing control? The country has to manage the massive budget and handle the complex political choices behind picking a technology partner like China, Japan or Europe. Third, can it be filled? The ticket price must find the perfect balance to compete with cheap domestic flights. And fourth, can it be run efficiently? Vietnam must show it can handle the

heavy cost of maintaining and operating a 350 km per hour system safely and reliably for decades.