---
video_title: "Cathay Pacific’s $25 Billion Fuel Problem"
video_id: gUkFh4aE6mE
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gUkFh4aE6mE
video_date: 2026-06-30T09:18:25+00:00
video_description: |
  Cathay Pacific says it does not speculate on oil. But over fifteen years, its fuel hedges produced huge wins, brutal losses, and a net hit of around HK$25 billion. This is how a tool meant to protect an airline became one of its biggest risks.
  
  Narrated by: Tom McKay
  https://www.instagram.com/tmckay715/
  https://www.youtube.com/@UC8blX3YnHDG9e9_E9KjPK6g 
  
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/behindasian
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/behindasia
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  
  Sources used include Cathay Pacific annual reports, annual results, and investor presentations for fuel hedging gains/losses, fuel consumption, passenger collapse, and the 2020 recapitalisation; HKEX/Cathay announcements for Aviation 2020 and the HK$39 billion rescue package; U.S. EIA and CFTC data for Brent, WTI, and the negative oil price event; Reuters for the 2008 oil spike, Lehman collapse, negative oil price reporting, and airline hedging context; plus Delta, Southwest, and American Airlines annual reports or SEC filings, with S&P Global/Platts and Aviation News Online used for wider airline fuel-hedging comparisons.
---
On the 20th of April 2020, the American oil market did something it had never done in its history. The price went below zero. That afternoon, one key contract for US crude oil, the May futures contract for West Texas Intermediate, settled at minus $3763 a barrel. Not every barrel of oil on Earth and not jet fuel itself. But this major US oil benchmark had broken so completely that traders were paying other people to take the oil off their hands. Demand had vanished. Storage was

running out and nobody wanted to be caught holding a barrel they couldn't use. And on the other side of the world, Cath a Pacific was barely flying. Much of its passenger fleet was grounded. A few months later, more than 70 of its aircraft would be sent to Alice Springs in the Australian desert. The airline was burning far less fuel than normal, and it was about to lose a fortune on fuel. This is the story of a bet Cafe a Pacific has made over and over for 15 years. A bet that

has cost it billions of dollars. A bet that in its worst years was big enough to reshape the airlines entire results. And that in 2020 turned an already historic crisis into something even worse. And the strangest part, it isn't gambling. It's supposed to be the safe thing to do. What is fuel hedging?

To understand how an airline loses money on fuel it never even buys, you first have to understand the single biggest fear of every airline on Earth. The price of jet fuel for Cath. In a normal year, fuel isn't just a big cost. It's the biggest one. Bigger than staff, bigger than aircraft. In 2014,

it ate more than 39 cents of every dollar the airline spent. Now, put yourself in the cockpit of this business. You sell a ticket today for a flight six months from now, and you've locked in the price the passenger pays. But the fuel for that flight, you have no idea what it'll cost when the day comes. Oil could double, oil could have. Your entire profit margin is hostage to a number

you don't control. So, airlines do something that sounds completely sensible. they hedge. Hedging means locking in the price of your fuel ahead of time. Here's how it plays out. Keep your eye on

the two outcomes. Say you lock in oil at $80 a barrel for next year. If oil then climbs to 100, you still pay 80. You've just saved $20 on every barrel and you look like a genius. But now watch the other side. If oil falls to 50, you're still on the hook for 80. You're overpaying by

$30 a barrel on tens of millions of barrels. That gap between the price you promised and the price the rest of the world is paying is the loss. And it matters how you hedge. There are gentler tools. An option is closer to real insurance. You pay a fee for the right to lock in a price,

but if the market moves your way, you walk away. A caller caps how far you can lose and how far you can win. But CFA's main weapon was the blunt one. Contracts its own reports describe as economically equivalent to buying oil forward at a fixed price. Closer to a swamp than to insurance, no fee to walk away, no escape hatch. get the bet wrong and you eat the full difference. That's what makes it

so dangerous. It isn't insurance you can choose not to claim. It's a binding commitment. And Cath kept making that commitment year after year, often right before the price of oil collapsed. To see how this trap springs shut, go back to 2007. Oil was on a tear. Prices climbed month after month,

and much of Wall Street expected them to keep climbing. Some analysts were calling for $200 a barrel. Follow the line up through the summer of 2008, and there's the peak, nearly $150. Cafe's chief executive at the time, Tony Tyler, was running an airline whose biggest cost was rising fast and no sign of stopping. So, Cafe did the thing that looked smart.

It locked in, hedging a big slice of its future fuel right up there near the top, betting, like everyone else that oil still had further to climb. And then Lehman Brothers collapsed. Now watch that same line. The 2008 financial crisis didn't just take down the banks, it froze the global economy, and demand for oil cratered. By the end of the year, crude had crashed from nearly $150 all the way down to around 40. For almost everyone who buys fuel, that's fantastic news. But Cath wasn't

free to buy cheap. It had chained itself to the top of the market. So when the results came in, Cath reported its first annual loss in more than a decade. More than 8.5 billion Hong Kong dollars.

Plenty had gone wrong that year. The oil spike, the financial crisis, collapsing demand for both passengers and cargo. But the single largest line in that loss wasn't any of those. It was the fuel hedge. Nearly 8 billion Hong Kong dollars gone on a wrongway bet on the price of oil. It should have

been the kind of lesson an airline learns once and never forgets. But here's the thing about Cath. Within a few years, it would make almost exactly the same mistake, only bigger and for far longer. But before the second disaster, there's a question worth asking. Lots of airlines hedge fuel, so why does Cath seem to get hurt so badly so often? The answer is hiding in the map. Cath a

Pacific is one of the strangest major airlines in the world because of what it doesn't have. It has no domestic market. Picture two airlines side by side. On one side, a carrier like American or United or China Southern and almost the entire map fills in inside its own country. Short hops, dense regional networks, thousands of domestic routes. When fuel prices swing,

a lot of that aircraft is short hall and there's room to adapt. Now cafe a Hong Kong is a single city of around 7 million people. There is no domestic cafe to fall back on. Almost every line on its map is international and a huge share of it is long haul. The 11 13 16-hour halls to Europe, North America and Australia that drink enormous amounts of fuel. That makes Cafe one of the most

fuel exposed airlines on the planet. Fuel eats a bigger slice of its costs than almost any rival, and there's no domestic network to soften the blow when prices move. The scale of that exposure is hard to overstate. In a normal year, Cafe burns around 46 million barrels of jet fuel. So, every single dollar the price of oil moves is very roughly tens of millions of dollars on its annual bill. And a $10 swing in crude can move that bill by hundreds of millions, enough to make or

erase a huge chunk of the airlines profit. That is the monster Cath was trying to tame, which is why hedging isn't really optional for Cath the way it might be for a smaller airline. The exposure is too big to ignore. To run this airline at all, Cafe A almost has to take a view on the future price of oil. And it didn't just hedge a few months out. By 2014, as oil started to wobble,

Cafe had contracts stretching all the way to 2018, locking in prices as much as 4 years into the future. Sit with that. Cafe was placing a 4-year bet on one of the most volatile commodities in the world. For a company that insists it does not speculate on oil prices, that's an extraordinary amount of conviction about where oil was headed. And in 2014, that conviction was about to be tested in the worst possible way. In the middle of 2014, the price of oil collapsed all over again

from nearly $100 a barrel down its slides into the 50s. Then the 40s. A flood of American shale oil and a price war with OPEC drove crude into one of the steepest declines in modern history. And once again, Cafe was caught on the wrong side of its own bet. It had locked in fuel at high prices.

And now the market was far below them. But this time it wasn't one bad year. It was four. Count the losses as they stack up. One year at a time. 2015 8.5 12 billion Hong Kong dollars gone on

fuel hedging. 2016 and it barely drops. Almost the exact same number again. Another 8.5 billion. And

2017 more than 6 billion piled on top. Three years, One Direction. Three years in a row, Cath was bleeding billions on oil it had agreed to buy at prices that no longer existed anywhere on the open market. In 2016, those hedge losses alone were enough to flip the entire airline. From a $6 billion profit the year before, straight into an annual loss. By 2018 and 2019, the worst was

finally easing. The old high-priced hedges were rolling off the books. Cafe looked like it had survived. And then at the start of 2020, the whole world stopped moving. When CO 19 hit in early 2020, air travel didn't slow down, it stopped. Borders slammed shut overnight. Hong Kong, one

of the most connected cities on the planet, sealed itself off almost completely. Cath's flying simply vanished. At the depths of the pandemic, passenger numbers fell to levels that would have seemed impossible before CO. Cath later said that on a single day in March of 2022, the airline carried just 58 passengers, not per flight. In total, an airline built to carry tens of millions of people a year had a day when it carried 58. The fuel numbers tell the same story. Here's how much cafe

a actually burned. In 2019, 46 million barrels. And in 2020, it falls off a cliff. Less than 19 million. More than 70 of its aircraft were flown out to the Australian outback to Alice Springs and parked in the desert to wait out the pandemic. And this is where the hedge turned into something

almost surreal. Here's the cruel twist. A hedge only protects you if you actually use the fuel. At the end of 2019, just weeks before the world shut down, Cafe was holding contracts covering nearly 29 million barrels of crude, more than 60% of an entire year's fuel spread across the next couple of years. The whole hedgebook rested on one assumption that Cath would keep flying.

But now the planes were sitting in a desert. The fuel those contracts were built around cafe no longer needed. In accounting terms, the fuel it expected to burn was no longer highly probable. And the moment that happens, a hedge stops being a hedge. It becomes a naked bet. Cath even had

to formally admit its contracts now covered more fuel than it could plausibly burn. And the loss on that excess hit its accounts straight away. The protection it had bought against expensive fuel had quietly flipped into a liability on fuel it would never use in the exact year oil had briefly traded below zero. The result was a fuel hedging loss of about 3 billion Hong Kong dollars almost 30 times what it had lost the year before in raw dollars. That was actually smaller than the monster losses of 2015 and 2016. But it was the most absurd loss of them all. Because this time,

Cath wasn't losing money on fuel it was burning to fly people around the world. It was losing money on fuel for flights that never left the ground. 2020 was the worst year in Cath's history. The airline lost more than 21 billion Hong Kong dollars. And to be clear, the pandemic itself was the disaster here. The fuel hedge didn't cause that crisis. It just made an already brutal year

worse. Cafe came so close to the hedge that it had to be rescued and the package was enormous. A 39 billion Hong Kong dollar recapitalization. The Hong Kong government through an entity created just for the occasion called Aviation 2020 took 19.5 billion of preference shares with warrants and made a $7.8 billion bridge loan available. Existing shareholders put up the remaining 11.7

billion through a rights issue and the government won the right to place two observers inside Cath's boardroom. The flag carrier of one of the world's great free market capitals had to be propped up and part of the reason once again was a bet on the price of oil. So after 2008, after 2015, 2016, 2017, after 2020, why on earth does Cafe A keep hedging its fuel? Why not just stop? Here's the uncomfortable answer. Because not hedging is also a bet. If Cafe A had thrown its hedges away

and oil had spiked instead of crashing, it would have lost billions the other way. Caught paying sky-high prices with no protection at all. Every airline faces the same impossible choice. Lock in a price and risk the market falling beneath you. Stay exposed and risk it rising above you. There's

no safe option. There's only which risk you'd rather carry. Just how unsettled is this question? Line up three airlines and every one of them made a completely different bet. American Airlines looked at all of this and decided the game wasn't worth playing. After its merger with US Airways,

it sold off its remaining fuel hedges entirely. By the middle of 2014, it had none left at all. Its logic: Hedging is expensive and unpredictable. And in a real crisis, low fuel prices usually arrive alongside collapsing demand anyway. So, the two roughly cancel out. American chose to ride the

open market completely exposed and take whatever oil handed it. Delta did something far stranger. In 2012, it bought an entire oil refinery, the trainer facility outside Philadelphia, through a subsidiary called Monroe Energy. Around $150 million to buy it, another hundred million to retool it for more jet fuel. All to supply a big share of its own fuel. and shave money off

the bill. For years, the results were mixed. But when refining margins exploded in 2022, that single refinery threw off around $777 million in operating income. Delta hadn't hedged the price of oil. It had bought a piece of the oil business itself. And then there's Southwest,

the airline that became legendary for getting hedging gloriously right. Through the 2000s, it locked in huge volumes of fuel at low prices and just held on. Going into 2008, it had around 70% of its fuel protected at roughly $51 a barrel. So when oil spiked toward 150 that summer, Southwest was paying a fraction of what its rivals paid. By its own account, that strategy saved it around $3.5 billion dollars between 1998 and the summer of 2008. The very

stretch that ended with Caf's hedges blowing up. Same tool, same markets, opposite outcome. And now the part that quietly takes apart the whole Cath always loses story because it isn't true. Here's a question. After every disaster we've just walked through, does Cath actually lose on this every single time? Put all 15 years on one chart and watch. Most of the bars sit above the line,

the losses, the ones we've been talking about, but keep your eyes on these. Below the line, 2009, 2011 through 2013, and after the pandemic, 2021, and 2022. Every one of those is a year the hedges won. So add it all up, the catastrophic losses and the quiet winds together. And across those 15 years, Cathy's reported hedging gains and losses net out to a hit of around 25 billion Hong Kong dollars. A staggering number. But Cafe isn't a reckless gambler. It's a

careful airline forced to bet on the one price it can never control. And often enough losing.