---
video_title: "\"The Paradox of Perfection: Why Japan's Best Airline Isn't Back Yet"
video_id: OoQjo7VNQ1s
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OoQjo7VNQ1s
video_date: 20260123
video_description: |
  Japan is booming. Tourists are flooding in, filling hotels and restaurants. Global air travel demand is hitting record highs, with many airlines posting revenues far exceeding pre-pandemic levels. Yet, All Nippon Airways (ANA), Japan's largest and arguably best airline, is still struggling to get its total revenue back to where it was in 2019.
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
Japan's skies in 2024 were busier and brighter than ever. In December 2024, Japan saw 3.49 million foreign visitors in a single month, an all-time high. By the end of that year, 36.87 million tourists had flocked to Japan, surpassing even 2019's record influx.

Globally, airlines were celebrating a banner period. Passenger traffic hit historic highs with over 4.53 billion people flying in 2024, topping 2019's level, and industry revenues nearing 964 billion dollars, the most on record. Profits likewise rebounded. By 2024, the airline sector saw a 25.7 billion dollar

net profit, a remarkable comeback from the pandemic slump. Yet, amid this travel boom, a puzzling paradox looms over Japan's top-rated carrier, All Nippon Airways, ANA. Renowned for its quality service, the only Japanese airline with Skytrax's five-star rating 12 years running, ANA has not seen its revenue snap back to its pre-pandemic peak. In fact, even as inbound tourism breaks records and global airlines post all-time high financials, ANA's sales in 2024 remained roughly on par with 2019 levels. How could Japan's flagship airline, a company that once thrived on both a booming home market and international prestige, still be trailing its 2019 performance by late 2025?

This is the story of why ANA's recovery has been slower and more complicated than one might expect. It's a tale of economic currents, structural shifts in travel habits, and strategic recalibrations. On the surface, Japan's aviation market looks stronger than ever, planes full of tourists, airports bustling. But, dig deeper and you'll find headwinds unique to ANA's situation.

Let's start with the big picture that makes ANA's struggle so counterintuitive. In many ways, 2024 and 2025 have been boom times for travel in Japan. After 2 years of strict COVID-19 border controls, Japan reopened to the world and immediately experienced surging inbound tourism. Month after month in 2023 to 2024 brought record visitor numbers. By 2024, Japan set a new annual record with nearly 36.9 million international

visitors, about 15% higher than the previous peak in 2019. The weak Japanese yen made the country a bargain destination for foreigners, fueling this tourism boom. Visitors have been spending freely as well. In 2024, inbound travelers spent 8.1 trillion yen, approximately 52 billion dollars, in Japan, the highest ever, boosting the economy.

At the same time, the global airline industry has largely bounced back from the pandemic's devastation. Airlines worldwide saw record revenues in 2023 to 2024, and many posted their highest profits in history. For instance, Middle Eastern giant Emirates announced 33 billion dollars in revenue and a record 4.7 billion dollars profit for its 2023 financial year, far above its pre-pandemic performance. Singapore Airlines likewise enjoyed a record revenue of 19.0 billion Singapore

dollars in fiscal year 2023/24, with passenger volumes and load factors at all-time highs. Even US carriers, from Delta to United, have been reporting robust profits and revenues surpassing 2019 levels thanks to pent-up demand and high fares. In aggregate, 2024 was the best year ever for airline finances, with nearly 1 trillion dollars in revenue globally. Given these positive trends, one would assume Japan's leading airline should be soaring as well. And indeed, ANA has recovered profitability after its worst ever loss in 2020.

In the fiscal year ending March 2024, ANA achieved an operating profit of 207.9 billion yen, its highest ever, and even reinstated shareholder dividends for the first time in 5 years. Its reputation remains stellar. ANA has consistently been ranked among the world's best airlines for service quality. Planes are flying fuller, and international routes are reopening.

However, when you look at the top-line revenue, ANA's rebound looks underwhelming next to its peers. ANA's operating revenue for fiscal year 2024, year ended March 2025, was about 15.1 billion dollars, which is 3 billion dollars less when you compare it to pre-COVID-19 levels. In other words, after all the turmoil and recovery efforts, ANA in 2025 is still below 2019. This is the paradox. Japan's air travel

market is booming on the inbound side, and global aviation is in rude health, yet ANA hasn't fully regained its stride. To understand why, we have to examine the specific dynamics affecting ANA's core business. It turns out the demand that ANA traditionally relied on, Japanese travelers and certain high-yield segments, has been much slower to come back. Meanwhile, new pressures have emerged on the cost and competition front. Let's break down the key headwinds one by one.

One major factor in ANA's underwhelming rebound is the glacial recovery of Japan's own travelers. Prior to the pandemic, Japanese outbound tourism and business travel were a pillar of ANA's revenue. But today, Japanese citizens are traveling abroad in much smaller numbers. In March 2024, for example, 1.22 million Japanese went overseas, which was 36.8%

fewer than in March 2019. Overall, Japan's outbound travel remained roughly 30% below pre-pandemic levels through late 2024. Leisure travel has been especially slow to return. ANA executives noted that off-peak outbound leisure traffic is still very soft, only picking up during major holidays. Business travel has fared a bit better, but is not fully back either.

Japan Airlines, JAL, reported its business class outbound demand was still at only 75% of 2019 levels, while outbound leisure was barely approximately 50%. In short, a huge portion of the high-yield customer base that Japanese airlines banked on, vacationing families, tour groups, and traveling executives from Japan, is still missing from the skies. Why are Japanese travelers staying home? A big reason is the weak yen and economic pressures at home. The yen's sharp depreciation, hovering around 150 yen per USD from approximately 110 yen pre-2020, has made overseas trips dramatically more expensive for Japanese families.

Airfares also jumped due to fuel costs and capacity limits, and Japan's wage growth has been tepid, squeezing disposable incomes. All this means that many Japanese who might have traveled abroad are opting for domestic trips or skipping travel altogether. Indeed, Japan's domestic tourism has largely recovered, with domestic travelers spending in 2023 back to approximately 21.9 trillion yen, about where it was pre-COVID. But that doesn't help ANA's international revenue much.

If anything, more Japanese are choosing bullet trains or low-cost domestic carriers for vacations at home. Even now, fewer than 18% of Japanese hold a valid passport, a sign of diminished appetite for foreign travel, and a figure that concerns travel industry leaders. Demographics and habit changes play a role, too. After 2 years of closed borders, some Japanese consumers simply became comfortable staying within Japan. There is a generational shift as well.

Younger Japanese show less eagerness to venture overseas, a trend JAL's CEO has openly fretted about. The pandemic also taught companies to rely more on Zoom and virtual meetings, permanently reducing some business travel. Many corporations have kept tighter travel budgets as well. All of this means that ANA cannot yet count on the lucrative Japanese market traffic that once filled its planes, especially on routes to Europe, North America, Hawaii, etc. Those routes have reopened, but the mix of passengers is very different now.

On the flip side, inbound international tourism to Japan has exploded, which one might think would compensate for the lack of Japanese flyers. Indeed, foreign visitor numbers to Japan in 2024 exceeded 2019's record by approximately 15%, thanks in part to the yen's weakness making Japan a bargain destination. ANA has benefited from this surge to an extent. Its flights are carrying loads of overseas tourists into Tokyo, Osaka, and beyond. Notably, in the latest fiscal year, ANA's international passenger revenue actually hit an all-time high, 728.1

billion yen, and for the first time ever exceeded its domestic passenger revenue. In other words, ANA has pivoted its business to carry more inbound tourists. The airline has been allocating a greater share of seats to inbound demand and reopening routes targeting tourist-heavy markets. However, inbound tourists are often lower yield. They tend to fly economy and hunt for deals, whereas the missing Japanese outbound travelers were more often found in premium cabins or on higher-fare corporate accounts.

This shift in passenger mix has dampened ANA's unit revenues. As Bloomberg Intelligence analysts observed, the weak outbound segment will likely constrain profits with ANA and JAL needing to fight an uphill battle against foreign airlines for inbound visitors. That brings us to the next headwind, competition and the role of foreign carriers.

When Japan fully reopened its borders, it wasn't just ANA ready to carry the influx of tourists, international competitors rushed back in. Overseas airlines, from regional players like Korean Air and China's carriers, to long-haul giants like Emirates and Delta, have been ramping up their flights to Japan to capture the inbound tourism boom. These foreign carriers often undercut on price or offer convenient routings via their hubs, giving travelers more choices. For ANA, this means stiffer competition on key routes, especially as it tries to court price-sensitive inbound tourists. Bloomberg analysts warned that ANA and JAL risk losing international market share in this climate.

Every seat filled by a visitor on a Korean Air or Singapore Airlines flight to Tokyo is a missed opportunity for Japan's home carriers. Then, on top of competition, there's also the yen's sliding value against the US dollar. At first glance, ANA's post-pandemic revenue rebound looks impressive. The company's sales, in yen terms, have approached or even surpassed pre-COVID highs. But there's a catch. Much of this

resurgence is a currency illusion. The yen's sharp depreciation means that figures reported in Japanese yen can mislead, making nominal revenues look stronger than the underlying reality in global terms. To understand this, we need to unpack why the yen weakened so much from 2019 to 2025 and how that weakness inflates ANA's numbers. Between 2019 and 2025, the Japanese yen lost a startling share of its value against major currencies. In 2019, 1 US dollar bought around 110 yen.

By late 2023, it bought roughly 150 yen. That 35% drop in the yen's value was not random. It was rooted in macroeconomic policy divergence. The US Federal Reserve embarked on aggressive interest rate hikes in 2022 to 2023 to tame inflation, pushing US rates above 5% while the Bank of Japan steadfastly maintained ultra-low rates around 0% with ongoing stimulus. This widening interest rate gap made the yen far less attractive to hold or invest in.

Investors could earn much higher returns in dollars than in yen, so many sold yen to buy dollars, driving the yen down. The result, a profound monetary policy divergence headwind for Japan's currency. Other forces amplified the yen slide. Surging imports of expensive fuel and commodities, priced in dollars, meant Japanese companies were swapping more yen for foreign currency to pay those bills. At the same time, many Japanese multinationals that earn profits overseas chose to keep those earnings abroad or in stronger currencies, reducing repatriation into yen.

These factors, combined with the rate differential, put the yen on a roller coaster. It plunged over 20% just since early 2022, even forcing government intervention to stem the freefall. By mid-2024, the yen hit a 38-year low near 162 yen per dollar, levels not seen since the 1990s. Even after some late 2024 BOJ policy tweaks, like a token rate hike to 0.25%, the yen remained historically weak.

As of late 2025, it still hovers around the mid-150 yen per $1, reflecting cautious BOJ tightening and the legacy of low-for-long interest rates in Japan. In short, the yen's multi-year slide is a macro story of a dovish central bank swimming against a global tide of monetary tightening. What does this yen weakness mean for ANA's financial performance? In simple terms, it warps it. A weaker yen boosts the yen value of any foreign currency revenues the airline earns, making nominal operating results look better than they truly are in real terms.

ANA's recent earnings releases touted robust revenue growth, largely thanks to a rebound in international travel demand. In fact, strong inbound travel helped drive ANA's passenger revenue to record levels in yen during 2024. But those record revenues deserve a closer look. They are measured in a currency that's worth substantially less than it was pre-pandemic. Consider this comparison.

In the fiscal year before COVID, FY2018, ANA logged approximately 2.058 trillion yen in operating revenue. Fast forward to fiscal year 2023, and ANA's revenue was about 2.056 trillion yen, essentially back to the same level in yen terms. By that measure, one might conclude ANA's business has fully recovered.

Yet in fiscal year 2018, the exchange rate averaged around 110 yen to the dollar. By fiscal year 2023, it averaged about 144 yen. Converting that fiscal year 2023 revenue into US dollars yields only about 13.6 billion dollars, whereas the FY2018 revenue converted to roughly 18 plus billion dollars at late 2000s exchange rates. In other words, ANA's sales in yen have regained old highs, but in hard currency terms, the company is still much smaller than it was.

The growth is nominal, not entirely real. This gap between nominal and real, inflation and currency-adjusted performance, is the currency illusion in action. Even domestically, adjusting for inflation would show a more muted recovery than the headline yen figures. Japan's inflation, while modest by global standards, has ticked up in the 2020s, eroding each yen's purchasing power. A yen of revenue today buys less fuel, labor, or equipment than it did in 2019.

So, ANA's real revenue, after accounting for inflation, is lower than the nominal yen uptick suggests. From an investor's perspective, this makes evaluating ANA's true recovery trickier. Superficially, one can point to double-digit percentage revenue growth and a return to profit, fostering optimism. But savvy analysts note that if you restate ANA's results in dollars or another stable unit, the improvement is far less dramatic. Much of the year-on-year revenue growth has come from forex translation.

Essentially, ANA could earn the same in real terms as before, yet report approximately 30% higher yen revenue if the yen has depreciated by approximately 30%. This distortion can inflate perceptions of the airline's pricing power and market share. It requires investors to read between the lines to distinguish real growth, more passengers, higher fares, better load factors, from nominal growth driven by a weak currency. It's important to note that the weak yen doesn't just pad revenues, it also swells costs. Jet fuel is priced in dollars worldwide, and Japan imports all of its crude oil and kerosene.

When the yen drops, ANA must spend more yen to buy the same barrel of fuel. This has been painfully evident in ANA's expense line. Management has cited the weakened yen as a major driver of higher operating costs, especially fuel. For example, as the yen fell in 2023, ANA's fuel bill in yen climbed significantly, contributing to a 217 billion yen jump in operating expenses for the year. The airline's fiscal year 2024 results showed that soaring costs slightly outpaced revenue gains, squeezing margins.

In essence, the yen slump giveth on the revenue side, but taketh on the cost side. ANA finds itself paying more yen for aircraft leases, maintenance parts, and any dollar-denominated debt service as well.

Another piece of the puzzle is that ANA's capacity and network are not yet fully back to pre-pandemic scale. The airline was forced to downsize during COVID, grounding jets, retiring older 777s, and letting go of staff, and has been rebuilding cautiously. As of late 2024, ANA's international seat capacity was only about 80 to 85% of 2019 levels. The company aimed to reach roughly 90% by March 2025, but that still means fewer flights, and thus less revenue potential, compared to the pre-COVID network. Some long-haul routes were slower to restart, and frequencies on certain business-heavy routes remained pared down.

This conservative restoration is partly due to the weak outbound demand. No point flying empty planes just to match 2019 capacity. But it also reflects resource constraints. Like many airlines globally, ANA faces challenges in scaling back up, from pilot and crew shortages in certain categories to delays in new aircraft deliveries, e.g. Boeing 787s, and a

backlog of heavy maintenance for planes that sat idle. Until capacity is fully restored, ANA can't capture the same volume of traffic as before, even if demand is there. The flip side is that keeping capacity below demand has allowed airlines to charge higher fares per seat, hence record yields in some markets. ANA and JAL have indeed enjoyed unusually high yields on international flights. JAL noted its international yields were about 1.7 times 2019 levels

in late 2024. That pricing power helped ANA recover profitability faster. But it's a double-edged sword. As more capacity comes back, ANA is adding new routes to cities like Istanbul and Stockholm and increasing frequencies. Competition will drive fares down. Yield

normalization is already expected. In essence, ANA has been propped up by high fares in a capacity-constrained environment, but it still lacks the volume of passengers it once had. High fares also discourage some travelers, potentially slowing demand growth, especially among cost-sensitive segments. Strategically, ANA has been recalibrating its business in response to these shifts. It has leaned more on its ancillary and cargo revenues during the recovery.

Cargo was a lifeline during the pandemic and remains approximately 1.5 times its 2019 revenue, though cargo demand has now cooled with global supply chains normalizing. The airline also merged operations of its low-cost units and launched a new medium-haul carrier Air Japan to better serve regional Asia routes at lower cost. An acknowledgement that the market has become more price competitive. On domestic flights, ANA has had to contend with structural issues like an aging population and telework reducing business day trips.

Even though domestic leisure travel received government stimulus in 2022 to 2023, the long-term growth outlook at home is modest. Thus, ANA's strategy is pivoting to capture more inbound and transit traffic. For example, encouraging foreign visitors to use ANA for travel within Japan and boosting connections through Tokyo Haneda hub for Asia-Europe itineraries. These moves will take time to fully pay off.