---
video_title: "The US-China Chip War is Over (And China Lost)"
video_id: tDyJpVs3q-I
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tDyJpVs3q-I
video_date: 2026-04-18T08:59:59+00:00
video_description: |
  If you look at the headlines, it seems like China is winning the semiconductor war. When Huawei released the Mate 60 Pro smartphone featuring a domestically produced 7-nanometer chip, shockwaves rippled through Washington. Armed with unlimited state capital and a history of reverse-engineering everything from high-speed rail to stealth fighters, it feels inevitable that China will eventually catch up.
  
  But this is an illusion. Building a modern semiconductor ecosystem is not a problem you can solve simply by throwing billions of dollars at it. This video breaks down the two insurmountable walls standing in Beijing's way: The physical impossibility of copying ASML’s EUV lithography machines, and the invisible, absolute software monopoly of Nvidia's CUDA platform. It reveals why trying to catch the US and its allies in the chip war is like trying to hit a target that is accelerating away from you at the speed of light.
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  Monetization ID AMC01C7EH0IPFG9A
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
In late August 2023, Washington DC woke up to a geopolitical nightmare. For years, the United States government had built an invisible wall, a brutal, highly complex regime of export controls designed specifically to starve China of the world's most advanced microchips. But then, the Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei casually dropped a new smartphone. Inside was a microscopic miracle. The Kirin 9000S processor. Tearowns quickly confirmed the impossible. China's

top domestic foundry SMIC had manufactured a highly functional 7 nanometer processor. Huawei and China's top chip maker have built an advanced processor to power its latest smartphone. It's a sign that Beijing is making early progress in a nationwide push to overcome US sanctions. Huawei has been at the center of intensifying US trade curves on Chinese businesses, which Washington says are based on national security concerns. To the global media and the casual observer, it looked like the ultimate failure of US sanctions. It looked like Beijing had successfully built a

domestic chip ecosystem, entirely bypassing the West. But if you look under the hood, the reality of China's semiconductor industry isn't a triumph. It is an incredibly grim, agonizing war of attrition. Fabricating a single 7 nanometer chip in a pristine laboratory is a baseline engineering challenge. Manufacturing tens of millions of them at a financially sustainable yield rate is an economic miracle. Right now, the global economy is strangled by three absolute

choke points. One is made of hardware, one is made of code, and the final one, the one currently terrifying the United States, is made of human beings. To understand why China cannot simply catch up to the US and its allies, you have to understand the most complex machine in human history. To print advanced microchips, anything at 7 nanometers or below with commercial viability, you absolutely need an extreme ultraviolet or EUV lithography scanner. There is exactly one company on planet Earth capable of making this machine. ASML located in Velovven, the Netherlands. And

under extremely heavy US diplomatic pressure, ASML is legally barred from selling any EUV technology to China. Why doesn't China, armed with unlimited state capital, just reverse engineer it? Because you cannot reverse engineer a global symphony. An EUV system weighs 180,000 kg and contains 100,000 distinct parts. It requires 40 freight containers and three cargo planes just to ship from the factory to a customer. But the real magic happens inside the vacuum chamber.

To print circuitry at the atomic level, you need light with a wavelength of exactly 13.5 nanome. To generate this light, a specialized generator shoots 50,000 microscopic droplets of molten tin every single second. A colossal CO2 laser built by the German company Trump fires a main pulse, vaporizing those tin droplets into luminous plasma 50,000 times a second. This creates EUV light which is then bounced off the most precise optical mirrors ever created by humanity manufactured by Zeiss. These mirrors are so perfectly smooth that if you scaled one up to the size of Germany,

the biggest microscopic bump on its surface would measure just a tenth of a millimeter. China cannot copy this because the machine operates on tacit knowledge. The intuitive mastery of quantum physics that lives solely in the minds of western engineers passed down through decades of apprenticeship. You cannot recreate it in the dark. Because they can't buy EUV, China is forced into a desperate workaround. To build that famous Huawei 7nometer chip, SMIC used

older deep ultraviolet or DUV machines. Trying to draw a 7nanm circuit with an older 193 nanome DUV laser is physically like trying to paint the Mona Lisa with a thick paint roller. To make it work, China uses multi-atterning. They run the silicon through the machine up to five times, perfectly layering the pattern. It technically works, but it completely destroys the chip's yield rate. At

a 15% to 40% yield, SMIC's chips are estimated to cost up to 10 times more than the market price. Any normal company would instantly go bankrupt. But China operates a socialist market economy. Through their big fund, Beijing recently pulled an unprecedented 344 billion RMBB, about 47.5 billion, just to absorb these catastrophic losses. They are using a sledgehammer to do

the job of a scalpel. Let's pretend China pulls off a miracle. Let's say they perfectly replicate ASML's factories in secret and build a domestic AI chip just as powerful as Nvidia's flagship H100. They still lose because Nvidia's true monopoly isn't silicon, it is software. Back in 2006, Nvidia released CUDA, a software platform that allowed developers to easily program graphics cards for general computing. For nearly two decades, Nvidia gave CUDA away for free,

embedding it into every university and startup on Earth. Today, almost every major artificial intelligence framework speaks exactly one language, CUDA. Over 5 million developers use it globally. Raw hardware specs mean absolutely nothing in the AI era. AMD built the MI300X chip, which theoretically has 32.1% more computing power than Nvidia's H100. Yet, when tested in massive

multi-GPU AI clusters, the NVIDIA system processes 46% more data per second. Nvidia's software is so hyper optimized that it fundamentally breaks the laws of hardware comparison. If AMD, an American titan fully integrated into the Western ecosystem, cannot break the CUDA monopoly, China's task is practically impossible, asking the world's AI developers to abandon 18 years of CUDA architecture is like asking the entire internet to stop using English. While China is trapped by hardware and software, America is currently facing a terrifying realization of its own. The US desperately wants to secure its supply chain against a potential conflict over Taiwan. So,

they passed the $52 billion chips act, handing Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, TSMC, billions to build massive fabrication plants in Arizona. It was supposed to be the triumphant return of American manufacturing. Instead, it has become a grueling culture war. TSMC's absolute dominance isn't just because they buy the best machines. It is because of their brutal, highly specialized labor culture. Manufacturing a 3 nanometer chip requires near perfection. If

a $200 million machine goes offline, it bleeds millions of dollars per hour. TSMC's founder, Morris Chang, summarized the difference perfectly. If a machine breaks down at 1:00 a.m. in America, it will be fixed the next morning. In Taiwan, it will be fixed at 2:00 a.m. In Taiwan,

an army of elite engineers with M's degrees and PhDs treat chip manufacturing with military discipline. They accept grinding shifts, immense stress, and perpetual on call status. When TSMC tried to transplant this aggressive top-own culture to the Arizona desert, American workers revolted. American labor expects strict work life balance and union boundaries. Taiwanese executives complained Americans lacked dedication. American engineers

complained of toxic management. Furthermore, TSMC in Taiwan is surrounded by a hyperdense ecosystem. Hundreds of specialized suppliers are located within a 50-mi radius in the Shinchu Science Park. In Arizona, the factory sits completely isolated in the sand. America is learning the hard way that you can subsidize concrete and ASML machines, but you cannot subsidize a culture. The

ultimate tragedy of the chip war is the brutal math of time. The semiconductor industry operates on Moore's law. It never stops moving. Every single hour and dollar China spends desperately trying to build a 5nanometer chip on outdated equipment is time they are not spending on the future. While China bleeds cash just to replicate 2019 technology, the global leaders are vanishing over the horizon. TSMC is mass-producing 3 nanometer chips and scaling to 2 nanmters by 2026.

ASML is rolling out new high NA EUV systems that cost $380 million and print at an 8 nanometer resolution in a single flash. Nvidia is rolling out its Blackwell architecture, packing 28 billion transistors onto a single platform that processes AI models up to 30 times faster than the chips China is currently banned from buying. China's tech sector is brilliantly funded and incredibly resilient. If anyone can build a completely sovereign supply chain from scratch, it is them. But the American strategy was never to stop China permanently. The strategy was to freeze

them in time. By locking down the impossibly complex physics of EUV, entrenching the CUDA software monopoly and pushing the boundaries of AI hardware, the West has trapped China in a multi-trillion dollar game of catchup. And in the semiconductor industry, if you are spending all your time trying to catch up to where your rival was 5 years ago, you have already lost the