---
video_title: "Hong Kong’s Low-Tax Miracle Is Falling Apart"
video_id: VotB8sG1kx0
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VotB8sG1kx0
video_date: 2026-07-18T11:03:39+00:00
video_description: |
  Hong Kong built one of the world’s richest cities while keeping taxes remarkably low. It did this by owning almost all the land and turning rising property values into government revenue. That system paid for trains, housing and decades of surpluses, but it also made homes brutally expensive and tied the government’s finances to a property market that is now beginning to fail.
  
  Narrated by: Tom McKay
  https://www.instagram.com/tmckay715/
  https://www.youtube.com/@MetalRobotReviews
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  
  Source(s): Hong Kong Rating and Valuation Department, Hong Kong Property Review 2026 and official property-price statistics; Hong Kong Government, 2026–27 Budget, covering land-premium revenue, fiscal reserves, deficits and bond issuance; Development Bureau, Northern Metropolis Action Agenda; Inland Revenue Department, Annual Report 2024–25; UK Home Office statistics on the Hong Kong BN(O) visa route; Singapore Ministry of Finance explanations of why land-sale proceeds are placed into national reserves; Reserve Bank of Australia research on China’s local-government financing vehicles; and Reuters reporting on Hong Kong’s housing recovery, mainland buyers and China’s collapsing land-sale revenue.
---
Hong Kong is one of the richest cities on Earth. Its financial district moves more money than most countries, and some of the largest fortunes ever built sit within a few miles of one another. But take a short train ride out of that district, and you'll find families paying more for a room the size of a parking space than for a whole house almost anywhere else. What makes the gap strange is that the government over all of it barely taxes anyone. There's no sales tax, no VAT, no tax on capital gains or on what you inherit and income tax that tops out around 15%, about as light as taxes get in a wealthy city. And yet this same government has still housed millions

of people, built one of the world's best transit systems and put away a large reserve while doing it. That combination shouldn't be possible unless something else is paying for it. In Hong Kong, that something is the ground itself and the fact that almost all of it belongs to the state. If you live in Hong Kong, you probably don't own the land your home sits on. Almost nobody does. What

you buy when you buy a flat is a lease. The right to use that piece of land for a set time, usually 50 years, after which it has to be renewed. The land itself stays with the owner it's always had, the government. Apart from one old cathedral downtown, the state holds almost all of it, which makes Hong Kong's government less a landlord for public housing than the landlord for the whole city. That ownership is what lets it avoid taxing people much. Rather than lean on income,

it leans on the land, selling off the right to build on it one plot at a time at auction to developers willing to pay huge sums for the right. The money has a flat bureaucratic name, land premium. But for years, it was a major source of the government's revenue, and in a good year, it brought in more than any tax except the one on company profits. The land brings in money a second way, too. When a developer who already holds a lease wants to knock down something old and put up flats worth far more, they have to go back to the government and pay again for the difference in value. So, every time a piece of the city becomes more valuable,

a share of that increase flows back to the state. The developer doesn't absorb that cost. It works its way into the price of every flat and the rent on every shop, right down to the bowl of noodles at a stall whose landlord paid a fortune for the lease overhead. The tax you don't pay out of your salary, you pay anyway through your rent month after month. The result is a city with famously low taxes on paper and some of the highest housing costs in the world. By one measure, it takes about

14 years of a good salary just to afford a small flat near the center. And because that weight sits in housing rather than income, it falls hardest on the people who can least afford it, the ones for whom rent already swallows most of what they earn. It's worth seeing what that looks like for the people at the bottom of it. Across Hong Kong, something like 110,000 homes are subdivided flats, ordinary apartments carved into three, four, or five tiny rooms, each holding a whole family. Around 220,000 people live that way. Some rooms are so small they've earned a grim nickname, cage

homes, where a bed behind wire mesh is a person's entire living space. It got bad enough that the government had to write a law just to set a floor, a legal minimum for how small a rented room is allowed to be before it stops counting as a place someone can live. The way out is public housing. Between rental estates and subsidized flats, it shelters close to half the city. But the wait for a place can stretch on for years. And for hundreds of thousands of people, it doesn't come in time.

None of this is a recent invention. The whole arrangement goes back to the city's founding in 1841 when Britain seized a sparsely populated island off the Chinese coast during a war it was fighting to keep selling opium into China. The point of the colony was trade, a free port where goods moved without tariffs, which was what drew in merchants and money. But that came with a catch. A government that won't tax trade and taxes almost nothing else still has to find some way to pay for itself. The answer came within months. A land auction and with it a decision that would

shape the next two centuries. The merchants who bought in wanted to own their plots outright and the government refused, choosing to rent the land out on long leases while keeping ownership itself. The logic was simple. Sell a piece of land once and you're paid once. Rent it out and you're paid forever. And you can charge more each time the city around it grows. Britain, in other words,

wasn't only running a colony. It was running a landlord business with a flag on top. Land also turned out to be the reason British rule came to an end. Most of the territory was never really Britain's to keep because the largest chunk of it, the new territories, hadn't been seated outright, but leased from China back in 1898 on a clock set to run for 99 years. That clock ran out in 1997, and its ticking was what forced the issue. By the late 1970s, banks were being asked to write

mortgages that would outlast the lease itself on land due to revert to China partway through. And the awkwardness of that sent Murray Mlose to Beijing in 1979 to ask obliquely as diplomacy allowed, what would happen when the 99 years were up. Deng Xiaoping sent him home with a reassurance. investors, he said, should put their hearts at ease. But the question, once asked, could not be unasked. The conversation Mlos started, set off by nothing grander than an

expiring land lease, became the negotiation that handed Hong Kong back. Land shaped the terms of that handover, too. When the two sides sat down in 1984, China worried Britain would spend its final years cashing in every plot it could and walk off with the proceeds. So, the agreement capped how much land could be sold each year and split the profits down the middle. Half to the colonial government and half set aside for the Hong Kong government that didn't yet exist. Years before the

handover, the future government was already bound up with the money. The land bought in one date still hangs over all of it. 2047. When China's promise to leave Hong Kong system untouched is due to run out. It doesn't mean every lease vanishes since the government can extend them. It's simply

the year the promise expires. The strangest corner of the land system sits out in the new territories. If a man can trace his family back to one of a few hundred villages that already existed when the British arrived in 1898, he holds a right almost no one else in Hong Kong has. Once in his life, he can build a threestory house on village land for little or nothing. The rule is called the small house policy. It's been around since 1972. And while hundreds of thousands of men qualify,

women don't. It's been challenged in court as plain discrimination. And in 2021, the city's highest court upheld it anyway as a traditional right protected since the handover. So, in one of the most crowded, most expensive places on Earth, where an ordinary family pays a fortune for a room the size of a parking space, there's also a group of people who can be handed land to build a house on for next to nothing. On the strength of who their greatgrandfather happened to be, even Hong Kong's subway lives off the land. The metro is one of the very few in the world that reliably turns

a profit and the reason is property. The company builds and owns the malls and towers on top of its own stations and uses the money from all that real estate to run the trains beneath them. Rail plus property they call it. It's genuinely ingenious and it runs on the same idea as everything else here. Land value pays the bills. No one though turned that idea into money and power quite like

a handful of property families. Spend one ordinary day in the city and the same names keep coming up. Lee Kashing's companies power the island, stock the supermarkets, run thearmacies, and carry the signal to your phone. Locals nicknamed him Superman. And a day like that makes it easy to see why. The Lee family's Henderson Empire controls the gas piped into millions of homes. You can wake

up in a flat one group built, buy your groceries from another, and pay rent into a mall owned by the same circle without ever choosing any of it. Locals have a phrase for the feeling, Dan Bachuin, real estate hegemony. The phrase spread through a book by Alice Pune who had spent years as a personal assistant to a co-founder of Sun Hungai, one of the biggest developers of all, which means the definitive critique of the property dynasties was written by someone who had watched them work from the inside. It stuck because people could already sense what it described, that a handful of families had become the landlords of nearly everything. By one count from the early '90s, seven developers were building about 70% of the city's new homes. The largest four,

more than half, helped by a government that sells land in blocks so large and expensive that only giants can bid. Add up everything attached to property, building it, owning it, trading it, and it comes to roughly a fifth of Hong Kong's economy, wealth that reaches well past real estate into the question of who gets to run the city at all. For decades, the families looked untouchable. Then the market turned. One of the big four, New World, ran up something like 180 billion Hong Kong dollars in debt, deferred payments on some of its bonds, and only avoided default after a record refinancing deal. Others wrote it out far more easily. Henderson stayed profitable throughout,

leaning on more than60 billion Hong Kong dollars in unsecured loans from Lee Shia, its founder, then in his mid90s, to keep buying up land in the heart of Central. For most of those 180 years, the whole system rested on one assumption, that land would only ever go up. Around 2021, it stopped. Prices slid by more than a quarter in the longest unbroken slide on record. Office values fell by over half and tens of thousands of people who had bought near the peak found themselves owing the bank more than their homes were now worth. When property falls in Hong Kong, the government

falls with it because so much of what it collects is tied to land. And you can see how tightly in a single comparison. At the peak, land brought in 143 billion Hong Kong dollars in a year. 3 years later, it brought in 13, a collapse of about 90% with some plots going up for sale and drawing no bids at all. And the land premium is only half the exposure. Stamp duty on property deals. The other

big land linked revenue sank right alongside it. The surpluses the city was used to turned into deficits one year after the next. And the reserve it had spent decades building once well over a trillion Hong Kong dollars began to drain from more than 2 years worth of spending down to something closer to 10 months of it. So Hong Kong did something it had always avoided. it started to borrow, issuing well over a h 100red billion Hong Kong dollars in bonds a year. On paper, the

budget recently crept back into a small surplus, its first in years. But that surplus only shows up if you leave the borrowed money and the transfers from other funds in the picture. Strip those out and the budget was still about a h 100red billion short. If all of this looks like a system finally reaching its limit, it's nearly reached that limit once before back in the late 1990s when speculators went after the currency and the stock market at the same time. Prices fell by 2/3 and stayed down for years, dragged lower first by the dot crash and then by SARS. The recovery when it

came was the mainland's doing, not Hong Kong's. Beijing opened its doors, sent tourists and money north, and the property market climbed back on the boom next door. The same thing is happening again now. Since 2025, mainland buyers have returned and prices have started to rise. But this time, there's a gap the government can't close. Even as the market recovers, its land revenue hasn't. what

it earns from land today is a small fraction of what it earned at the peak. The market can come back without the treasury coming with it. The obvious answer is to build more homes, cheaper homes, enough to take the pressure off. Hong Kong is in fact trying to do exactly that. Its plan is huge. A whole new district pressed against the Shenzhen border, covering about a

third of the city's land meant one day to hold hundreds of thousands of flats and millions of people at a cost of well over $200 billion Hong Kong dollars. But the plan works against itself. Building it costs a fortune now, just as the land money has dried up. And if it ever succeeds, it adds so many homes that prices fall, which starves the very land revenue the government depends on. A city that needs housing cheap for its residents and expensive for its treasury is trying to do two things at once. The people who stand to gain most from the new district are once again the same few

families. Much of the farmland it will rise on is already theirs, bought up cheaply years ago. So, the public project meant to solve the housing crisis runs straight through the pockets of the people the crisis made rich. And the collapse in land revenue isn't even the only pressure. The low tax model has always leaned on a small group of high earners, a thin slice of the population that pays most of the income tax. And after 2020, a lot of them left. Britain alone opened a route

to citizenship for close to three million Hong Kongers, and well over a 100,000 took it. The people most able to leave were often the ones the system most needed to stay. On top of that, the population is aging, which means rising costs and fewer workers to carry them. And a new global minimum tax is closing off the low tax edge. Hong Kong long used to attract the world's biggest companies. It didn't have to turn out this dependent. The clearest proof sits just to

the south in Singapore, which controls most of its own land the same way and sells long leases just as Hong Kong does. The difference is what it does with the money. Singapore treats the proceeds from land as savings, not income, banking them into national reserves instead of spending them on the year's budget. Its own government has said plainly why a state that buys its daily bills with land sales gives itself a stake in keeping land expensive. Singapore refused that bargain.

Hong Kong walked straight into it. The same trap is playing out across the border on a far larger scale. There whole city governments came to run on selling land borrowed heavily against it and now sit buried as the market falls. One developer alone collapsed under more than 270 billion US of debt. The mainland took the same model much further and it's now hitting the same wall Hong Kong is. So, Hong Kong is left where it started, only clearer now. It built something

clever. A city that funded itself and kept taxes among the lowest in the world, all on the value of its own land. That paid for the trains, the towers, and the housing. But it also made homes brutally expensive, handed a few families enormous power, and tied the whole government to the property market. For as long as prices kept climbing, none of that showed. When they fell,

all of it did. The hard question at the end of all this is whether a government can ever wean itself off land once it's leaned on it this long. The cleanest answer would be to tax people properly, but Hong Kong has floated that twice and backed away both times, and there's little sign a third attempt would go any differently. Leaning harder on Beijing isn't really an answer either, just the same dependence under another name, which leaves the path the city is already on. Building north into the mainland, wiring itself into Shenzhen and the Chinese economy to make up what the land no longer brings in. That path works. It also means the separateness that made Hong Kong its own place

erodess a little more every year. For 180 years, the city ran on the land beneath it. And that one fact built both a rich city and a housing crisis. Now the ground has stopped paying. And the way Hong Kong makes up the difference may quietly cost it the thing that made it worth saving.