---
video_title: "Taiwan’s Economy Is Booming. So Why Is It So Fragile?"
video_id: WTzV2h_9LUo
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WTzV2h_9LUo
video_date: 2026-07-03T08:47:48+00:00
video_description: |
  Taiwan’s economy is booming because of AI, semiconductors, and TSMC. But behind the record exports and GDP growth, the island is becoming heavily dependent on one industry. This video explains how Taiwan’s chip boom is creating pressure on housing, wages, power, water, workers, and even the island’s Silicon Shield.
  
  Voiced by: Tom McKay
  https://www.instagram.com/tmckay715/
  https://www.youtube.com/@MetalRobotReviews
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  
  Source(s:)
  
  Taiwan DGBAS — Economic Growth Rate.
  Taiwan Ministry of Finance — Summary of Exports and Imports for May 2026.
  TrendForce / Taipei Times — TSMC Nets Nearly 70% of 2025 Foundry Market.
  Reuters — Taiwan May Exports Hit Second-Highest Value by Month on Strong AI Demand.
  Reuters — Taiwan Bucks Asia’s Clean Power Drive With Record Gas Burn.
  Reuters — TSMC Boss Frets About Shortages of Talent, Water in Taiwan.
  Focus Taiwan / CNA — Taiwan Becomes a Super-Aged Society.
  TSMC — 2024 Sustainability Report.
  Taiwan NDC — Policy Guidelines / Ten Major AI Infrastructure Projects.
  TSMC — U.S. Investment Expansion to US$165 Billion.
  The Guardian — Taiwan Vows Most Advanced Tech Will Not Go to US Under TSMC Deal.
  Taipei Times / CNA — Taiwan to Keep Advanced Chip Tech.
---
Taiwan's economy looks like it is booming. If you look at the macroeconomic headlines, GDP is surging, exports are breaking records, and TSMC is now widely considered to be one of the most important companies in the world. But underneath that high-tech boom, Taiwan has a big problem. The economy is becoming extremely dependent on one industry. So, if Taiwan's economy is booming, why are people worried? As we see it, there are basically three reasons. First,

the economy is becoming way too dependent on chips and electronics. Second, the benefits of the boom are not evenly shared, making life much harder for ordinary households facing rising living costs. And third, the chip industry is hitting hard physical limits. power, water, land, and workers. Today, we are going to look past the record profits and explain how this semiconductor super cycle is fundamentally rewiring Taiwan. For context, we first have to acknowledge the sheer

scale of the boom and why it is undeniably helping the island. Right now, the tech sector isn't just a part of the economy. It is essentially the engine keeping the entire country accelerating. It supports tax revenues and helps keep Taiwan's public finances strong while government debt remains low by international standards. Reports show Taiwan's GDP grew 5.27% in 2024. Then by

2025, as the global artificial intelligence boom really took off, official data showed growth surging to an impressive 8.76%. And the momentum is not stopping there. The latest forecasts have raised 2026 GDP growth projections to a staggering 9.64%. At the center of it all is TSMC by

controlling around 70% of global foundry revenue, meaning they absolutely dominate the market for manufacturing chips designed by other companies. The firm has turned Taiwan into a strategic choke point in the global economy. Now, to be clear, economically this boom is a huge triumph. But the problem isn't the growth itself. The problem is what happens when too much of a nation's growth depends too heavily on one industry. This brings us to the first major issue. Taiwan's economy

is becoming too dependent on chips. Right now, Taiwan is experiencing extreme concentration risk, resulting in a heavily imbalanced twospeed economy. We can see this clearly in the latest monthly trade data. In May 2026, Taiwan's exports jumped 51.7% yearonear to hit 78.48 billion

US. But those gains were highly concentrated. Exports of electronic components were up 66.9%. And information products skyrocketed by 118%. Meanwhile, Taiwan's traditional economy is facing

a completely different reality. While the export boom is heavily concentrated in electronics, older industries like machinery, textiles, and plastics are facing weaker demand, tougher competition, tariff pressure, and currency pressure. And this overdependence bleeds directly into the financial system. Recent reports show that TSMC now accounts for over 40% of Taiwan's main stock market index, the Tideex. So in financial terms, Taiwan's main stock index is unusually dependent on the performance of a single company. This extreme financial concentration means that any serious AI

slowdown would be especially dangerous for Taiwan. A large part of Taiwan's current growth is tied to global tech giants continuing their massive infrastructure spending. Behind the scenes, Taiwanese economic experts are questioning what happens if AI demand experiences a sharp correction. Even TSMC's own leadership has shown some caution. CEO CC Wei said he was nervous enough to check closely with customers before committing tens of billions of dollars in capital spending. Even while saying AI demand appears real. If US trade policies suddenly shift

or the AI spending spree cools down, Taiwan's entire economic model is highly exposed. This leads us to the second problem. The benefits are not evenly shared, especially for service workers and households facing housing costs. It's not just a regional divide, it's an occupational one. This tension matters because about 61% of Taiwan's workers are employed in services.

Because many of them are not directly inside the semiconductor wealth loop, they bear the brunt of the soaring living costs that it generates. For context, science park hubs in Shinshu, Tai Chong, and Tynan are seeing massive influxes of highly paid engineers and serious capital. According to Interior Ministry data cited in 2025 reporting, Shinshu City and Shinshu County were the only two areas in Taiwan that still had more young people than elderly residents in 2024. But this localized success drives up land prices and inflates the cost of living for local service workers and everyone else living in the area. You can see this squeeze clearly in the wage data. Official DGBAS statistics for 2024 show that average regular monthly

earnings were 46,450 new Taiwanese dollars while median regular monthly earnings were only 37,274. This gap shows how higher paid workers, especially in sectors like technology, pull the average above what the typical worker actually earns. To really see this pressure, we have to look at housing and debt. Nationally, Taiwan's house price to income ratio is currently sitting at around 10 times a family's typical earnings. to afford those sky-high prices. A metric known as the mortgage

burden ratio, which measures the percentage of income needed to pay a home loan, shows that housing payments now take up around 40% of a typical household's income. And to survive in this expensive market, many households are carrying heavy debt, with national household borrowing now sitting dangerously close to the size of Taiwan's entire annual GDP. And even if Taiwan could handle the housing problem, there is another issue. Chips need a lot of power and water. This is the third major problem. The chip industry is hitting hard physical limits. Manufacturing the world's

most advanced chips requires mind-boggling amounts of electricity and water. In 2024, TSMC was reported to have consumed around 25.55 billion kilowatt hours of electricity. Because of this rapidly rising industrial demand, Taiwan's power system is under severe pressure. And to make matters more complicated, Reuters reported that fossil fuels made up over 87% of Taiwan's electricity generation in the first 8 months of 2025. Adding AI's massive power demands to a grid

that is highly dependent on imported fossil fuels is a serious environmental and economic vulnerability. And it's not just power. On June 12th, 2026, Reuters reported that TSMC CEO CC Wayi explicitly warned about acute shortages of talent and water alongside wider power, labor, and land constraints. This talent shortage is particularly alarming because it is colliding with a severe demographic cliff. According to official Ministry of the Interior Household Registration data, Taiwan recorded just 107,812 births in 2025, while people age 65 and over passed 20% of the population, making the island officially a superaged society. The industry driving the

economy needs thousands of skilled engineers every year, but the island is simply not training and retraining enough young workers to meet that soaring demand. All of this creates an incredibly difficult dilemma for Taipei. Taiwan cannot slow the boom, but it also cannot let one industry distort the whole economy. If Taiwan decides to slow down its semiconductor expansion to relieve the pressure on power, water, and housing, it risks weakening the single most important industry, driving its growth, exports, and tax revenue. But if Taiwan keeps expanding the tech sector at full speed, it places even more crushing pressure on housing affordability, electricity, water, land, and the limited pool of skilled workers. Faced with this bottleneck, Taiwan's

solution is to build even more around AI and chips. The government has announced its 10 major AI infrastructure projects, aiming to generate more than 15 trillion new Taiwanese dollars in economic value by 2040 and create 500,000 jobs. But that requires the exact same things already in short supply. workers, power, water, and land. At the same time, driven by customer demand, geopolitics, supply chain resilience, and US pressure, TSMC is dramatically scaling up abroad, most notably in Arizona, where total planned investment from the US has reached 165 billion US. And this is where the geopolitics finally come in. For years, Taiwan's dominance in advanced chip

manufacturing has been described as its silicon shield. Because Taiwan dominates the most advanced chip manufacturing, any crisis around the island would threaten the global economy, which gives the United States and its allies a powerful reason to care about Taiwan's security. But for local lawmakers, moving production off the island creates a persistent worry. If more advanced node production moves outside the island to places like Arizona, does that foundational silicon shield begin to erode? The state is locked into keeping the high-tech boom alive at home simply because it cannot afford the alternative. The government argues that as long as the most critical R&D and

the largest advanced manufacturing base remain in Taiwan, their strategic value cannot be replicated. But it highlights just how delicate this balancing act has become. So to return to our core question, Taiwan's economy is booming. So why are people worried? The truth is, without the AI export surge and the Silicon Shield, Taiwan would be economically and geopolitically much more vulnerable. The boom is undeniably giving Taiwan real growth, high value jobs,

and crucial global importance. But the boom has also created a trap. Taiwan cannot afford to slow its most important industry, but it also cannot allow one industry to distort the entire economy. That is the real danger. Taiwan success is becoming dangerously narrow. The government

in Taipei now has to figure out how to manage explosive housing costs, heavy household debt, power grid stress, water shortages, and slow growth in older industries. while still keeping its golden goose expanding. Taiwan is not being ruined by tech, but it is learning that when an economy becomes this concentrated, success itself becomes hard to manage.