---
video_title: "Why the Philippine Economy Suddenly Slowed"
video_id: JvhMHzFxtS8
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JvhMHzFxtS8
video_date: 2026-06-09T13:03:30+00:00
video_description: |
  In the first quarter of 2026, the Philippine economy grew by only 2.8 percent — its weakest growth since the pandemic recovery. But the slowdown was not everywhere.
  
  Services were still growing. Consumers were still spending. Exports were strong. The real weakness came from investment, public construction, inventories, agriculture, inflation, and the peso.
  
  This video explains why the economy did not collapse, but still hit a wall.
  
  Narrated By Tom McKay
  https://www.instagram.com/tmckay715/
  https://www.youtube.com/@UC8blX3YnHDG9e9_E9KjPK6g 
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  
  Source(s): 
  
  Sources used: Philippine Statistics Authority Q1 2026 National Accounts for GDP, services, household spending, exports, investment, construction, agriculture, and industry data; Reuters on Q1 2026 GDP and delayed budget passage; Reuters on the 2026 budget, flood-control controversy, and DPWH budget cut; PSA April 2026 inflation data; PSA March 2026 merchandise trade data; Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas exchange-rate and policy-rate data.
---
In the first quarter of 2026, the Philippine economy grew by only 2.8%. That's the weakest GDP growth we've seen since the pandemic. But to really understand what's going on, we have to look past that headline number because the slowdown was not everywhere. If we pull up the daily economic activity, things actually look normal. Services grew by 4.5%.

You can see here that people were still buying, pushing household spending up by 3%. The government's day-to-day spending grew by nearly 5% and the exports remained strong. So, the economy didn't just stop. But if you look at this breakdown, a very specific problem becomes clear. The parts of the economy that actually build and produce took a hit all at the exact same time.

Agriculture and industry both shrank slightly 0.2 and 0.1% respectively. But the real red flag is right here. A category called gross capital formation dropped by 3.3%. In simple terms,

it basically just means investment. It is the money that goes into building new factories, buying heavy machinery, and constructing infrastructure. Why does that matter? Because for a developing economy like the Philippines, future GDP growth doesn't just come from people buying things today. It comes from what the country builds for tomorrow. In early 2026, people were

still spending, businesses were still operating, and the service sector was still growing. But as these numbers show, the country was building significantly less as reflected in construction and investment. You can see the impact most clearly on this chart for construction. On the industry side, overall output fell by 2.8%. But when we break down the investment side

construction data, you can see how uneven this is. Corporate construction actually grew by 5.3%. Household construction grew by 3.6% too. The biggest collapse was concentrated in the public

sector. Just look at the sheer scale of this drop. General government construction plunged by 31.5%. That 31.5% drop helps explain a major part of the broader GDP slowdown. The private sector didn't

fail and households didn't stop building. Instead, the government's push for public works basically stalled. The Philippine economy did not collapse in early 2026, but it did slow sharply. And as the data shows, if you want to understand exactly why that happened, the first place you have to look is public works. Here is what that actually looks like. First, the government releases the money.

Then contractors use those funds to hire workers. That triggers a wave of orders for cement and steel, which means trucking firms get hired to deliver those materials. And finally, all those new workers end up spending money at the local stores right next to the site. Basically, a road project is never just the road. It's a chain reaction. So when public construction

slows down, it doesn't just hurt the government. It spreads to contractors, suppliers, workers, and local businesses. And that's why a 31.5% drop in government construction helped drag down overall growth. But why did it happen? As we mentioned, it came down to three main roadblocks.

First, the 2026 national budget was delayed. And in a government-led infrastructure system, timing is everything. If the budget is late, everybody waits. The agencies, the contractors, the suppliers, and even the workers. Even projects that were fully planned ended up stalled simply because the money wasn't moving on time. Second, the government was dealing with the fallout of the

flood control scandal. These projects had become one of the most expensive political controversies in the country. We're talking about allegations of overpriced contracts, unfinished work, and ghost projects, infrastructure that existed on paper but had little or no real construction on the ground. According to Reuters, around 545 billion pesos in flood control spending since 2022 came under intense scrutiny. And President Marcos Jr. noted that just 15 contractors received around 20% of

that entire budget. So why does a corruption scandal affect GDP? Because it can slow down decisions. When contractors and officials worry their projects might be investigated or cancelled, nobody moves. And just like that, public works lose momentum. And lastly, the DPW

budget itself was slashed as the agency at the center of the controversy. Their 2026 allocation was cut sharply, dropping from a proposed 881 billion pesos down to just 530 billion pesos. So, this wasn't just about fear or red tape. At the end of the day, the main agency building our infrastructure simply had less money to spend. The government didn't just freeze, of course, salaries were paid and offices stayed open, pushing day-to-day spending up 4.8 8%. But

actual public construction fell sharply. Now, it's not just the government. The private sector also showed caution. The Philippine Statistics Authority recorded 6.52 billion pesos in inventory withdrawals. That's an economic term which simply means businesses used their existing stock instead

of buying new supplies. When companies expect strong sales, they buy more inventory. But when they are unsure, they just use what they have. So by early 2026, our local economy was losing momentum. Government construction fell sharply. Businesses weren't buying new stock,

and overall investment was weak. And right when things were already slowing down at home, the problems overseas hit us. The Philippines has one major weakness. We import most of our oil and we have to pay for it in US dollars. So when global oil prices go up, we need more dollars to buy it. And when the demand for dollars goes up, the peso loses its value. That is exactly

what hit us in early 2026. Between January and April, the peso weakened from around 58.88 pesos per dollar to more than 6150 pesos per dollar. Because we rely heavily on other countries, a lower peso means many of our imported goods become more expensive. So, we paid for the expensive oil twice. once from the global price and again from the weak peso. And since oil runs our trucks,

farms, and factories, many businesses pass part of those higher costs onto consumers. But fuel wasn't the only reason food prices went up. Our local agriculture was also struggling. Look at this graph. Agriculture and fisheries output fell by 0.3%. Crops dropped 2.4%. 4%, pallet fell 6.3% and

fisheries fell 6.1%. So it cost more to transport food and we were producing less of it at the same time. By early 2026, this showed up clearly in the data. Overall inflation hit 7.2%. Transport

inflation jumped to 21.4%. Rice inflation reached 13.7%. This is how normal people actually felt the slowdown. Not as a GDP number, but as an expensive rice, expensive fish, and higher daily costs. When

families have to spend more on basic needs, they have less money for everything else. They delay buying appliances, traveling, and eating out. That is why household spending only grew by 3%. People were still spending, but more of their money was going to basic needs. The economy didn't freeze. It was squeezed. At this point, you might ask, if exports were strong, why did the economy

still slow down? Because exports are only half the story. The other half is imports. In March 2026, Philippine exports actually hit a record, bringing in $ 8.17 billion. But in that exact same month,

the country spent 12.68 billion on imports. That left a large trade deficit of $4.51 billion. While that sounds technical, it simply means the country bought more from the world than it sold.

So yes, the Philippines was earning more from the world, but it was spending even more to buy fuel, machinery, and food. And here is the catch. Local industries rely on imported materials. That means part of the money earned from exports flows back out to pay for imported parts, fuel, and equipment. Exports definitely helped, but they weren't enough to make up for the construction slump, weak investment, and tight household budgets. When an economy is squeezed this hard,

there is usually one last line of defense, the central bank. Normally, when an economy slows down, the central bank uses a simple tool. They cut interest rates. Cheaper borrowing helps businesses build and families spend, getting the economy moving again. At first, the central bank had room to do exactly that. In February 2026, with inflation still manageable and

the economy already showing weakness, they cut the policy rate to 4.25% to help support growth. But then the oil shock hit, fuel costs jumped, and the peso dropped. The economy needed cheaper money to grow. But if the central bank cut rates, the peso could drop even further, making imported fuel, food inputs, machinery, and fertilization even more expensive. So, their window closed quickly.

In March, they held an unscheduled meeting and kept rates unchanged. By April, they raised them to 4.5%. They wanted to rescue the economy, but inflation made it impossible. So by early 2026, the Philippines was squeezed from every direction at once. Government construction had plunged,

business investment was weak, and inventories were being drawn down. Agriculture and industry were both contracting. Imports were expensive, the peso was down, and high prices were hurting households. and the central bank had very little room to help. That is how 2.8% happened. The only

reason the country avoided a recession was the service sector. Retail, finance, call centers, remittances, and everyday activity kept the economy moving. But services alone can't carry long-term growth. Long-term growth needs investment. It needs infrastructure, factories, farms, transport systems, inventories, and investor confidence. And in early 2026,

public construction slowed sharply. That is why the Philippine economy hit a wall.