---
video_title: "How Israel is Redrawing the Middle East"
video_id: xp0_3OXbZTU
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xp0_3OXbZTU
video_date: 2026-05-22T10:27:27+00:00
video_description: |
  If you look at the Middle East today, the headlines are dominated by conflict, border disputes, and historical grievances. But beneath the noise of the kinetic wars, a much larger, quieter geoeconomic war is being waged over the ultimate prize: the flow of global trade.
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
For the last decade, China played a global game of monopoly. Through the Belt and Road Initiative, Beijing deployed an estimated 8 trillion dollars to rewire Eurasia. They bought the maritime choke points. They paved the highways. Western nations sat back and watched until now. This is the highly

coordinated counterattack announced at the 2023 G20 summit. It is the India Middle East Europe economic corridor IMEC backed by a $600 billion G7 funding target. The US, the EU, India and the Arab Gulf engineered a trillion dollar logistical bypass. The objective is precise. Take the explosive manufacturing growth of India and connect it directly to the massive consumer markets of Europe, cutting transit times by 40% and slashing overall logistics costs by 30%. But

to make this miracle function, the West and the Arab Gulf must rely on one highly explosive exit node. A massive chunk of the world's economy must root straight through the Mediterranean ports of the state of Israel. To understand why IMC exists, look at the extreme fragility of how you get your stuff. Right now, the global supply chain is pivoting. Western capital is desperately derisking from Chinese manufacturing. India is aggressively positioning itself as the alternative. But India

faces a geographic bottleneck. Currently, if India exports goods to Europe, massive container ships must navigate the precarious Red Sea and squeeze through the heavily congested Suez Canal. Historically, 12% of all global trade passes through this 120 m ditch. But this route is incredibly vulnerable. Houthy militants began firing ballistic missiles at commercial vessels.

Ships are forced to completely avoid the Bab Elm Mandeb straight. When you cannot go through the gate, you take a staggering 3,500 nautical mile detour around the southern tip of Africa. This African detour is brutal, adding 14 to 21 days of transit time and stripping an extra $1 million in operational costs per vessel. During the height of the crisis, westbound freight rates to Northern Europe spiked by 256%. In 2024, Egypt lost an estimated $6 billion in canal revenues. The global economy desperately needs a fire escape. IMC proposes a massive structural

shortcut. Instead of sailing around the peninsula, Indian goods will leave western ports like Mundra. They will sail straight across the Arabian Sea into deeply integrated Middle Eastern hubs like Jebel Ali in the UAE. This first leg alone is a gamecher. Predictive modeling suggests this aquatic bridge could generate nearly $22 billion in additional Indian exports annually. It slashes

shipping fuel consumption by 47.5% compared to traversing the Suez Canal. But once the cargo hits the Arabian Gulf, it must transition to land. Welcome to the Desert Railway. By removing water from the equation, IMC completely bypasses two of the most dangerous choke points on Earth, the Straight of Hormuz and the Red Sea. Cargo is offloaded onto a standard gauge freight railway,

cutting straight across the vast deserts of Saudi Arabia and Jordan. This is not a pipe dream. The physical infrastructure is materializing right now. The UAE's national rail operator, Etihad Rail, recently completed a 13.6 billion network bridging all seven emirates. Saudi Arabia launched

a 1,700 km logistics corridor linking their eastern ports directly to the Jordanian border. In Jordan, Etihad Rail signed a $2.3 billion agreement to build out 360 km of freight lines. This completed rail bridge will move 46 freight trains a day and haul 3 million shipping containers a year, completely insulated from naval piracy and immune to Red Sea blockades. But here is where the master plan hits a wall. A multi-billion dollar freight train is useless if

it terminates in the Jordanian desert. Geography dictates exactly one highly efficient overland exit node onto the Mediterranean Sea straight through the state of Israel. The Saudi and Jordanian railways are conceptually designed to link directly into the Israeli rail grid. Trains cross the Jordan River. They utilize Israel's reconstructed Ottoman era valley line to reach the major deep water transit hub at the port of Hifur. This specific connection poses severe technical

friction. It will cost an estimated $8 billion to bridge extreme elevation differences dropping into the Jordan Rift Valley. But this geographic reality makes Israel the absolute lynchpin of the entire global bypass. The architects of IMC have spent years quietly securing the perimeter. In January 2023, the Adani Group finalized the acquisition of a 70% controlling stake in the privatized port of Hifer. The transaction value was staggering, roughly $1.2 billion. Adani

overpaid by 55% compared to the second highest bidder. They did this to surgically lock out China, whose state-owned company already operated a $ 1.7 billion private terminal right across the bay. Adani's aggressive overpay was a geopolitical block. This was not just a business deal. It was a

strategic geopolitical weapon. Gautum Adani is a billionaire industrialist deeply integrated with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Mod's foreign policy. This is a private sector weapon to fight China's belt and road. Hifur processes nearly 20 million tons of cargo annually. By purchasing it outright, India secured a guaranteed state-of-the-art off-ramp into the Mediterranean.

They bought the exit door. Once the cargo hits the Mediterranean, the logistical war shifts to the European coastline. Here IMC directly confronts China's established footprint. For years, the crown jewel of China's European strategy has been the port of Pyreus in Greece. The Chinese state-owned enterprise Costco holds a commanding 67% ownership stake. The United States and its

partners are funneling capital into alternative Mediterranean ports to dismantle that monopoly. The US pledged $125 million to modernize the nearby Greek port of Elefena. Further west, the Adani group struck again, signing a massive agreement with the port of Marseilles Fos in France by establishing an IMC ports club, coordinating everything from Mundra to Marseilles. The architecture is complete. Indian capital controls the exit node in Israel. It partners with

Europe to guarantee global goods systematically circumvent Chinese controlled infrastructure. Why are the US and the EU backing this multi-billion dollar infrastructure so aggressively? Because IMC isn't just a trade route. It is a geoeconomic weapon. It is designed to force regional alliances without firing a single shot. For decades, the US tried to force normalization between Saudi Arabia

and Israel using top-down political treaties like the Abraham Accords. The results are fragile. IMC alters the equation through the ruthless gravity of capitalist logistics. If the economies of Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Jordan, and Israel are physically bolted together by a multi-billion dollar freight railway, and their national revenues depend on the daily flow of 3 million shipping containers, they are forced into a permanent pragmatic alliance. Stability is generated through sheer economic reliance. A nation does not bomb the train tracks that generate 15% of its GDP.

Simultaneously, the corridor starves Iran. Thran spent 20 years developing the international north south transport corridor, linking India to Russia. By redirecting Indian trade across the Arabian Sea to the UAE instead, IMC strips Tehran of its geoeconomic leverage. Iran is isolated in the emerging corridor war, but grand logistical master plans developed in pristine boardrooms frequently collide with kinetic realities on the ground. The outbreak of the October 7th attacks, the ensuing war in Gaza, the conflict in Lebanon, and the Houthi missile strikes severely derailed the immediate roll out of IMAC. The Middle East is highly volatile. Governments in Saudi Arabia

and the UAE face immense domestic pressure. It is politically toxic to openly finalize massive, highly visible economic partnerships with Israel. While regional conflict burns, official Saudi Israeli normalization talks are frozen. The complex rail links bridging the Jordan Israel border remain technically unresolved. Private capital is deeply hesitant to sink $8 billion into infrastructure located in active conflict zones. The trains are not running yet,

but geopolitics operates on a timeline of decades, not daily news cycles. Despite the kinetic delays, the underlying economic math remains completely unchanged. In February 2024, amidst the heaviest fighting, India and the UAE completely ignored the volatility. They signed an intergovernmental framework agreement specifically to advance IMAC. By 2025 and 2026, early stage construction on non-conlict regional hubs officially commenced. Capital continues to

flow. The incentives are permanent. India's $3.5 trillion economy requires a faster, secure route to export its output. The EU's $18 trillion consumer market requires a reliable alternative to Russian energy and Chinese goods. The Bab Elmandeb Strait remains a volatile choke

point. The Suez Canal is vulnerable to blockage and the Cape of Good Hope detour is economically unsustainable. The map has not changed. The necessity of the bypass has only increased. China built the belt and road. The West is building the bypass. The IMC corridor proves the new rules of

power. In the 21st century, the ultimate map of the Middle East will not be drawn by generals negotiating ceasefires. It will be paved, laid, and welded together by civil engineers.