---
video_title: "The Mechanical Collapse of Indonesia’s Flag Carrier"
video_id: n2mDxv8fSxk
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n2mDxv8fSxk
video_date: 2026-04-14T10:38:57+00:00
video_description: |
  In early 2026, Indonesia’s flag carrier, Garuda Indonesia, is facing a problem that defies basic logic: it is losing hundreds of millions of dollars because its airplanes are doing absolutely nothing. After reporting a bruising $319 million net loss for 2025, the reality set in that a grounded fleet is often more financially toxic than an active one.
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
An airplane is designed to execute exactly one fundamental economic function. Transport passengers and cargo from an origin point to a destination, generating cash flow. When a commercial aircraft fails to fulfill this primary directive, it does not simply enter a state of financial neutrality. Instead, a grounded jet rapidly transforms from a revenue generating vehicle into an active liability that structurally incinerates capital. Airline economics demands constant motion. The moment the motion ceases, the financial architecture

begins to collapse. In early 2026, the national flag carrier of Indonesia, Garuda Indonesia, disclosed a devastating scorecard for the 2025 fiscal year. The airline reported a staggering net loss of 319 million United States dollars. This vastly eclipsed the $69.8 $8 million net loss recorded in 2024. The loss before income tax widened even more drastically, expanding from

$81 million in 2024 to a bruising $354 million in 2025. While various international aviation markets successfully capitalized on postpandemic travel demand and returned to profitability, the Indonesian flag carrier was drowning. The core issue driving this financial hemorrhage was not a lack of passengers or an evaporation of demand. It was a profound systemic lack of serviceable metal. The airline simply did not possess the physical capacity to fly the routes required to sustain its balance sheet. By the conclusion of the 2025 fiscal year, fleet data indicated that the Garuda

Indonesia group encompassing the mainline carrier and its lowcost subsidiary possessed exactly 102 aircraft in active service. Conversely, a staggering 38 aircraft sat idle in deep storage. At the absolute nadier of the operational crisis, roughly half of the entire fleet were undergoing heavy maintenance simultaneously. This restricted capacity directly translated to the top line. Operating revenue fell to $3.2 billion in 2025. This contraction was driven by an 8.3% decline in

passenger revenue. Passenger volumes fell by 10.5% dropping to 21.2 2 million individuals as limited fleet availability reduced schedule reliability and pushed passengers toward alternative carriers. The brutal catch of the aviation industry is that capital expenditures and operational leases do not pause when an aircraft's engines go cold. Airlines rarely own their fleets outright. To avoid massive

upfront capital expenditures, airlines rely on operating leases provided by global aviation holding companies. Under these strict legal contracts, Garuda Indonesia might be obligated to pay upwards of $1 million per month simply for the right to possess a single widebody aircraft such as a Boeing 77-300 ER. Grounded aircraft inflict heavy financial losses specifically because these fixed costs continue relentlessly while the corresponding revenue is completely lost. The second layer of this financial burden involves infrastructure costs, specifically parking fees. Tarmac space at major hubs like Jakarta's Sukano Hattera is premium real estate requiring significant daily capital outlays. However, the deepest and least understood financial drain

comes from what the aerospace industry terms preservation maintenance. A commercial aircraft is a highly pressurized, delicately calibrated machine featuring millions of interdependent parts. It cannot simply be powered down and abandoned, particularly in the highly humid tropical climate of the Indonesian archipelago. To prevent catastrophic material degradation, rust, and the seizing of mechanical linkages, aerospace engineers must execute a rigorous protocol. Jet engines must be periodically run to circulate lubricating fluids and prevent internal corrosion.

Hydraulics must be routinely cycled to maintain seal integrity and prevent leaks. Cabin humidity must be actively monitored to prevent mold growth and electrical shorting. Furthermore, the massive aircraft must be physically towed forward and backward on the tarmac every few days. If this is not done, the tires will deform, flat spotting under the immense weight of the airframe. This meticulous upkeep requires thousands of dollars a day in specialized labor and equipment.

Consequently, as dozens of aircraft were grounded for maintenance, total operating expenses for the Garuda Indonesia Group hovered around $3.5 billion in 2025. While overall expenses saw a slight decline, maintenance costs specifically surged by 23%. The carrier cited heavy maintenance checks, global supply chain disruptions, and severe spare parts shortages as primary catalysts for this surge. The financial decay eventually permeated the brand's prestige. In early 2026,

Skyras officially downgraded Garuda Indonesia from a five-star rating to a four-star rating, citing a demonstrable decline in product quality and outdated facilities. This marked the first time it had lost its five-star status since 2014. Analysts pointed out this downgrade reflected a survival-driven shift in priority. Under immense financial pressures, the airline was forced to funnel its limited capital strictly into mandatory safety standards and core mechanical viability. Maintaining rigorous service consistency or investing in premium cabin enhancements simply ceased to be a viable option when the fundamental survival of the fleet was at stake. Yet,

mechanical liabilities represent only one half of the microeconomic crisis. The airlines ability to generate sufficient yield from its active fleet was artificially suppressed by a severe structural limitation. Garuda Indonesia operates under strict domestic fair regulations implemented by the Indonesian government. Introduced in 2019, these domestic price ceilings firmly cap the maximum ticket prices. Airlines are legally permitted to charge passengers. The domestic aviation market

is notoriously price-sensitive. And these rigid regulations have remained entirely unchanged, completely ignoring years of global inflation and rising operational costs. This creates a profound structural mismatch. High service standards require high operational costs, but Garuda's pricing flexibility remains limited by the state, acting as a permanent limitation on profitability. This limitation becomes financially toxic when paired with foreign exchange dynamics.

The airline faces heavily inflated costs for domestic aviation fuel which must be purchased from the state-owned energy firm in United States dollars. Simultaneously, the airline earns its domestic revenue in the weakening Indonesian rupia. Therefore, Garuda Indonesia is forced into a mathematical corner. It is purchasing its most expensive variable commodity in a strong foreign currency while earning its revenue in a weaker local currency and being legally prohibited from raising domestic ticket prices. This effectively squeezes the carrier's profit margins into non-existence. If grounded planes are hemorrhaging capital, why not simply execute

the repairs immediately and return the planes to service? The answer lies in the mechanical reality that entering 2026, the global aerospace supply chain remained fundamentally fractured, choked by geopolitical crises, labor shortages, and raw material constraints. Returning a commercial aircraft from deep storage to an airworthy state requires comprehensive heavy airframe maintenance, component shop visits, and deep engine overhauls. The global aviation industry relies on a highly specialized just in time logistics network that ceased to function predictably following disruptions in the early 2020s. Consider the auxiliary power unit or APU.

This small turbine engine located in the tail cone provides auxiliary electricity and pneumatic pressure to power the cabin's air conditioning and lighting while the aircraft is on the ground. More crucially, the APU provides the compressed air necessary to start the main underwing engines. If an APU fails, the aircraft is paralyzed without specialized external ground support equipment, limiting its operational independence and rendering it unserviceable for normal route networks. Prior to 2020, sourcing a replacement APU or scheduling a routine engine overhaul was a highly predictable logistical exercise that took a matter of days. By 2025 and 2026, it had morphed into a severe geopolitical logistics nightmare. Global shortages of vital spare parts were heavily

exacerbated by widespread labor shortages across the aerospace manufacturing sector. Furthermore, the global supply of aerospace grade titanium essential for aircraft manufacturing and engine repair was heavily disrupted by the Russia Ukraine war. The logistical routing of these increasingly scarce parts faced immense geographic hurdles. The escalation of regional conflict in the Middle East compelled international cargo operators to extensively reroute their shipments to avoid heavily contested airspace. This geographic diversion resulted in significantly longer transit times, massively complicating the delivery of highly time-sensitive aerospace materials. These complex logistical diversions combined with a severe tightening of global air

freight capacity and surging global oil prices drove up transportation costs exponentially. In this constrained, hyperco competitive environment, Garuda Indonesia was actively competing against every other major global airline for extremely scarce slots at international maintenance, repair, and overhaul facilities. When every airline in the world is trying to repair their planes at the exact same time, the facilities simply run out of physical floor space and certified human labor. However, the airline did manage to secure critical partnerships to alleviate certain bottlenecks. GA Tellesis engine services was awarded a pivotal contract to provide intensive overhaul services for the CFM56-7B engines. These specific engines are the sole power plants for Garuda Indonesia's

workhorse Boeing 737 next generation fleet, making their swift repair absolutely vital to restoring domestic capacity. Despite securing such contracts, the global waiting list for brand new commercial aircraft from the major duopoly manufacturers Boeing and Airbus averaged a staggering 7 years. The manufacturers were dealing with their own immense supply chain and regulatory crises, effectively eliminating the possibility for an airline to simply replace its broken older aircraft with brand new deliveries. In the short term, Garuda was forced to rely entirely on resurrecting its existing grounded fleet, navigating a broken global supply chain where certified aerospace mechanics were in dangerously short supply and legacy engine manufacturers were massively backlogged. By late 2025, Garuda Indonesia was firmly trapped in a terminal economic death spiral. The carrier could not fly its planes to generate the required revenue and

it simultaneously lacked the revenue required to fix the planes so they could fly. Without massive external intervention, the mathematical reality dictated eventual insolveny. At the end of 2025, Indonesia's powerful sovereign investment body, the DA Anagata Nucantara Investment Management Agency, executed a massive, highly calculated rescue mission. The Sovereign Wealth Fund, which holds an overwhelming 91.11% of Garuda Indonesia's shares, officially approved an immense capital injection designed specifically to stop the bleeding. Following an extraordinary

general meeting of shareholders, the state investment agency finalized an injection of 23.67 trillion Indonesian rupia into the aviation group. At the prevailing exchange rates, this was equivalent to roughly 1.5 billion United States dollars. This was not a standard corporate bailout, nor was it a vanity project designed to purchase shiny new jets or launch flashy, unprofitable international routes. The capital injection was executed through a highly structured

private placement scheme. The transaction consisted of 17.02 02 trillion rupia in direct cash injected straight into the company's accounts alongside a 6.65 trillion rupia debt conversion designed to clean up the balance sheet to formally facilitate this transaction. Garuda issued 315.61

billion series D shares to the sovereign wealth fund at a strictly evaluated price of 75 rupia per share. This 23.67 67 trillion rupia package was strictly utilitarian. It was petitioned with exact precision to address the systemic operational failures within both the parent company and its lowcost subsidiary. The mainline carrier Garuda Indonesia directly received 8.7

trillion rupia accounting for approximately 37% of the total injection. These funds were specifically earmarked for vital working capital needs which predominantly consisted of critical aircraft maintenance. The remaining 14.9 trillion rupia was allocated to support Citilink Garuda's lowcost subsidiary which handles a massive portion of the nation's highdensity domestic traffic. Within that allocation 11.2 trillion rupia was designated for general working capital. However,

a highly specific 3.7 trillion rupia was deployed to definitively settle outstanding fuel purchase debts owed to the state-owned energy company Pertamina. These specific fuel aras had been acred during the highly volatile cashstrapped pandemic period between 2019 and 2021. Settling these historic debts was fundamentally crucial to restoring inter agency trust within the Indonesian state-owned enterprise ecosystem, ensuring that the airline would continue to receive the jet fuel required to operate its daily schedule. Danara managing director Febin Eddi explicitly emphasized to the public and the markets that this capital injection was to be tightly allocated and strictly ring fenced for fleet repairs. The company confirmed a radical shift in corporate strategy.

Absolutely no private placement funds would be allocated for fleet expansion. This represented a definitive pivot from earlier corporate plans that had suggested using up to 22% of the funds to acquire new jets. Instead, the mandate from the sovereign wealth fund was absolute. The $1.5 billion was a desperately needed maintenance budget. It was to be aggressively

channeled into repairing existing physical assets, clearing the backlog of crippling leasing debts, and bulk buying hyperexpensive engine parts on the constrained open market. To execute this massive turnaround, and to signal a definitive break from past mismanagement, a sweeping executive reshuffle was authorized by the state. In October 2025, Glenny Kyropan, a retired air force officer, was appointed as the new president, director, and chief executive officer, replacing the outgoing Wam Dan Sani. Under Kyropan's leadership, the new management team immediately took steps to restore strict fiscal discipline. They instituted new controls on executive bonuses and deployed tighter cost management frameworks to signal a definitive shift towards strict corporate accountability.

Crucially, the restructuring brought in specialized foreign expertise. A highly unusual move for an Indonesian state-owned enterprise enabled by legal frameworks championed by Danara CEO Rosan Roslani. Balagapal Kundavara, formerly of Singapore Airlines, was appointed chief financial officer. Neil Raymond Mills, ex-s Scandinavian Airlines, became director of transformation to navigate the broken supply chain. and Thomas Sugiato Owenro joined as deputy president director. With modernized leadership and a critical $1 billion fourth

quarter cash injection from state agency Danara, Garuda successfully averted an immediate liquidity crisis. The airlines cash reserves dramatically swelled from a poultry $219 million to $943 million by the end of 2025. Bound by strict bailout mandates, Garuda's 2026 strategy ignores prestige marketing in favor of a purely mechanical factory floor recovery. President Director Glenny Kyropan set rigid year-end survival targets. 68 fully serviceable aircraft for Garuda and 50 for its lowcost subsidiary Citilink. Consequently, every dollar of the Danara funds is aggressively

channeled into strategic maintenance via Garuda's MRO unit GMF Aerero Asia. operations prioritize heavy airframe checks for Boeing 737-800 NGS, trip 7-300 ERS and Airbus A330s alongside deep overhauls of critical engines APS and landing gear assemblies to prevent future crises. Kairopan outlined 11 strategic initiatives targeting datadriven route optimization, IT modernization, and stringent cost management. While the immediate focus is repair, Dalantara is simultaneously evaluating non-traditional financing to acquire 50 new Boeing jets. However, global waiting lists averaging 7 years make new aircraft a long-term aspiration, fundamentally dependent on the success of the 2026 fleet reactivation. Observers might logically question why the government is funneling

23.67 67 trillion rupia, $1.5 billion into a legacy carrier burdened by immense maintenance backlogs and legally capped domestic pricing. The answer is fundamentally geographic. Spanning a distance comparable to the continental United States, Indonesia is a sprawling archipelago of 17,000 islands. For its 280 million citizens, aviation is not a luxury. It is the non-negotiable

circulatory system of the domestic economy. You cannot build a bridge across the Java Sea or a railway to Papua. As a state-owned enterprise, Garuda must perpetually balance the brutal math of commercial profitability against the sovereign mandate to provide national connectivity. Ultimately, this massive bailout represents a highly calculated geopolitical gamble. Garuda's survival relies entirely on a literal mechanical resurrection, wrenching its grounded fleets back into the sky to prove that an airplane only possesses true value when it is moving.