---
video_title: "Why Air China Can Lose Money For 10 Years and Never Go Bankrupt"
video_id: u908zKQbiOI
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u908zKQbiOI
video_date: 2026-03-09T09:41:39+00:00
video_description: |
  If Delta or British Airways loses money for 3 years, they go bankrupt. Air China (and its sisters China Eastern and China Southern) can lose money for a decade, accumulate massive debts, and still buy hundreds of brand-new planes. Why? Because in China, an airline isn't just a business; it is Strategic Infrastructure.
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
In 2022, China's three biggest state airlines didn't just lose money, they burned it at a scale most airlines would not survive. Air China reported a net loss of about 38.6 billion UN. China Eastern Airlines lost about 37.4 billion UN. China Southern Airlines lost about 32.7 billion

UN. Combined, that's roughly 108.7 billion UN in one year. If a normal airline did that, lenders would pull back. investors would panic and the company would be forced into a brutal reset. Sell

planes, cut routes, lay off staff, merge, or go into bankruptcy protection. In the United States, big carriers have used Chapter 11 to survive, and the list includes household names. But in China, the story goes a different way. In the same era of huge losses, China's state carriers were still signing for massive fleets of new aircraft. In mid 2022, Airbus confirmed orders in China totaling 292 A320 family aircraft, including orders for Air China, China Eastern, and China Southern.

Then in 2024, Air China signed a deal to buy 100 C919 aircraft from Comarmac with a catalog value of about 10.8 8 billion US delivered from 2024 to 2031 and funded through cash, bank loans, and other financing methods. And this didn't just happen during the COVID shock. Even after the global airline industry returned to profit in 2023, Reuters reported that China's big three still posted a fifth straight year of annual losses in 2024. So, the question is simple. How

can China's top airlines lose billions, stack up debt, and still keep flying, borrowing, and buying new planes? Start with two basic facts. First, Air China openly describes itself in state terms. In its 2023 annual report, the company calls itself the only national flag carrier of China and says it carries significant responsibility for serving as a national airline brand, supporting major decisions of the CPC central committee and contributing to the implementation of national strategies. It also says it prioritizes market expansion along the belt and road initiative.

Second, the airlines balance sheet looks like what you would expect after years of heavy losses. In Air China's 2023 financial reporting, total liabilities hovered around 300 billion ren minimi and its gearing ratio. Total liabilities divided by total assets remained near 89%. Now add the key definition that makes everything click. In a normal market, an airline has a hard budget. If

it can't pay its bills, it shrinks or it fails. But economists have long used the idea of a soft budget constraint to describe a world where loss-making firms expect rescue, refinancing, or subsidies when they get into trouble. That idea was developed to explain state dominated systems where the boundary between the firm and the state is blurry. China's state sector is not identical to the old planned economies. But the logic of soft budgets can still show up when big state firms have policy jobs and privileged financing. The IMF has described how China's S SEES can have

preferential access to financing, including financing from state-owned banks underpinned by implicit government guarantees, and how social and financial stability goals can push decision makers to extend support. That is the core difference. Air China is not immune to economics. It's embedded in a system where economics is only one part of the scorecard. To understand why Air China can lose billions and keep going, you first need to understand how extreme the losses were and what normally happens to airlines that bleed cash. Air China's audited annual report for 2021 shows

losses attributable to equity shareholders of 16.6 billion ren minimi in 2021 and 14.4 billion Ren Mimbi in 2020. It also shows total liabilities rising from about 200.3 billion renmi in 2020 to 232.6 billion renmi in 2021 and a gearing ratio rising to 77.94% by the end of 2021. Then came

2022, the peak year for China's airline collapse under heavy travel disruption. Reuters described Air China's 2022 net loss widening to about 38.6 6 billion UN China Eastern's own annual results announcement shows a net loss attributable to equity holders of 37.386 billion ren Mimi in 2022 with a debt ratio of 88.77% at the end of that year. China Southern's 2022 annual results show

a net loss attributable to equity shareholders of 32.699 billion renmi in 2022 compared with 12.106 106 billion ren mimi in 2021. This is what makes the never die question so sharp. Losses like this don't just dent profits. They eat the company's ability to finance itself. Airlines

are capital intensive. They depend on steady cash flow to pay for fuel, staff, maintenance, airport fees, and debt service. When cash flow collapses, airlines usually don't get a slow, gentle decline. They hit a wall. In the US system, that wall often leads to bankruptcy protection and restructuring. Reuters reporting on American Airlines 2011 filing notes that other large US

airlines had also filed for bankruptcy protection in the 2000s, including Delta and Northwest in 2005 and United in 2002. Now, it's important to be fair. Even market airlines get government help in a crisis. During COVID, the US Treasury's payroll support program awarded tens of billions of dollars to passenger carriers to keep workers paid. Treasury later summarized that it awarded $59 billion in payroll support across the three rounds of the program. So, the difference is not

the West never supports airlines. The difference is how normal the support is, how automatic it is, and what it's designed to achieve. In most market systems, bailouts are treated as emergency events. They come with political fights, conditions, and limits. Airlines still have to convince lenders they can return to profit. If they can't, they shrink or restructure. But in China,

the big three are not just companies that happen to be stateowned. They operate inside a policy structure where keeping them alive is often treated as part of keeping the system stable. The IMF's point about implicit guarantees and financial stability goals matters here. If a major S SOE is treated as part of national stability, the tolerance for failure is much lower. This is why even after the worst of the pandemic, the big three still struggled to return to profit. Reuters reported that domestic competition, weak international recovery,

and other pressures kept them loss-making through 2024, even as global airlines returned to profit. Reuters also reported that in the first half of 2025, China's major airlines stayed in the red, pointing to overcapacity, low fairs, and intense competition from China's expanding high-speed rail network. It even put a number on the fair pressure. Average domestic airfares in July and August were reported at 788 yen, about 10.6% below 2019 levels. So, the losses weren't only

a one-time COVID story. They became a structural problem. But here is the turning point. The fact that these airlines keep losing money is not proof that they are allowed to fail. It's evidence that they are often asked to do things that don't maximize profit. And once you accept that,

the next question becomes obvious. What are they being asked to do? A commercial airline lives and dies by root profitability. It pushes planes onto routes that pay and it abandons routes that drain cash. It can do that because its job is to run a business. A state-owned airline can have an

extra job, be part of national infrastructure. You can see this way of thinking in government aviation policy. China's official government portal reported that authorities issued a civil aviation development plan for the 14th 5-year plan period and that by the end of 2025, China would have over 270 civil transport airports with annual capacity targets for flights, passengers, and cargo. The same system openly talks about subsidies to keep the network running. In an English language CAC release about a package of policies supporting the civil aviation industry, CAAC said the central budget will continue to provide subsidies for air routts and safety capacity building through the civil aviation development fund and will also subsidize the operation and safety capacity building of eligible small and medium-sized airports. That matters

because small airports and thin routes are usually the first thing a profit first airline wants to cut. They tend to have lower load factors, higher unit costs, and weaker demand. But governments often want them anyway because connectivity has political and economic value even when it loses money. China has also used targeted relief to keep airlines operating during downturns. The state council's English portal reported that China would suspend the prepayment of VAT on air transport firms throughout 2022 and that the central government would continue to subsidize air routs, airports, and safety projects through an aviation development fund. And in May 2022, China Daily

reported on a subsidy program where the Ministry of Finance would provide the majority of the funds with local governments funding the rest aimed at helping passenger flights during the slump. None of this is mysterious if you treat aviation as infrastructure. If you want to keep regions tied into the national economy, you need transport capacity even when demand is weak. If you want to promote tourism, labor mobility, or business travel in less developed areas, low prices, and frequent flights can be part of the toolkit, but those goals often conflict with airline profitability. Air China's own language points in the same direction. In its recent filings,

Air China lists charter flights and special missions, including repatriation of overseas cultural relics, earthquake relief and rescue, and emergency evacuations. That is not normal profit maximizing airline behavior. That is a national utility role. So, the big three often sit in a hybrid space. They sell tickets like businesses, but they are also expected to absorb policy tasks like a public service. And that sends us to the next piece of the puzzle. If these tasks lose

money, who covers the gap? In a normal market, multi-year losses eventually collide with a hard truth. Lenders stop lending. China's system softens that collision in two ways. Through the structure of the banking system and through the state's ability to directly recapitalize firms.

Start with banking. A Reserve Bank of Australia bulletin on China's banking system noted that the Chinese government is extensively involved in banking through its majority ownership of the largest banks and that Chinese authorities retain considerable influence over banks lending and deposit-taking activities. Now, combine that with the IMF's observation that S SOEs can have preferential access to financing from state-owned banks, backed by implicit guarantees, and driven not only by industrial policy, but also by social and financial stability goals. This is the core mechanism that makes never die possible. If a major state airline hits trouble, the financial system is not just reacting to risk, it's also reacting to policy priorities.

You can see how dependent Air China is on large-scale financing in its own reporting. In Air China's 2024 annual report, the company reports total liabilities of about 304.8 billion ren minimi at the end of 2024 with current liabilities of 137.6 billion ren minim. In the same report, Air China discloses interestbearing borrowings of about 74.5 billion ren minimi at the end of

2024 split between bank loans and borrowings and corporate bonds and short-term commercial papers. It also discloses that its floating rate bank borrowings are arranged based on benchmark interest rates of the People's Bank of China. In a purely commercial setting, a company with that balance sheet profile would be under constant pressure from creditors, tighten costs, shrink capacity, or raise equity. But state airlines in China can do the equity step in a different way. In late 2022, reports on Air China's filings described a plan to raise billions of UN through a share issuance with major subscriptions from its parent and related holding entities. That is the

state's second tool, direct recapitalization. If needed, the system can move money into the airline, not just through loans, but also through ownership and equity. Now add the industrial policy layer where airlines are used as guaranteed customers. China wants a domestic alternative to the Airbus Boeing duopoly in narrowbody aircraft. The centerpiece is built by Comarmac. Comarmac's

own announcement about the first delivery of the C919 states that the aircraft obtained a type certificate from CAC on September 29th, 2022 and that the first aircraft was delivered to China Eastern Airlines in December 2022. An AO working paper also references the C919's type certificate from CAC on September 29th, 2022. Then the big three stepped in as anchor buyers. Air China's own Hong Kong filing in April 2024 states it would acquire 100c 919 aircraft with a catalog price of about 10.8 billion US delivered from 2024 to 2031 and funded by self-owned cash commercial bank loans and other financing methods. The filing also discloses COMAX ownership structure including

a 49.80% 80% stake owned by SASC of the state council. Reuters separately reported the same deal and value based on Air China's Shanghai Stock Exchange filing. This is not just a fleet decision. It is industrial policy with wings. A new aircraft program needs early customers,

operational data, and prestige. China's state airlines provide all three. And here's the part that makes the lose billion story even stranger. The big three can do this while also buying foreign aircraft at scale. When Airbus confirmed the 292 aircraft order in July 2022, it framed it as positive recovery momentum and a prosperous outlook for aviation demand in China. And by 2024,

Air China was taking delivery of A320 Neo aircraft from its massive existing order book. So, China's state airline model can do two things at once. keep airlines alive through losses and keep the fleet pipeline flowing for both domestic and foreign aircraft suppliers. Finally, there is the foreign policy layer. When Air China says it is prioritizing market expansion along the belt and road initiative, it is describing aviation as part of a larger state strategy. A direct flight

is not only a commercial product, it's also a channel for business travel, government travel, tourism, and logistics. In that sense, a route can function like a diplomatic handshake, visible, repeated, and useful even when it isn't maximally profitable. This is also why the commercial airline versus state airline comparison can mislead people. The big three are not optimized for the same goal as a private carrier. They are optimized for resilience and reach. And

that brings us back to the opening claim. Air China can lose billions and not die because it is not being managed only as a business. It is being managed as a national instrument. But this raises a final critical question. If the airlines are an instrument, what exactly is the music they are playing? To understand the full scope of this strategy, you have to look at how these

carriers are used to reshape the global map even when it burns cash. If you look at the root maps of China's big three, you aren't just seeing travel demand. You are seeing a heat map of China's foreign policy in a profit-driven model. An airline launches a new international route only when the math works. They calculate the yield, the revenue per passenger per mile. If the yield is

low, the route dies. This is why US and European carriers are ruthless about cutting flights to second tier cities or unstable regions. China's state airlines operate with a different calculus. They are often the first movers in the Belt and Road Initiative, BARRI. When China invests billions in infrastructure projects in Central Asia, Africa or Eastern Europe, the physical connection, the flight, often comes before the profit. State media often celebrates the launch

of direct flights to BarRi partner countries as a political achievement, not a commercial win. For example, opening a direct route from a Chinese tier 2 city to a capital in Central Asia might guarantee losses for the first 5 years. The passenger load factors might be abysmal. But that flight allows Chinese engineers, construction crews, and diplomats to move freely. It creates a logistical pipeline that foreign competitors cannot match because foreign competitors cannot afford to bleed money on an empty plane for half a decade. This is where the soft budget becomes a

geopolitical weapon. By absorbing these operating losses, China's big three effectively subsidized the state's diplomatic expansion. The 30 billion renbi loss isn't just inefficiency. In the eyes of the state planner, it is a line item in the cost of doing global business, no different than the cost of building an embassy or paving a road. You can see this logic in the price wars that defined the postcoid recovery. Throughout 2023 and 2024, as international travel reopened, Western airlines

complained that they couldn't compete with Chinese carriers on price. Part of this was due to Russian airspace restrictions affecting Western carriers, but a massive part was capacity dumping. When an airline doesn't fear bankruptcy, it can flood a market with cheap seats to capture market share. It can depress ticket prices to a level where profit first competitors are forced to withdraw. We saw this dynamic in the domestic market where highspeed rail and airline overcapacity drove fairs down by over 10%. But apply that to the international stage and it becomes a tool of

soft power. Low fairs mean more tourists, more business exchange, and a tighter cultural bind with China. If Air China or China Eastern were purely commercial entities, their shareholders would demand they cut capacity to raise prices. But if their primary shareholder is the state, and the state wants connectivity and market presence, the low prices stay, the losses mount, and the treasury covers the spread. Why order hundreds of planes when you are losing money? Because in this

system, an aircraft order is rarely just about transport. It is about leverage. When China's leaders visit Europe, they often bring a gift in the form of an Airbus order. When they want to signal independence from American manufacturing, they lean into Comarmac. The airlines are the checkbook used to execute these maneuvers. If Air China were a private company facing a 30 billion

UN loss, it would be cancelling delivery slots, not signing new ones. But because it functions as a national instrument, it continues to take delivery of assets that the state deems strategic regardless of the current balance sheet. The airline is the vessel. The state is the captain.