---
video_title: "Why China Sold $620 Billion in U.S. Debt"
video_id: u-Lf6vDrWRo
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u-Lf6vDrWRo
video_date: 2026-05-20T14:15:39+00:00
video_description: |
  For over a decade, financial pundits warned of a terrifying doomsday scenario: China aggressively dumping its massive portfolio of U.S. debt and crashing the American economy. The data is officially in, and Beijing did liquidate hundreds of billions in U.S. Treasuries. So, why didn't the market collapse?
  
  In this video, we investigate the "stealth repositioning paradox." From a seemingly boring corporate building in Brussels to the massive gold vaults of the PBOC, and all the way to the iron ore mines of Western Australia, we uncover how China is quietly building a parallel financial universe. Discover why the U.S. debt weapon is a myth, how global central banks just crossed a massive gold threshold, and why the petrodollar system is facing its biggest structural threat yet.
  
  Narrated by:
  Tom McKay
  https://www.instagram.com/tmckay715/
  https://www.youtube.com/@UC8blX3YnHDG9e9_E9KjPK6g 
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  
  Sources:
  
  U.S. Debt & Foreign Holdings
  
  U.S. Department of the Treasury: Treasury International Capital (TIC) System – Major Foreign Holders of Treasury Securities.
  
  Federal Reserve Economic Data (FRED): Federal Debt Held by Foreign and International Investors.
  
  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA): U.S. Treasury Securities Statistics.
  
  Global Gold Accumulation
  
  World Gold Council: Official sector gold purchases and central bank reserve statistics (focusing on the 2025/2026 data).
  
  People’s Bank of China (PBOC): State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) official reserve assets reporting.
  
  Trade & Commodity Settlement
  
  COREX: Portside iron ore pricing index data.
  
  BHP Billiton: Corporate press releases or financial reporting regarding the China Mineral Resources Group agreements and Yuan-based settlement.
  
  Bank for International Settlements (BIS): Reports on the mBridge digital currency settlement network and cross-border payment initiatives.
  
  Macroeconomic Context
  
  International Monetary Fund (IMF): Currency Composition of Official Foreign Exchange Reserves (COFER) data.
  
  Euroclear / Clearstream: Public financial disclosures regarding assets held under custody in Belgium and Luxembourg.
---
If you walk down this street in Brussels on a Tuesday morning, you will notice absolutely nothing of historical significance. You will see mid-level bureaucrats holding umbrellas. You'll see delivery trucks idling at the curb. You'll see a coffee stand on the corner. It is a monument of corporate monotony. But according to the official ledgers of the United States Treasury Department,

this specific building is the epicenter of a global geopolitical earthquake. Belgium is a relatively small country. Its entire gross domestic product, the total economy value of every waffle, every beer, every tech startup, and every single paycheck generated by its 11 million citizens in a year is roughly $600 billion. And yet, according to the data released in early 2026, this tiny European nation is officially sitting on $454.7 billion of United States sovereign debt.

If you look at the raw statistics without context, it implies that every single man, woman, and child in Belgium somehow pulled their life savings together to buy over $40,000 worth of American government bonds, which of course is a complete impossibility. Belgium didn't buy that debt. They don't have the capital to buy half a trillion dollars of American paper, but someone else does. That money isn't Belgian. It's Chinese. And this building isn't a bank. It's a phantom

vault. For over a decade, geopolitical analysts, politicians, and cable news pundits have warned of a financial doomsday, a nuclear option. The theory went like this. China, angry at the United States, aggressively dumps its massive portfolio of American debt. The bond market collapses, borrowing costs skyrocket, and the American economy is sent into a catastrophic, unreoverable tail spin. Well, the data is in China actually did it. Since their peak in 2013, Beijing has quietly

liquidated nearly half of its official US Treasury portfolio. Over $620 billion gone. They pulled the trigger, but the doomsday never came. The nuclear bomb dropped, but nobody even heard the explosion. The anticipated yield shock was a complete nothing burger. To understand why the American economy

didn't collapse and how China is quietly building a parallel financial universe designed to survive the next world war, we have to look inside that boring building in Brussels. We have to look at a mountain of gold and we have to look at the blood red dirt of Western Australia. This is the story of the stealth repositioning paradox. China owns us. It is one of the most pervasive, deeply entrenched political talking points of the 21st century. The narrative is incredibly seductive

because it's so easy to visualize. You picture a geopolitical hostage situation where Beijing holds the financial detonator to the American dream. The foundational theory of the sovereign debt weapon relied on basic supply and demand. If China dumps a trillion dollars of US government bonds onto the open market all at once, the supply of those bonds outstrips demand. When that happens, the price of the bonds crashes. And because bond prices and bond yields move in opposite directions,

a crash in price means a spike in yields. Suddenly, the interest rates tied to those yields, your mortgage, your car loan, the cost for a business to build a new factory become impossibly expensive. The domestic US economy grinds to a devastating halt. It is a terrifying theory, but it is also completely empirically false. If Beijing woke up tomorrow and initiated a total liquidation of their visible portfolio, it would impact less than 1.8% 8% of the total outstanding

US debt. To put that into perspective, that is an absolute drop in the ocean. The American bond market barely registered the impact. In November 2013, official US Treasury data recorded China's holdings of American debt at an all-time peak of 1.316 trillion. By February 2026,

Beijing had systematically shredded that visible mainland holding down to just 693.3 billion. They dumped hundreds of billions of dollars. They initiated the exact selloff everyone feared. To see why the Chinese debt weapon is an absolute illusion, look at who actually owns the $39 trillion US national debt. Roughly 81% is completely insulated from foreign coercion. It is

owed to domestic entities. Almost half is held by American mutual funds, citizens, and commercial banks. Another 7.6 trillion is money the US government owes to itself, mostly in social security. And the ultimate firewall is the Federal Reserve, holding 4.4 trillion.

That single American institution holds more US debt than the top three foreign creditors on Earth combined. And the vacuum China left behind, it was immediately absorbed by America's allies. The core mechanics of international dollar recycling ensure that surplus nations step in. Japan aggressively anchored the market, surging their holdings to $1.239 trillion to hedge against their own low domestic yields. The United Kingdom acting as the primary global banking conduit for Middle Eastern

and European capital absorbed nearly 900 billion. Even Canada opportunistically jumped to 446 billion. The global financial system efficiently digested China's exit without triggering a localized rate crisis. Total foreign ownership actually grew to a record $9.487 $487 trillion by February 2026. The debt weapon is dead. It has been conclusively invalidated. The United States

simply does not rely on its primary geopolitical rival to finance its structural deficits. But if China isn't trying to crash the US economy, why are they selling? Because this isn't an attack, it's an escape. And to understand what China is running from, you have to understand the absolute macroeconomic trap that forced them to buy all this American debt in the first place. The foundational reality of the USChina financial relationship is that Beijing never actually wanted to buy trillions of dollars in American debt. It wasn't a benevolent investment

strategy. It was a structural hostage situation. The engine of accumulation was laid down in 1994. Beijing officially pegged its currency, the renmanb, to the US dollar at a highly competitive fixed rate of 8.28 yuan per dollar. The goal was simple. Provide absolute price certainty

to foreign investors and guarantee that Chinese manufactured exports would remain the cheapest, most aggressively cost competitive goods on the global stage. But the real psychological trauma that cemented China's strategy occurred during the 1997 Asian financial crisis. As capital violently fled emerging markets, nations like Indonesia, South Korea, and Thailand watched their currencies absolutely disintegrate. Entire economies evaporated in weeks. Beijing watched the regional devastation from the sidelines and came to a cold, calculated conclusion. Massive unassalable foreign

exchange reserves were a matter of absolute national security. To survive in the modern global economy, you needed a sovereign safety net. Prior to joining the global trading architecture, China's footprint in the US debt market was a rounding error. In November 2000, they held a record low of just 58.9 billion. But following its formal assession to the World Trade

Organization in December 2001, China's export-led manufacturing sector went supernova. Suddenly, the entire planet was buying Chinese goods. And this created a massive macroeconomic paradox. In macroeconomics, there is a hard law of physics known as the impossible trinity or the economic policy trillemma. It dictates that a sovereign nation can only simultaneously maintain two of these three policies. You cannot have all three. Beijing strategically chose to maintain a managed

artificially low exchange rate to protect domestic manufacturing competitiveness. Simultaneously, they desired independent monetary control to manage their own domestic economy. To achieve those two points on the triangle, the law of economics demanded they sacrifice the third. So they instituted incredibly strict capital controls. Money was prevented from freely entering or exiting the Chinese economy. When a Chinese factory exports goods, they are paid in US

dollars. But because of strict capital controls, they must exchange those dollars for renbi at the central bank. Over a decade, the People's Bank of China absorbed hundreds of billions of dollars, printing new renmanbi to hand back to the factories. If left unchecked, this massive wave of new currency would trigger society destroying hyperinflation. To neutralize this threat, the central bank drains that excess cash back out of the system using sterilization bonds.

But this leaves Beijing sitting on a massive idle vault of US dollars. There is only one financial market on Earth deep enough to absorb that volume of capital without breaking a sweat. United States Treasury Securities. China's historic purchasing of US debt wasn't an investment strategy. It was an absolute mechanical necessity. But this system had a devastating internal cost. The

structural necessity of the sterilization engine deliberately deprived the Chinese domestic economy of purchasing power by funneling export earnings into low yielding foreign government bonds rather than domestic infrastructure or household fiscal transfers. The Chinese economic model forced incredibly high domestic savings rates and actively stifled organic consumption-led economic growth. The everyday Chinese consumer was the ultimate loser in this arrangement. By November 2013, the mechanical accumulation reached its absolute zenith 1.316 trillion. But at this exact

juncture, Chinese policymakers were waking up. They increasingly recognized the existential risk of the middle income trap and deeply diminishing returns of a strictly export-led growth model. More importantly, they realized their entire sovereign wealth was held hostage inside the financial architecture of their primary geopolitical rival. They initiated early quiet mandates to diversify, understanding they couldn't just trigger a massive sell-off. However, the theoretical discomfort of holding US debt became an immediate, undeniable, and terrifying reality in February of 2022 when the United States and its G7 allies instantaneously froze approximately $300 billion in sovereign reserves belonging to the Russian Central Bank following the invasion of Ukraine. The rules of global finance were permanently rewritten. For

Chinese reserve managers, this event conclusively demonstrated that dollar denominated assets held within western custodial frameworks carried an unacceptable risk of instantaneous sovereign confiscation during geopolitical conflicts. The US dollar was no longer a neutral medium of exchange. It was a loaded weapon. This triggered a permanent structural acceleration away from US debt. But again, you cannot publicly dump a trillion dollars of debt without crashing the value of the very assets you are trying to sell. So, China didn't dump them. They obfiscated

them. Which brings us back to the anomaly in Belgium. To hide their exposure, China exploited the structural reporting methodology of the US Treasury. The TIC data, specifically the major foreign holders of Treasury Securities Lenture, is compiled based on information submitted by US-based broker dealers and custodial banks. Critically, this reporting architecture tracks the geographic location of the custodian holding the security for safekeeping. It does not track the

ultimate beneficial owner who carries the actual financial risk. If the PBOC transfers the custody of its US Treasury bonds from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to an offshore clearing house like Huroclear based in Belgium or Clear Stream based in Luxembourg, the US Treasury mechanically records a massive divestment by China mainland. Simultaneously, it records a massive inexplicable surge in accumulation by the country hosting the clearing house. By migrating its portfolio to the shadow banking hubs of Europe, China achieves two brilliant strategic objectives. First, data optics. They create the public illusion of severe ddollarization, feeding the media narrative

of a selloff without actually having to endure the financial pain of selling off their portfolio. Secondly, operational redundancy. They gain financing optionality allowing them to leverage their treasury portfolio for short-term dollar liquidity outside the direct immediate purview of American regulators. While official statistics claim China holds only $693.3 billion in US debt, forensic financial analysis incorporating the massive anomalous $454.7 billion held by Belgium

suggests Beijing's true dollar exposure likely exceeds 1.16 to $1.25 trillion when accounting for these offshore custodians. They didn't sell the house. They just put it in a blind trust. But financial obfiscation is ultimately just a band-aid. Moving paper from New York to

Brussels doesn't change the fact that it is still fiat paper inherently tied to the counterparty risk of the United States government. To truly neutralize the risk of Western sanctions, China needed physical mass, uncancellable, unfreezable hard assets. They needed gold. While quietly engineering the reduction of its visible dollar footprint, the PBOC executed an unprecedented, relentless campaign of physical asset acquisition. By the first quarter of 2026, the central bank had executed a 17-month consecutive purchasing streak, entirely agnostic to the rising spot price of the metal, they elevated their total physical gold holdings to a staggering record of 2,313 tons. To put this macroeconomic shift into perspective, look at the ratio. A decade ago,

Beijing held roughly 10 cents of physical gold for every dollar of US treasuries they owned. By early 2026, that ratio had radically expanded for every dollar of visible US sovereign debt they held. They backed it with approximately 57 cents of physical censorship resistant gold. a near having of paper exposure paired with a 25% surge in hard asset holdings and China was acting as the vanguard for a much broader global movement. In early 2026, the global macroeconomic landscape experienced a watershed event that dismantled decades of monetary precedent. It

is known as the central bank gold crossover. For the first time since 1996, the total aggregate value of physical gold held by global central banks officially surpassed the value of their US Treasury holdings. Approximately $5 trillion in gold compared to roughly $3.9 trillion in sovereign debt. This inversion is the ultimate signal. Emerging markets and the global south are

executing a structural pivot away from fiat debt and toward censorship resistant hard assets. They are permanently altering how global liquidity is managed. This fundamental shift has created an unbreakable demand floor. With central banks globally purchasing over 1,000 tons annually, gold valuations are benefiting from permanent price agnostic accumulation. But hoarding gold is strictly a defensive maneuver. It protects your wealth from being frozen, but it doesn't threaten

the supremacy of the US dollar in day-to-day global commerce. To actively dismantle American financial hegemony, China had to go on the offensive. They had to attack the deepest, most critical plumbing of international trade. They had to change how the world buys dirt. This is the Pilbara, Western Australia. It is one of the most resourced dense locations on the

surface of the earth. And right now, it is ground zero for the dismantling of the pro dollar system. For generations, the global trade of bulk raw materials, whether it's crude oil, copper, or iron ore, has been underpinned by a singular foundational mechanic. It is priced, invoiced, and settled exclusively in US dollars. This mechanic is the bedrock of American financial supremacy. If a country like Japan wants to build skyscrapers, they need steel. To make steel, they

need iron ore. To buy iron ore from Australia, they have to pay in US dollars. This dynamic creates a permanent inescapable global demand for the greenback. Every nation on Earth is forced to hoard American currency strictly to facilitate basic industrial survival. But in the fourth quarter of 2025, that foundational mechanic was fractured. China acting as the absolute largest

consumer of raw materials on the planet decided to change the rules of the game. After months of strategic procurement bans targeting specific org grades, the China mineral resources group, a massive statebacked procurement entity, forced the Australian mining giant BHP Bilitin, into a landmark supply agreement. The critical component of this deal dictates that 30% of BHP's massive spot iron ore volume supplied to China must be settled entirely in Chinese yuan. That is roughly $10 billion annually, completely bypassing the US dollar clearing system. But Beijing didn't stop at the currency. They went after the pricing anchor itself. A massive portion of the pricing mechanism

is now anchored directly to the Corex portside index, an RMBB denominated benchmark tracking transactions right at the Chinese docks rather than the traditional dollar denominated seabor indices. So why is this a terminal threat to the dollar? Because it shifts the risk. Previously, the Chinese buyer had to absorb the complex foreign exchange costs of converting their local yuan into US dollars to make the purchase. Now, Beijing has successfully externalized that risk entirely on the Western producer. BHP Bilitin is forced to absorb the currency

mismatch risk. To incentivize this immense shift, China granted BHP a 1.8% vessel rebate structure. They effectively traded a slight margin concession for a permanent strategic wedge against dollar pricing dominance. This historic agreement is not an isolated corporate anomaly. It is

a structural blueprint for the future of global resource extraction. By successfully forcing a top tier western conglomerate to accept RMBB settlement, Beijing has established a precedent. If the world's ultimate buyer dictates that critical inputs must be settled in yuan, the global necessity for nations to hoard US dollars will slowly permanently evaporate. The systemic consequences of China's strategic recalibration extend far beyond the localized fluctuations of the bond market. We are witnessing the irreversible bifurcation of global financial infrastructure. The weaponization of the dollar following the 2022 Russian reserve freeze acted

as a terminal catalyst. The global south realized that relying on Western institutions was an unacceptable vulnerability. Consequently, China is actively constructing a parallel financial universe. Alongside Russia and the expanding bricks trading block, Beijing is rapidly advancing the bricks crossber payment initiative and the Mbridge digital currency settlement network. These systems are explicitly designed to allow member nations to clear immense bilateral trade volumes utilizing local currencies completely bypassing the Swift network and entirely escaping the jurisdictional reach of the US Treasury Department. In this great reallocation,

the global economy is fracturing into distinct winners and losers. The offshore custodial hubs operating in Belgium, Luxembourg, and the Cayman Islands are generating massive fee revenues, solidifying their status as indispensable nodes in global shadow banking by holding hundreds of billions in obscured sovereign wealth. Global gold producers are reaping the rewards of a price agnostic central bank buying frenzy. But Western mining conglomerates are bleeding absolute pricing power, forced to navigate volatile currency mismatch risks. And tragically, the Chinese domestic consumer remains a victim of their own state's machinery. deliberately

deprived of purchasing power by a sterilization engine that stifles domestic consumption to keep the geopolitical firewall intact. If these intertwined trends continue uninterrupted, the inevitable future outcome is a deeply entrenched multipolar reserve reality. Now, let me be clear. The US dollar is not going to suffer a sudden catastrophic collapse. That's just a headline designed to sell fear. But it will suffer a slow localized erosion of its exorbitant

privilege. It will remain the dominant currency of the West and its military allies. But across the global south, the default reliance on the greenback is ending. China's official US Treasury holdings will continue a managed orderly decline. But the money isn't gone. It's simply moving into

the shadows. obfiscated by massive proxy accounts in Belgium, hidden on the opaque balance sheets of state policy banks and physically converting into thousands of tons of gold. The global financial system is rapidly adjusting to a terrifying new normal. Capital no longer seeks the highest yield. It seeks absolute political neutrality. It is seeking institutional sanctuary far outside the

blast radius of American financial hegemony. The bomb of the debt weapon never went off, but the foundation of the global economy has permanently shifted beneath our feet. And the world as we know it, priced strictly in dollars, is quietly coming to an end.