---
video_title: "Why Delta Makes So Much Money"
video_id: nwVhWI0ubaA
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nwVhWI0ubaA
video_date: 2026-07-30T15:21:24+00:00
video_description: |
  Jet fuel surged in 2026. Spirit stopped flying, American Airlines lost money, and Delta reached record highs.
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  
  Source(s): 
  
  Delta FY2025 results
  https://ir.delta.com/news/news-details/2026/Delta-Air-Lines-Announces-December-Quarter-and-Full-Year-2025-Financial-Results/default.aspx
  
  Delta 2025 Form 10-K
  https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/27904/000002790426000013/dal-20251231.htm
  
  Delta Q1 2026 results
  https://ir.delta.com/news/news-details/2026/Delta-Air-Lines-Announces-March-Quarter-2026-Financial-Results/default.aspx
  
  Delta Q2 2026 results
  https://ir.delta.com/news/news-details/2026/Delta-Air-Lines-Announces-June-Quarter-2026-Financial-Results/default.aspx
  
  Delta historical share prices
  https://ir.delta.com/stock-information/default.aspx
  
  U.S. jet-fuel prices
  https://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/hist/eer_epjk_pf4_rgc_dpgM.htm
  
  American Airlines Q1 2026 results
  https://news.aa.com/news/news-details/2026/American-Airlines-reports-first-quarter-2026-financial-results-CORP-FI-04/default.aspx
  
  Spirit Airlines shutdown — Reuters
  https://www.reuters.com/business/spirit-airlines-prepares-cease-operations-after-rescue-deal-stalls-wsj-reports-2026-05-01/
  
  Cirium 2025 on-time performance review
  https://www.cirium.com/resources/on-time-performance/
  
  ACSI 2026 airline satisfaction rankings
  https://theacsi.org/industries/travel/airlines/
  
  Delta’s $9 billion SkyMiles financing
  https://ir.delta.com/news/news-details/2020/Delta-Air-Lines-Announces-Upsize-of-SkyMiles-Financing-to-9-Billion/default.aspx
  
  Delta’s refinery purchase — Reuters
  https://www.reuters.com/article/business/delta-buys-refinery-first-airline-to-make-own-fuel-idUSBRE83T17Q/
  
  Delta’s $1.3 billion employee profit sharing
  https://news.delta.com/delta-employees-celebrate-profit-sharing-worldwide
  
  CrowdStrike lawsuit ruling — Reuters
  https://www.reuters.com/sustainability/boards-policy-regulation/delta-can-sue-crowdstrike-over-computer-outage-that-caused-7000-canceled-flights-2025-05-19/
---
In early 2026, Jet Fuel did what it always does to airlines. It rose and the industry started bleeding. Spirit stopped flying. On May 2nd, American Airlines lost $382 million in one quarter. The old rule seemed to be holding. When fuel spikes, airlines suffer. Then, Delta's stock

chart broke the rule. On June 30th, 2026, Delta closed at $9366, the highest close its current shares had ever recorded. Same fuel, same country, same industry, different result. So, this is not a video about whether Delta is doing well. The market already answered that. This is about how

an airline, the kind of business investors used to hate, became strong enough to win during the kind of year that usually wrecks airlines. The real answer was built over 15 years. Premium seats, credit cards, reliability, a refinery, and a balance sheet that did not panic when fuel did. The strangest piece sits outside Philadelphia, and we'll get there. First, the scale. Straight from

Delta's own releases, 2025 was Delta's 100th year in business, and it was the best one. 58.3 billion of airline revenue and a record 4.6 billion in free cash flow. The second of the report card is on screen because no single line is the point. The point is that Delta also spent the year paying

down debt, sharing profit with its staff, and getting its credit rating back to what bankers call safe. In January 2026, management felt good enough to guide for roughly 20% earnings growth. That guidance was published before fuel exploded, which is about to matter. And for anyone who doesn't follow this industry, none of this is normal. Airlines are historically a terrible business. The industry has torched investor money for decades through fair wars and oil shocks and

one pandemic and serious investors learned long ago to enjoy the good years before believing in them. So, how does an airline end up trading like a premium consumer brand? The first answer sounds like an accounting footnote, and it is anything but. Start with what an airline actually sells. For a hundred years, the answer was seats, mostly cheap ones. Economy filled the plane,

and everything else was an add-on. Now, look at two numbers from Delta's own fourth quarter tables. Premium cabin revenue came in at 5.695 billion and main cabin revenue at 5.620 billion.

Look at those two numbers again because the expensive seats outearned the entire main cabin, not per passenger, in total dollars with a $75 million lead for the front of the plane. The expensive seats were no longer the add-on. They were becoming the business. And premium cabins are only one slice of what Delta calls its diversified revenue. a bucket that also covers loyalty, cargo, and maintenance work for other airlines. For full year 2025, those streams reached 60% of Delta's

revenue. By the first quarter of 2026, they were at 62%, still growing at double-digit rates, while the rest of the industry sweated over fuel bills. Then you open the filings and the strangest line is not fuel or fairs or even the premium seats. It is American Express. In 2025, American Express paid Delta $8.2 billion, not for flights, but for miles, for card partnerships,

for access to Sky Miles customers. That's 11% more than the year before. And Delta says the target is 10 billion. That works out to roughly $1 in every seven of Delta's adjusted revenue coming from a bank. And in the first quarter of 2026, with fuel in crisis, the stream kept growing anyway, more than $2 billion, up 10%. If that still sounds like a side hustle,

2020 settles it. Planes grounded, cash burning, survival in question. Delta needed billions fast, and lenders handed over $9 billion backed not by the aircraft, but by the Sky Miles program itself. The filings are public. The banks didn't lend against the planes. They lent against the points.

Together, it forms a loop. Premium seats create status worth chasing. Status makes the card worth carrying. Card spending creates miles. And the miles gets spent back on Delta and margins Delta controls. And around and around it goes. Every turn producing revenue that doesn't behave like

an airline ticket. But there's a catch, and it's the reason most airlines never pull this off. Nobody pays premium prices to an airline that can't run on time. Premium pricing is a promise, and promises need proof. And here's what the independent data says. Sirium, the aviation data

firm that audits punctuality worldwide, ranked Delta the most ontime airline in North America for 2025 with 80.9% of more than 1.8 million flights arriving on time. Customers can feel that in the 2026 American customer satisfaction index, Delta scored 79. Spirit, before it stopped flying, scored 66. 13 points is the distance between a brand and a bus. Then there's Atlanta. In 2025,

it handled more than 106 million passengers, the busiest airport in the world. And above everything else, it's a Delta operation, the airline's largest hub. Scale like that feeds on itself. More connections, better use of every plane, more room to absorb a bad day, and the most valuable flyers funneled through one place day after day. There's even a business hiding inside the airline.

Delta Tech Ops doesn't just fix Delta's planes, it fixes other airlines planes for money. That revenue grew by about $200 million yearover-year in the first quarter alone. And Delta has started breaking the maintenance business out more clearly in its own disclosures. A department that used to be a pure cost line is turning into a business of its own. Which brings us finally to Pennsylvania.

In 2012, Delta's chief executive at the time, Richard Anderson, did something no airline boss had ever done. He bought an oil refinery. A Delta subsidiary took over the trainer complex outside Philadelphia for about $150 million per Reuters, plus roughly a h 100red million more to retool it, making Delta the first airline in the world to make its own fuel. Delta's pitch at the time was that the refinery should trim around $300 million a year off the fuel bill. The analyst reaction in the coverage of the day was polite bafflement. Airlines don't run refineries and it would take

years to know if this was genius or a hobby. For years, the refinery looked like the kind of idea only an airline executive could convince himself was brilliant. Airlines buy fuel. They do not usually make it. But in 2026, the problem was not only the price of crude. It was refining capacity.

The shortage of places that turned crude into jet fuel. And Reuters reported the squeeze ran straight through it. Suddenly, the strange asset outside Philadelphia was not a side story. It was a hedge worth roughly $300 million to Delta in a single quarter. The number it once promised per year. Keep it in proportion, though. It's a partial hedge, not a force field. Fuel still hurts

Delta and you're about to see the bruise. But when every rival is fully exposed and you're partially covered, a crisis starts working in your favor. One more layer, the people. Per recent reporting, Delta's mainline flight attendants and many of its ground crews remain nonun, which is rare among the US majors, and an active organizing campaign is running in 2026. By the union's own account, it needs cards from more than half of Delta's flight attendants before it can even call an election. Delta's counterargument in effect has been money, the $1.3 billion profit sharing pool.

Is that model fair and will it hold? Both are open questions. What it brought Delta through 2025 is flexibility and a workforce paid like partners. Every thesis eventually meets a bad year and Delta's showed up this spring when fuel went to crisis prices. By early July, spot prices had come back toward Earth. But the June quarter was fought at $4 fuel and

that quarter is the test. The damage comes first because Delta is immune is not the claim. Delta's own numbers say otherwise. In the March quarter of 2026, on the strictest accounting, Delta lost $214 million before tax. Its preferred adjusted numbers stayed positive, $532 million of profit before tax on record revenue. But the fuel bill hit hard enough that Delta pulled its growth plans

for the year. That confident January guidance best understood as a photograph of a calmer world because nobody is claiming immunity here. The claim is shock absorbers and Delta built more of them than anybody else. So, how did everyone else do in the same storm? American Airlines took in 13.9 billion in the first quarter and still lost money, $382 million on a net basis while hauling

$34.7 billion of debt into a fuel crisis. And Spirit is just gone. The fuel spike broke the math of its restructuring. A late push for rescue money went nowhere. And on May 2nd, it stopped flying.

There's a whole story inside that collapse about why the American bankruptcy system that has saved a dozen airlines couldn't save this one. And we made an entire video about it. It's a really interesting story. For today, Spirit shows what happened to the other end of the market. And now the result is in. Delta beat that stress test. The June quarter came in stronger than the forecast,

which means the thesis held. Fuel hurt Delta, but it did not break the model. The pattern underneath all of this is simple. When fuel spikes, the cheap end of the market breaks first because a $59 ticket has nowhere to hide a fuel bill. The premium end feels it less. Delta spent

a decade deliberately moving its revenue to the end that fuels it less. So when weaker airlines shrink or disappear, guess who inherits their passengers and the room to charge more that comes with them? Rising fuel used to shrink every airline more or less equally. In 2026, it split the field instead. And which side of that split you landed on was decided years before the crisis began. Now the case against Delta because it exists and it is not small. It starts with

the obvious problem. Delta is still an airline. Fuel still hurt it and the March quarter proved that. The refinery helps but it does not make fuel disappear. If crisis prices drag deep into 2027, more resilient than the others and doing fine stop being the same sentence. Then there is the AEX

problem. One partner now sends Delta roughly one in every seven of its adjusted revenue dollars. That is powerful when card spending is strong. It is dangerous if Americans pull back on their cards or if the contract changes and nobody outside two boardrooms knows how that plays out. Premium is also untested in a real recession. 2026 has been a crisis of costs and that is the kind Delta is

built for. A crisis of demand where high earners lose jobs and companies slashtravel budgets is a test this strategy has not faced since it matured. Labor is moving too. The non-UN flexibility is being challenged. Crew costs are rising across the industry. And if the union drive succeeds,

one of Delta's advantages gets smaller. Operations carry their own risk. In July 2024, a faulty Crowd Strike software update went out overnight. And by morning, Delta's operation was unraveling. Roughly 7,000 cancellations, around 1.4 million disrupted passengers, and

by Delta's own estimate in its lawsuit, about $550 million in losses. When reliability is the brand, one bad week attacks the thing customers pay extra for. Later coverage says a Georgia court has since narrowed that lawsuit with parts of it still alive. And then there is the price. After a run to all-time highs, some of this story is already baked into the share price.

Buying a great company and buying it well are two different skills. And this channel isn't in the business of telling you where today's price sits on that line. None of these arguments say the model is fake. They say it has limits. And keeping that straight is what makes this video honest. So why is Delta doing so well? Because it changed what it sells until the premium cabins

outearned the main cabin and the loyalty deal alone brought in $8.2 billion a year because it built the operation the brand promises. the most ontime airline in North America. A grip on the world's busiest airport, its own maintenance business, its own refinery. And it did all that while keeping the balance sheet boring. So when the 2026 fuel shock arrived,

all of it turned a crisis into a gap between Delta and everyone else. One competitor gone, another losing money, and Delta at an all-time high. But one fact is left and it changes how the whole story reads. This fortress was built by a company that knows exactly what the bottom looks like. Because in 2005, Delta itself was bankrupt. And in America, bankruptcy is often less

an ending than a rebuild. One so reliable that some airlines have done it on purpose. On purpose with billions in the bank. that system, the company that used it while sitting on $4 billion in cash and the flag carriers across Asia that nearly died without it. That's the next video.