---
video_title: "Why China’s Carriers are Still 20 Years Behind America"
video_id: BPcx7N9IdG4
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BPcx7N9IdG4
video_date: 20260104
video_description: |
  On paper, China is building carriers faster than any nation in history. With the recent sea trials of the Fujian (Type 003), they have technically joined the "supercarrier" club.
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
On November 5th, 2025, the naval balance of the Pacific shifted. In the heat of SA, the Chinese People's Liberation Army Navy commissioned its third aircraft carrier, the Fujian. To the casual observer, it appears to be just another floating airfield. But a closer look at the three long gray tracks running along its deck reveals that this ship is a technological anomaly. It is the only aircraft carrier in history outside of the United States Navy to be equipped with electromagnetic catapults. For decades, non-American carriers were constrained by physics, utilizing curved ski jump

ramps that severely limited takeoff weight, fuel range, and ordinance. The Fujian abandons this compromise. At over 80,000 tons, it is the largest warship ever built outside the United States. It leaprogs the steam age entirely, replacing brute force pistons with the precise acceleration of electricity. This design allows the Fujian to launch air wings previously impossible for the Chinese fleet, specifically heavy radar planes, electronic warfare jets, and fully loaded stealth fighters. However, the Fujian represents a sharp divide between industrial capability

and operational reality. While the vessel itself is a triumph of welding and engineering, the challenge now shifts to the software of naval warfare. This ship is designed to project power on a global scale. But it must now face the daunting task of mastering complex carrier operations from scratch, bridging an experience gap that steel and electromagnetic catapults alone cannot solve. To understand why the Fujian matters and why the Pentagon tracks its sea trials with such obsessive detail, we first have to understand the fatal flaw of China's first two carriers, the Leoning type 0001 and the Shandong type 0002. These ships utilize a launch method known as SAR,

short takeoff but arrested recovery. Effectively, the ship has a massive curved ramp at the bow angled upward like a ski slope. It's a simple system. It has no moving parts. It doesn't break. But strategically, it is a cage. When a fighter jet like the J15 Flying Shark, a Chinese

derivative of the Soviet Sue 333, takes off from a ski jump, it relies entirely on its own engine power to generate lift. It has to sprint down a short runway and hit that ramp with enough energy to throw itself into the sky. To make it into the air without stalling and crashing into the sea, the plane has to be light. That means the mission planner has to make a choice. Do you want to carry a full tank of gas or do you want to carry a full load of missiles? You rarely get to

do both. Operational data suggests that on the older carriers, a J15 launching from the forward positions, the short takeoff points is limited to a maximum takeoff weight of around 28 tons. The empty jet already weighs 17.5 tons. Add a pilot, fluids, and pylons, and you are nearing 19 or 20 tons before you add a drop of fuel or a single warhead. Once you add enough fuel to

have a meaningful combat radius, you are left with a tiny allowance for weapons. You might carry two air-to-air missiles for self-defense, but you aren't carrying heavy anti-hship cruise missiles or ground attack bombs. Essentially, the Leoning and Shandong are defensive ships. They can put fighters in the air to protect the fleet, what is known as combat air patrol, CAP. But they struggle to launch heavy strike missions deep into enemy territory. They are floating umbrellas,

not floating spears. Even launching from the waist position, which offers a longer runup requires the carrier to steam at high speed into the wind to generate lift. And even then, the payload is compromised compared to a catapult launch. The Fujian changes the physics of the battlefield. It uses EMAs, the electromagnetic aircraft launch system. Instead of a ramp or even the steam

pistons used on American Nimits class carriers, the Fujian uses massive advanced electromagnetic motors to accelerate the aircraft. It's the same technology found in high-speed magv trains and modern roller coasters. Electricity is dumped into coils that create a moving magnetic field, dragging a shuttle forward. This shuttle grips the nose gear of the aircraft and accelerates it from 0 to 150 mph in seconds. This system doesn't just look cooler, it solves the weight problem. A J15T,

the catapult compatible variant of the Flying Shark, launching from the Fujian, can take off at its maximum takeoff weight of 33 tons or more, regardless of wind conditions. It brings full fuel and full missiles every single time. It transforms the J15 from a defensive interceptor into a longrange strike fighter capable of carrying heavy anti-ship missiles like the YJ83 or potentially hypersonic payloads. But the catapult isn't just about making fighter jets deadlier. It's about making the carrier smart. For decades, the US Navy has relied on the E2 Hawkeye,

a distinct turborop aircraft with a giant rotating radar dish on its back. This is the quarterback of the fleet. It flies high, sees over the horizon, detects incoming missiles and enemy fighters hundreds of miles away, and directs the carrier's fighters to their targets. It is the eyes and ears of the strike group. You cannot launch a plane like the Hawkeye off a ski jump. It is too heavy,

and its propellers don't generate the instant explosive thrust needed to clear the ramp. Physics forbids it. This left Chinese fleets blind, reliant on land-based radar or helicopters with limited range and weak radar capability. If the Leoning sailed too far from the Chinese coast, it lost its situational awareness. With the Fujian's catapults, China has finally introduced its own answer, the KJ600. The KJ600 allows the Fujian strike group to see hundreds of miles

further than its predecessors. It transforms the carrier from a coastal defense platform into a true bluewater threat. When you combine fullload fighters with airborne early warning, the Fujian becomes the first non-American ship in history capable of projecting what we call peer level naval air power. It can coordinate air battles, manage intercepts, and strike targets far beyond the visual horizon. However, despite this leap in launch technology, there is one massive component of the Fujian that is notably and surprisingly missing. It is a decision that tethers the Dragon

to the sea in a way the American Eagle is not. If you park the Fujian next to the USS Gerald R. Ford, they look like siblings. They are roughly the same length, 316 m for the Fujian versus 333 m for the Ford. They both have flat decks. They both use electromagnetic catapults. While the

Ford carries nearly 90 aircraft, the Fujian's smaller displacement limits it to an estimated 60 to 70. But deep inside the hull, they are completely different machines. The Gerald R. Ford is powered by two A1B nuclear reactors. These reactors generate massive amounts of electricity, three times the output of the Nimits class, and crucially, they provide the ship with essentially infinite range. The Ford can steam at 30 knots for 25 years before it needs to refuel. It can sprint

across the Pacific, conduct high-speed maneuvers for weeks, and never worry about its own gas tank. The Fujian is powered by steam turbines and diesel generators. It burns oil. This sounds like a retro choice for a 21st century super carrier. Why would China, a nation with nuclear submarines and a burgeoning nuclear energy sector, build its flagship with conventional boilers?

The answer likely lies in risk management and speed of production. Developing a naval reactor capable of driving an 80,000 ton ship at 30 knots is incredibly difficult. China decided it couldn't wait for the tech to mature. They needed a super carrier. Now, to make this work with electromagnetic catapults, which require massive surges of energy, China's naval engineers developed a unique medium voltage direct current MVDC integrated power system. This allows the

ship to divert massive amounts of electricity from its conventional generators to charge the capacitors for the catapults efficiently. It is a brilliant engineering workaround, a way to have 21st century launch capability with 20th century propulsion, but strategically it's a leash. A conventional carrier is a thirsty beast. It needs to rendevous with a supply tanker every few days to drink thousands of tons of heavy fuel oil. If it wants to sail from Shanghai to, say, the coast of California, it needs a daisy chain of supply ships to keep it moving. It cannot sprint

indefinitely. It has to slow down to refuel. And in war, refueling is a moment of extreme vulnerability. The carrier must sail straight and steady, connected by hoses to a tanker, unable to maneuver violently to dodge torpedoes or missiles. If you sink the tanker, the carrier becomes a floating airport terminal with no way home. The US Navy doesn't have this problem. Its carriers

are nuclear. Its supply ships only need to carry jet fuel for the planes and food for the crew, not ship fuel for the carrier itself. This doubles the endurance of the American fleet. A US carrier can stay on station for months. Its only limitation being the endurance of its crew and the amount of aviation fuel it can stow. China knows this is a weakness. To mitigate it, they have built

the type 9001 fast combat support ship, a 45,000 ton behemoth designed specifically to keep up with the carrier battle group and keep it fed. The type 901 is fast, capable of 25 knots, and carries vast stores of fuel and ammunition. It is comparable to the US Navy's supply class ships. But here is the constraint. China only has a handful of these ships, less than five. In a shooting war, these

supply ships would be prime targets for US attack submarines. Without the type 901s, the Fujian is tethered to the first island chain. And now is the operative word. Because the Fujian seems designed with one specific theater in mind, the Taiwan Strait. In a conflict over Taiwan, the Fujian doesn't need to sail to Hawaii or the Persian Gulf. It just needs to sail a few hundred miles

off the coast, park east of Taiwan, and enforce a blockade. For that mission, conventional power is plenty. It can be resupplied from mainland bases with relative ease. The lack of nuclear power is a limitation for global projection, but for regional dominance, the primary goal of the plan right now, it is an acceptable trade-off. We often obsess over specs, tonnage, speed, radar range, missile counts. But naval warfare is rarely decided by the spec sheet. It is decided by the software.

And I don't mean computer code. I mean the people. I mean the institutional knowledge that is written in blood and oil over decades of operation. The United States Navy has been operating aircraft carriers since the USS Langley was converted in 1920. They fought the great carrier battles of Midway and Coral Sea. They learned how to manage deck cycles in the freezing waters of Korea, the

jungles of Vietnam, and the deserts of the Persian Gulf. They have operated carriers in every ocean, in every weather condition for a century. This is what analysts call the 100year experience gap. Operating a carrier is incredibly dangerous. You are landing a jet at 150 mph on a pitching deck at night in a storm with live munitions. The US Navy does this routinely. They have developed

institutional muscle memory. The deck crews wear color-coded jerseys, purple for fuel, red for ordinance, yellow for aircraft handling, green for catapults, a system developed in the 1920s on the USS Langley to bring order to chaos. Every sailor knows exactly where to stand, where to move, and how to stay alive. For the Chinese Navy, this is all new. They commissioned their first carrier, the Leoning, in 2012. They have less than 15 years of carrier aviation experience. They are

learning everything from scratch. We see this gap in the numbers, specifically in sort generation rates. This metric measures how many flights a carrier can launch and recover in a day. It is the heartbeat of the carrier's lethality. The Ford class is designed to generate 160 sorties per day in sustained operations. In a highintensity surge scenario, it can hit 270

sorties in a 24-hour period. That is a relentless bombardment capability. While precise numbers for the Fujian are a state secret, estimates based on its deck layout and China's operational history suggest it might struggle to hit 60 to 80 sorties a day in realworld conditions. That means the Ford can put two to three times more aircraft in the air than the Fujian over the same period. Why the difference? It comes down to pit crew efficiency. How fast can you refuel the jet? How fast can you

rearm it? How fast can you move it from the elevator to the catapult without crashing into another plane? The Fujian has only two aircraft elevators located on the starboard side. The Ford has three. The Nimmits has four. Elevators are the choke points of the carrier. They move the

aircraft from the hanger bay where maintenance happens to the flight deck where the war happens. Fewer elevators mean a slower flow of aircraft. If one elevator breaks on the Fujian, its capacity is harved. Furthermore, US carriers operate with a diverse airwing that includes electronic warfare growlers, anti-ubmarine helicopters, and C2 Greyhound or V22 Osprey delivery aircraft. China is just now introducing these specialized airframes. The J15D electronic warfare plane and

the J35 stealth fighter were seen aboard the Fujian during trials, but integrating them into a complex strike package takes years of practice. The US Navy has spent decades perfecting the dance of the flight deck. They know how to spot aircraft, park them so they don't block the landing area. They know how to conduct cyclic ops, launching a wave of 20 planes and recovering 20 planes simultaneously. The PL is still in the crawling phase of the crawl, walk, run model.

They are cautious. They rarely conduct high tempo night operations or complex bad weather recoveries compared to their American counterparts. But we must not be complacent. They are crawling very, very fast. The Fujian is impressive. But in the grand timeline of Chinese naval ambition,

it might just be a stepping stone, a prototype for the real threat. In the shipyards of Jang Nan, something bigger is taking shape. Satellite imagery from late 2025 has confirmed the hull modules of China's fourth carrier, the Type 004. Analysts believe this is the endgame. The Type 004 is expected to be China's first nuclearpowered surface warship. Reports indicate the installation

of containment vessels consistent with large naval reactors similar in size to those used in US carriers. If the Fujian is China's answer to the US carriers of the 1990s like the Kittyhawk, the Type 004 is their answer to the Ford. It will likely feature four catapults instead of three, unlimited range and laser-based defense systems powered by the massive electrical output of its nuclear core. This aligns with the Pentagon's assessment. This aligns with the Pentagon's assessment. The Department of Defense estimates that China plans to field a fleet of nine aircraft

carriers by 2035. Let that number sink in. Nine. Currently, the US operates 11 carriers, but they are spread globally. Some in the Atlantic, some in the Mediterranean, some in maintenance. In the

Pacific, the US typically deploys only two or three at a time. A Chinese fleet of nine carriers would allow them to keep three strike groups at sea at any given time. One deployed, one preparing, and one in maintenance, matching or exceeding the rotation cycle the US Navy uses to maintain presence in the Western Pacific. This buildup is happening at a speed that has no modern precedent. The Fujian went from construction start to commissioning in about 10 years.

The US Ford class has faced years of delays and cost overruns. China's ship building capacity is roughly 200 times that of the United States in terms of merchant tonnage, providing a massive industrial base that can be pivoted to military production. While the US struggles with delays to programs like the constellation class frigate or debates the cost of the next Ford class, China is churning out destroyers like sausages. They are building a fleet not just to match the US but to overwhelm it in their home waters. The commissioning of the CNS Fujian is not just a technological milestone. It is a geopolitical turning point. For the first time in history,

a challenger has emerged that can look the US Navy in the eye and not blink. China is no longer content with a greenwater navy that hugs the coast and hides behind land-based missiles. They are building a blue water force designed to challenge the United States in the deep ocean, to secure trade routes, and to project political will far beyond the first island chain. The Fujian is imperfect. It burns oil. It lacks the sorty rate of its American rivals, and its crew is

inexperienced. The 100-year gap is real, and it will take decades to close. The US Navy's institutional knowledge is a fortress that cannot be breached by espionage or industrial espionage alone. It must be learned through the hard, dangerous work of daily operations. But the Fujian is good enough. It is good enough to change the calculus in the Taiwan Strait. It is good enough

to deter intervention and critically it serves as the ultimate training school. Every pilot that learns to launch from its electromagnetic rails. Every deck handler who learns the dance of the flight deck is a seed for the future. They are the pioneers who will crew the nuclear super carriers of the 2030s. The United States still holds the advantage in tonnage, technology, and time. But the Fujian proves that the gap is closing. And in the highstakes game of naval

deterrence, the perception of power is almost as important as power itself. As of late 2025, the Dragon officially has its catapult. The question now isn't if they can use it.