---
video_title: "The Bullet Train Killer: Inside Japan’s $73 Billion Maglev Gamble"
video_id: s8z6Prsv2dI
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s8z6Prsv2dI
video_date: 20260103
video_description: |
  The Shinkansen is already perfect. So why is Japan spending $64 billion (¥9 trillion) to build a new train line that is incompatible with the old one?
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
A train with no wheels is racing 500 km per hour through a 25 km tunnel beneath the Japanese Alps. This isn't science fiction. It's happening right now in central Japan. The country is pouring an astonishing 11 trillion yen, about $73 billion, into a levitating bullet train line, one of the most expensive railway project in history. If it succeeds, travelers will zoom from Tokyo to Asaka in just over an hour, potentially reshaping Japan's economy. If it fails,

it will stand as a $73 billion cautionary tale. Why is Japan betting so big on a train that doesn't even touch the tracks? And will this radical new line secure the nation's future or become a historic miscalculation? Meet the SC Mag Lev, Japan's next generation superconducting magnetic levitation train. In plain terms, it's a train that floats instead of rolling. Rather than

steel wheels on rails, the SC Maglev uses powerful magnetic forces to lift the train about 10 cm 4 in off its guideway. With almost no friction, it can reach unprecedented speeds. a planned cruising speed of about 500 kmph, 311 mph, far faster than today's bullet trains, which top out around 300 kmh and even faster than many commercial jets at low altitude. In 2015, a prototype magv train clocked a world record 603 kmh, 375 mph on a test track, making it the fastest crude train ever. This technology requires a totally different infrastructure than conventional rail. Instead of

tracks, the train runs inside a concrete guideway shaped like a trough lined with coils and magnets. Massive electrical systems drive a linear motor that pulls the train along by magnetic attraction and repulsion. Because the mag lev doesn't physically touch the track when at speed, there's none of the wheelon rail contact that causes noise and wear. It's a contactless, frictionless transport system, at least once it's up to speed. How is this different from Japan's famous Shinkansen bullet trains or other mag levs? Traditional Shinkansen use steel wheels

on steel rails and operate up to approximately 285 to 320 km per hour in Japan due to track and noise limits. By contrast, the Mag Lev rides on electromagnetic fields, allowing higher speeds but demanding new tracks and stations. It cannot run on any existing rail lines. A few magv trains exist elsewhere like the short airport line in Shanghai which uses a different tech. But Japan's system is unique. The SC and SC magv stands for superconducting. The train's

onboard magnets are cooled to -269° C with liquid helium to achieve superconductivity, generating exceptionally strong magnetic fields with minimal electricity. This enables levitation and guidance with high efficiency. In simple terms, the train carries super cooled magnets and the track has coils. When the train moves, electric currents in the coils push it up and forward. To get going, the SC Maglev actually starts like a normal train. It has small rubber wheels that let it taxi out of

the station and begin accelerating on concrete track. As it reaches about 150 kmh, 93 mph, the magnetic forces become strong enough to lift the train off the wheels. At that point, the wheels retract and the train is fully levitating, speeding up with virtually no mechanical friction. From there, it's a smooth magnetic ride up to 500 km per hour or more. Braking and stopping work in reverse, the train uses electromagnetic drag to slow down. And as it drops below approximately

150 km per hour, the wheels deploy again for the final roll into the station. The result, a futuristic bullet train that never touches the ground at high speed. Japan's quest for a levitating train began over half a century ago. Back in 1962, even as the first Tokaido Shinkansen, the original bullet train was being built, engineers were already dreaming of an even faster future, one where Tokyo and Osaka could be linked in 1 hour. By the late 1960s, the technology of superconducting magnets had emerged, pioneered in part by researchers in the US and Japan's railway researchers jumped on it. In 1972, they ran the first successful test of

a superconducting magv prototype in a short track in Tokyo. It was an ambitious idea, a train that could move extremely fast with minimal drag using magnetic lift. But turning that into a reliable transport system would take decades of patient development. Throughout the 1970s and 80s, Japanese National Railways and later the privatized JR Central built experimental tracks and prototype vehicles. They started with a 7 km test line in Miyazaki and eventually constructed a dedicated magv test center in Yamanashi Prefecture in the 1990s. Here, engineers could

simulate realworld conditions, tunnels, hills, and sustained high speeds. By 1997, the Yamanashi Maglev test line was operational, and cuttingedge prototypes with sleek elongated noses to minimize sonic booms when exiting tunnels were routinely hitting speeds above 500 kmh. Over the years, this line was extended to 42.8 km and upgraded to full commercial design standards. The testing was exhaustive. By one account, the magv test trains logged over 3.3 million km of cumulative distance,

more than 2 million m, even once running 4,62 km in a single day. All that practice was to ensure the technology would be safe and reliable for public use. The technical breakthroughs behind SC Magv are worth a quick look. The system uses an electronamic suspension EDS method. The train's bogeies under carriage units have superconducting magnets and the guideway has two sets of coils arranged in a clever figure 8 pattern. When the train moves, the magnetic field from the onboard

magnets induces electric currents in those ground coils. Because of their arrangement, the coils generate forces that lift the train upwards and also center it laterally in the track. Crucially, this only works when the train is moving fast enough to induce strong currents. Hence, the need to reach approximately 150 kmh on wheels first. Once flying, the levitation gap is about 100 mm (4 in) and the train stays automatically stabilized. If it drifts too low or off center, the changing

magnetic flux induces counteracting forces to push it back into place. In addition, propulsion is provided by a linear synchronous motor built into the guideway coils. Essentially, alternating current fed into a second set of coils creates a magnetic wave that drags the train forward. The timing is precisely synchronized with the train speed. Think of it like a continuous chain of magnetic handshakes pulling the vehicle along. One fascinating aspect of Japan's design is its use of

superconductivity. The onboard magnets are made of a neobbium titanium alloy and cooled with liquid helium to around -269° C, just 4° above absolute zero. At this temperature, the alloy loses electrical resistance, enabling a persistent and powerful current to flow with virtually no energy loss. This creates extremely strong magnetic fields for levitation. It's high-tech wizardry.

The kind of magnets more commonly seen in particle accelerators or MRI machines now hurtling down a train track. The payoff is that once the magnets are energized, they can produce lift without continuous power input aside from running the cryogenic coolers. The challenges of course include maintaining those cryogenic systems on a moving train and ensuring safety in all scenarios. For example, what if a magnet quenches or loses superconductivity? The system has to handle that.

JR Central's engineers methodically worked through these issues during the lengthy test program, refining everything from magnet designs to the aerodynamic shape of the train. By the 2000s, the technology had matured enough that Japan felt ready to deploy it commercially. In 2009, a government technical committee declared that SC Magv was ready for revenue service. And in 2011, the Japanese government gave JR Central, the railway operating company for central Japan, the green light to build a new magv line, officially called the linear Chuo Shinkansen, linking Tokyo and Nagoya with eventual extension to Osaka. This was a bold decision, unlike incremental upgrades to existing rail. It would be the first time any country attempted a long-d distanceance intercity

magv line. JR Central, boyed by years of testing success, was confident the system would work. But making it practical, threading this ultraast line through Japan's dense mountainous terrain, would be an entirely new challenge. The plan for the Chu Shinkansen is audacious. Instead of following the existing Tokaido coastal route, where the original Shinkansen runs, this new line carves a laser straight path through the heart of central Japan. Chuo means central and true to its name,

the route runs inland, cutting directly across mountains and under cities to minimize distance and enable high speed. The initial segment under construction is about 286 km 178 mi from Tokyo Shinagawa station to Nagoya. Because magv trains can't handle sharp curves well at 500 km hour, the line has to be as straight and flat as possible, which in Japan's geography means tunnels, tunnels, and more tunnels. An incredible 86% of the Tokyo Nagoya route will run underground or in tunnels. By comparison, the existing Shinkansen mostly runs at grade or on vioaducts along flatter coastal areas. The magv will be burrowing under the volcanic ridges of the Japanese Alps through

solid rock. One continuous tunnel under the southern Alps mountains will stretch about 25 km, reaching depths of up to 1.4 km, 4,600 ft below the surface at its deepest point. The deepest and longest railway tunnel in Japan's history. This straightshot approach is engineering on a mega scale, reminiscent of the Gautardbased tunnel in the Swiss Alps, but with the added complexity of housing a futuristic train that requires ultrarecise guideways and active systems inside those tunnels. Why go to such extremes? The goal is speed and capacity, but also something more

strategic. By drawing a straight line between Tokyo and Osaka, Japan's two largest metro areas with Nagoya roughly in between, the Chu Shinkansen aims to merge the nation's three biggest economic centers into one mega region. Together, the Tokyo, Nagoya, and Osaka metropolitan areas account for an enormous share of Japan's population and GDP. If travel times shrink enough, doing business or commuting among these cities could feel like they're just neighborhoods in one giant megalopous. For example, the maglev is planned to connect Tokyo Shinagawa to Nagoya in approximately 40 minutes. Whereas today's fastest Shinkansen takes about 1 hour 40 minutes for that

trip. Tokyo to Osaka could drop from approximately 2.5 hours currently on conventional rail or 1 hour by air plus airport time to just 67 minutes by magv. That kind of time savings effectively shrinks the distance. Osaka would be reachable in about the same time as a suburban commute.

The economic implications are huge. Industries could integrate, labor markets could widen, and tourism flows might increase with such convenience. It's akin to connecting the US Northeast Corridor's major cities in an hour or making London Paris a commute. Transformative connectivity. Yet, building the line to unlock these benefits has proven to be as challenging as the technology itself. The construction is so extensive that it's often described as Japan's

biggest infrastructure project ever. Not only are there the long mountain tunnels, but new urban stations deep underground have to be built in Tokyo and Nagoya. For instance, at Shinagawa station in Tokyo, the magv will depart from a new station 30 to 40 m below ground directly underneath the existing conventional train tracks. Similar underground facilities are underway in Nagoya. Engineers must excavate enormous volumes of soil and rock. The Tokyo Nagoya section alone

will generate enough excavated material to fill the Tokyo Dome, a baseball stadium 45 times over. Handling this spoil is a logistical puzzle. As of mid 2020s, JR Central was still figuring out where to permanently dispose of all that rock. Then there's Japan's famously complex geology. The Chuo route crosses multiple active fault lines such as the Ittoyawa Shizoka tectonic line, meaning tunneling often goes through fractured unstable rock. In some sections, like near the

southern Alps, there are layers of serpentinite, a rock that can expand and squeeze tunnels, requiring specialized support structures. Engineers have been drilling pilot test tunnels to study these ground conditions ahead of the main boring. Highpress groundwater is another headache. Digging deep unleashes water that must be drained and managed to avoid floods or tunnel collapses. In short, this is one of the most technically complex railway constructions ever attempted.

For a while, JR Central tackled these challenges out of the spotlight, confident it could meet an aggressive timeline, opening the Tokyo Nagoya leg by 2027 and then continuing to Osaka by 2037. But about midway through construction, the project hit a major obstacle. Not an engineering one, but a political and environmental standoff that would throw the entire schedule off course. To punch the line through the southern Alps, JR Central needs to tunnel under Shiwoka Prefecture for about 9 km. This section, though relatively short, became the Mag Lev's Achilles heel. Following

a 2013 environmental report, then Governor Heta Kawakatu refused to grant construction permits, citing grave concerns that the tunnel would deplete water from the Oi River, which is vital to local communities. The company's early studies warned that without mitigation, the tunneling could reduce the flow of the Oi River by 2 tons of water per second, a significant impact for Shizuoka, which gets no station on the new line, i.e. no direct benefit. This was unacceptable.

"The linear brings absolutely no benefit to the prefecture," Governor Kawakatu said bluntly. Concerned citizens recalled past projects like a railroad tunnel in the 1930s that permanently dried up local wells and springs. "Once the water's gone, it never comes back," lamented one 86-year-old resident who had witnessed those effects. This local rebellion against the project foreshadowed the trouble ahead. By halting the Shizuoka tunnel, one prefectural governor managed to delay a 60 plus billion dollar national project by nearly a decade. The grand straightline vision

of the Chuhin Canen now had a very real snag. You can't run trains until all segments are connected, and a 9 km gap in the middle meant nothing can open. As we'll see, the Shizuoka standoff, along with other cost and engineering issues, has pushed the magv far off its original schedule and raised tough questions about whether this bold gamble is truly worth it. Supporters of Japan's SC Maglev project argue it will deliver enormous long-term benefits. Primarily, it dramatically increases transport capacity on the country's busiest corridor. The existing Tokaido

Shinkansen carries over 150 million passengers annually but is running near full capacity and faces physical limits. The magv provides a second separate high-speed route, cutting Tokyo Nagoya travel to 40 minutes and Tokyo Osaka to about 67 minutes. This effectively doubles capacity and slashes travel times by half, making the train faster than flying city to city. Economically, this elomeration effectively unites the nation's three largest metros into one powerhouse region, making same-day business trips as routine as a commute. Beyond speed, a strategic benefit is resilience. Experts fear a Nankai trough mega quake could devastate the coastal Tokaido line.

The new magv route runs deep underground and inland, acting as infrastructure insurance, a backup artery, ensuring the nation's east-west transportation isn't severed during a disaster. Moreover, proponents see the SC Maglev as a beacon of technological leadership. Just as Japan pioneered highspeed rail in 1964, it wants to lead the next leap forward. JR Central views the domestic line as a proof of concept to export the technology to countries like the US and India. In fact, leadership has admitted the project's main value might be global sales rather than domestic profit. However, these grand ambitions come with serious trade-offs and criticisms. Enormous cost.

The price tag for the Tokyo Osaka line is roughly 9 trillion yen, 60 to 64 billion, and climbing. By 2021, the first segment to Nagoya was already 1.5 trillion yen over budget, reaching 7 trillion yen. Critics question this use of funds, partly backed by 3 trillion yen in government loans. In a country with a shrinking population and other pressing needs because the MAGV is a closed system incompatible with existing rail, passengers must transfer at deep underground stations, eating into time savings. The route also bypasses major tourist hubs like Kyoto. Since 87% of the

line is in tunnels, some dismiss it as a long, straight subway where passengers see walls rather than scenery. Tunneling through the southern Alps threatens groundwater flow to the Oi River, sparking fierce local opposition. Construction has brought noise and up to 1,763 dump trucks per day to mountain villages, leading to lawsuits and nimi push back. Accidents, including a worker's death in 2021, have further strained trust. Operating at 500 km per hour, requires immense power to overcome air resistance. While quiet in open air, tunnel exits can create sonic booms,

requiring engineers to design long-nosed trains to mitigate the noise. With an aging population and the rise of remote work reducing business travel, demand is uncertain. JR Central's own projections suggest the Mag Lev might carry half the ridership of the existing line. With operating costs estimated at 400 billion yen annually, analysts warn the project could lose money, leading critics to label it a vanity project. As of late 2025, Japan's magv gamble stands at a crossroads. The

timeline has undeniably slipped. The Tokyo Nagoya segment, originally hoped for 2027, won't open until at least 2035. The extension to Osaka is targeted for 2037, but experts consider the 2040s more realistic given internal constraints. The Shizuoka Impass was the single biggest schedule wrecker. For over a decade, Governor Kawakatu blocked the critical Southern Alps tunnel due to water concerns. A breakthrough occurred in 2024 when he resigned. His successor,

Governor Suzuki, finally permitted preliminary boring surveys. However, actual tunneling for that section will take 10 years, guaranteeing no through service until the mid 2030s. Elsewhere, construction progress is uneven, with the overall project only about 15% complete by early 2025, despite billions spent. Costs continue to balloon, and JR Central has signaled it may slow construction if finances get strained. Despite the risk of the project becoming a white elephant, abandonment is unlikely. The sunk costs and national prestige are too great. The likely

outcome is a completed, albeit delayed line. Supporters hope that once the train runs, public sentiment will shift from skepticism to pride, much like it did for the original Shinkansen. For now, JR Central focuses on resolving the Shizuoka bottleneck and keeping the project moving.