---
video_title: "Why China Destroyed Its Billionaires (While America Made Them Kings)"
video_id: fwRTwQKMb6o
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fwRTwQKMb6o
video_date: 2026-04-10T08:53:22+00:00
video_description: |
  In the 21st century, the greatest threat to a sovereign government isn't necessarily a foreign army; it is a domestic corporation. As the tech boom minted billionaires at an unprecedented rate, the two largest economies on Earth faced the exact same problem: extreme wealth concentration and unchecked corporate power.
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
In 2022, the Ukrainian military prepared a critical naval counterattack against a Russian fleet. They urgently requested satellite coverage to [music] coordinate the strike. The request was denied, paralyzing the operation. But that denial didn't come from the Pentagon, NATO, or the United Nations. It came from one private citizen, Elon Musk, an unelected tech CEO who had just unilaterally dictated the operational limits of a global war. And the United [music] States

government was utterly powerless to override him. Halfway across the world, a Chinese billionaire attempted a similar flex of power. Alibaba founder Jack Ma publicly criticized state regulators just days before launching what was supposed to be the largest IPO in human [music] history. The Chinese Communist Party's response was merciless. They vaporized his $ 37 billion IPO overnight. Then, in a brutal 18-month siege, Beijing intentionally eradicated over $1 trillion

from their own technology sector. They deliberately crippled their own economic miracle [music] just to remind their billionaires who is actually in charge. Wait, how did we reach a point where America allows tech executives to overrule the military while China is willing to intentionally burn its own economy into the ground? The United States chose to surrender its sovereignty to corporate pseudo states while China chose to wage a violent trillion dollar war against its own wealth creators. We are watching the two most extreme economic experiments in human history unfold in real time to answer one terrifying question. What happens when modern

capitalism succeeds slightly too well? The sheer scale of modern wealth generation sets the stage for this conflict. [music] In the digital age, software companies benefit from zero marginal costs. Once code is written, distributing it to one [music] user costs the exact same as distributing it to a billion. This dynamic allowed the modern billionaire class to separate from the broader global economy at staggering velocity. [music] In 2025 alone, global billionaire

wealth surged by $2.5 trillion, reaching its highest level in history at $18.3 trillion. a collective fortune roughly equivalent to the total wealth held by the bottom half of humanity. At the apex, Elon Musk became the first person to surpass half a trillion dollars in net worth.

Faced with this tectonic shift in the distribution of global capital, [music] the United States chose accommodation while China chose destruction. To comprehend the severity of China's recent corporate crackdown, one must examine the reality Beijing is utterly terrified of becoming. The United States, the American macroeconomic model prioritizes frictionless [music] innovation above almost all other domestic concerns. By allowing massive technology conglomerates to operate as virtual monopolies, the US cultivated an economic engine that completely dominates global commerce. However, [music] the scale of these entities has transcended traditional business metrics.

They no longer just participate in the market. They are the market. [music] They have entered the realm of macroeconomic sovereignty. By early 2026, the market capitalizations of American technology firms reached heights defying historical comparison. Nvidia's valuation alone crossed 4.3 [music] trillion. To put that into perspective,

if Nvidia were a sovereign nation, its economy would be larger than the entire GDP of France. The accumulation of capital within these singular entities grants them leverage rivaling the federal government itself. But when extreme wealth concentration occurs in the United States, the federal regulatory response [music] is fundamentally neutralized because this capital is deployed directly back into the political system. Technology giants do not merely abide by the law. They actively architect it. To understand why the American government surrendered so easily,

you have to understand the legal loophole that paralyzed them. A philosophy from the 1970s called the consumer welfare standard. This rule essentially states that a monopoly is perfectly legal as long as it doesn't raise prices for the average person. It was designed to police oil and railroad tycoons and it completely failed to anticipate the internet. [music] When companies like Google and Meta offered their massive platforms for free, the American legal system was essentially blindfolded. By the time regulators realized the actual price was being

paid in user data and the ruthless destruction of competition, the tech giants had already built impenetrable economic modes. To ensure this highly favorable legal framework remains untouched, these companies spend heavily through literal armies of lobbyists, creating a legislative gridlock that renders structural antitrust action nearly impossible. [music] In the American political system, legislative gridlock is the highly desired product. Consequently, technology monopolies maintain their highly profitable status quo. The logistics of this influence operation are staggering. In 2024, total federal lobbying expenditures

reached a historical high of 4.5 billion. With the technology sector reigning supreme, a coalition of just six major tech and social media companies spent a combined 61.5 million on lobbying, employing roughly one dedicated technology lobbyist for [music] every two members of Congress. This momentum only accelerated into 2025. Nvidia, flushed with capital from

the artificial intelligence boom, escalated its spending nearly eight-fold to secure policy victories related to semiconductor subsidies. Open AI rapidly increased its lobbying spend to shape foundational AI regulations, ensuring guard rails entrenched their market dominance. Even Bite Dance maintained a mercenary arm of lobbyists in Washington. Through this aggressive lobbying, American technology monopolies have insulated themselves from dismantling. Federal agencies are fundamentally outmatched. A taxpayer-funded agency cannot fight a decadel

long war of legal attrition against a corporation with a bottomless legal defense fund. As a result, these companies have amassed so much unencumbered influence, they have begun assuming roles traditionally reserved exclusively for sovereign states. Consider the geopolitical influence of SpaceX and its Starlink constellation. Following Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022, traditional Ukrainian communication networks were rapidly degraded. This rendered Starlink an absolute necessity for Ukrainian military and civilian survival. However, this reliance placed

unprecedented geopolitical power [music] directly into the hands of a single corporate executive, Elon Musk. Starlink was employed for frontline defense, coordinating artillery, and piloting reconnaissance drones. Because Starlink is a private corporation, the strategic execution of a sovereign nation's military defense was effectively subjected to the unilateral foreign policy decisions of an American billionaire. In 2022, Musk denied a Ukrainian request to extend Starlink's coverage to facilitate a counterattack on a Russian naval port, [music] fearing it could escalate the conflict into a nuclear war. A private citizen running a private corporation unilaterally dictated the operational limits of a foreign war. The United States Pentagon

found its own strategic objectives reliant on the personal politics of a private [music] vendor. A private American company has effectively become the switchboard of global geopolitics. The American system has accepted a stark, brutal trade-off to facilitate this reality. Society has shown a willingness to tolerate staggering wealth inequality as long as these corporate pseudo states keep the US at the [music] absolute bleeding edge of global technology. By the third quarter of 2025, the top 1% of US households owned 31.7% of all domestic wealth,

collectively holding approximately $55 trillion, roughly equal to the total wealth held by the bottom 90% combined. Furthermore, the wealthiest 1% owned nearly 50% of the entire stock market. Modern billionaires accumulate wealth not through taxable income but through the appreciation of untaxed assets. They employ a strategy known as buy, borrow, die, using rapidly appreciating stock as collateral for massive lowinterest lines of credit to fund their lifestyles. Because debt is not taxed as income, they legally bypass the tax system entirely.

This concentration of capital mirrors the extreme disparities of the late 19th century. Today, the wealthiest fraction of a percent controls a greater share of national wealth than they did during the era of the Rockefellers. A century of progressive economic policy has effectively been erased. The American state simply watches this disparity grow, gridlocked by the very capital it refuses to regulate, accepting that its domestic social fabric is visibly tearing under the strain of an economy engineered exclusively for the top 1%. Across the Pacific, an entirely different reality was taking shape. The Chinese Communist Party, the CCP, observed this exact

American macroeconomic model and saw a terminal political disease. In China, the foundational non-negotiable rule is that absolutely no entity is permitted to be more powerful than the party. Unregulated private wealth is viewed as a direct existential threat to national security and the absolute sovereign authority of the state. In the late 1970s, China initiated sweeping economic reforms, ushering in decades of hyper growth. The government allowed massive entrepreneurial freedom and tech visionaries built sprawling digital empires mirroring their American counterparts.

But by the late 2010s under President Xi Jinping, the technology conglomerates had grown so deeply embedded in daily life that they began to rival the state's control over the economy. The catalyst for one of the most ruthless wealth [music] destruction campaigns in modern capitalist history occurred in the autumn of 2020. [music] At the Bun Summit in Shanghai, Jack Ma, billionaire founder of Alibaba, publicly criticized China's state financial regulators. He accused the state-run banking system of operating with a pawn shop mentality and argued that outdated regulations were stifling Chinese innovation. In the American system, such critique is standard corporate posturing. In China, it was interpreted as a brazen challenge to the

Supreme Authority of the CCP. Worse still, Jack Ma's financial technology company, Ant Groupoup, was preparing for an IPO poised to be the largest in global history at $37 billion. [music] Antroup used advanced algorithms to originate microlo loans but kept only a fraction of the loan on its own balance sheet with the remaining capital provided by traditional state-owned banks. Ant group was effectively privatizing massive profit while socializing immense financial risk onto the state. The state's response was swift and merciless. Just weeks after the speech,

Chinese regulators cancelled the Ant Groupoup IPO entirely. The underlying message was unmistakable. The state, not tech billionaires, commands the capital markets. Regulators subsequently launched an antitrust probe into Alibaba, culminating in a record $2.75 billion fine for monopolistic abuses.

This targeted strike was merely the opening salvo of a comprehensive regulatory avalanche known as common prosperity. This rigid economic mandate demands that capital must serve the social good of the entire nation rather than exclusively enriching corporate elites. To enforce this ideology, Beijing methodically dismantled the empires of its own business elite. The crackdown quickly expanded to the ridehailing giant DD. DD had just pulled off a massive $4.4 [music] billion

IPO on the New York Stock Exchange. To do this, they used a complex corporate shell game to bypass Chinese restrictions on foreign investment, completely ignoring private warnings from Beijing. To the Chinese government, this wasn't just a financial maneuver. It was a profound national security threat. A ride hailing app effectively maps the infrastructure of the entire nation in real time. In the eyes of Beijing, a private company holding highly precise geoloccation data

of government officials and military personnel while beholden to foreign shareholders was an unacceptable national security breach. Within days of the IPO, DEI's app was banned and regulators eventually levied a massive $1.18 billion fine, forcing DD to delist from NYSE. Beyond wealth redistribution, the Common Prosperity crackdown was aggressive industrial policy. The Chinese government concluded that consumer internet apps do not produce tangible geopolitical power. Hard technology does. By crushing the allure of consumer internet monopolies, Beijing

actively forced domestic venture capital to pivot. Forcefully funneling billions into semiconductors, quantum computing, artificial intelligence, and battery manufacturing. China was willing to sacrifice its equivalent of Mark Zuckerberg to cultivate its equivalent of Elon Musk. Faced with the reality that the state could erase industries overnight, China's remaining technology titans scrambled to display absolute loyalty, high-profile voluntary philanthropy became a vital mechanism for corporate survival. Alibaba and Tencent each pledged 100 billion yuan to support common prosperity initiatives. The message was clear. give the money to the state's goals

voluntarily or the state will simply take it. The CCP forcefully reminded the market that in China, immense wealth is a privilege leased from the state. But the collateral damage was devastating. During this 18-month siege, the market capitalization of leading Chinese tech firms plummeted by up to 75%, wiping out over $1 trillion in value. The macroeconomic cost of this heavy-handed intervention was only just beginning to materialize. Both approaches to managing

capitalist [music] success come with massive unintended consequences. There is no perfect system, only a choice of which crisis [music] a nation is willing to endure. In the United States, the refusal to aggressively check monopoly power has resulted in deep, potentially irreversible societal fractures. The economy is characterized by a K-shaped trajectory [music] where lower and middle inome households fall progressively further behind as the wealthiest citizens detach into a separate economic reality. The billionaires are unequivocally winning the global innovation race, but the domestic social fabric is tearing under the weight of extreme inequality. [music] The

American political system has effectively been captured by the capital [music] it refuses to regulate. However, China's authoritarian approach has triggered [music] a severe chilling effect across its entire economy, threatening its long-term growth trajectory. By demonstrating it can destroy an entire sector overnight, Beijing successfully prevented a tech oligarchy, but sacrificed the animal spirits of the free market. Foreign direct investment into China plummeted from a peak of $344 billion in 2021 down to a mere $18.6 billion in 2024. Foreign

investors are deferring large capital commitments due to profound regulatory unpredictability. This lack of venture capital directly starves the next generation of Chinese startups. The Chinese Communist Party set out to humble a handful of billionaires. But the collateral damage of this trillion dollar wealth destruction was paid by the exact generation the state [music] claimed it was protecting. The intentional strangulation of the private tech sector collided catastrophically with a [music] simultaneous crash in the real estate market. Almost overnight, the job market

evaporated. By the summer of 2023, urban youth unemployment [music] hit a staggering 21.3%. Imagine 12 million college graduates stepping [music] into an economy where the most lucrative, innovative career paths have just been legally [music] outlawed. For decades, the Chinese economic miracle relied on a brutal but reliable social contract. [music] Endure grueling academic

competition, work endless hours, and you will achieve wealth. But as the tech sector was gutted, that promise was fundamentally broken. The reaction from the youth wasn't a riot. It was a mass silent surrender. Millions of young people embraced a movement called Tangping or lying flat.

A conscious refusal to participate in the hyperco competitive rat race. As the economy continued to stagnate, it devolved into something much darker. Buy land or let it rot. This wasn't just laziness. It was a profound generational strike against a broken game. In their desperate [music] attempt

to prove that the state is more powerful than the billionaire, Beijing accidentally crushed the ambition of the very people [music] needed to build its future. The Chinese model successfully reigned in the billionaires, curbed monopolistic abuses, and [music] forcefully reaffirmed the supremacy of the Communist Party. But in doing so, it severely crippled the massive capital inflows [music] and generational optimism required to sustain its economic miracle. The state proved it controls the matches, but it burned down significant portions of its own economic engine to prove the point. The United States and China are currently running the two largest, most consequential economic experiments in human history, answering the exact same question. What

happens when private wealth grows large enough to challenge the sovereign state? The American model operates on the assumption that what is good for the billionaire is ultimately good for the broader economy. By stepping back and allowing technology titans to build financial kingdoms that rival the government itself, the United States secures its position at the absolute forefront of global innovation. Yet, this comes at a potentially fatal cost of profound societal inequality and the steady surrender of domestic political authority to corporate pseudo states. The government is essentially betting that the wealth generated by these monopolies will outweigh the structural damage they inflict. The Chinese model operates on the uncompromising assumption

that unregulated wealth is a direct threat to national stability. Beijing proved unequivocally that no corporation is too big to fail. By aggressively steering capital into hard industrial manufacturing, [music] the state believes it is building a more resilient economy. But in executing this crackdown with such unpredictable brutality, [music] they risked suffocating the economic vitality and youth optimism required to survive the headwinds of the 21st century. There are no easy answers, only a stark divergence in philosophy. One system risks being wholly devoured

from the inside by the political and financial greed of its own corporations, allowing private executives to dictate warfare and architect the law. The other risks regulating its own economy into a state of permanent fearful stagnation, driving away the capital and ambition needed to build the future. [music] As the global market watches these two titans navigate the billionaire problem, it waits anxiously to see which critical vulnerability breaks the system first.