---
video_title: "Why the World’s Biggest Airline Barely Makes Money"
video_id: BAMmtCGEtc4
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BAMmtCGEtc4
video_date: 2026-07-11T09:22:06+00:00
video_description: |
  American Airlines is the world’s largest carrier by scheduled seats and flights. But in 2025, it earned just $111 million, while Delta made about $5 billion. This video follows the mergers, debt, buybacks, cabin decisions and failed corporate-sales strategy that turned unmatched scale into weak profits—and asks whether American can still catch Delta and United.
  
  Narrated By: Tom McKay
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  
  Source(s):
  
  OAG’s Air Travel Statistics 2025; American Airlines’ 2025 annual report and first-quarter 2026 results; Delta and United’s 2025 and first-quarter 2026 financial results; U.S. Justice Department records on the American–US Airways merger; Cirium’s 2025 On-Time Performance Review; J.D. Power’s 2026 North America Airline Satisfaction Study; and Reuters reporting on American’s failed corporate-sales strategy and subsequent reversal.
---
By one common measure, the biggest airline in the world is American. In 2025, it flew more seats and more departures than anyone, more than Delta, more than United, more than Ryan Air, or the biggest carriers out of China. Measure it by distance flown instead, and United edges ahead. But on the numbers most people mean when they say big seats and flights and bodies through the gate, American sits on top. Around 1,580 aircraft, more than 200 million passengers a year. A hub

map running from Dallas to Charlotte to Miami. Now the part that doesn't fit. All that scale in 2025 earned a profit of $111 million, a revenue of $54.5 billion. Delta made about $5 billion that same year, United 3.5. They flew through the same economy and paid the same price for fuel. Delta

still cleared roughly $45 of profit for every dollar American kept. The biggest airline on the planet also brought in the least revenue of the three and held on to the least of what came in. The airline that won the race for size is losing the race that pays. How those two things came apart is the rest of this story. American didn't get this big by flying more people to more places.

It got big by buying other airlines. The first was TWWA. In 2001, American picked up most of what was left of Transorld Airlines out of bankruptcy court. The fleet and the gates and the roots. It painted over the logos and folded the whole thing in. TWWA had been a giant once, Howard Hughes's

airline, a name from the early jet age. By 2001, it was a wreck and American bought the wreckage. That became the template. Almost everything American turned into, it turned into by absorbing somebody else's collapse. Through the 2000s, the rest of the industry went bankrupt on purpose.

Chapter 11 let an airline shred its contracts, shred its debt, and walk out lighter and cheaper. Delta did it. United did it. US Airways managed it twice. American refused. Its leadership and Gerard

RP in particular believed a serious airline shouldn't go hide from its obligations in a courtroom. And for years, American tried to cut costs the hard way instead. It didn't work. By 2011, Americans costs were still running higher than the rivals who had reset. And the incoming chief executive Tom Horton said the cost gap with Americans bigger rivals had grown, in his word, untenable. That November, the parent company filed for Chapter 11. Anyway, RP, who had staked his

whole tenure on avoiding exactly this, resigned the day it happened and walked out rather than steer the company through it. You almost never see a Fortune 500 chief take a stand like that and it cost him the job. Then came the deal that built the airline we're actually talking about. In 2013, American merged with US Airways, an 11 billion combination that created the largest carrier in the country. American stakeholders came out owning 72% of it. US Airways owned 28. The name is where

the simple story ends, though. American kept its logo and its history, but the people now running the place came from US Airways. Doug Parker, US Airways CEO, took the top job. The smaller, scrappier airline had effectively swallowed the bigger one from the inside. And the team that took over had built its entire reputation on being lean, cheap, and very good at mergers.

Hold on to that. It comes back. Doug Parker had a theory, and the buying spree was that theory in motion. He believed the airline business rewards scale above almost everything else. And he had spent a career acting on it. American West into US Airways into American. each step bigger than the

last. It went roughly like this. Size compounds. A bigger airline had more hubs and more routes, so it can sell a corporate client one carrier that goes everywhere they need to go. It has a bigger frequent flyer program, which quietly means a bigger and more lucrative credit card business.

It can spread its fixed costs over more flying. get big enough, the thinking went, and you finally stop writing the industry's vicious up and down cycle, the one that had just bankrupted everybody, and start setting the terms. Not everyone bought it. The Justice Department sued to stop the US Airways merger and its worry was the mirror image of Americans pitch that the combined airline wouldn't be healthier, just more dominant and the muscle to raise fairs and thin out service, especially at Reagan National in Washington, where the two carriers together would own the airport. American only cleared the deal by giving pieces of it away. 104 takeoff slots at Reagan. 34 at

LaGuardia gates in Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, and Miami. Most of them handed to the lowcost airlines American least wanted to help. Scale came with a tax then from the very first day American paid it and got what it was after. It was without any argument the biggest airline in America. In September 2017, at Americans investor day in Texas, Doug Parker stood in front of a room of Wall Street analysts and made a promise almost no airline boss in history would have dared.

Quote, "I don't think we're ever going to lose money again." He said, "We have an industry that's going to be profitable in good and bad times." He knew how it sounded. I know I sound like an evangelist talking about this. The remarkable part is that he had the numbers to back the sermon.

From 1978 to 2013, across 35 years, Americans total profit added up to about a billion dollar. In the four years after the merger, Parker said it would clear more than 19 billion pre-tax. Even in a bad year, he told them the airline should make around three. So, Americans spent like it believed him. This was the US Airways instinct that came with the 2013 takeover. Run lean, hand the cash

back to shareholders. Now it was steering the largest airline on Earth. Between 2014 and 2019, the company put roughly $12 billion into buying back its own stock and close to 30 billion more into new planes. Much of it borrowed at the very top of the cycle. Delta through the same boom went the other way, driving its debt down toward an investment grade rating. One of those two bets

was about to age very badly. Then 2020 arrived. The pandemic grounded the industry and handed American the biggest losses in its history. And it borrowed billions more just to survive. Piled onto a balance sheet, the buybacks had already stripped of its cushion. every airline borrowed through

those years. That part wasn't a choice. The choice had been made earlier at the top when the money that could have softened the blow went out the door instead. American came out of the crisis owing more than any airline in the country. Parker retired in 2022. His promise hadn't survived 3

years. American got the size it paid for. What it didn't get was the money that was supposed to come with it. Start with operating margin, the slice of revenue an airline keeps after the cost of actually flying. In 2025, Delta ran at 9.2%. United at 8, American at 2.7. This isn't a

one-year stumble either. Back in 2019, before the pandemic scrambled everything, American was closer to the pack, around 7% against Delta's 14. Every single year since the recovery, it has finished last of the three, and the distance has grown. By 2025, Delta was earning more than three times the margin American did on every dollar of sales. A gap that wide and that steady isn't bad luck.

It's the shape of the business American built. The obvious guess for why is that American can't fill its planes. Wrong guess. American fills its planes about as well as anyone. Roughly 84% full in 2025.

Dead level with Delta. The trouble starts after the doors close. Every one of those occupied seats simply brings in less. Some of that is what Delta sells. Premium cabins that people will pay upfront for and a loyalty program throwing off cash. American in those very same years went the other

direction. Under a densification program called Oasis, it crammed more seats onto its jets. Its workhorse 737s went from 160 seats to 172, trimmed the legroom, shrank the lavatories to some of the smallest in the sky, and pulled the screens out of the seatbacks. That is a cheaper cabin to fly, and it earns like one. Delta pulls in more per seat, per mile, flying similar people, similar distances. Against United, the story flips. American actually takes in a hair more per seat

than United does. So there the gap sits on the cost side where American's non-fuel expenses run higher. Either way, it nets out the same. American turns more scale into less profit than both. Then there's the debt, and it traces straight back to Parker's promise. American closed 2025 owing $36.5

billion in total debt, 30.7 of it net of cash. Every airline measures this a little differently, so take the exact figure loosely. On any measure though, American carries the heaviest load of the big three and the only balance sheet among them running negative equity. On credit ratings, Delta is back to investment grade. American sits four notches below it, deep in junk,

and United is in between. But what matters more than the number is where it came from. The 2013 merger was an all stock deal. It didn't build this mountain. The first layers were laid in the boom.

Nearly $30 billion of new planes and 12 billion of buybacks financed against a future Parker swore would stay bright. The pandemic poured the rest on top as it did for everyone. The difference is what came after. Delta and United have spent the years since shrinking their piles fast. While American, earning the least of the three, chips at the biggest one slowly. Every dollar going to

service that debt is a dollar it can't put into a better product or a cushion for the next downturn. Reliability is where the gap gets personal. In Syrian's 2025 ranking, Delta was the most punctual airline in North America for the fifth year running. American came sixth behind Delta and United and tellingly behind Alaska and Spirit 2. Some credit where it's due. 2025 was ugly for

everyone with a long government shutdown and air traffic snarls. But Delta wins this ranking year after year and American doesn't and passengers keep the receipts. JD Powers 2026 survey said the same thing in a different way with Delta near the top in every cabin and American missing from the top three in all of them. There's a physical version of all this you can go stand and watch. Get to Dallas Fort Worth early enough and you'll see dozens of American jets push back inside the same short window. One coordinated wave engineered to feed connections across the entire country.

It's a genuinely impressive machine and a fishly complicated one. more hubs, more fleet types, more union contracts, and more software stitched together from old mergers than a smaller airline ever has to hold together at once. Every one of those moving parts is a place a big day can go sideways. And on a bad morning at DFW, plenty of them do. The money in modern aviation had moved to two places. premium seats and the credit card operation bolted onto the side of every

big carrier. Americans managers knew it as well as anyone. That operation is enormous. In 2025, Delta pulled $8.2 billion out of its American Express deal alone, about 1 and a half times its entire operating profit. American pulled 6.2 billion from its own card partners. But set that against how

little American actually earned and the card money came to roughly four times its operating profit. For companies like these, the loyalty program has stopped being a marketing perk. It's closer to a bank that happens to own some airplanes. Delta and United leaned hard into all of it. Premium cabins, lounges, richer loyalty. American held every one of the same cards and then across 2023 and 24 it

did something strange. It picked a fight with the people who sell its tickets. The plan was to herd travelers into booking directly through Americans own app and its own technology and to squeeze the travel agencies and booking systems that big corporate accounts run on. American cut agency commissions, rewrote corporate contracts, thinned the sales staff those accounts depended on, and in places made its fairs cheaper only if you booked Americans way. It went wrong almost at once. The

corporate travelers and their agencies did not fall into line. They booked away from American and revenue sagged. By the middle of 2024, the company had to cut its own profit forecast for the year by nearly 2/3 from a range topped out at $325 a share down to a ceiling of $130. Robert Eisam, the CEO, later put the bill at around a billion.5 in lost revenue. Second quarter profit fell almost

by half and Vasuraja the chief commercial officer who had championed the entire strategy was gone by June. Stripped the corporate language off it and this is a simple story. American looked at its most valuable customers and decided it was big enough to dictate terms to them. It wasn't. That's not really a strategic misstep. It's a company misreading its own power,

which is the exact mistake this whole thing turns on. Now, to its credit, American reversed. It put competitive fairs back in the agency channels, restored miles, no matter where you booked, rebuilt the sales relationships, and by the end of 2025, said it had won its normal share of that business back. But the episode is the argument in miniature. American had the scale. It could

not convert the scale into the loyal high margin business Delta and United were building. And the one time it tried to force the point, it chased off the customers it needed most. Early in 2026, Americans corporate revenue was up 13% on the year. Premium was outgrowing Coach. Signups to the loyalty program hit a record up a quarter. The company knows exactly where it fell behind,

and for 2 years, it has been clawing that ground back. A new 10-year deal made CT the sole issuer of the A Advantage card. A bet that the loyalty machine is finally about to earn its keep. American even pushed its total debt back under 35 billion for the first time in a decade. The catch is that repairing yourself is expensive. And American is still bleeding while it does it.

In the first quarter of 2026, it booked record revenue 13.9 billion and still lost 382 million. Its rivals, meanwhile, aren't waiting around to be caught. Take that same quarter. The same spike in fuel prices landing on all of them. United turned a $699 million profit. American lost money.

Delta lost a little too since the first quarter is always the industry's weakest, but Delta's premium revenue still grew 14%. Its loyalty revenue 13 and its check from American Express cleared $2 billion in 90 days. The sharpest irony is who runs United these days. Scott Kirby was one of the architects of American's whole scale strategy. Doug Parker's right hand at US Airways, then president of American after the merger. He left in 2026, went to United, and has spent the years since out

executing the very airline he helped assemble. The playbook American bet its future on is now beating American, run by someone else. American is climbing towards where Delta and United already stand. They just keep climbing faster. So what do you make of the biggest airline in the world? The

optimistic case is real and worth stating plainly. American runs one of the strongest route networks in the country anchored in fast growing sunb belt hubs like Dallas, Charlotte, Miami, and Phoenix where the population is moving toward it rather than away. All that spending in the Parker years bought it one real asset, the youngest fleet of the big three, which means lighter airplane bills than its rivals for the next few years. Just as Delta and United face heavy ones. It carries more than 200 million people a year, and it's sitting on a loyalty program worth a fortune it's only now learning to use. I don't think this is a company in trouble so much as one that made an expensive

bet. The raw material really is there. But the last decade has quietly put a hard question to American and it still hasn't answered it. Can all that size actually become strength? The modern airline business does not reward the biggest airline. It rewards the one that turns

size into profit, into loyalty, into planes that land on time, into a brand people go out of their way to pick. Delta learned that. United learned that. American built the biggest airline on the planet and is still right now working out how to make it the best. It won the race for size a long time ago. Whether size was ever the right race to win is the question it still can't answer.