---
video_title: "Why Indonesia’s Rupiah Is Falling"
video_id: 7Im24zZZ_kQ
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Im24zZZ_kQ
video_date: 2026-06-15T12:46:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Indonesia’s rupiah has fallen sharply in 2026. This video explains how oil prices, investor fear, dollar demand, and Bank Indonesia’s rate hikes put pressure on Southeast Asia’s largest economy.
  
  Narrated By Tom McKay
  https://www.instagram.com/tmckay715/
  https://www.youtube.com/@UC8blX3YnHDG9e9_E9KjPK6g 
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  
  Source list
  
  Bank Indonesia JISDOR for the rupiah reference rate, including late-May levels around 17,743–17,883 per US dollar. Use this for your exchange-rate chart.
  
  Reuters for the May 20 rate hike, the rupiah’s record low around 17,745, and Bank Indonesia raising the BI Rate by 50 basis points to 5.25%.
  
  Indonesia Ministry of Finance KEM-PPKF 2027 for the 2026 budget assumptions: Rp16,500 per US dollar and ICP oil price at $70 per barrel.
  
  Reuters for the oil-shock deficit risk, including the warning that oil around $90 could push Indonesia’s deficit toward 3.6% of GDP.
  
  IMF for Indonesia’s fiscal rule: the 3% of GDP deficit cap and 60% of GDP debt ceiling.
  
  Bank Indonesia law for BI independence, saying the central bank should be independent and free from government or outside intervention.
  
  MSCI official announcement for concerns about transparency and possible weighting reduction or reclassification from Emerging Market to Frontier Market status.
  
  Reuters for the MSCI-triggered Indonesian equity rout, including the roughly $80 billion market-value loss and transparency concerns.
  
  Reuters for March bond outflows, reporting foreign investors pulled about $1.8 billion from Indonesian bonds.
  
  Bank Indonesia presentation book for foreign ownership of Indonesian government bonds falling from near 40% before the pandemic to around 13% by early 2026.
  
  Reuters for Moody’s cutting Indonesia’s outlook to negative and citing governance and policy predictability concerns.
  
  Reuters for Fitch revising Indonesia’s outlook to negative while keeping the rating investment grade.
  
  Reuters for Bank Indonesia tightening dollar-buying rules and lowering the documentation threshold to $25,000 per month.
  
  Bank Indonesia official rate decision for the May 2026 BI Rate increase to 5.25%.
  
  Bank Indonesia / reserve data for Indonesia’s FX reserves falling to $146.2 billion in April 2026.
  
  BPS-Statistics Indonesia for exports, imports, and the April 2026 trade surplus.
---
If you have been watching the Asian financial markets recently, you have seen one story dominate the headlines. The sharp fall of the Indonesian rupia. Back on December 1st, 2025, the currency was trading at roughly 16,660 rupia to the US dollar. By January 20th, it had weakened to nearly 17,000. By April, it crossed 17,090. And by late 2026, the central bank's official

reference rate, the benchmark they used to check the currency, was hovering near 17,745. Depending on which exchange rate number you use, the rupia lost about 6.5 to 7.3% of its value against the dollar in just a few months. But this was not a sudden crash.

The rupia did not fall all at once. It kept weakening little by little, month after month, until Bank Indonesia had fewer and fewer options left. So why did this happen? The simple answer is this. The rupia was hit from three sides at the same time. Usually when a currency falls,

there is one clear reason. But in Indonesia, three pressures hit at the same time. First, oil became more expensive. Second, investors became worried about Indonesia's politics and budget. And third, many people needed US dollars at the same time while fewer dollars were coming in. Let's break

them down one by one, starting with the problem outside of Indonesia's control, the oil shock. In early 2026, conflict in the Middle East escalated and global oil prices rose toward 90 and even $100 a barrel. For some countries like Malaysia, high oil prices are actually a good thing because they export energy. But Indonesia is a net oil importer. They buy massive amounts of oil from the rest of the world to keep their economy running. And on the global market, you have to buy that oil

in US dollars. When oil becomes more expensive, Indonesia needs more US dollars to buy the same amount of fuel. That raises demand for dollars and puts more pressure on the rupia. So, oil does not just affect petrol prices, it also affects the currency. But expensive oil creates a second even more dangerous problem for Indonesia, the budget deficit. The Indonesian government subsidizes fuel

to keep prices low for everyday citizens. Their 2026 national budget was built on the assumption that oil would cost about $70 a barrel and the exchange rate would sit around 16.5,000 rupia to the dollar. When oil shot past $90 and the rupia weakened, the government's budget suddenly became much harder to control. The finance ministry warned that this oil shock could push the deficit to 3.6% of GDP. And the moment investors heard that number, they panicked. To understand why

a 3.6% 6% deficit scared investors. You have to understand what Indonesia went through after the 1998 Asian financial crisis. After 98, Indonesia built strict rules to show investors that it would control its spending. The most famous rule was a strict legal ceiling. The government was not

allowed to run a budget deficit larger than 3% of GDP. The rule was meant to send one clear message to investors. Indonesia would not spend beyond its limits again. But in early 2026, investors started to worry that Indonesia was weakening the very rules that had made the country look safe after 98. And the budget deficit was not the only thing that worried them. In January 2026, President

Prabo nominated his own nephew, Thomas Giwanono, to the board of Bank Indonesia, the country's central bank. In simple terms, Bank Indonesia is supposed to make decisions based on the economy, not political pressure. If investors think politicians are getting too close to the central bank, they start to worry that money policy will become political. So when the president's nephew was nominated to Bank Indonesia's board, investors had a clear reason to worry. They feared the central bank was becoming too close to politics. Then came another concern, Danara,

Indonesia's new state investment fund. Investors were asking how much power it would have and how transparent would it be. To add to that, MSCI, a major company that global investors follow, raised concerns about transparency in Indonesia's stock market. In simple terms, investors were asking one question. Can we still trust the rules of this market? So, the problem was no longer just

the rupia. Investors were starting to question how safe and transparent Indonesia's markets really were. And when investors lose trust, they do not wait, they sell. Foreign investors started pulling money out. In January, an equity market route erased tens of billions of dollars in value. In

March alone, foreign investors pulled $1.8 billion out of Indonesian bonds. A bond is basically money the government borrows from investors. For years, many foreign investors were willing to lend money to Indonesia by buying these bonds. But that changed. Foreign ownership fell from nearly 40% in

2019 to barely above 13. That matters because when foreign investors sell those bonds, they usually convert their rupia back into US dollars and move the money out of Indonesia. Now we get to the most important part of the currency story, the shortage of US dollars. Right at the exact moment that foreign investors were draining dollars out of the country, domestic companies were desperate for dollars, too. At the same time, many people needed US dollars for different reasons. Companies needed

dollars to pay foreign shareholders. They also needed dollars to repay foreign loans. Importers needed dollars to buy goods before Ramadan and some Indonesians needed dollars for overseas travel, including religious pilgrimages. So, the pressure was simple. More people needed dollars, but fewer dollars were coming in. You can literally see the panic in the offshore markets.

There is also an offshore market called the NDF market. This is where investors outside Indonesia bet on where the rupia will go next. And by May, many of those investors were betting the rupia would fall even further. The market was no longer looking at Indonesia only as a strong commodity exporter. It was also looking at Indonesia as an oil importing country with serious political concerns. Then came another warning sign. Fitch and Moody's, two major credit rating agencies,

changed Indonesia's outlook to negative. In simple terms, they were saying Indonesia is still safe enough for investors, but the risks are rising. So, knowing all of this, what was the central bank doing to stop the bleeding? Well, Bank Indonesia, to their credit, fought back in stages, but the market just refused to believe them. Through February and March, they held their main interest rate steady at 4.75%. They publicly stated that the rupia was

undervalued, which is really just an economist's way of saying the rupia has fallen too far and the fundamentals do not justify this panic. But the market did not listen. So the central bank had to escalate. Bank Indonesia used its foreign currency reserves to support the rupia. These reserves are like emergency savings in US dollars. They also tightened the rules on buying dollars. Suddenly,

if you wanted to buy more than $25,000 in a month, you had to provide strength documentation proving you actually had an underlying business need for them. They were desperately trying to fight off currency speculators. But it wasn't enough. And by May 20th, with the currency hitting a record low of 17,745, Bank Indonesia finally changed course. Then at its May policy meeting, Bank Indonesia raised interest rates by half a percentage point, bringing the policy rate to 5.25%. Now,

you might be asking, why is raising interest rates a big deal? Because in economics, raising interest rates is like pulling the emergency brake on your own car. Higher interest rates reward people for holding the currency, which stabilizes the exchange rate, but it also makes borrowing vastly more expensive for everyday citizens. Mortgages go up, business loans become incredibly expensive. It intentionally slows down the domestic economy. The central bank explicitly admitted that they

hiked the rates to defend the rupia and fight off the inflation imported from the Middle East. In practice, they accepted the risk of slower growth to stop the currency from sliding further. Now, despite all this pressure, it is incredibly important to note that Indonesia is not on the brink of a total financial collapse. This is not a repeat of 1998. There are no massive corporate defaults happening. There is no systemic banking crisis. Indonesia still has a massive buffer. Even

after spending heavily to defend the rupia, their foreign exchange reserve sat at a very healthy $146.2 billion by the end of April. And Indonesia still exports high value commodities, which brings in a steady stream of foreign cash, helping them maintain a trade surplus. So this is not a story about Indonesia going bankrupt. Indonesia still has large reserves. It still

exports valuable commodities. And this is not 1998 all over again. But it is a warning. The Rupia's fall shows that Indonesia has less room to make mistakes. If oil stays expensive, the government has to spend more on fuel subsidies. If investors stay nervous, Bank Indonesia may

have to keep interest rates high. And if interest rates stay high, borrowing becomes more expensive for families, businesses, and the government. So the real problem is not survival. The real problem is pressure. Indonesia can defend the rupia, but defending the rupia comes at a cost.

The question is, how much growth is Indonesia willing to give up to keep the currency stable?