---
video_title: "How Japan Helped Build Boeing’s Most Advanced Jet"
video_id: rvWG1cgrn0c
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rvWG1cgrn0c
video_date: 2026-03-21T09:03:53+00:00
video_description: |
  We think of Boeing as the ultimate American industrial icon. But its most advanced plane, the 787 Dreamliner, is arguably just as Japanese as it is American. 
  
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/behindasian
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/behindasia
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
Imagine an American airliner so advanced even its wings must hitch a ride from Japan. In Boeing's Everett factory, a special 747 Dream Lifter cargo plane touches down with an extraordinary delivery. Two 80 ft carbon fiber wings built across the Pacific in Nagoya. By the time this Boeing 787 Dreamliner is fully assembled, 35% of the jet's airframe structure will have been made in Japan. This isn't a token contribution of nuts and bolts. It's the cuttingedge heart of the plane. From

composite wings and fuselage barrels to critical electrical components and even its batteries. It sounds unbelievable. Boeing, the US aerospace icon, relying on Japanese industry for over a third of its most advanced jet. But that's exactly what happened. And it wasn't by accident. It was

a bold risksharing partnership that rewrote the rules of aircraft manufacturing. Japan's top companies poured billions of dollars into factories and new technology to earn a permanent stake in Boeing's Dreamliner. In return, Boeing locked in massive orders from Japan's airlines and gained cuttingedge materials from a country that all but cornered the market in high-grade carbon fiber. This highstakes gamble tied Boeing's fortunes to Japan's so tightly that when the 787 hit turbulence with delays and technical woes, 22,000 Japanese jobs at 65 firms hung in the balance. And for nearly a decade, it shut Airbus out of Japan's widebody aviation market, creating a lucrative Boeing stronghold. How did an American jetliner become a quasi Japanese project? And what

does it mean for the future of aerospace? In the early 2000s, Boeing faced a crossroads. Its rival Airbus had surged ahead in sales, and Boeing's own lineup was aging. The company's daring answer was the 787 Dreamliner, launched in 2004 as a bet on the future of air travel. This midsize longrange jet promised airlines 20% better fuel efficiency than previous planes and lower operating costs.

A huge draw with oil prices rising. How? by doing what no airliner had done before, making over half of its structure from carbon fiber reinforced plastic instead of aluminum. This was a revolutionary leap. For decades, passenger planes were built from aluminum alloys, riveted sheets over metal frames. Boeing's last new jet, the 777, introduced some composits, but they

accounted for only about 12% of its structure by weight. The 787 would be 50% composite by weight. not just the wings, but the fuselage itself made from giant carbon fiber barrels. It aimed to shed 10,000 pounds versus an equivalent aluminum design. While this weight reduction was significant, the bulk of the 787's 20% fuel efficiency gain actually came from advanced new engines and aerodynamic improvements. However, the composites were essential for a different reason.

They allowed for lower maintenance costs and a more comfortable cabin pressure, changing the economics of long haul flying. Boeing's bold move to composits came after another gamble. The Sonic Cruiser was shelved. Instead of raw speed, airlines wanted efficiency. So, Boeing pivoted to the Dreamliner concept, and to make it work, they needed new materials and new partners. Enter Japan. Boeing had long sold jets to Japanese carriers and involved Japan's industry

in smaller roles, but nothing prepared the world for what came next. For decades, Boeing maintained close ties with Japanese manufacturers. Starting in the 1970s, Japanese firms built some 747 components and later 16% of the 767 in the 1980s, then around 21 to 22% of the 777 in the 1990s. These were significant, but still as conventional subcontractors. The 787 dramatically upped the ante. Japanese companies would design and build a full 35% of the Dreamliner, the biggest portion

ever outsourced to Japan. This included critical structures like sections of the fuselage and the entire wings, which had never been built outside Boeing for a new aircraft before. In short, Boeing wasn't just buying parts. It was making Japan an equal partner in the 787's creation. The plan that Boeing devised was called global partnering or risk sharing. Instead of Boeing

engineering and funding everything in house, they invited key suppliers worldwide to co-design major sections and shoulder some development costs. This approach had a clear goal. Share the immense financial risk of a cuttingedge plane. Boeing's 787 program manager Mike Bear put it plainly. People would love to do everything inside, but that's not practical anymore. By 2005,

more than 1,000 engineers from suppliers around the world were working side by side with Boeing's team in Seattle, including a SWAT team of over 100 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, MHI, engineers leading the wing design. It gave the 787 program an international flavor. Like the United Nations in here, one Boeing engineer joked. Japan's big three aerospace companies took on major chunks of the Dreamliner. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, MHI, Japan's largest heavy machinery firm, known for everything from ship building to rockets, agreed to design and build the 787s wing boxes. These are

the main loadbearing structures of each wing, stretching nearly 60 m tipto. It was the first time ever a foreign company would build the wings for a newly designed Boeing airliner. Fuji Heavy Industries, now Subaru Cor. The successor to the famed World War II manufacturer Nakajima Aircraft, took charge of the center wing box, the structure in the belly that connects the wings. While they do not manufacture the landing gear well, they are responsible for integrating the center wing box with the wheel well before shipping. Kawasaki Heavy Industries, KHI, another engineering giant,

handled the forward fuselage sections, the entire main landing gear wheel well, and the fixed trailing edge of the wing, the part of the wing structure where flaps attach. These Japanese firms weren't just contracted to deliver parts. They were full development partners. In late 2004, Boeing and the consortium representing MHI, Fuji, and KHI, the Japan Aircraft Development Corporation, signed formal agreements, locking in this workshare. The deal was unprecedented in scope. Japan's companies would invest in their own new facilities, tooling, and R&D to

meet Boeing's specs on their own dime up front. In exchange, they'd become long-term tier 1 partners, effectively earning a slice of the pie for each 787 delivered. This was a huge financial gamble for the Japanese side. Analysts estimated that MHI, KHI, and Fuji together would spend about $2 billion developing the 787 components and scaling up production. They even sought lowterest loans from the Japanese government to offset costs. In April 2005, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries broke

ground on a new $400 million, $50,000 meter factory in Nagoya solely to build 787 wings. Kawasaki built a new plant for fuselage section assembly. Enormous autoclaves, giant pressurized ovens, were installed to cook the composite wings and barrels. One autoclave at MHI's site was 40 m long and 8 m in diameter, big enough for half a wing at a time. It weighed 700 tons and was among the largest in the world when first fired up in 2006. Inside these factories, the manufacturing

process was like nothing Boeing had attempted. Thin sheets of carbon fiber fabric pre-impregnated with epoxy resin were layered into wing molds, then vacuum bagged and baked for hours until they hardened into solid composite. The result, an 80ft wing skin with drastically fewer rivets. Unlike an Airbus A380 wing that uses over a million rivets to hold aluminum panels, the 787's smooth carbon wings were designed to flex more and resist corrosion, all while saving weight. But achieving that demanded meticulous precision. Any air pocket or misalignment in the composite layup could

weaken the part. It was a moonshot in material science scaled up to passenger jet dimensions. For Japan, joining the 787 wasn't just a business deal. It was the culmination of a national dream in aerospace. Japan had been a major plane maker before World War II. Mitsubishi built the famed

Zero Fighter. But after the war, the US occupation dismantled Japan's aviation industry. It restarted in the 1950s under strict oversight, mostly supplying parts or building under license. Over the decades, Japan slowly rebuilt an aerospace base, producing military aircraft components, rockets, and partnering on every Boeing jet from the 707 onwards. By the 2000s, Japan was hungry to move up the value chain. As Dr. Hajime Tzaki of Waseda University noted, "Japan's industry saw

the 787 as a chance to prove itself globally. If the 787 succeeds all over the world, it's good for Japanese industry." Japan's government openly supported these ambitions. Building a large indigenous passenger jet, a national aircraft, had been a long-held goal. In fact, just as the 787 was gearing up, Mitsubishi Heavy announced plans for a homegrown 90 seat regional jet, which would become the MRJ, Mitsubishi regional jet, a project to compete with Canada's Bombardier and Brazil's Embraer. The MRJ's key selling point. It would use a lightweight composite wing, expertise

drawn straight from the 787 program. Essentially, by partnering with Boeing, Japan Incorporated was learning to build its own planes. piece by piece without taking on the full risk of a clean sheet airliner program. Meanwhile, Boeing's motive for partnering was not only about sharing cost, it was also about securing customers. Japan's two major airlines, ANA, All Nippon Airways and JAL, Japan Airlines, were crucial launch customers for the 787. ANA was the very first airline to order

the Dreamliner back in 2004. Ultimately signing up for 66 of them and JAL for another 30 plus. Having Japanese industry deeply invested created a powerful alignment. The airlines suppliers and government in Japan all had a stake in the 787's success. It's no coincidence that Japanese regulators even bent some procedural norms to help the Dreamliner along. Working closely with

Boeing to accelerate certification processes and grant early operational approvals like ETOPS to quickly realize the benefits of the 787 for ANA and JAL. The message was clear. Japan was allin on this aircraft. To tie this global supply chain together, Boeing had to get inventive with logistics. Traditional shipping wasn't fast enough for huge sections like a whole 787 wing or a 40ft fuselage barrel. The solution was the 747400 large cargo freighter dubbed the

Dream Lifter. A bizarrel looking modified jumbo jet with an enormous bulbous fuselage. The Dream Lifter could swallow wing assemblies and fuselage sections that used to take weeks to arrive by sea. Now they'd fly from Nagoya to Seattle in just 10 hours. Every 787 would literally fly on a Dream Lifter before it ever carried passengers. In April 2007, the first set of Japanese-built 787 parts,

major fuselage sections, and wing boxes were loaded onto barges, shipped from factory to port, then flown to Boeing's Everett plant. The age of airlifting entire airplane pieces had begun. This extreme outsourcing was supposed to make final assembly in Everett a breeze. Boeing imagined a near plug-and-play assembly line, parts arriving finished and prefitted with systems ready to be joined. In fact, Boeing boasted that with so much work done by partners, final assembly of a 787 would take only 3 days versus 20 plus days for an older model like the 767. The Dreamliner plant

was designed more as an integration center than a traditional factory. For Boeing, this strategy also freed up engineering resources and spread out financial exposure. As one Boeing VP touring the Japanese plant said in 2007, "I couldn't dream of Boeing taking on an airplane by itself again. The 787 partnership model was seen as the new normal. And initially, it worked as intended. By 2007,

before the first plane had even flown, Boeing had amassed 544 orders for the Dreamliner, a record- setting launch. Airlines worldwide were sold on its promises and Boeing's stock price soared. But soon the lofty Dreamliner would face a harsh reality check. Just as the Dreamliner seemed ready to take the world by storm, turbulence hit. The revolutionary design and outsourced production led to unforeseen snags. In mid 2007, Boeing had to postpone the first test flight, missing

the original August target due to shortages of fasteners and unfinished software. One delay led to another. The highly distributed supply chain began to show its cracks. Some suppliers struggled to meet Boeing's strict specs and timeline. In 2009, Boeing resorted to an extraordinary step, buying back control of troubled suppliers. It paid $580 million to acquire Vault Aircraft's

South Carolina plant that was building the 787's rear fuselage, which had fallen behind schedule. Boeing also bought out its Italian partner, Alenia's share of their global aeronautica joint venture in South Carolina, consolidating control over fuselage integration to speed up the stalled assembly line. The global puzzle pieces weren't fitting as neatly as planned. The composite materials brought their own challenges. Tiny manufacturing floors could require intensive rework, and new systems like an allect electric architecture that eliminated the traditional pneumatic bleed air piping introduced bugs. After multiple delays, the first 787 finally flew

in December 2009, about 2 years late. But even after test flights, a serious incident occurred. In 2010, an in-flight electrical fire on a test aircraft grounded the fleet again. Boeing's CEO, Jim Mcernney, admitted the 787 plan was overly ambitious, incorporating too many firsts all at once. new materials, new processes, and increased global sourcing. They had clearly stumbled on the

execution. It was a humbling moment. Then, just as 787s started flying passengers in late 2011, another crisis. Lithium ion batteries on two separate 787s overheated and caught fire in January 2013, prompting a worldwide grounding of the entire Dreamliner fleet for months. Japanese carriers ANA and JAL were among the most affected. They had been the early adopters.

The Japanese public watched as their high-tech jet, once a point of pride, became the subject of safety investigations. Japan's regulators had fast-tracked 787 approvals to help ANA and JAL, and now they faced scrutiny. It was an ironic twist. The very deep ties and national bet on the 787 raised the stakes of its problems. All of this put strain on the Boeing Japan partnership. Japanese suppliers had ramped up expecting smooth sailing only to hit delays that

meant slower revenue. However, the partnership also meant Boeing couldn't afford to alienate Japan. During the battery crisis, US diplomats even met Japanese officials to manage political and economic fallout. a senior adviser to Japan's prime minister warned that if Boeing tried to pin blame or losses on Japanese companies unfairly, the damage for Japan will be huge. In other words, Boeing and Japan were in this together, for better or worse. Yet, through the turbulence,

Japan stuck by Boeing. ANA and JAL didn't cancel orders. They expressed confidence Boeing would fix the issues. The Japanese suppliers kept churning out parts, and in a show of commitment, Japan's government and industry voices even called for more support for the 787 rather than less. It was a remarkable display of loyalty born from that deep integration. The mid-program crisis of

the Dreamliner taught Boeing some hard lessons. Outsourcing could go too far. Some capabilities needed to stay inhouse, but it also proved the resilience of the Boeing Japan Alliance. Now, as the 787 overcame its growing pains, it began to deliver on its promises and its impacts on the industry and on Boeing's competition with Airbus came into full view. By taking a one-third stake in the Dreamliner, Japan effectively vaulted itself into the top tier of global aerospace.

The country that once only built parts now gained experience designing and manufacturing some of the most complex sections of a cuttingedge jet. This had long-term payoffs. Mitsubishi Heavy and others honed their expertise in large-scale composits, positioning them as leaders in that field. MHI's CEO proudly noted that through the 787, they developed unrivaled technologies for designing and building big composite wings. The know-how wasn't lost after the 787. It fed directly into

Japan's own projects and its attractiveness as a partner for future planes. For instance, Mitsubishi's regional jet, the MRJ, later renamed SpaceJet, was initially designed with a carbon fiber wing, drawing on engineers who had worked on the 787's wing. Although the program later switched to aluminum wings to reduce manufacturing complexity and eventually was put on hold in 2020, the attempt underscored Japan's rising competence, it almost succeeded in fielding its first homegrown airliner in 50 years. Even without a flagship domestic jetliner, Japan's industry reaped rewards as a permanent part of Boeing's supply chain. The economic benefits were significant. Boeing estimated that as of the mid2010s, about 22,000 Japanese workers, roughly

40% of Japan's entire aerospace workforce, were dedicated to Boeing projects. The 787's success meant high-tech manufacturing jobs in Nagoya, Kobe, and other hubs. Boeing became and remains the largest single customer of Japan's aerospace industry, spending roughly $5 billion per year on Japanese parts. One Reuters report noted Boeing would purchase $ 36 billion worth of goods and services from Japan from 2014 through 2020 as part of follow-on deals. Those are massive steady revenues for the likes of MHI, KHI, and Subaru Fuji Heavy. In essence, Japan's bet paid off. It

secured a lucrative long-term role in making not just the 787, but future Boeing jets as well. One striking outcome of the Boeing Japan partnership was its effect on Airbus, Boeing's European arch rival. For decades, Boeing had dominated Japan's commercial airplane market thanks to historical ties and US Japan political alliance. But Airbus kept trying to break in, pitching its A340s and A380s with limited success. The 787 partnership reinforced Boeing's lock. In the 2000s, Boeing

consistently won over 80% of Japan's airline orders. Japanese airlines, perhaps incentivized by supporting their domestic suppliers, stayed loyal to Boeing. Between 2003 and 2013, Boeing swept virtually all major widebody orders from the top carriers, ANA and JAL. While the smaller carrier Skyark did place an order for Airbus A380s in 2011, which later fell through, the major Japanese flag carriers remained elusive for Airbus. Airbus executives lamented that Boeing's deep industrial relationships acted like golden chains tying customers to Boeing. And it wasn't far from the

truth. With Japanese companies building a third of the 787, the Japanese government and airlines had an implicit interest in the program's success. In 2011, when Boeing's 787 was delayed and Airbus's competing A350 was still in development, Airbus saw a narrow window. They courted JAL and ANA aggressively. The tide turned slightly after the Dreamliner's early woes. In October 2013,

Japan Airlines shocked the industry by ordering 31 Airbus A350s, Airbus's first ever major jet order from JAL. The deal, worth $9.5 billion at list prices, broke Boeing's monopoly at JAL and was a huge win for Airbus. While JAL executives publicly denied that the 787's recent troubles influenced the decision, industry analysts viewed it as a clear signal of dissatisfaction with Boeing's performance. In other words, Boeing's stumble gave Airbus an opening. However, even that Airbus win

came with strings attached. The announcement rattled Japan's aerospace industry leadership. They worried that if Airbus planes gained share in Japanese fleets, the country's leverage in Boeing might diminish. Airbus's CEO even dangled the idea of partnering with Japanese companies, saying the A350 order gives us momentum to look for joint R&D with Japan for future aircraft. Essentially, Airbus was offering a smaller scale version of what Boeing had industrial cooperation in exchange for purchases. We did see some Japanese firms later get Airbus work. For example, Mitsubishi

Heavy Industries builds cargo doors for the Airbus A380 and various Japanese suppliers contribute to the A350. But Boeing's entrenched partnership was not easily undone. Indeed, ANA, Japan's other big carrier, stayed firmly with Boeing, even doubling down on 787s and later 777s. As of 2019, ANA had 83 Dreamlininers, the world's largest 787 fleet, and it became a launch customer for Boeing's next model 2. Japan's government never openly directed airlines what to buy. But historically, there was

a Japan incorporated alignment where supporting Boeing and by extension Japanese supplier jobs was seen as good strategy. Airbus had finally cracked the door open, but Boeing still held the castle.