---
video_title: "The One Chip Apple Can’t Master (And Why It Costs Them Billions)"
video_id: 077SxpQyj94
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=077SxpQyj94
video_date: 2026-02-17T12:49:22+00:00
video_description: |
  Apple is the master of vertical integration. They killed PowerPC, they killed Intel CPUs, and they are killing high-end GPUs. They own every atom of the iPhone's silicon—except one. The 5G Modem. For a decade, Apple has tried to build its own modem to escape Qualcomm's "No License, No Chips" royalty scheme. They spent billions, bought an entire division from Intel, and hired thousands of engineers. Yet, in late 2024/2025, they quietly surrendered again, signing a deal to keep Qualcomm inside the iPhone until 2027. 
  
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/behindasian
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/behindasia
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
What if one of the world's richest tech companies had to pay a tax to its rival for every single product it sold? It sounds absurd, but that's exactly the position Apple has been in with its iPhone. Every iPhone you buy sends a few dollars straight to Qualcomm, the chipmaker that owns the fundamental patent rights to 5G technology. In fact, Apple reportedly pays Qualcomm a fixed royalty of roughly $7.50 per iPhone just in licensing fees. And that's on

top of buying Qualcomm's chips. In 2019, Apple even shelled out a massive sum of $4.5 billion largely to cover back pay on these withheld royalties. Why would Apple, a company famed for controlling every aspect of its products, accept this arrangement? The answer is twofold. First,

because Qualcomm owns the patents that make cellular networks work. And second, because of one tiny but critical component, the modem chip that Apple struggled for over a decade to master. This is the story of Apple's multi-billion dollar struggle with Qualcomm over the iPhone's modem. It's a tale of technology, lawsuits, corporate pride, and an Achilles heel in Apple's otherwise tight grip on its hardware. Despite designing worldclass chips for processing, graphics, and AI, Apple still can't make a cellular modem as good as Qualcomm's, and that dependence has cost Apple billions. To understand the engineering challenge, we must look at the iPhone's unique architecture.

Unlike most Android smartphones which integrate the modem directly into the main processor system on chip to save space, the iPhone has historically relied on two separate brains. One is the application processor, the A series chip, which runs your apps and camera. The other is the discrete modem, a specialized chip whose job is to communicate with cellular networks, satellites, and GPS systems. Since the iPhone 14, this chip has even powered the emergency SOS via satellite feature. When you make a call, send a text, or use 5G mobile data.

It's the modem that connects your phone to cell towers and the internet. In essence, the modem is your phone's lifeline to the outside world. Unlike Wi-Fi or Bluetooth chips, which mostly handle short-range connections, a cellular modem must handle long range high-speed communication across various frequencies and technologies. It speaks the language of 3G, 4G LTE, and 5G, often simultaneously, and switches between them seamlessly as you move. It's also tuned to work with carriers around the globe from AT&T and Verizon in the US to Vodafone in Europe and DOKO in Japan. Each with their own network bands and requirements. In short, the modem is one of the

most complex and crucial components in a phone. If it fails, you get dropped calls, slow internet, or no connection at all. No matter how fast your iPhone's processor is, without a reliable modem, you essentially have an expensive iPod. Apple is famous for its vertical integration. The company designs its own processors, CPU/GPU, its device hardware, and the software that runs on them. This

tight control allows Apple to optimize performance and maintain high profit margins. Over the years, Apple has systematically brought more chip design inhouse, graphics processors, image processors for the camera, custom AI chips, and power management units. However, wireless connectivity has remained a stubborn outlier. Since the first iPhone, Apple has relied on external suppliers for its radios, using Qualcomm for cellular modems and Broadcom for Wi-Fi/B Bluetooth chips. While the media focus is often on the cellular modem, Apple has been fighting a two-front war to replace both of these connectivity giants with its own silicon. Why didn't Apple design its own modem from the

start? because doing so is extremely hard as we're about to find out. And Qualcomm had a virtual lock on the cutting edge cellular technology. Our story begins with a business model as controversial as it was profitable. Qualcomm, the San Diego based pioneer of the modern mobile modem, established a unique licensing system early on. If a manufacturer wanted to use modern cellular

technology, CDMMA, 3G, 4G, they generally needed to license Qualcomm's patents, Qualcomm held the rights to fundamental concepts in mobile communications. However, instead of charging a flat fee per chip, Qualcomm's standard model charged a royalty based on the entire price of the phone. For most manufacturers, this was typically around 5% of the devices value, capped at roughly $20 per device. Apple utilizing its massive scale had negotiated a different arrangement, a fixed per unit royalty, revealed in court to be approximately $7.50 per iPhone. Despite this

discount, Apple famously derided the practice as double dipping, effectively a tax on every iPhone sold that they believed should have been included in the chip price or significantly reduced. For years, Apple paid begrudgingly, sending billions to San Diego. While a 2011 agreement offered Apple rebates for exclusively using Qualcomm modems, tensions simmered. By the mid2010s, Apple began diversifying, introducing Intel modems into the mix. Intel had entered the space by acquiring Infinian's wireless business unit in 2011. By the launch of the iPhone 7,

2016, and iPhone 8/X 2017, Apple was dual sourcing chips to reduce leverage. However, Intel's technology lagged. To mask the performance disparity, Apple disabled advanced features on the superior Qualcomm modems so users wouldn't noticed the difference between carriers. Qualcomm noticed and they were not happy. In January 2017, the conflict erupted into open legal warfare. Apple

sued Qualcomm, demanding $1 billion in withheld rebates and accusing the chipmaker of abusing its dominance to charge unfair royalties. Apple argued that Qualcomm's no license, no chips policy was illegal and painted the company as a monopolist taxing innovation it didn't create. Qualcomm hit back hard. They filed counter suits claiming patent infringement and alleging that Apple had secretly shared Qualcomm's confidential code with Intel to help improve their inferior modems. The relationship deteriorated rapidly. It became a legal game of thrones in the telecom world. The US

Federal Trade Commission filed suit and antitrust regulators in South Korea levied fines. However, Qualcomm's defenses often held. In a major blow to regulators, the EU General Court enulled a 997 million euro fine against Qualcomm in 2022, and the US case was eventually overturned on appeal. The stakes were enormous. Qualcomm's licensing empire versus Apple's profit margins. Apple's

goal was to break Qualcomm's grip, but a massive problem loomed. 5G. By 2018, the next generation of cellular technology was arriving. Rivals like Samsung were preparing 2019 launches, and Apple risked being left behind. Their options were bleak, relying on Qualcomm, with whom they were at war, or Intel, who was struggling to meet performance targets. As 2019 dawned, the

court battles came to a head with a trial set for April. Apple faced a critical decision. If they lost the legal fight or failed to secure a viable 5G modem, the iPhone could fall a full generation behind in connectivity. In a dramatic turn, the companies announced a settlement in April 2019. On the very day their trial began, Apple agreed to drop all litigation and make a lump sum payment of approximately 4.5 to$4.7 billion. Crucially, this wasn't just a settlement fee. It was primarily

back pay for the royalties Apple had withheld during the 2-year dispute. In exchange, Qualcomm agreed to supply chips again, and the parties signed a 6-year license agreement through 2025. Qualcomm's stock jumped 23% on the news. Apple's reaction was flat. While Apple had secured 5G modems, they had effectively yielded. UBS analysts estimated that Apple would pay roughly $8 to

$9 in royalties per iPhone going forward. A solid win for Qualcomm. The tax remained. Why did Apple capitulate? The answer arrived hours later. Intel abruptly quit the 5G smartphone modem business.

Intel's CEO later admitted they saw no clear path to profitability without Apple as a client. Apple had known Intel's efforts were faltering. Ultimately, Apple had to make peace because only Qualcomm could supply the chips necessary for the 2020 iPhone 12 launch. The settlement was a multi-billion dollar life raft. By mid 2019, the status quo was restored. Qualcomm modems powered

iPhones and Apple resumed paying royalties. But Apple wasn't giving up. Behind the scenes, Certino was already plotting its next move to finally control this last piece of the puzzle. The ink was barely dry on the Qualcomm settlement when Apple made a bold counter move. In July 2019, Apple announced it would acquire the majority of Intel's smartphone modem business for $1 billion. This

wasn't just a patent purchase. It was a wholesale acquisition of infrastructure. Approximately 2,200 Intel employees, engineers who had been developing 4G and 5G modems, joined Apple's ranks. Along with them came a portfolio of roughly 2,200 wireless patents, bringing Apple's total wireless IP portfolio to over 17,000 patents when combined with their existing holdings. Apple's hardware chief, Johnny Scrugi, welcomed the team, noting that their expertise would expedite development.

The subtext was clear. Apple was gearing up to build its own modem to eventually break free from Qualcomm. It was effectively buying a head start. Many of these engineers had years of experience from Intel and Infinian, the original iPhone modem supplier. Apple's message was implicit but firm.

If we can't buy non-qualcom modems, we'll build them ourselves by hiring the people who almost got there. From 2019 onward, Apple poured resources into this in-house project. The plan was widely understood. Target the early to mid 2000s and 20s for the debut of an Apple 5G chip. Optimism ran high with Intel's talent and Apple's war chest. Industry watchers speculated that Apple

could move fast enough to launch a modem by 2022 or 2023. A Reuters report even suggested a 2021 target. The ambition was palpable. Apple wanted to cut Qualcomm out as soon as humanly possible. Apple stayed silent publicly, but clues emerged. By 2020, over a thousand engineers across San

Diego and Europe were working on the project. Rumors coalesed around the 2023 iPhone, iPhone 15 as the debut device. Even Qualcomm prepared for this reality. In late 2021, Qualcomm told investors it expected to supply only 20% of iPhone modems by 2023, implying Apple's custom chip would cover the other 80%. Qualcomm was effectively preparing for an Apple exit. However, by mid 2022,

the reality shifted. Famed analyst Mingchi Kuo dropped a bombshell. His supply chain sources indicated that Apple's 5G modem development may have failed to meet deadlines. Instead of the predicted 20% share, Qualcomm would retain 100% of the iPhone 15 business. Apple's grand plan to minimize its rivals role by 2023 had collapsed. What went wrong? While details remain secret,

the engineering challenge proved greater than anticipated. Prototype chips likely suffered from issues with power efficiency or performance compared to Qualcomm's Snapdragon series. Apple could not risk releasing a flagship iPhone with inferior connectivity. Recognizing this, Qualcomm CEO Cristiano Ammon confidently noted, "They know where to find us," signaling they were ready to fill the void left by Apple's delays. Apple kept the struggle under wraps, but actions spoke loudly. The iPhone 15 launched in 2023 with Qualcomm modems inside,

just as previous models had. Behind the scenes, Apple faced a tough reality. With their original licensing deal expiring in 2025 and their own silicon not yet ready, they had to secure a stop gap. This leads us to the question, why has this been so hard? Apple has virtually unlimited money and the world's best silicon engineers. They have designed worldbeating chips for Macs and iPhones.

So why is a modem different? To understand the delay, we must look at what makes cellular modems uniquely difficult to design. It turns out that a cellular modem is one of the most technically demanding chips in existence. A completely different animal from a processor or graphics chip. The primary challenge is that a modem must navigate the messy analog world of radio signals, not just the orderly digital world of ones and zeros. Designing a modem requires mastering

both advanced digital signal processing and highfrequency RF radio frequency engineering. A mistake in either domain means the chip simply won't work reliably in the real world. A top tier smartphone modem today must support an astonishing array of technologies. Legacy 2G and 3G still vital for voice in many regions. Multiple flavors of 4G LTE and the complex spectrum of 5G from sub6 GHz bands to the ultraast millimeter wave frequencies. But the bar has been raised even

higher. Modern iPhones now require non-terrestrial network, NTN, support for satellite connectivity. Designing a single chip that can hand off a call between a cell tower and a low Earth orbit satellite without draining the battery added a layer of difficulty that didn't exist when Apple started this project. Furthermore, the modem must transmit and receive on these frequencies simultaneously to boost speed, a technique called carrier aggregation. Qualcomm's latest chips can aggregate six or more bands at once. Real world analysis of Apple's C1 chip in

the iPhone 16 confirms it handles fewer, typically three times aggregation, limiting its peak speeds compared to the competition. Additionally, the C1 lacks support for MMWave, the ultraast 5G used in dense US cities, relying entirely on the slower but more reliable sub6 GHz bands. Another layer of difficulty is power efficiency. Wireless communication is inherently power hungry. A modem must dynamically ramp energy up to reach distant towers and instantly throttle back to save battery. The algorithms managing this and the analog circuitry like power amplifiers and filters

must be tuned to perfection. If Apple's design is even slightly less efficient than Qualcomm's, the iPhone runs hotter and dies faster. Interestingly, early reviews of the C1 modem suggest Apple prioritized this efficiency over raw speed, achieving battery life par despite the slower throughput. Then there is the logistical nightmare of testing. When Qualcomm builds a modem, it underos a global gauntlet testing in dense urban canyons, rural dead zones, and on highways at high speeds. It must also pass certification with carriers worldwide. While acquiring Intel's modem

division gave Apple a head start, providing over 2,000 engineers and an established patent base, they still faced the massive task of expanding that testing infrastructure to meet Apple's own rigorous scale. Intel exited the business precisely because their efforts were faltering. Apple had to pick up where they failed and pushed the technology across the finish line. Finally, a modem must possess perfect interoperability. It has to talk to network equipment from various vendors Ericson, Nokia, Huawei across the globe. The 5G standard is thousands of pages long,

ensuring a new implementation works flawlessly with every cell tower is non-trivial. Established players have ironed out bugs over years of deployment. For a company like Apple, usually known for delaying products until they are perfect, this required a strategic compromise. They realized that catching up to Qualcomm's performance in a single leap was impossible. Instead of waiting for a Qualcomm killer, Apple accepted that its first generation modem would be good enough for entry-level devices like the iPhone 16e while keeping Qualcomm's superior silicon for the Pro models. This pragmatism admits a hard truth. In the world of radio frequency,

even Apple had to lower its sights to get in the game. It is often said that patents are the lifeblood of Qualcomm's business. To understand why Apple couldn't simply design a fresh modem and ignore Qualcomm, we must dig deeper into the concept of standard essential patents, SEPs. Qualcomm holds a trove of these patents, innovations so fundamental they were incorporated directly into industry standards like 4G LTE and 5G. In theory, SEPs must be licensed on frand terms, fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory because everyone needs them to build compliant devices. In practice, however, the definition of fair is fuzzy. Qualcomm's historical definition

meant high fees and a controversial policy known as no license, no chips. If a manufacturer didn't agree to Qualcomm's patent terms, Qualcomm wouldn't sell them the chips. Apple CEO Tim Cook publicly lambasted this in 2019, stating, "They have a policy of no license, no chips. This is, in our view, illegal." And accusing Qualcomm of charging exorbitant prices. Apple's 2017 lawsuit

and cooperation with regulators aimed to shatter this policy. Initially, it seemed to work. In 2019, a US District Court ruled against Qualcomm in an FTC antitrust case, labeling their practices anti-competitive. But Qualcomm fought back. By 2020, the antitrust decision was overturned on appeal. In 2021 and 2022, the US Supreme Court declined to hear appeals related to the case,

effectively cementing Qualcomm's business model. Regulators in other countries also settled or saw their actions blunted. The net result, Qualcomm's legal fortress held strong. Apple's own legal counterattacks hit similar dead ends. Even after the 2019 settlement, Apple continued trying to invalidate certain Qualcomm patents at the US Patent Trial and Appeal Board, PTAB, hoping to gain leverage for future negotiations. Qualcomm argued that Apple had no right to challenge

patents it had already licensed. The courts agreed with Qualcomm. As Reuters reported in 2022, the Supreme Court refused to hear Apple's appeal, upholding lower court rulings that Apple lacked standing to sue. The logic was simple. Because Apple had a valid license, it wasn't currently being injured or sued for infringement. Apple argued this created a catch 22. They were trapped

in a license until 2025 and couldn't preemptively clear the legal minefield. The courts dismissed this as too speculative. This created a patent trap. Even now that Apple has designed a working proprietary modem, the Apple C1, it cannot legally use it without addressing Qualcomm's IP. Apple must either license the patents, paying royalties, or design around them. An excruciatingly difficult

task given how broad cellular patents are. The 2019 license originally provided a 6-year truce, expiring in April 2025. If Apple had let that license expire while launching its own modem, Qualcomm could have marched into court seeking injunctions to ban iPhone sales. To avoid this scenario, Apple exercised its option to extend the patent license through March 2027. This extension was a strategic necessity. It allows Apple to ship its first generation of in-house modems in

the iPhone 16 and Air under the legal umbrella of the existing deal. Apple is effectively paying for safe passage. The company faces a dual challenge. It must engineer a working modem and pay its rival for the privilege of using it, at least until the license expires in 2027. By 2023, Apple's secret modem project was an open secret, as was the fact that it wasn't ready. Facing reality, Apple made

a pragmatic choice to avoid disrupting the iPhone. The definitive surrender arrived in September 2023 when Qualcomm announced a new agreement to supply Snapdragon 5G modem RF systems for smartphone launches through 2026. Qualcomm later clarified that this deal extends through March 2027. This ensures that the flagship iPhone 16 Pro, iPhone 17 Pro, and likely the iPhone 18 Pro models will continue relying on Qualcomm Silicon maintaining top tier performance while Apple iterates on the lower end. So, what is the plan for this 2024 to 2027 window? Apple executed the first major phase

of this strategy in February 2025 with the debut of its first in-house 5G modem. While rumors had long referred to this device as the iPhone SE 4, it officially launched as the iPhone 16E, the logic behind this launch was sound. The iPhone 16E is a lower volume entry point, making it the perfect test bed. Real world analysis of the Apple C1 modem confirmed what analysts had predicted. It was a baseline 5G chip. It supported fewer carrier aggregations than Qualcomm's flagship silicon and

lacked ultraast millimeter wave support, relying instead on sub6 GHz bands. However, Apple didn't wait long to iterate. In September 2025, the ultras slim iPhone Air launched with the second generation Apple C1X modem, bringing in-house silicon to a premium device much earlier than industry analysts initially predicted. After the 2025 debut, the rollout will accelerate. By 2026, this refined C1X modem is expected to expand into the mainstream iPhone 17 non-pro models.

If all goes to plan by 2027, coinciding with the expiration of the Qualcomm patent license, Apple aims to deploy its modem across the entire lineup, finally achieving independence. Crucially, the goal for this 2027 deadline is no longer to beat Qualcomm on raw specs, but simply to match them. Sources indicate Apple has shifted its expectations from leapfrogging the competition to ensuring feature par. The objective is to build a modem that is invisible to the user, one that works reliably enough to replace the expensive Qualcomm component without degrading the experience. It is a pragmatic good enough strategy for a company usually obsessed with being the best. It is also worth noting that Qualcomm likely won't disappear overnight. Apple is expected to

hedge its bets, continuing to buy Qualcomm chips for specific high performance needs like Mwave models in the US well into the late 2000s while filling the global volume with its own silicon.