---
video_title: "Huawei’s $20B Bet on the Future"
video_id: GTNH-X1Asb8
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GTNH-X1Asb8
video_date: 2026-03-24T08:52:56+00:00
video_description: |
  How does a company under the most intense sanctions in modern history continue to produce technological breakthroughs? The answer is its relentless, almost fanatical, commitment to Research & Development. 
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
In a world where Silicon Valley titans dominate headlines, one blacklisted Chinese firm has quietly outspent almost all of them in the lab. Huawei, yes, the same Huawei banned by the US, poured over 20 billion into research and development last year. That's more R&D spending than most of America's tech giants, including Intel or IBM, invest in a year. It sounds unbelievable. How can a sanctioned company fighting for survival be out innovating the world's richest firms in sheer research budget? Today,

we'll venture inside Huawei's engine room of innovation to unravel this mystery. Huawei's dramatic pivot to research can't be understood without the backstory of its fall. Not long ago, Huawei was on top of the tech world. In the 20110s, it grew from a Chinese telecom supplier into a global smartphone leader, even surpassing Apple in phone sales and challenging Samsung for the number one spot. It was also the prime architect of 5G networks worldwide, poised to dominate next generation infrastructure. Then came the storm.

Since 2018, the US government has unleashed a barrage of sanctions aimed at Huawei, branding it a national security threat. In 2019, the US Commerce Department added Huawei to its entity list, cutting off its access to American technology and components. Almost overnight, Huawei lost the right to use Google's Android software on its phones, and its partnerships with US chip makers and software vendors were thrown into doubt. Worse was yet to come. In 2020, Washington tightened the screws with a blanket ban on advanced semiconductors. Any chip made

with US tools or design software could not be sold to Huawei. This move effectively barred TSMC, the world's leading chip foundry, from manufacturing Huawei's cuttingedge Kirin processors. Huawei's lifeblood for premium smartphones and telecom gear was cut off. Allied countries like the UK, Australia, and Japan followed by excluding Huawei from 5G network rollouts under US pressure. The result, Huawei's smartphone business went into freefall and its global 5G contracts faced intense scrutiny. In 2020, Huawei still managed record revenue, 891 billion un as 5G deployments boomed,

but by 2021, its sales collapsed by nearly a third under sanctions. The once profitable consumer division, phones and gadgets, was gutted. Revenue in that segment plunged 50% in a year. Huawei even sold off its entire Honor smartphone brand in late 2020 to keep that unit alive outside the sanctions shadow. Inside Huawei, the mood turned from triumphant to survival mode. Founder and CEO

Ren Jenf issued stark warnings to employees. In an internal memo that went viral in China, Ren wrote, "Huawei needs to tone down any overoptimistic forecast and make survival its most important creed in the next 3 years." He predicted a painful period lasting a decade and urged staff to focus on saving the company rather than chasing lofty growth ambitions. The message was clear. Huawei was in the fight of its life. Normal cost cutting wouldn't save it. The usual playbook had to be

thrown out. Since the company couldn't buy many critical technologies anymore, it had to invent its own. As one Huawei representative put it, since the company cannot acquire modern technologies, it should increase investment in developing its own solutions. In other words, research became a matter of survival, not just growth. The Chinese government, for its part, was widely suspected of propping up Huawei as a strategic national champion. But analysts note

that Huawei's resilience has been multifaceted. Yes, patriotic Chinese consumers rallied behind it, and state agencies likely funneled business its way. Yet, Huawei itself took drastic steps from stockpiling critical components before the ban to restructuring its business lines. By 2019, anticipating trouble, Huawei had redesigned its 5G base stations to eliminate all US-made parts. It accumulated years worth of high-end chips like 7 nanometer Tiang base station chips while it still could. These moves bought time. Meanwhile, Huawei's once lucrative phone business pivoted

inward to the Chinese market. 95% of its handset sales are now within China and the company leaned on its less glamorous divisions. The carrier networks unit selling telecom gear remained a stable bedrock and the enterprise business, cloud services, data centers, and power equipment actually grew 140% over 5 years, partly offsetting the smartphone plunge. Still, overall income is far below pre-sanctions peaks. By 2022, Huawei's revenue had stabilized around 640 billion UN, down from 890 billion UN in 2020. Profit margins shrank, and 2022 even saw Huawei's first quarterly

loss in decades as R&D costs surged. This is the context in which Huawei made its $20 billion a year research gamble. The company was cornered, cut off, and in some ways dumbfounded as Ren admitted that its decades of using the best global components had suddenly ended. So Huawei's response was essentially double down on R&D and build everything ourselves. It's an audacious plan, perhaps the only plan they had. Let's dig into the numbers behind Huawei's R&D machine.

Huawei's research spending didn't just appear overnight. It has been growing for years, turbocharged by the sanctions saga. In 2021, at the height of the crackdown, Huawei invested $22.1 billion in R&D, a sum that was 22.4% of its revenue. To put that in perspective,

Huawei's R&D intensity was nearly double that of Alphabet/Google or Amazon. and more than triple apples relative to each company's sales. In absolute terms, only a handful of companies on Earth spend that kind of money on R&D. In fact, data compiled by Bloomberg showed Huawei was one of just six companies worldwide to top $20 billion in R&D that year. The others are the expected Western giants, Amazon, Alphabet, Microsoft, Meta, plus perhaps one or two others like Samsung. The number of researchers at Huawei is equally staggering. Out

of approximately 195,000 employees, 107,5% work in R&D. Think about that. Over half the company are engineers and scientists. By comparison, Microsoft has about onethird of its staff in R&D. Huawei's corporate culture has long been engineering driven, and now it's in overdrive.

Where is this huge budget going? For one, into securing Huawei's supply chain independence. A big chunk of R&D is focused on developing in-house alternatives to technologies it can no longer buy. Ren Jenf recently revealed that in the span of 3 years under sanctions, Huawei's teams re-engineered over 13,000 components and 4,000 circuit boards to replace foreign parts. They've sourced domestically or redesigned everything from radio frequency chips to power modules.

Huawei even undertook a complete rewrite of its enterprise IT systems, creating a homegrown ERP software called Meta ERP to replace Oracle using its own operating system, database, and compilers. These are not glamorous projects. They're the kind of behind-the-scenes R&D aimed at technological self-sufficiency. So Huawei can keep the lights on without US tech. A Huawei representative summed up the strategy. Cutting costs won't solve the problem. Instead, increase future oriented

investment to develop our own solutions. At the same time, Huawei has kept one eye on the horizon, funding cuttingedge research that might secure its future market leadership. According to Ren, despite the difficult period, Huawei did not stop moving forward. In 2022, it spent $23.8 billion on R&D and planned to invest more in cuttingedge exploration as profits allow. Crucially,

Huawei's private ownership structure, it's not publicly traded, it's essentially employeeowned, enables it to reinvest earnings heavily without worrying about Wall Street. Analysts point out this long-term planning mindset has helped Huawei endure in contrast to Western competitors who face quarterly shareholder pressure. Huawei can afford to run lower profits and plow money into research because its shareholders, mostly employees, and the Chinese state banks providing credit, are more patient. Indeed, Huawei's net profit plunged 32% in the first half of 2025 due to heavy R&D spending, but the investment is seen internally as vital for survival. Globally, Huawei's R&D budget now rivals that of the biggest spenders in tech. It surpassed Microsoft's and Apple's R&D outlays

a few years ago. Apple, famously flushed with cash, still spent a comparatively modest 18 to 26 billion on R&D in recent years, around 6 to 7% of revenue. Apple's late founder Steve Jobs once quipped, "Innovation has nothing to do with how many R&D dollars you have, implying it's about the quality of talent and ideas, not budget." Huawei seems intent on testing that maxim by throwing enormous resources into its talent and ideas. Only Amazon and Alphabet have consistently outspent Huawei in raw dollar terms. And remember, those companies count a lot of non-pure research

activities in their R&D. Amazon's figure includes content and software development, for example. Huawei's spending, by contrast, is largely focused on physical technologies, communications, hardware, chip design, engineering research, areas that are capital and knowledge intensive. Another lens to see where the money goes is by looking at patent output. Huawei is now one of the world's largest patent holders. In 2021, it filed 2,770 patents in the United States alone, ranking number

five among all companies for US patents. Globally, Huawei holds over 100,000 active patents across 40,000 families. An enormous portfolio spanning telecommunications, networking, computing, and more. This patent trove is both a byproduct of heavy R and D and a strategic asset in its own right, allowing Huawei to earn licensing income and participate in standard setting, for example, earning royalties from 5G patents. In 2022, Huawei even led the world in international patent filings via the WIPO system, a statistic frequently touted by Chinese media as proof of its innovation.

The sheer volume suggests that Huawei's billions in R&D aren't just disappearing into a black hole. They're resulting in technical knowhow that Huawei owns. So Huawei's R&D spending is enormous and growing, roughly 1/5if of its revenue in recent years. But how exactly is Huawei organized to use this money? What does its engine room of innovation look like on the inside?

For that, we need to peek into Huawei's unique lab structure and research culture. Behind Huawei's products lies a sprawling network of research institutes that the company collectively calls the 2012 laboratories. Despite the futuristic name, the 2012 labs were actually founded in 2011 to 2012 as Huawei's answer to IBM research or Bell Labs, a place for long-term fundamental R&D. Renzenf intentionally set up these labs to focus on 5 to 10year horizons beyond immediate product cycles. They are not governed by short-term profit targets. Researchers there

are free to explore fundamental science and cuttingedge technologies in ICT information and communications tech without worrying about quick returns. Think of it as Huawei's in-house university or think tank ecosystem. Within the 2012 labs, there are specialized institutes each dedicated to a core technology domain. For example, wireless technology lab. This lab drives research in wireless communications, essentially the birthplace of Huawei's 5G and future 6G technologies. Its mission has been to explore new wireless spectrum techniques,

advanced signal processing, and to push radio communication towards theoretical limits like the Shannon limit. The wireless lab delivered many of the breakthroughs that made Huawei's 5G equipment worldclass. Today, it's undoubtedly working on 6G. Huawei began 6G research a long time ago, according to Ren, with dedicated teams in places like Ottawa and Munich, exploring what networks in 2030 and beyond will look like. Huawei expects 6G to hit the market around 2030 and started investing in it in 2017, even as 5G was still being rolled out. By 2019,

Huawei had over a 100 researchers in Canada and China already working on beyond 5G wireless tech. Optical B and P lab. The B and P lab at Huawei leads research in optical communications, the fiber optic networks that form the backbone of the internet. Huawei is a world leader in optical networking gear. And this lab is why. Over the past decade, Huawei's optical researchers have

achieved something remarkable. They doubled the data capacity of a single optical fiber roughly every 3 years. This relentless improvement kept Huawei at the cutting edge of fiber optic transmission, enabling faster and more efficient internet infrastructure. The lab focuses on things like novel modulation formats, optical switching, and reducing latency and power in optical links. Their work led to industry first products such as ultra highcapacity wavelength division systems.

Photonix is a big buzzword here. Essentially using light for communication and potentially for computing. Huawei's investments in photonix mean it's researching photonic integrated circuits and advanced laser/dd technologies that could revolutionize data centers and telecom networks in the coming years. Noah's Ark Lab. This is Huawei's well-known AI research center. Founded in

2012 and now spanning locations in Shenzhen, Hong Kong, Beijing, London, Paris, and more. Noah's Ark Lab focuses on machine learning, computer vision, natural language processing, search, and AI theory. In effect, it's Huawei's answer to Google Deep Mind or Microsoft research in AI. By organizing AI research separately, Huawei ensured it wasn't left behind in the global AI race. Noah's Ark Lab has produced numerous academic papers and contributed AI features that get embedded into Huawei products like smartphone camera AI or telecom network optimizations. It's also a hub for collaborating with universities on AI. Many top AI PhDs have

been hired or funded through this lab. This entire R&D apparatus, the 2012 labs and allied programs, is the engine room referenced in our title. It's like an R&D city within Huawei. The ethos here is reminiscent of Cold War era Bell Labs or Japan's giant corporate labs. Think big, think long-term. Huawei explicitly divides its innovation pipeline into three stages.

First fundamental research at places like 2012 labs which explores realistic possibilities and is not bound by performance evaluations. Then applied research and product development by product line divisions turning ideas into commercial products and finally external collaboration universities and industry partners to broaden exploration. Ren metaphorically described Huawei's scientists as having climbed the Himalayas of science in basic research. And when the sanctions hit, he asked these scientists to come down from the mountain to join the battle of solving practical engineering problems. In practice, that meant Huawei redeploying many pure researchers onto urgent tasks of component redesign and software rewriting to keep the business running. It was

an emergency measure, but it underscores Huawei's depth. It had hundreds of PhDs in fields like chip architecture, materials, algorithms on standby who could be redirected from theory to practice when crisis struck. One concrete example of Huawei's lab output, in-house chip design. Huawei's semiconductor design unit, Highilicon, was a crown jewel of its R&D. Highsilicon's engineers created the Kirin series of smartphone processors and Ascend AI chips. These designs were worldclass.

The Kirin 9000 in 2020 was on par with Qualcomm and Apple's best at the time. That kind of capability came from years of investment in chip R&D. Even though high silicon cannot currently get its most advanced designs manufactured at TSMC due to sanctions, it hasn't stopped designing. Huawei is reportedly researching new chip architectures and chiplet packaging techniques to work around fabrication limits. It's also investing in domestic chip fabrication research.

Huawei now has two internal facilities in Shenzhen and Shanghai looking at semiconductor manufacturing equipment essentially trying to develop Chinese equivalents of western tools like EUV lithography. These are moonshot projects with long timelines but again that's what Huawei's R&D is aiming for. So Huawei's labs cover wireless, optical, AI, network, chip design, materials, software, thermal, cloud, automotive, and more. It's a comprehensive portfolio reflecting Huawei's wide business scope from phones to telecom to enterprise. We've seen how it's structured and what it has achieved, eg leading 5G, advanced chips, thousands of patents. Now, let's look at

some specific strategic bets and breakthroughs Huawei is making with its R&D war chest. The technologies it hopes will catapult it back to the forefront despite the hostile headwinds. Huawei's 20 billion R&D spend isn't just about playing catch-up with lost foreign tech. A significant part is aimed at leaprogging or securing leadership in future tech domains. Here are some of the key strategic bets Huawei is making. Areas where it's concentrating research

efforts for long-term payoffs. Next generation wireless 6G. Huawei refuses to seed its crown in telecommunications. It has been investing in 6G research since 2017 and running 6G trials in parallel with 5G rollouts. The company's wireless R&D teams under CTO Doctor Wong and others are defining what 6G could be. Envisioning networks with ubiquitous AI native capabilities,

terraertz frequency radio links, and even integration of communication with sensing. Imagine networks that can also radar map the environment. Huawei expects 6G to become reality around 2030. By starting early, Huawei aims to contribute heavily to 6G standards and patents just as it did for 5G. In fact, Huawei's Ottawa research center stocked with XNortell wireless scientists has been a hub for beyond 5G innovation. Betting on 6G is crucial for Huawei to maintain relevance

in networks because whoever holds the most core IP for 6G will enjoy a huge advantage in selling that equipment worldwide. assuming geopolitical tides allow advanced chip design and semiconductor tech. Chips are Huawei's Achilles heel due to sanctions, but also a focus of its boldest bets. High silicon continues to design advanced processors from mobile SOC's to AI accelerators and networking chips. Huawei has reportedly designed serverclass AI chips like the Ascend series that aim to rival Nvidia's GPUs for domestic China's AI needs. At the same time, Huawei is pouring research into

semiconductor manufacturing innovations. For example, it's exploring new chip packaging and architectures like multi-chip modules or stacking that could boost performance without needing the absolute smallest transistors. Huawei is also rumored to be involved in projects to develop lithography machines and other chipmaking tools indigenously. An extremely difficult, expensive endeavor traditionally led by firms like ASML. Another angle is EDA software electronic design automation. Huawei has launched its own EDA tools on Huawei cloud to start replacing

synopsis/cadence tools that are restricted. Essentially, Huawei is investing along the whole chip value chain from design to tools to potentially fabrication techniques. It knows that regaining semiconductor independence is a long game, but its spending now for payoffs 5 to 10 years out. New materials G and beyond. One clear win from Huawei's research bet has been gallium nitride G semiconductors. GN is a wideband gap material that outperforms silicon in highfrequency

high power applications. Perfect for 5G RF power amplifiers. Huawei started using GAN in its 5G base station amplifiers early which gave it a notable edge. Its 5G radios became lighter and more energyefficient than competitors in part due to GNbased electronics. A leading telecom analyst noted that Huawei's long investment in Gain put it ahead of Erikson and Nokia in this aspect of 5G hardware. Now Gen Tech is also relatively sanctionproof. China controls much of the world's

gallium supply and has plenty of equipment to make GAN wafers. These bets illustrate Huawei's broad vision. It's not just trying to survive by cloning old tech. It's also striving to innovate into new markets. The company's ability to file thousands of patents on 6G, AI chips, etc., even

under sanctions, shows its playing the long game. Already, some R&D achievements are bearing fruit. For instance, in 2023, Huawei stunned observers by releasing the Mate 60 Pro smartphone featuring a 7nanmter Kirin 9000s chip designed by Huawei and fabricated in China's SMIC foundry. This was seen as a breakthrough in China's semiconductor self-reliance. The phone's sudden launch during a period when the US commerce secretary was visiting China was interpreted as Huawei signaling its resilience. While a 7 nanometer chip is a couple generations behind the latest iPhone's 3nanm chip,

it was nonetheless an existential milestone for Huawei. Proof that its massive R&D on chips and coordination with domestic fabs could yield a viable high-end product despite the ban. Huawei is likely to double down on such integrated R&D efforts where it aligns its design prowess with whatever manufacturing capability China can muster.