---
video_title: "How America Engineered Japan’s Economic Collapse"
video_id: xExRZ0OH4Fo
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xExRZ0OH4Fo
video_date: 2026-05-06T11:34:24+00:00
video_description: |
  If you lived in the United States in the mid-1980s, there was one overwhelming geopolitical fear: Japan was going to buy the world. Japanese automakers like Toyota and Honda were annihilating Detroit. Sony and Panasonic dominated electronics. Japanese conglomerates were flush with so much cash they literally bought the Rockefeller Center in New York and major Hollywood studios.
  
  American manufacturing was dying, and Washington panicked. But rather than fighting a traditional trade war, the US deployed a much more elegant, devastating weapon: macroeconomics.
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  
  Sources & Further Reading:
  
  Primary Documents: The Plaza Accord (1985) & The Louvre Accord (1987) texts on global currency intervention.
  
  The Maekawa Report (1986): Japanese government advisory report on shifting to domestic demand.
  
  Geopolitical Context: The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers by Paul Kennedy, and 1980s economic writings by Samuel Huntington.
  
  Historical Market Data: Currency, trade, and interest rate statistics sourced from Federal Reserve Economic Data (FRED) and the Bank of Japan (BOJ).
  
  Corporate & Banking Data: Reports from the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) and 1986 employment estimates from Keidanren (Japan Business Federation).
---
In the late 1980s, the island nation of Japan was buying the world. The country was flushed with cash that defied modern economic logic, and they were spending it with a dizzying, unprecedented ferocity. In October of 1989, the Mitsubishi Estate Company purchased an 80% stake in the Rockefeller Center in New York City, the heart of American capitalism, for $1.4 billion. Weeks earlier, the Japanese electronics giant Sony bought Colombia Pictures for $3.4 billion.

Japanese investors were buying up luxury golf courses in Hawaii. Prime real estate in Los Angeles and priceless art in Europe. In 1990, a Japanese businessman named Roy Seaitto bought a Vincent Van Go painting for $82.5 million at an auction because he could. He famously claimed he wanted the masterpiece cremated with him when he died. By the end of the 1980s, Japan, a country

with 4% of the land mass of the United States and a fraction of its population, made up a staggering 42% of the global stock market. The value of Japanese real estate was so astronomically high and so detached from reality that economists made a famous calculation about the imperial palace in Tokyo. If you took the 1.15 square km of dirt sitting underneath the emperor's palace in Tokyo, that tiny patch of land was valued higher than all the real estate in the state of California combined. Every beach in Malibu, every mansion in Beverly Hills, every skyscraper in San Francisco, and millions of acres of farmland, one Japanese palace was worth more than all of it. And then

almost overnight, it all evaporated. The greatest economic boom in human history collapsed into the most devastating financial black hole of the modern era. A crash so profound it wiped out trillions of dollars of wealth, triggered decades of grinding, inescapable economic stagnation, created a generation of millions of societal recluses, and fundamentally altered the trajectory of global power. For decades, the story we've been told in history books and economics classes is that Japan got too greedy. We are told that a speculative mania naturally ran its course.

The real estate bubble naturally burst and the free market corrected itself as it always does. That is only a fraction of the truth. This economic collapse wasn't a random market accident. It was a targeted assassination. It was the result of a closed door meeting held in a luxurious New York hotel room in 1985. a meeting where the United States of America, facing the utter

destruction of its own working class, decided to pull a geopolitical lever. America didn't drop bombs on Tokyo. They didn't declare kinetic war. They didn't even build a tariff wall. They used a weapon far more elegant and far more devastating. They weaponized the global economy.

The architecture of this economic warfare wasn't designed in Tokyo. It was forged on the battlefields of Detroit, Cleveland, and Pittsburgh. For the postworld War II era, the United States was the undisputed, untouchable heavyweight champion of global manufacturing. American factories built the modern world. In June of 1979, United States manufacturing employment hit an all-time historical peak. 19.6 6 million workers. This sector was the beating

heart of American middle class prosperity. It was the promise of the American dream. Almost immediately after hitting that exact peak, the engine stalled and then it began to fall apart. Between 1950 and 1980, the industrial heartland's share of economywide jobs dropped by nearly 28%. Cities that were built on the fundamental promise of perpetual industrial growth were suddenly facing a terrifying reality. Soaring unemployment, rampant urban decay,

and a mass exodus of their populations. Over the next 40 years, the American manufacturing sector would permanently hemorrhage 6.7 million jobs, a 35% reduction from its zenith. The American rust belt was born. So what happened? If you were watching the nightly news in 1982, politicians

were giving you a very simple, very convenient explanation. American workers are getting lazy, unions are too demanding, and foreign products are better. But that was an oversimplification. The real culprit destroying American industry wasn't a sudden lack of technical competence. The factories didn't break overnight. The true driver was something impossible to the naked eye. The soaring

unstoppable price of the United States dollar. To fight off historic inflation in the late 1970s, the US Federal Reserve cranked base interest rates to an eyewatering 19%. This extreme rate acted as a giant irresistible magnet for global wealth. Foreign investors flooded money into the country to chase those guaranteed returns and that surging demand supercharged the value of the currency. A strong dollar sounds patriotic but in international trade it is a functional death sentence for domestic factories. If the dollar skyrockets, an Americanmade tractor exported

to Japan suddenly becomes laughably expensive for locals to buy. You didn't change the price of the tractor, but the exchange rate ruins the final cost. Your export business dies instantly while foreign imports become incredibly cheap for American consumers. But it works in reverse, too. Because the dollar has so much immense purchasing power, an imported Japanese car or television suddenly becomes incredibly cheap for an American consumer to buy. Because of the

supercharged dollar, American manufactured goods became globally uncompetitive overnight. The US trade deficit passed $100 billion by 1984. In less than a single decade, the United States shockingly shifted from being the world's largest creditor nation, the country everyone owed money to, into the world's largest debtor nation. America was bleeding out on the factory floor. The primary beneficiary of this American vulnerability, Japan. Rising from the radioactive ashes of World War II,

Japan had engineered an economic miracle. Guided by their powerful Ministry of International Trade and Industry, MITI, Japan operated on a hypereefficient, highly protected, export-driven economic model. They made incredibly highquality goods and they sold them to the world. When the US dollar surged in the early 1980s, Japan pounded. By 1987, Japan alone accounted for 36% of the US merchandise trade deficit, amounting to 57 billion. Motor vehicles and auto

parts made up 30% of all imports from Japan. The American market was saturated with Japanese cars, consumer electronics, semiconductors, and telecommunications equipment. This wasn't just numbers on a spreadsheet for economists to debate. The visual manifestation of this economic shift on the American psyche was profound. It wasn't just economic anxiety. It was

outright visceral hostility. Japan bashing became a prominent institutionalized and bipartisan feature of American political discourse. Lawmakers and citizens alike feared the rise of a monolithic, unstoppable entity they dubbed Japan, Inc. This terror was baked into 1980s American pop culture. John Mlan in Die Hard isn't fighting terrorists in an American corporate building. He's

trapped inside Nakatomi Plaza, a skyscraper owned by a Japanese conglomerate that has effectively bought Los Angeles. The dystopian future of Bladeunner is dominated by giant neon Japanese corporate archies. Hollywood was reflecting what Americans genuinely believed. Japan was buying the world and America was up for sale. Respected academics like Paul Kennedy published best-selling books predicting Japan's inevitable expansion. Scholars like Samuel Huntington warned

of a new semiconductor vulnerability, arguing that in the modern age, economics had become the continuation of war by other means. Down on the factory floor, this national panic mutated into toxic performative outrage. Politicians and labor leaders actively weaponized the frustration. In the hard-h hit steel regions, union organizers hosted charity events where unemployed Americans paid $1 for the opportunity to swing a sledgehammer at a Japanese-made Toyota. This performative outrage reached the highest levels of the United States government. In 1987, several

members of Congress gathered on the pristine lawn of the capital, took sledgehammers, and destroyed a Japanese Toshiba radio for the press cameras, protesting the structural trade imbalance. Washington recognized that this trajectory was unsustainable. The anger in the rust belt was boiling over. Protectionist pressures were exploding within Congress. Lawmakers were threatening to pass restrictive trade bills like the Gapart amendment which explicitly aimed to slap devastating punitive tariffs on Japanese goods. The US was on the verge of launching a

1930 style global trade war that threatened mutual economic destruction. But the executive branch, specifically the Treasury Department, didn't want a messy trade war. They wanted a surgical strike. They didn't want to change the laws of trade. They wanted to manipulate the value of money itself.

September 1985, the Plaza Hotel, New York City. The finance ministers and central bank governors of the world's five largest economies, the United States, the United Kingdom, France, West Germany, and Japan are quietly arriving. The architect of this gathering was the newly appointed United States Treasury Secretary James Baker. Described by political insiders as a highly skilled lawyer and an outstanding, ruthless political operator, Baker understood the ticking time bomb of American protectionism. He recognized that the overvalued dollar was the root cause of America's industrial distress. So he made it his strict defining priority to orchestrate a coordinated global

intervention to forcibly correct the misalignment. Behind closed doors, Washington delivered an ultimatum. Either artificially appreciate your currencies to weaken the dollar or Congress will lock your exports out of the American market. For Japan, represented by Finance Minister Naburu Teesha, this was an agonizing proposition. Teeshideda and his deputies knew exactly what this meant. If Japan artificially appreciated the yen, their goods would become vastly more expensive to

the rest of the world. It would immediately curtail their export sector. But looking down the barrel of an American trade embargo, Japan had no choice. The United States was their single most vital consumer market. Recognizing this looming existential threat, Japan bowed to the pressure.

They agreed to the terms. The final arrangement was kept as the world's bestkept secret. The organizers knew that to manipulate a global currency, you couldn't just pass a law. You had to deliver a coordinated psychological shock to the global financial markets. Over the summer, the nations negotiated specific covert arrangements for intervention operations, setting the exact billions of dollars each country was legally required to provide as ammunition for the financial assault. On Sunday, September 22nd, 1985, the G5 officially signed and announced the

Plaza Accord. The text of the agreement explicitly stated that exchange rates should better reflect fundamental economic conditions and that some further orderly appreciation of the main non-dollar currencies against the dollar is desirable. But words are not enough to move markets. You need firepower. When the global markets opened the following Monday morning, the central banks of these five superpowers coordinated an attack. They dumped tens of

billions of US dollars from their foreign reserves onto the open exchange markets by artificially flooding the supply of dollars. They purposefully drove down its price. The intervention was effective. The US dollar immediately fell by 4% against other major currencies. But the resulting shift in the Japanese yen was destabilizing. At the time of the accord in 1985,

the exchange rate hovered around 240 yen to1 US. Within mere months, the yen surged, reaching 154 yen per dollar by August 1986. By late 1987, the yen had strengthened to an incredible 128 yen to the dollar. In over 2 years, the Japanese currency had nearly doubled in value against the American dollar. For the United States, the Plaza Accord was heralded as a miraculous bloodless victory. The depreciated dollar eventually helped reduce the

trade deficit as a share of GDP by 2/3. American exports became Costco competitive once more. The dollar depreciated so significantly and so fast that by 1987 the major nations had to convene again in Paris and signed the Louv Accord, an agreement specifically designed to hit the brakes and stop the dollar from falling any further. The United States successfully neutralized the protectionist politicians in Congress and saved its industrial sector from immediate collapse without firing a single shot in a trade war. While America popped champagne over in Tokyo, panic was setting in because Japan had walked directly into a trap. With the yen doubling in value, Japanese

goods suddenly became twice as expensive for American consumers and international businesses to purchase. Japan's post-war economic miracle, the engine of its unprecedented Phoenix-like rise, had been built upon a foundation of hyperefficient export-driven manufacturing. The Plaza Accord effectively slammed a steel rod into the spokes of this economic engine. The immediate consequence was the Indaka or strong yen recession of 1986. The artificially high currency had a devastating immediate effect on Japanese industrial employment. Major steel and ship

building companies were forced to close plants, reducing employment by 20 to 40% in certain key sectors. By 1986, the Kdon, the powerful Japanese business federation, estimated there were 100,000 surplus employees in the top manufacturing companies and nearly 900,000 surplus workers across the manufacturing sector as a whole. terrified of a total economic collapse and facing intense international pressure from the US to permanently transition away from a strictly export-relant economy. The Japanese government sought a desperate new strategy. In April 1986, an advisory group led by former Bank of Japan Governor Haruo Mawa released a highly influential document known as the Mawa Report. The report called for a structural adjustment of the entire

Japanese economy. It argued that Japan must stimulate domestic demand. They needed their own citizens and corporations to borrow money and spend it inside Japan to keep the economy growing and to absorb the excess savings of the population. To execute this pivot and to stop domestic corporations from going bankrupt during the export shock, the Bank of Japan pulled its only lever, monetary policy. The central bank slashed the official discount rate in a rapid, unprecedented series of cuts. The rate was brought down from 5% in January 1986 to a historic low of

2 1/2% by February 1987. And crucially, the Bank of Japan maintained this incredibly loose 2 1/2% rate virtually untouched for over 2 years. By cutting rates this low for this long, the Bank of Japan effectively erected a neon sign over the country that read, "Money is practically free. Come and get it." The explicit goal was to encourage domestic investment and consumption, build new businesses, hire more people, invent new technologies. And the strategy worked,

but it worked too well and it funneled money in the exact wrong directions. Simultaneously, the Japanese government was undergoing a period of deep financial liberalization. Money, bond, and stock markets became widely accessible to domestic and foreign actors alike. Corporations were suddenly free to raise capital on open financial markets rather than relying solely on traditional, highly monitored bank loans. So, put yourself in the shoes of a Japanese corporate executive in 1987. Your traditional export avenues are stifled by the strong yen. You can't make a profit selling

cars or electronics abroad anymore. But suddenly you have an ocean of free credit readily available from the banks. What do you do? The cheap money did not primarily go into building better factories. It did not go into raising worker wages or funding long-term research and development.

Instead, it was funneled directly into financial speculation. This practice became known as zitec, which translates to financial engineering. Industrial companies mutated into hedge funds. Corporations realized it was far more profitable to borrow free money and dump it into the stock market or real estate rather than actually building products. At the height of the frenzy in the late 1980s, 50% of the total reported profits from Japan's largest corporations were derived purely from Zitec speculative investments rather than their actual core business operations. They

were making more money moving paper than making products. Meanwhile, the traditional banking sector was rapidly losing its corporate borrowers to the newly liberalized bond markets. Desperate for profits, the banks turned their attention to much riskier ventures, the real estate sector, and private households. Because Japanese land prices were traditionally high due to the island nation's limited habitable geography, banks readily accepted real estate as pristine, failproof collateral. As land prices rose, the underlying value of the collateral rose, allowing banks to legally lend even more money to the exact same borrowers. The borrowers used that new loan to buy

more land and stocks, pushing prices exponentially higher. It was an uncontrollable feedback loop of pure credit creation. Japan had intentionally lit the fuse and what followed was a firestorm. With cheap cash flooding a financially deregulated system, Japan intentionally ignited the most spectacular and pervasive asset bubble the world had ever recorded. Between 1985 and the end of the decade, the nation descended into a euphoric speculative mania. The numbers generated during

this period defy modern economic logic. Between 1956 and 1986, land prices in Japan had already increased by an astonishing 5,000%. But the bubble of the late 1980s pushed valuations into the realm of the absurd. In 1988 alone, residential area prices in Tokyo surged by 69% in a single year. Commercial districts rose by 21%. As Tokyo prices began to level off because no human being could

afford them, the speculative fire spread outward. In Osaka, commercial and residential land prices increased by 37% and 41% respectively. At the peak of the real estate market, commercial land in elite areas like the Ginsa district could sell for as much as $139,000 per square foot. That is nearly $350 times the cost of equivalent premier real estate space in Manhattan at the exact same time. By 1990, the total value of the Japanese real estate market was estimated to be worth four times the value of all real estate in the United States. Keep in mind, Japan possesses only 4% of

the land mass of the US and has 100 million fewer people. Yet, they were four times wealthier in property. This land price inflation was so heavily distorted that real estate constituted 65% of Japan's total national wealth compared to 2 1/2% for the United Kingdom at the time. The wealth was so dizzying it began to distort reality. There were over 20 golf clubs in Japan that cost more than $1 million to join. At the peak of the bubble, it is estimated that the total market

value of golf club memberships in Japan was worth over 200 billion USD. In the art world, Japanese speculators began buying up European masterpieces at record-breaking prices as a place to dump their endless streams of cheap money. The stock market perfectly mirrored this mass delusion. The NIK225 index, which hovered around 13,000 in early 1986, exploded. It broke the 20,000 mark in January 1987. And by December 29th, 1989, the NIK reached its all-time historical peak, touching an

intraday high of 38,957 before closing 39,000. The stock market had virtually tripled in less than four years. This stock inflation was structurally hypercharged by Japan's kuritsu system. The kuritsu were networks of interlocking industrial firms centered around a single core bank. These corporations held amounts of each other's shares, a practice known as cross shareholding, designed to promote long-term business stability and prevent hostile takeovers from foreigners.

But during the bubble, this became an engine of phantom wealth. As the overall stock market surged, the value of these cross shareholdings artificially inflated the capital reserves of the core banks because the banks looked wealthier due to their stockholdings. International banking rules like the Basel Accord permitted them to lend out even more money to the public, pouring high octane aviation fuel onto an already raging speculative fire. At the peak in 1989, the price to earnings ratio on the Nikk225 hit an astronomical 70.9x trailing earnings.

This indicated a market utterly divorced from fundamental corporate performance. By this time, Japan represented 42% of the global equity market. The Japanese nation was operating on a staggering debtfueled delusion. According to analyses by the Bank for International Settlements, this period was characterized by profound euphoria. Market participants actively convinced themselves that the low interest rates and doubledigit asset growth would continue indefinitely. They

ignored all clear signs of unsustainable economic overheating. And yet every single anomaly of this era, the exploding real estate, the 39,000 NIK, the billiondoll golf courses, the Van Go paintings was a direct chain reaction response to the currency shock and subsequent interest rate panic forced upon Japan at the Plaza Hotel. The trap was set and the trap was full. It is a fundamental law of economics. No system can sustain infinite debtfueled exponential growth. In late 1989, the

Bank of Japan finally woke up from the euphoria. They recognized that the asset bubble was dangerously out of control, threatening to destroy the long-term structural stability of the nation. To cool the overheating economy, a newly appointed central bank governor named Yasushi Mo, later dubbed the demon with a heart of gold, abruptly reversed course. He forcefully raised the official discount rate from its extended low of 2 1/2%. The rate was hiked to 4.25% by late December 1989 and

continued to climb until it reached 6% by August 1990. The needle had finally touched the balloon. The impact of the tightening monetary policy was catastrophic, immediate, and asymmetrically destructive. Lending costs increased drastically, immediately cutting off the flow of cheap credit that had sustained the vast zitc operations and real estate speculations. The stock market was the first to break. Opening 1990 at 38,900, the NIK225 entered a terrifying freefall. By December 1990,

the index had slid to 23,800, wiping out nearly 40% of its total value in a single calendar year. Over the next few years, the market would lose 60% of its peak value. Real estate followed closely behind. By late 1991, property prices began an uncontrollable downward correction. Commercial land prices fell by approximately 50% over the decade following their 1992 peak. In elite areas

like the Ginsa district, land values eventually evaporated to 1% of their 1989 peak. The crash left the Japanese banking system holding trillions of yen in bad loans tied to worthless real estate and decimated stock portfolios. Because loans had been issued based on the hyperinflated collateral of 1989 land prices, corporate borrowers were underwater. They owed billions more than their assets were actually worth. A healthy capitalist system knows exactly how to handle this. Insolvent

companies are forced into bankruptcy. The banks liquidate the remaining assets, clear the bad debt from their ledgers, take the loss, and redirect new capital to productive enterprises. It is the concept of creative destruction. But that is not what Japan did. The Japanese political and regulatory response was to outright deny the severity of the crisis. The banks were terrified.

Under international banking standards, banks are required to maintain a certain ratio of capital reserves. If Japanese banks officially recognize these loans as non-performing, meaning they admitted the money was gone, it would wipe out their capital reserves. They would fail international standards and face immediate catastrophic collapse. So instead of taking the loss, they engaged in a deceptive fatal financial practice known as evergreening. The banks issued sham loan restructurings, extending new lowinterest credit to functionally bankrupt corporations just so those companies could make the minimum interest payments on their old debt. The loan looks healthy. In reality, it is a financial corpse. This systemic refusal to

accept losses birthed a parasitic economy of zombie companies. These were businesses that were technically dead, generating cash flows insufficient to cover their debt, but kept on life support by the state and the banks purely to avoid recognizing the financial catastrophe. The retail giant Dier, a 96,000 employee firm that expanded recklessly during the bubble by buying up hotels, real estate, and even a professional baseball team, became the poster child for this era. Under normal circumstances, Dier would have entered receiverhip, but it was repeatedly bailed out because government ministers deemed it too big to fail. By the early 2000s, it was estimated that a staggering 30% of all publicly traded firms in sectors like retail, construction, wholesale, and real estate were zombies. These zombies actively destroyed the broader Japanese economy.

Shielded from bankruptcy, they hoarded market share, artificially depressed product prices, and retained labor whose productivity had sharply declined. This systemic congestion prevented new innovative and productive companies from entering the market. Banks wouldn't lend to healthy startups because all their capital was tied up keeping the zombies alive. This lack of creative destruction suffocated the nation, resulting in economic losses estimated to cost taxpayers at least 20% of Japan's gross domestic product. Japan refused to take the short-term pain of a crash and instead chose the long-term agony of a slow decay. This crash and

the subsequent policy failures triggered what is universally recognized as Japan's lost decades. The economic stagnation was unyielding. Between 1991 and 2003, the Japanese economy grew by a miserable 1.14% annually, a fraction of its former worldbeating pace. Between 1995 and 2025, Japan's share of the global nominal GDP shrank drastically from nearly 18% down to 3.6%. Real wages for the

Japanese working class fell by 11% as terrified companies hoarded cash instead of investing in their workforce or research and development. But the human toll of this engineered stagnation was devastating. During the miracle years, Japanese society was built on the promise of lifetime employment. You graduate, you join a company, and they take care of you until you retire. The crash destroyed that social contract forever. Companies replaced full-time employees with cheap temporary

dispatch workers. And the psychological trauma of this prolonged economic depression severely fractured the nation. In 1997, as major financial institutions finally began to officially fail, the suicide rate in Japan spiked heavily, increasing by an alarming 34.7% in 1998 alone. That year, total suicides reached nearly 33,000, and the annual total remained relentlessly above 30,000 for more than a decade. This crisis was most acute among men in their 40s and 50s. The salary men,

they were the direct demographic casualty of the bursting bubble, corporate restructuring, and the profound cultural shame of losing their ability to provide for their families. Yet, when the core industrial survival of the American Empire was threatened by Japanese export dominance, Washington did not hesitate. The United States utilized its diplomatic gravity to force a structural change in the global financial system that uniquely benefited its own industries at the direct expense of its closest economic rival. They cornered Japan into inflating a bubble and watched as it consumed them. Former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger famously warned, "It may be dangerous to be America's enemy, but to be America's friend is fatal.