---
video_title: "Indonesia’s 8% Growth Dream Has a Problem"
video_id: PjtwO_tJbkM
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PjtwO_tJbkM
video_date: 2026-06-27T09:18:34+00:00
video_description: |
  Indonesia’s economy is still growing fast. But behind the headline numbers, markets are getting nervous. The rupiah has fallen, fuel subsidies are rising, and President Prabowo’s big spending plans are testing Indonesia’s long-standing fiscal discipline. This video explains why Indonesia is not collapsing, but why trust in its economy is now being tested.
  
  Narrated By Tom McKay
  https://www.instagram.com/tmckay715/
  https://www.youtube.com/@UC8blX3YnHDG9e9_E9KjPK6g 
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  
  Source list
  
  Reuters — Indonesia’s 2026 budget, deficit target, free meals budget cuts, and fiscal pressure.
  
  Reuters — Bank Indonesia’s surprise off-cycle rate hike, rupiah pressure, and investor concerns.
  
  World Bank — Indonesia Economic Prospects, June 2026, including growth outlook and fiscal risks.
  
  Reuters — Pertamina fuel price increase and cost-of-living pressure.
  
  BPS data, reported by VietnamPlus/The Diplomat — Indonesia’s shrinking middle class from 2019 to 2024.
  
  Reuters / Danantara / The Diplomat — Indonesia’s new commodity export controls through Danantara Sumberdaya Indonesia.
---
Over the past 20 years, Indonesia's economy has been one of Asia's biggest success stories. That reputation wasn't just built on growth. It was built on strict discipline. For years, Indonesia kept deficits small, public debt manageable, and avoided reckless fiscal policy. But now, that hard one reputation is being tested. At first glance, the economy still looks fantastic.

In the first quarter of 2026, Indonesia posted GDP growth of 5.61% yearonear, its fastest annual growth rate in over 3 years. Household spending grew by 5.52%. Investment rose by nearly 6% and government spending surged by 21.8%. But take a closer look and warning lights are flashing. The

Indonesian rupia recently tumbled to nearrecord lows, forcing the central bank into a rare offcycle rate hike. Expensive government subsidies are putting heavy pressure on the state budget, and foreign investors are starting to worry that President Proo Subanto's ambitious spending plans might be stretching Indonesia's fiscal discipline to its limit. This is no longer just a story about economic growth. It's a story about trust. So, in this video, we're going to explain why Indonesia's economy is suddenly looking shaky, how the government is balancing explosive growth against financial stability, and what could happen next. So, let's explain why the Indonesian economy

is suddenly making markets nervous. As we see it, there are at least five reasons you might be a bit wary right now. The first and most obvious is President PBOO's massive spending agenda. For context, since coming to power in late 2024, PBO has made it crystal clear that he isn't satisfied with Indonesia's historic average growth rate of around 5%. He wants to push it to a highly ambitious 8%. To reach that goal, this administration is stepping

heavily into the economy, dramatically increasing welfare spending, defense budgets, and statebacked development projects. The most prominent example is PBO's flagship free nutritious meals program. in the 2026 budget originally lifted the free meals allocation to 335 trillion rupia before officials later slowed the roll out and reportedly reduce the plan budget from about 20 billion US to about 15 billion. Overall, the government approved a 3,842 trillion rupia budget for 2026 with a deficit target of 2.68% of GDP. That 2.68% target technically sits below Indonesia's strict legal

deficit limit of 3%. But it is close enough to make investors nervous. And to understand why that 3% limit matters so much, you have to look back to 1998. During the Asian financial crisis, Indonesia was absolutely devastated. The rupia lost roughly 80% of its value against the US dollar in a matter of months. Inflation skyrocketed to around 60% and GDP contracted by more than 13%. The

economic collapse triggered major social unrest and ultimately brought down President Suarto. After the crisis, a newly democratic Indonesia established a remarkably strict fiscal framework, legally capping budget deficits at 3% of GDP. That single rule became the absolute bedrock of Indonesia's modern economic credibility. Anyway, this is exactly why PBO's spending plans matter so much today. The question isn't whether feeding kids or building infrastructure is a good idea.

The question is whether the government can pump this much money into the economy this quickly without blowing past the 3% limit and weakening the fiscal discipline that foreign investors have trusted for years. The second caveat worth mentioning is that even Indonesia's incredibly strong GDP numbers are no longer enough to fully reassure investors. To be perfectly clear, this doesn't mean Indonesia is making up its GDP figures. The economy genuinely is growing, but the quality of that growth is now coming under scrutiny. The World Bank recently pointed out that Indonesia's 2026 growth outlook is mostly a reflection of stronger thanex expected firstarter numbers, noting that this early strength is being helped heavily by front-loaded public spending rather than a comfortable external environment. In short, this matters because Indonesia's deficit

limit is calculated as a share of GDP. If the economy looks mathematically bigger on paper, the government effectively creates more room to run a larger absolute deficit while technically staying under the 3% rule. This explains why trust in the data suddenly matters so much. When investors lose confidence, they stop taking headline numbers at face value. They start asking what is actually driving the growth. Is it organic private demand or is the state spending

heavily to keep the numbers strong? Investors are asking whether the headline number fully reflects underlying economic conditions. It shows how much of that momentum is now heavily dependent on the state. The third major headache for the Indonesian economy is fuel. For context, as global oil prices surged and the rupia weakened, the cost of keeping Indonesia's fuel subsidies running skyrocketed. By the end of May 2026, government spending on subsidies for fuel, electricity,

and fertilizers had jumped 28% yearonear to around 203 trillion rupia. Meanwhile, headline inflation climbed to 3.08% 08% in May. To reduce pressure on the state budget, the government allowed the state energy company Pertamina to raise prices for some non-subsidized fuels. In early June, the price of pertamax, a fuel heavily relied on by the middle class, jumped by 32.1%. The subsidized pertilite

price was left unchanged, but the signal to the market was obvious. The government cannot afford to absorb every price shock forever. This leaves Proo's government caught in a difficult political trap. If they keep fuel prices artificially low, the state budget faces heavy pressure, pushing them closer to that 3% limit. But if they let fuel prices rise, they squeeze ordinary citizens. That

pressure is already spilling out into the streets. On June 12th, hundreds of students protested in Jakarta, demanding lower living costs and calling for the government to rethink its expensive public programs. The fourth issue making markets cautious is the currency. But the rupia problem is no longer just about exchange rates. It's about whether Bank Indonesia still looks independent.

Over the last few months, the Indonesian rupia has faced relentless sell-offs, falling to a near record low of roughly 18,190 to the US dollar by early June. This forced Bank Indonesia into a sudden change of direction. Before this, the central bank had cut rates several times after Proo. But as the rupia went into freefall, Bank Indonesia had to abruptly pivot from supporting domestic growth to defending external stability. In May, they hiked rates by 50 basis points. Then on June 9th, they delivered a rare offcycle rate hike of another 25 basis points,

pushing the benchmark rate up to 550%. The move provided some temporary relief, strengthening the rupia slightly to around 17,930 per dollar by mid June. But the currency remains under intense scrutiny. This is where the institutional issue becomes so important. Investors are watching closely to see whether Bank Indonesia can resist political pressure. Anyway, these institutional

concerns deepened after Bank Indonesia agreed to a burden sharing arrangement where the central bank effectively raised the interest it pays on government deposits while separately buying government bonds in the secondary market. Now, central banks buying bonds is part of normal operations. But in Indonesia, this revived concerns that the central bank was being pulled closer to government financing, mirroring past arrangements linked to direct support for government spending. Concerns grew in January 2026 when Parliament appointed Thomas Giwandono, who happens to be President Poolo's nephew, as a deputy governor of Bank Indonesia. While he promised to uphold the central bank's independence raised red flags among investors about whether monetary policy was becoming tied to the president's growth agenda. On top of this, wealthy

business figures were reportedly encouraged to buy lowyield patriot bonds linked to the country's sovereign wealth fund Danara. While supporters frame this as national development finance, critics see it as a sign that the state is leaning heavily on private capital to support its agenda. This is why the Rupia problem is fundamentally a credibility story. PBOA wants cheaper money to fuel his 8% growth target, but the central bank is being forced to make borrowing more expensive just to stabilize the economy. At the same time, markets are asking whether Indonesia's institutions are strong enough to push back against political pressure. And the fifth issue is

Indonesia's increasingly interventionist approach to commodities like coal, palm oil, and nickel. First, they are strictly enforcing rules requiring natural resource exporters to keep a large share of their foreign exchange earnings parked onshore in state controlled banks. Second, they are moving to tighten state oversight over physical commodity exports via a state firm under Danara called DSI or Danara Subura Indonesia. Right now, during a transition period, DSI is functioning more as an oversight and reporting body. It has promised industry groups that it will act as a facilitator rather than a trader and won't disrupt existing contracts. However, after this transition period,

specific covered commodities are set to move under state controlled export arrangements. Exporters have asked basic questions about how contracts, payment currency, pricing, and cash flow are going to work and whether sales through DSI will still be treated as exports. From the government's perspective, this is a nationalist policy. It wants to reduce offshore tax avoidance and keep more of Indonesia's wealth at home. But from the market's perspective, this creates uncertainty. When Indonesia moves towards stricter state control over exports,

buyers and investors become naturally anxious. But beneath all of this macroeconomic data, there is a deeper structural problem. Indonesia's growth isn't creating enough secure middle class jobs. According to official government data, Indonesia's middle class actually shrank from 21.5% of the population in 2019 to just 17.1% in 2024. Part of the issue is the type of foreign

investment Indonesia is attracting. The country is receiving billions to fund mining and nickel processing operations. But these industries are highly mechanized. They create value, but they do not create a massive number of stable jobs. At the same time, laborheavy sectors like textiles have faced fierce competition from cheaper international alternatives. This

means Indonesia can consistently post 5% GD growth while many workers still struggle to find stable, well-paying employment. This is exactly why PBO's government is pushing large social programs. The government understands that too many Indonesians aren't feeling the benefits of headline growth. But investors worry that if Indonesia relies too much on state handouts without improving productivity and job creation, it may only treat the symptom instead of the disease. So what happens next? Well, the first thing to make clear is that Indonesia is not facing an economic

problem. It is a large, highly resilient economy and the World Bank still realistically expects it to grow by around 5% in 2026. The real issue is that the government's margin for error has shrunk and trust is being tested. For now, the government appears to understand the risks. Bank Indonesia has hiked rates. Some nonsubsidized fuel prices have been allowed to rise and officials have

reportedly slowed the rapid expansion of the free meals program, adjusting its budget from about $20 billion down to about 15 billion. Analysts have described this as a shift from a progrowth stance to a muchneeded pro-stability stance. Ultimately, Indonesia is not collapsing, but the government is being forced to confront a hard truth. You can promise 8% growth, but global markets still create real consequences for your currency, your budget, and your credibility.