---
video_title: "Why the Philippine Peso Keeps Falling"
video_id: 3cdTTXvGlbo
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3cdTTXvGlbo
video_date: 2026-05-28T13:19:25+00:00
video_description: |
  The Philippine peso has fallen to around ₱61 against the US dollar. But this is not just a currency story.
  
  It affects fuel, food, imports, medicine, foreign debt, business costs, and the daily budget of ordinary Filipino families.
  
  In this video, we explain why the peso keeps falling, why the Philippines needs so many dollars, and why the problem goes deeper than one bad trading day. The peso’s weakness is connected to inflation, oil prices, trade deficits, foreign-currency debt, weak local production, and the country’s long dependence on imports, remittances, and outsourced labor.
  
  This is the real story behind the peso crash — and why it matters far beyond financial markets.
  
  Narrated By Tom McKay
  https://www.instagram.com/tmckay715/
  https://www.youtube.com/@UC8blX3YnHDG9e9_E9KjPK6g 
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  
  Source(s): 
  
  Philippine peso / exchange rate: Inquirer Business reported the peso closing at ₱61.75 to the US dollar on May 19, 2026, while BSP’s exchange-rate page gives the official exchange-rate reference framework and daily peso-dollar data. Reuters also reported that the peso had breached the ₱60 level as inflation and oil pressure hit the Philippines.
  
  Inflation and transport prices: Philippine Statistics Authority, Summary Inflation Report, April 2026. PSA reported headline inflation at 7.2%, up from 4.1% in March, and transport inflation at 21.4%.
  
  Trade deficit and import dependence: Philippine Statistics Authority, Highlights of the Philippine Export and Import Statistics, March 2026. PSA reported the $4.51 billion goods trade deficit, with imports at 60.8% and exports at 39.2% of total external trade.
  
  Oil pressure and BSP response: Reuters reported that BSP Governor Eli Remolona said the central bank was considering an off-cycle rate hike because fuel costs were creating broader inflation pressure. Reuters also noted that the Philippines was vulnerable because it is an oil importer facing capital outflows.
  
  Onion price example: Inquirer reported red onions selling at ₱600 per kilo in late December 2022. The Guardian reported onion prices reaching up to ₱720 per kilo in Metro Manila, above the daily minimum wage at the time. WageIndicator also recorded the NCR non-agriculture minimum wage at ₱570 after the 2022 wage adjustment.
  
  Bataan Nuclear Power Plant debt: Vera Files reported that the government paid ₱64.7 billion for the BNPP: ₱43.5 billion in principal and ₱21.2 billion in interest, and that the plant never generated electricity. World Nuclear Association also notes that the final payment was made in April 2007.
  
  BNPP corruption case: The Supreme Court decision in Disini v. Republic declared Herminio Disini’s commissions linked to the BNPP transaction as ill-gotten. PNA also reported the Supreme Court ruling connected to the mothballed BNPP project.
  
  1983 debt crisis and structural reforms: NBER’s Debt Crisis and Adjustment in the Philippines discusses the 1983 crisis and near-exhausted foreign reserves. The World Bank’s 1986 framework said the external debt problem came into the open after the political crisis following Aquino’s assassination. OECD also discusses Philippine tariff reform and import liberalization linked to World Bank conditionality.
  
  Electronics and semiconductors: PSA reported that electronic products remained the Philippines’ top export group in December 2024. SEIPI reported that electronics exports were almost flat month-on-month in December 2024, while semiconductor components/devices fell sharply year-on-year. OECD says the Philippines’ semiconductor strength is mainly in assembly, testing, and packaging, and that no front-end semiconductor fabrication facilities had been set up in the country at the time of its report.
  
  Remittances: BSP data and Philippine News Agency reporting show personal remittances from overseas Filipinos reached $38.34 billion in 2024, equal to about 8.3% of GDP.
  
  BPO / IT-BPM sector: IBPAP reported the Philippine IT-BPM sector reached $38 billion in revenue and 1.82 million jobs in 2024. Reuters also reported the same 2024 targets and noted the roadmap goal of up to $59 billion in revenue by 2028.
  
  BPO wage petition and NCR minimum wage: Inquirer and BusinessWorld reported the BPO workers’ petition for a ₱1,200 NCR daily minimum wage in April 2026. NWPC’s official NCR wage table shows the non-agriculture minimum wage at ₱695 under Wage Order No. NCR-26.
---
On May 19th, 2026, the Philippine peso closed at 61.75 to the US dollar. For traders, it was a number on a screen. For the central bank, it was a warning. But for ordinary Filipinos, it meant something much simpler. Every dollar the country needed had just become more expensive.

fuel, food imports, medicine, machinery, foreign debt payments, all of them became heavier in peso terms. Because the Philippines depends heavily on imported goods and foreign currency flows, the peso's fall did not stay inside financial markets. It moved into ports, into the trucks, into the wet markets, and into the family budget. This is the real story behind the peso crashing to 61. It was not just one bad trading day. Oil prices, inflation,

global dollar pressure, trade deficits, and market fears were the sparks. But the fuel had been building for decades. The Philippines built an economy that needs dollars every day, but still does not earn enough from high value production at home to remove that pressure. That is the trap. The immediate pressure was clear. By April 2026, headline

inflation had jumped to 7.2%, up from 4.1% in March. Transport inflation surged to 21.4%.

That matters because transport is the bloodstream of an island economy. When fuel rises, trucks cost more to run. When trucks cost more, food costs more to move. When food costs more to move, market prices rise. And when market prices rise, wages feel smaller. At the same time, the country was

buying more from the world than it was selling. In March 2026, the Philippines posted a goods trade deficit of $4.51 billion. Imports made up 60.8% of total external trade. Exports made up 39.2%.

So when the peso fell to 61.75, it exposed one brutal fact. The country needed dollars constantly, but dollars had become more expensive. That is why the peso crash was not just a currency story. It was a production story. The short-term causes were clear. Oil pressure, inflation,

trade deficits, global dollar demand, and market fear. But the reason those pressures hurt so much is deeper. The country does not produce enough of what it needs. So when the peso weakens, it cannot easily replace expensive imports with cheaper local products. It has to keep buying from the world. And much of world trade is priced in dollars. To see how personal this becomes,

go back to late 2022. In Metro Manila, onions became more expensive than a full day of minimum wage labor. In December 2022, onion prices in Metro Manila ranged from about 600 to 700 pesos per kilo. At that time, the NCR non-aggricultural minimum wage was 570 pesos per day. So, 1 kilo of onions could cost more than a full day of work for a minimum wage worker. Onions became

expensive because of supply problems, shortages, smuggling, hoarding concerns, and weak planning. But the deeper lesson was simple. If a country cannot produce and manage enough of what it needs, every supply shock becomes a household shock and every currency fall becomes a household problem. That is why 61.75 matters. It is not only an exchange rate. It is the price of dependence.

Imported fuel, fertilizer, machinery, and foreign currency debt all become heavier in peso terms. Import dependent businesses either absorb the loss or pass it to the consumers. The Philippines needed more dollars to pay for imports, but the peso was losing value against the dollar. That is the squeeze. One symbol of this problem sits about 100 km west of Manila. In Baton, there is

a huge concrete structure that still stands today, the Baton Nuclear Plant. It was built during the Marcos era after the 1973 oil crisis when the Philippines wanted to reduce its dependence on imported fuel. On paper, the idea made sense. A nuclear plant could produce electricity at home and help protect the Philippines from another global energy shock. But that is not what happened. The plant was completed in 1984. It was never loaded with nuclear fuel. It was never

commissioned and it never supplied electricity to Filipino homes. Baton matters because it shows a pattern. Borrow in foreign currency, build a huge project, fail to get the expected return, then spend decades paying the debt. A project can fail in one decade, but the debt can survive into the next generation. Filipinos finished paying the loans and interest for the plant in 2007.

The total paid was 64.7 billion pesos. 43.5 billion pesos went to principal. 21.2 billion

pesos went to interest. And yet the plant never generated electricity for the grid. The Supreme Court later affirmed that Hermenio Dini, a close associate with Fernand Marcos, Senior, had received illotten commissions connected to the Baton project. Debt is not always bad. A country can borrow to build roads, ports, power plants, and railways. But if those projects do not

produce enough value, the debt does not disappear. It collects interest. It eats public money. And if the debt is tied to foreign currency, the country becomes more exposed. Whenever the peso falls, the peso story is also a debt story. When the currency weakens, foreign currency debt

becomes harder to carry. The government needs more pesos to buy the same number of dollars. And that money can leave less for hospitals, for schools, roads, and support programs. So, a weak currency can become a budget problem, then a household problem. By the early 1980s, the Philippines was already under heavy pressure. The country had borrowed heavily. US interest rates were rising.

Export earnings were under pressure and the government needed more dollars to keep paying its debts. Then came 1983. Opposition leader Beningo Aino Jr. returned to the Philippines from exile. He was assassinated at the airport on August 21st, 1983. As confidence collapsed,

pressure on the peso increased. The Philippines faced falling reserves, rising debt pressure, and a loss of trust in its financial management. This is how a currency crisis begins. It starts when banks and lenders doubt that a country can defend its currency and pay its debts. Once trust breaks, every choice hurts. Spend reserves and dollars run down. Raise interest rates and loans get

expensive. Borrow more and the debt grows. Let the currency fall and imports become more costly. In an import dependent economy that cuts deep. After the debt crisis, the Philippines accepted reforms pushed by international lenders. It reduced trade barriers. It removed import controls.

It lowered tariffs. The goal was to make the economy more open and competitive. At first, that sounds logical. Opening an economy can bring cheaper goods and foreign investment. But the Philippines opened up before enough local industries were strong enough to compete. Domestic

manufacturing did not become strong enough. Agriculture remained vulnerable and the country became more dependent on imported fuel, machinery, fertilizer, food products and industrial inputs. This created the peso trap. When the peso is strong, imports feel affordable. But when the peso weakens, import costs rise quickly. Because the country lacks enough local substitutes, consumers

cannot easily switch to cheaper local goods. In theory, a weak currency should help exports. But the Philippines does not fully fit that textbook story. Many Philippine exporters also depend on imports. Take electronics. Electronics are one of the country's biggest export sectors,

but much of the Philippine semiconductor role is still in assembly, testing, and packaging, not front-end wafer fabrication. The Philippines exports electronics, but it also imports many of the materials, components, and machines needed to make them. So when the peso falls, exporters may earn more pesos from dollar sales, but they may also pay more pesos for imported inputs. The advantage is limited. In December 2024, Philippine electronics exports were almost flat month, while semiconductor components and devices fell sharply year on year.

So the weak peso did not automatically create an export boom. It mostly made imported costs harder to carry. And if exports do not grow fast enough, the country has to find dollars somewhere else. This is where the Philippine model becomes uncomfortable. The country found two ways to earn dollars without high value factories. First, it sent workers abroad. Then,

it sold office labor to foreign companies at home. The first dollar machine is remittances. Millions of Filipinos work abroad and send money back home. In 2024, personal remittances from overseas Filipinos reached 38.34 billion. That was about 8.3% of GDP. This money supports families.

It pays for food, tuition, rent, medicine, homes, and small businesses. At the national level, it also brings foreign currency into the country. Those flows support consumption and help families survive shocks. But this also creates a painful reality. The Philippines has learned to stabilize part of its economy through workers who leave. Instead of earning enough dollars from high value

industries at home, the country earns a huge amount from its people abroad. Remittances help the Philippines survive. But survival is not the same as strength. A strong economy should not need so many families separated just to keep foreign currency flowing. In the second dollar machine is the BO industry. In 2024, the Philippine ITV BPM sector reached about 38 billion dollar in revenue

and 1.82 million jobs. Its road map aims for $59 billion in annual revenue by 2028. This sector earns foreign currency without exporting physical goods. A Filipino call center, finance support, or IT support worker can serve a foreign company and bring dollars into the country. But BO reveals the

same problem in a different form. The country is still not exporting enough high value products. It is exporting time, English skills, night shifts, customer service, and back office work. That work is real. It supports millions of families. But the model depends partly on a wage gap.

Foreign companies come because Filipino workers are skilled, English-speaking, and cheaper than workers in rich countries. When inflation rises, that model becomes harder to defend. Workers need higher wages because food, rent, transport, and electricity are rising. Companies want to keep costs low because that is why they came. In April 2026, a BO workers group filed a petition seeking a 1,200 peso daily minimum wage in Metro Manila. At the time, the NCR non-aggricultural minimum

wage was 695 pesos. A weak currency may help companies that earn dollars, but it hurts workers who spend in pesos. The company sees the Philippines as affordable. The worker sees the grocery bill rising. That is the contradiction. The Philippine economy

has become very good at earning dollars through people, but it has been weaker at earning dollars through strong domestic production. That is why the peso crash matters. It happened in an economy depending on imports, foreign currency debt, overseas workers, and outsourced labor. This brings us back to the 61.75. The trade deficit showed that imports were still larger

than exports. Inflation showed that imported costs were reaching households. Transport prices showed how oil shocks move through the economy. And the peso showed how expensive the dollar had become. A war can push up oil prices. A stronger US dollar can pull capital away. Higher interest rates can

make foreign currency debt more expensive. A bad harvest can force food imports. Weak exports can leave the country short of dollars. All of these pressures meet in one place, the exchange rate. This is why the peso problem is not just about the central bank. The central bank can raise rates,

sell dollars, and defend the currency for a while. But it cannot magically create factories. It cannot instantly make agriculture strong. It cannot remove oil dependence overnight. A currency is only as strong as the economy behind it. The peso did not crash to 61 because Filipinos

are not working hard enough. The problem is not labor. The problem is structure.