---
video_title: "Samsung’s $460 Billion Plan to Beat TSMC"
video_id: Pe_nY2EzEos
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pe_nY2EzEos
video_date: 2026-05-25T10:25:35+00:00
video_description: |
  South Korea built one of the world’s most powerful chip industries through Samsung and SK Hynix. But in the most advanced foundry race, Taiwan’s TSMC pulled far ahead.
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  
  Source List
  
  Nano scale and transistor physics: SRI NanoSense gives the DNA width reference at around 2.5 nanometers, Princeton lists silicon’s atomic radius at 0.132 nm, and IEEE Spectrum explains quantum tunneling as a limit in modern transistors.
  
  Foundry market share: TrendForce reported TSMC at 70.2% foundry share in Q2 2025, while Samsung was far behind at around 7.3%. Taipei Times also reported TSMC near 70% for 2025, with Samsung at 7.2% and about $12.63 billion in sales.
  
  TSMC annual sales: Focus Taiwan reported TSMC’s 2025 consolidated sales at NT$3.81 trillion, with record profit.
  
  Samsung and Tesla: Reuters confirmed Elon Musk said Tesla signed a chip supply deal with Samsung, valued at $16.5 billion through 2033. Use this number if you want the safer factual version.
  
  Samsung yield context: SamMobile, citing Hankyung, reported Samsung’s 2nm yields around 60% for some chips and around 50% for Exynos 2600, which is safer than claiming a confirmed 70% yield.
  
  Samsung 2nm and GAA roadmap: Reuters reported Samsung’s foundry push, GAA technology, and 2nm plans, while Samsung’s own foundry material explains its GAA/MBCFET direction.
  
  ASML EUV and High-NA EUV: ASML’s official product page explains EUV, 13.5 nm light, High-NA 0.55 numerical aperture, and 8 nm resolution. ASML also lists the TWINSCAN EXE:5200B as the second 0.55 NA High-NA EUV system for advanced production.
  
  Samsung High-NA EUV purchases: TrendForce reported Samsung’s planned purchase of two ASML High-NA EUV tools for about 1.1 trillion won, with delivery timing around late 2025 and early 2026.
  
  Yongin Semiconductor Mega Cluster: South Korea’s Ministry of Science and ICT said the cluster plan includes 16 new fabs and 622 trillion won in private investment by 2047. YNA also reported the plan and expected job creation.
  
  Yongin water supply: Invest Korea reported the long-term plan to supply 600,000 tons of water daily through dam conversion and water infrastructure.
  
  Samsung 2026 investment: Reuters reported Samsung planned more than 110 trillion won in 2026 investment for facilities and R&D.
  
  South Korea chip infrastructure support: Reuters reported South Korea’s plan for 14 trillion won in low-interest loans, including support for power transmission infrastructure for the Yongin and Pyeongtaek chip region.
  
  US CHIPS Act guardrails: NIST explains that CHIPS Act guardrails restrict recipients from expanding semiconductor manufacturing in foreign countries of concern. The Federal Register also covers the final guardrails rule.
  
  US export controls on Samsung and SK Hynix China fabs: BIS/Federal Register documented the removal of Samsung China Semiconductor and SK Hynix China from the Validated End-User list, effective December 31, 2025. Reuters later reported annual licenses for 2026.
  
  Hormuz and Qatar disruption: Reuters reported the ongoing U.S.-Iran war and disrupted Strait of Hormuz shipping, while Al Jazeera reported QatarEnergy halting LNG production after attacks on facilities in Ras Laffan and Mesaieed.
  
  Helium supply risk: Chemical & Engineering News reported that the Iran war threatened global helium supply, with attacks on Qatar and Hormuz disrupting roughly one-third of global helium supply.
---
A single strand of human DNA is 2.5 nanometers wide. A solitary silicon atom measures exactly 0.2 nanometers [music] across. Today, the global semiconductor industry is attempting to manufacture intricate computing [music] structures operating at a scale of exactly 1 nanometer.

At this microscopic [music] scale, transistors hit the absolute wall of physics. Electrons refuse to stay contained, [music] phasing through solid barriers in a process called quantum tunneling. A single atom out of place triggers catastrophic heat, ruining the device. Overcoming this requires capital expenditures unseen in human history. South Korea built its modern economic identity on a very specific type of [music] silicon. Tech conglomerates leveraged

state-backed infrastructure to absolutely dominate the global memory chip [music] market. But expanding into the far more complex foundry business proved vastly more difficult. Foundaries do not design chips. They manufacture advanced logic processors designed by external clients. And in [music] this space, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, universally known as TSMC, established a crushing monopoly. The numbers dictate the balance of power. In 2025, the

Taiwanese giant commanded nearly 70% of the global foundry market, posting 121 billion in sales. Compare that to Samsung Electronics. Despite being South Korea's flagship enterprise and the world's second largest foundry, Samsung held just 7.2% of the market with 12.9 billion in revenue.

TSMC wasn't just beating them, they were out selling them 10 [music] to1. The gap widened year after year. In chipm yield is the single most important metric. Samsung's first generation 3nanmter yields hovered around 20%. Because 80 out of every 100 chips went straight into the garbage, top tier clients like Qualcomm, Apple, and Nvidia fled the uncertainty, moving their premium silicon entirely to TSMC. Facing an exodus, Samsung delayed its 1.4 nanometer node to 2029 to fix

the immediate crisis. The pivot succeeded early in 2026. Samsung achieved a defining technological breakthrough, pushing the manufacturing yield for its new performance optimized 2nm process past the 70% gold standard. This threshold guarantees high volume commercial viability. Compared to the first generation process, the new node delivered a 12% boost in computing performance, a 25% reduction in power consumption, and an 8% reduction in total die area.

Mastering the complex multi-bridge channel feet structure allowed Samsung engineers to finally control electrical currents across miniature nano [music] sheets. This yield breakthrough fractured TSMC's monopoly overnight. TSMC's 2 nanometer capacity was booked out completely through 2028 [music] by advanced orders. Fabless design companies desperate for manufacturing capacity suddenly possessed a viable high yield alternative. Tesla capitalized on the opening immediately. The American automaker signed a massive foundry agreement.

They contracted Samsung to build [music] their next generation artificial intelligence processor, the AI6, on the new 2nanmter lines. Seeking to aggressively expand its autonomous driving and humanoid robotics capabilities, Tesla contracted Samsung to produce 40,000 wafers per month. The expanded contract pushed the total financial commitment to [music] nearly $50 billion. Volume production for the AI6 chips relies on a massive new manufacturing hub [music] located half a world away from Seoul. To bring advanced node production directly to North [music] American soil, Samsung constructed a state-of-the-art facility in Taylor, Texas. Commencing trial

production ahead of schedule. Securing the present allowed Samsung to look toward the future. Regaining the technological high ground demands pushing beyond the 2nanometer generation. It requires confronting the 1 nanometer physical barrier head on. The 1 nanometer road map requires abandoning existing transistor designs entirely. For over a decade,

FinFET architectures powered global computing by utilizing vertical fins to control electron flow. But at the 3 nanometer scale, electrons leaked straight through the base, forcing the industry to transition to gate allaround [music] nano sheets. This new design completely wrap the gate around the conducting channels to suppress leakage, pushing computing down to the 2 nanometer level. Advancing to 1 nanometer requires squeezing these atomic components even closer together. But if you push them too close, they electronically interfere with one another. Samsung committed to a radical

architectural solution known as the fork sheet field effect transistor. Forkshet technology inserts a microscopic 15 nanometer dialectric wall directly between adjacent [music] transistors, building a literal physical barrier, reclaims dead space within the silicon latice. It allows engineers to push the transistors closer together without triggering electrical interference, successfully circumventing the extreme manufacturing complexity of older fully stacked [music] designs. But shrinking transistors to the atomic level requires unprecedented manufacturing machinery. Circuit patterns must be etched onto silicon wafers using light with wavelengths vastly smaller than the [music] visible spectrum.

The entire global semiconductor industry relies entirely on a single Dutch company to do this. A SML. They are the sole producer of extreme ultraviolet or EUV lithography scanners. Standard EUV machines max out at a 13 nanometer resolution. Moving to the 1 nanmter generation requires a massive leap in optical engineering. ASML [music] developed high NA EUV scanners

utilizing upgraded optics to compress the EUV light tighter and achieve an unprecedented 8 nanometer printing resolution. High NAEUV represents the most complex and expensive manufacturing equipment ever created by human beings. A single scanner costs $350 million and requires three Boeing 747s [music] just to transport it. Samsung committed 1.1 trillion1 to acquire two production [music] grade Twinscan EXE 5,200B scanners. Delivery of the first unit

is scheduled for late 2025. [music] The second arrives in early 2026. The high NA machines deploy directly to [music] the 2 nanometer foundry lines to manufacture the Exynos 2,600 mobile processor and Tesla's AI 6 chips. Simultaneously, [music] engineering teams will adapt the tooling for the upcoming 1nometer rollout. Competitors are moving aggressively to secure their own footing.

Intel acts as the industry first mover, piloting high machines in Oregon. TSMC is opting for calculated restraint utilizing older low NA machines to maximize immediate cost efficiency while Japan's statebacked Rapidus [music] aims to bypass older nodes entirely to hit 1.4 nanometer by 2029. [music] Winning the international chip war requires more than advanced lithography tools [music] and novel transistor designs. Manufacturing semiconductors at scale demands raw industrial infrastructure. [music] It requires infinite electricity.

It requires unlimited water. It [music] requires vast tracts of hyperdeveloped land. To permanently secure its technological sovereignty, the South Korean [music] government orchestrated the largest private industrial project in human history. State planners and corporate executives designed an astronomical blueprint. [music] They moved to construct the world's most advanced semiconductor manufacturing base. Look at the map. Directly south of Seoul [music] sits the Yonggin

Semiconductor Mega Cluster. It spans 21 million square m linking existing fabrication facilities with massive new construction zones. By 2047, the region will host 16 new fabrication plants. Total private investment reaches an astounding $622 trillion1, roughly $460 billion. The scale of production defies traditional industrial metrics. By 2030, the Yongin cluster targets a monthly

output of 7.7 million silicon wafers, projecting millions of new jobs and hundreds of billions of dollars in economic ripple effects over the next two decades. In 2026 alone, Samsung Electronics set a historic corporate record by executing 110 trillion1 in capital expenditures and research. But executing a project of this magnitude immediately strains national infrastructure. Fabricating cuttingedge logic and memory chips consumes staggering volumes of resources.

The planned facilities require an estimated 15 gawatt of electricity to operate at full capacity. Generating 15 gawatt demands the equivalent baseline output of 15 full-scale nuclear reactors. South Korea faces a severe energy constraint. A heavily industrialized exportdriven economy situated on a geographically isolated peninsula leaves few options for rapid [music] grid expansion. The national energy mix relies heavily on imported fossil fuels.

Oil and coal comprise over half of the nation's primary [music] energy consumption. The astronomical power requirements ignited fierce [music] domestic political battles. Lawmakers and civic groups attempted to force the relocation of Samsung [music] and SKH facilities southward to utilize offshore wind and solar. Corporate leadership rejected the political pressure entirely. Relying on intermittent [music] renewable energy presents unacceptable operational risks. A microcond [music] power failure destroys thousands of wafers instantly resulting in

millions of dollars in scrapped inventory. The government ultimately pushed forward with the Yonggin site. They recognized [music] that global competitiveness superseded regional development goals. The Ministry of Environment approved massive water diversion projects, planning to repurpose existing [music] dams to supply 600,000 tons of industrial water daily to the complex. But the internal political frictions regarding regional grid expansion vanished in the face of a severe external macro shock. South Korea's export economy relies entirely on stable globalized

supply chains. In February 2026, the fundamental architecture of international trade broke. Tensions in the Middle East exploded into open conflict. A coordinated military campaign involving [music] the United States and Israel targeted Iranian infrastructure on February 28th, 2026. [music] Iran retaliated with aggressive drone and missile strikes across the Persian Gulf.

They immediately closed the Strait of Hormuz [music] to maritime traffic. The closure stranded millions of barrels of crude oil, sending global equity markets into an immediate panic. But this broader [music] energy crisis masked a far more lethal threat to the semiconductor industry. Iranian strikes heavily damaged Qatar's Ras Lafen industrial city, the largest liqufied [music] natural gas export facility on the planet. Modern semiconductor [music] manufacturing requires an uninterrupted supply of specialized industrial gases. Helium serves as an irreplaceable component, cooling the incredibly

sensitive optics inside the EUV scanners. Because it cannot be artificially synthesized, commercial helium is captured entirely as a waste byproduct of natural gas processing. Qatar produces roughly 33% of the global helium supply. The shutdown of the Raslafan complex severed a third of the world's helium output overnight. 5.2 million cub m of gas per month

vanished from the market instantly. [music] Spot prices for helium doubled within weeks, reaching $450 per thousand cub feet. Qatar Energy declared force majour on [music] all standing contracts. Semiconductor fabrication plants lack the capacity for long-term on-site gas [music] storage. Operating on just in time inventory models, global foundaries suddenly [music] faced critical shortages. The helium crisis exposed the profound fragility of the technological ecosystem.

Wholly dependent on energy and raw materials imported through volatile waterways, [music] South Korean manufacturers scrambled to secure alternative supplies. The crisis [music] forced foundaries to ration reserves, slowing down production cycles precisely when the industry [music] attempted to ramp up advanced node manufacturing. The geopolitical constraints [music] extended far beyond the Middle East. The United States actively weaponized its domestic [music] market to isolate Chinese technological development by implementing the Chips and Science Act, a massive $79.3 billion industrial policy designed to lure semiconductor manufacturing back to American soil. Attached to the federal funding was strict

national security guard rails. The legislation strictly embargoed advanced logic processors, placing severe restrictions on companies attempting to expand their operations within the People's Republic of China. Samsung and SKH found themselves trapped between two superpowers. Both South Korean firms operated massive, highly profitable memory fabrication plants within [music] China, leaving billions of dollars of infrastructure vulnerable to the crossfire. Historically, the US [music] granted the Korean chipmakers broad waiverss. This allowed them to

import restricted [music] American semiconductor manufacturing equipment into their Chinese facilities without interference. As 2026 began, Washington terminated the waiver system entirely, moving to a strict annual licensing regime, the US government forced Samsung and SKH to apply for yearly approvals to maintain their Chinese operations. This policy shift signaled a deliberate tightening of American oversight, ensuring that Korean advanced logic development remained [music] tethered to US interests and permanently decoupled from Chinese infrastructure. South Korea's push to conquer the 1 nanmter frontier represents a total mobilization of national resources. The technological road map is locked. By 2030,

Samsung will deploy the fork sheet transistor architecture. They will utilize the 0.55 numerical aperture of ASML's $350 million high-end AE UV scanners. They will etch logic gates barely [music] wider than a single strand of DNA. The financial blueprint is equally massive.

Samsung executing over 110 [music] trillion one in capital expenditures and R&D in a single [music] year demonstrates a willingness to bleed capital to reclaim market dominance. The 622 [music] trillion one Yongin mega cluster ensures that the physical infrastructure required to produce 7.7 [music] million wafers monthly will exist on sovereign soil. Yet the success of the 1 nanometer endeavor relies entirely on variables outside the control of clean room engineers. Surpassing a 70% yield on the SF2P node and securing the $50 billion Tesla AI 6 contract proves that Samsung can still execute at the highest levels of commercial logic manufacturing. But external shocks routinely threaten the foundation of the enterprise.

A blocked straight in the Middle East instantly cripples the supply of critical noble gases. Protectionist American legislation forces the continuous reconfiguration [music] of global supply lines. Domestic political disputes over high voltage transmission towers threaten the [music] energy grid necessary to power the massive new fabrication plants. The race against TSMC, Intel, [music] and Rapidus is no longer purely a contest of physics and electrical engineering. The victor will be the entity capable of navigating hostile geopolitical environments. They must secure vulnerable raw materials. They must leverage

immense state-backed financial power to absorb the astronomical costs of atomic scale manufacturing. South Korea committed the entirety of its industrial legacy to ensure it does not lose.