---
video_title: "Why Vietnam's Dong Looks Stable"
video_id: 9mbMwHco4wk
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9mbMwHco4wk
video_date: 2026-06-07T10:51:09+00:00
video_description: |
  Vietnam’s currency, the dong, looks calm on daily charts. But calm does not always mean strong.
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  
  Sources used: Reuters on the U.S.–Vietnam tariff deal, including the 20% tariff and 40% transshipment levy; Reuters on Vietnam’s Q3 2025 GDP growth and exports; Reuters on Vietnam’s May 2026 inflation and record trade deficit; Reuters on Bank Indonesia’s surprise 50-basis-point rate hike; Reuters on the Indian rupee recovering from a record low near 96.96; Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas exchange-rate data; FRED exchange-rate data; Exchange-Rates.org USD/VND historical data.
---
If you follow the financial news in Asia, you've probably heard a common narrative lately. Vietnam's currency, the Dong, has finally stabilized. And if you just glance at the daily trading charts, it's easy to understand why people are saying that the currency's not experiencing large daily swings from one morning to the next. Dayto-day, it looks calm. But the more interesting story begins in mid 2025. Since around August 2025, the Dong has stayed

relatively steady. Although it's sitting at a weak level, the Dong's not recovered strongly, but it also has not kept falling in the same sharp way as some other Asian currencies. This is what makes Vietnam interesting. The Dong's weak, but compared with the Indonesian rupia, the Indian rupee, and the Philippine peso, it's looked much more controlled in recent months. So, this raises a question. Why has the Dong stayed relatively steady while other regional currencies

came under heavier pressure? The key is that stable does not always mean strong. A currency can move calmly every day but still remain weak. There are two key concepts that you have to understand here. The first is daily stability. This means the currency doesn't jump up and down

every day. The second concept is strength. This asks has the currency actually regained the value it lost against the dollar. If we look at Vietnam through that lens, the answer becomes clear. Is the dong stable in terms of daily volatility? Yes, mostly. Vietnam avoided the sharper daily

swing seen in some other Asian currencies. But is it strong? Has it recovered its overall value? No, not really. The dong is not rebounding. It's simply being held steady at a historically weak

level. This is the key difference. A currency can stop moving wildly but still remain weak. For businesses, that matters because they need predictability. A factory wants to know how much imported fuel, parts, and machinery will cost next month. A foreign investor wants to know

that the exchange rate will not suddenly move against them. So when the dong moves slowly, it helps with planning. But because it's still weak, imported goods are still more expensive than before. So why did the dong settle into this weak but stable position? The turning point came in the middle of 2025. On July 3rd, 2025, around the time a major US Vietnam trade deal was announced, the

Dong dropped to a record low of roughly 26,229 per US. Just a few weeks later, on August 7th, 2025, new US tariffs on Vietnamese goods officially took effect. The deal set a 20% US tariff on many Vietnamese goods, while goods treated as trans shipped through Vietnam could face a 40% levy. For an export-dependent country, tariffs create immediate uncertainty. By September, Vietnam's prime minister was openly warning about rising exchange rate pressures and inflation, even as factories kept operating. Yet, this is where Vietnam's economy stayed strong.

Even with the tariff shock, the country's third quarter GDP in 2025 still grew by about 8.2%. And exports remain strong year-over-year. Vietnam's strong exports helped keep the economy growing and that helped prevent the dong from falling much further. But later by May 2026, Vietnam was facing new pressure. Inflation was rising and the monthly trade deficit had widened

sharply. That trade deficit is important in understanding the dong. Why? Because a trade deficit means Vietnam was buying more from the world than it was selling. Normally, that kind of pressure would weaken a currency. When a country imports goods, it often has to pay

in foreign currencies, especially US dollars. So when Vietnam imports more fuel, machinery, electronics, parts, and raw materials, demand for dollars rises. And when demand for dollars rises, the Dong comes under pressure. So why did the Dong stay relatively stable despite that pressure? The answer isn't exports alone. It's exports plus exchange rate management and investment inflows.

Vietnam was still exporting a lot. In August 2025, exports were above $43 billion, and they were still growing year-over-year. That brought foreign currency into the country and helped reduce pressure on the dong. But exports didn't erase the pressure. Vietnam was also importing heavily, especially fuel, machinery, electronics, parts, and raw materials. By May 2026, the monthly trade

deficit had widened sharply. So, this is the balance. Exports helped support the Dong, while imports and the trade deficit kept pressure on it. That's why the Dong stayed relatively stable, but still weak. Currencies aren't moved by trade alone. They're also affected by interest rates,

investor confidence, and the strength of the US dollar and central bank policy. And this is where Vietnam is different from some of its neighbors. Vietnam's exchange rate is more closely managed than a fully free floating currency. So when pressure builds, the adjustment can happen more gradually instead of all at once. That becomes important when we compare Vietnam with its neighbors because it's one of the main reasons the dong looked calmer than the rupia, the rupee, and the peso. This brings us to a difficult balance for Vietnam. You have to understand that a weaker

dong isn't always bad. A weaker dong can help exporters on the selling side because Vietnamese goods become cheaper for foreign buyers. But many Vietnamese exporters also import parts, fuel, and machinery. So, the benefits are limited. A weak Dong can support exports while still raising production costs. But this still leaves one question. If exports were strong,

why didn't the Dong recover? If we take a look at the data again on the Dong USD, it's still trading near historical lows around the 26,000 plus range per dollar. The reason simple. Vietnam's strong exports were being offset by three outside pressures. First, lingering uncertainty around tariffs kept currency markets cautious. Second, the strong US dollar has put pressure on many

developing country currencies. Third, and finally, there is heavy import pressure as fuel, raw materials, machinery, and electronics parts become more expensive while the monthly trade deficit widen. To run those large manufacturing zones, Vietnam has to import raw materials and fuel. When the global price of those commodities rises and your local currencies weak, you end up paying more just to keep running. By May of 2026, the pressure became clear in the data with inflation climbing to 5.6% alongside a record widening trade deficit. That's why the dong looking stable in recent

months can actually be misleading if we only look at daily movements. The economy remains resilient, but its money is still trading at historically weak levels. The difference becomes clearer when we compare Vietnam with its neighbors. Vietnam looks calmer because its currency moved slowly. Indonesia and India looked more stressed because their currencies moved more sharply. Let's start

with Indonesia. In 2026, the Indonesian Rupia came under much heavier pressure. Bank Indonesia surprised markets by raising interest rates by 50 basis points to 5.25% to support the Rupia after it hit record lows. Even after that intervention, the Rupia was still trading near record low territory, close to 18,000 per dollar by early June. Then there's also the Indian rupee which

also came under pressure. The rupee recovered from a record low near 96.96 and trading around 95.7 to 95.8 in early June. Finally, the Philippine peso was also under pressure especially because higher

oil prices hurt oil importing economies in Asia. Reports highlighted that the Philippine peso, right alongside the rupee and the rupia, came under heavy pressure as the combination of higher global oil prices and a strong US dollar hit Asian currencies. When you're an economy that relies heavily on imported fuel, a strong dollar affects you twice. Once at the oil terminal and again at the currency exchange desk. When you place Vietnam's chart next to those sharper daily swings of its peers, the Dong looks much calmer. So, has the Dong stabilized? It depends on

what we mean by stable. Has it stabilized in daily movement? Yes. But has it recovered its strength?