---
video_title: "Why China Bought Airbus — Not Boeing"
video_id: J-fXKAoQJ3M
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J-fXKAoQJ3M
video_date: 2026-01-15T10:31:39+00:00
video_description: |
  In July 2022, the aviation world stopped. In a coordinated strike, China’s "Big Three" airlines (China Eastern, Air China, and China Southern) simultaneously announced orders for 292 Airbus jets. China Eastern's share was 100 A320neos. 
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
On July 1st, 2022, news broke that three of China's largest airlines had ordered 292 Airbus jetliners in one go. A nearly $37 billion deal at list prices. The sheer size was historic, one of the biggest single-day aviation orders ever. But the real shock, none of the planes were Boeings. Boeing, America's flagship jet manufacturer, was completely shut out.

This was no coincidence or fluke. It was a vivid sign of a geopolitical and industrial rift. China's state carriers had effectively adopted a zero-Boeing policy, choosing Airbus exclusively for this massive purchase. The stakes could not be higher. China's aviation market is on track to be the world's largest, expected to double in fleet size to roughly 9,000 airliners by 2040.

For decades, Boeing and Airbus split this booming market. Losing out on a 292 plane order means losing years of work for tens of thousands of American aerospace workers. It means ceding valuable market share to Europe's Airbus in what Boeing once called one of its mainstays. And it signals that politics and safety concerns have grounded Boeing's ambitions in China, literally. Imagine being a Boeing executive waking up to that July announcement. Your

long-time customers, Air China, China Southern, China Eastern, just went all in with Airbus, ordering hundreds of A320 neo jets, 100 of them by China Eastern alone. Boeing's name is nowhere on the order book. It's a result that would have been unthinkable a decade ago. How did it come to this? What caused China to slam the door on Boeing? And

what does it mean for the future of aviation? This is the story behind China's Airbus mega order, the political chess, safety crises, and industrial shifts that led to Boeing's big China freeze. We'll see why Boeing was grounded in more ways than one, and how Airbus, and even China's own newcomer jet, stepped in to fill the void. To understand this watershed moment, we need to rewind a few years. There was a time when Boeing was flying high in China.

In fact, as recently as 2017, Chinese airlines were some of Boeing's best customers. About one in every three Boeing 737s was being sold to China. During a state visit in late 2017, Boeing even signed a tentative agreement for China to buy 300 Boeing jets, a deal valued around $37 billion, similar to the Airbus order. It seemed to herald a bright future. But then, trade tensions and tragedy intervened.

In 2018, a bitter US-China trade war erupted, bringing tariffs and tit-for-tat retaliation. Beijing began leveraging its enormous aircraft purchases as a bargaining chip. According to reports, Chinese authorities quietly told their airlines to halt new Boeing orders as the trade war escalated. From November 2017 through mid-2022, Chinese passenger carriers ended up ordering only eight Boeing planes total. Essentially, a freezing of Boeing out of new passenger sales.

While Boeing managed to sell a handful of 777 freighters to keep cargo supply chains moving, the once-courted American jet maker was effectively on the outs in the lucrative passenger market. Then came the Boeing 737 Max crisis. In late 2018 and early 2019, two new Boeing 737 Max jets crashed. China's regulator, the CAAC, was the first in the world to ground the 737 Max in March 2019. And unlike regulators elsewhere, China kept the Max grounded for years.

By mid-2022, Chinese skies were still essentially closed to the 737 Max. The jets hadn't resumed commercial service. For context, the Max was cleared to fly again in the US and Europe by late 2020, but China didn't formally recertify it until the very end of 2021. And even then, Chinese airlines held off restarting flights. This prolonged grounding meant Boeing couldn't deliver new 737s to China even if it wanted to.

Dozens of finished Max jets earmarked for Chinese customers sat idle in Boeing's warehouses. Chinese carriers had 102 undelivered 737 Max parked in storage and orders for over 220 more, all in limbo. Meanwhile, Boeing's European rival Airbus was steadily gaining altitude in China. Airbus had something Boeing increasingly lacked, good political and industrial relations with Beijing. Airbus had been assembling jets inside China for years. More on that soon. And

during the US-China trade feud, Airbus became a convenient alternative supplier. Even at the height of the trade war, China kept buying Airbus jets. The result? By 2021, Airbus delivered 142 airplanes to Chinese customers, while Boeing delivered fewer than 10, almost entirely cargo freighters, with zero passenger jets entering the country. Boeing's sales to China had virtually dried up, a victim of both politics and the Max's grounding.

All this set the stage for that July 2022 bombshell. China's big three state-owned airlines, Air China, China Southern, and China Eastern, had deferred fleet expansion for a couple years due to COVID-19 and political wrangling. By mid-2022, anticipating a post-pandemic recovery, they were back in the market for new single-isle jets in a big way. Negotiations had quietly been underway for months. What shocked observers was the exclusive choice of Airbus.

In one morning, the three airlines, plus a subsidiary, Shenzhen Airlines, announced deals for a total of 292 A320 neo family planes. Airbus's press release hailed it as proof of China's confidence in the A320 neo's performance and efficiency. Deliveries would run from 2023 through 2027, rapidly swelling these airlines Airbus fleets. For Airbus, it was like hitting the jackpot, one of its largest orders ever, helping fill production lines for years. For Boeing, it was a crushing defeat.

The company issued a polite but pointed statement expressing disappointment that geopolitical differences continue to constrain US aircraft exports. In other words, Boeing believed politics, not just business, blocked it from this deal. Boeing urged the US and Chinese governments to start a productive dialogue and hinted that tens of thousands of American jobs were tied to its historically large China business. US officials took note, too. The US Commerce Secretary remarked that China was preventing its airlines from buying tens of billions of dollars in Boeing jets.

The surprise wasn't just that Airbus won big, it's that Boeing got zero. In past years, Chinese mega orders often balanced between the two makers, sometimes splitting a large order to keep both sides happy. Not this time. This was an all Airbus affair, a clean sweep that underscored how far Boeing had fallen out of favor in Beijing. As one Chinese state media editorial put it, "It is natural for the US side to feel sour after losing the competition to Airbus."

Sour, indeed. Boeing's China pipeline had effectively run dry. So, what drove China's unprecedented zero Boeing stance in 2022? Multiple factors aligned, some to do with safety and trust in Boeing's product, others squarely about politics and national strategy. Let's break down the key reasons. First

and foremost were the safety issues surrounding Boeing's 737 Max. The Max's worldwide grounding after the 2018 to 2019 crashes hit Boeing's reputation hard, and nowhere more so than in China. Chinese regulators took a very cautious approach to recertifying the jet. Even after the FAA and Europe's EASA cleared the Max with fixes, China kept extra requirements. By mid-2022, Chinese airlines still had not returned 737 Max fleets to service.

An official Chinese editorial bluntly cited safety concerns as flights operated by Boeing 737 Max aircraft have still largely not resumed in various countries, a thinly veiled reference to China itself, and a hint that trust in the model remained low. It's likely the Chinese airlines and the government were uncomfortable committing to hundreds more 737s when the ones they already owned were grounded, gathering dust. There was also the matter of a recent tragedy. In March 2022, China Eastern Airlines suffered a horrific crash of a Boeing 737-800NG that killed 132 people. While Western reports later leaked that data pointed to intentional human input, China's regulators have never officially confirmed this, leaving the cause publicly unresolved. Regardless of the

truth, the optics were terrible. Boeing planes were associated with fatal accidents in headlines just as airlines were making fleet decisions. Overlaying the safety issue was the elephant in the room, US-China political tensions. The late 2010s saw relations between Washington and Beijing plunge to their lowest point in decades. Trade disputes, sanctions, accusations of corporate espionage, human rights criticisms, and strategic rivalry all contributed to a sour environment.

In that climate, big purchases from American companies became politicized. Boeing, as America's largest exporter and an icon of US manufacturing, was an obvious target when Beijing wanted to send a message. By denying Boeing deals, China could pressure the US without formal sanctions. Indeed, industry analysts note that China started playing hardball with Boeing as retaliation for US trade measures. When the Trump administration hit China with tariffs in 2018, China responded in kind and reportedly instructed its airlines to pause Boeing jet purchases.

Even though completed aircraft weren't explicitly on tariff lists at first, China's state planners unofficially froze Boeing out. The result was the nearly complete halt in new Boeing orders after 2017, as mentioned earlier. Chinese airlines that might have needed Boeing planes simply waited or turned to Airbus. Boeing itself acknowledged this factor. In response to the 292 plane Airbus deal, Boeing pointed to its 50-year relationship in China and lamented that geopolitical differences continue to constrain US aircraft exports.

That's a diplomatic way of saying political tensions are killing our sales. There's also the matter of defense and security frictions. Boeing's defense arm sells military equipment to US allies in Asia, including Taiwan, which Beijing considers a breakaway province. Chinese officials surely don't love enriching a company that also supplies surveillance planes or missiles to countries seen as threatening China. Sticking with Airbus neatly sidestepped that geopolitical minefield. While

Airbus also has a defense division, it doesn't sell weapons to Taiwan, nor is it an instrument of American foreign policy. In Beijing's eyes, buying from Europe was a safer strategic bet than funding the same American contractor supplying missiles to Taipei. Finally, China may have had a strategic motive to favor Airbus in order to court the European Union. By giving Airbus a $37 billion win, Beijing could appeal to Europe's business interests, perhaps hoping to dilute European support for US hardline policies. It's worth noting that the EU and China were at the time negotiating trade and investment deals, too.

In contrast, rewarding Boeing, an American company, had little upside amid the feud with Washington. Another decisive factor was Airbus's long-term localization strategy in China. Airbus has a final assembly line, FAL, in Tianjin, China, a full-fledged aircraft factory where A320 family jets are built using kits shipped from Europe, but eventually evolved into sourcing local components, including equipping wings and fuselages within China. Opened in 2008 as Airbus's first assembly line outside Europe, the Tianjin plant has been turning out A320s for Chinese airlines since 2009. In 14 years, it's delivered over 600 jetliners to customers, the vast majority going straight into Chinese airline fleets.

Having Airbus production on Chinese soil is a huge plus from Beijing's perspective. It means jobs for Chinese workers, technology transfer, and a local stake in the success of Airbus jets. Airbus has further deepened this partnership. In 2023, it expanded Tianjin's capability to produce the largest A321 neo models, and it announced a second assembly line in China to open by 2025, doubling down on Chinese manufacturing. This kind of integration makes Airbus almost a semi-domestic supplier in China.

It's much easier for Chinese airlines, all state-influenced, to justify buying from Airbus when the planes are partially made in China, supporting local industrial goals. By contrast, Boeing's presence in China is far more limited. Boeing did open a 737 completion and delivery center in Zhoushan, China in late 2018, a joint venture with COMAC, China's state aircraft company, to paint and outfit 737s locally. But, this came just as the trade war and MAX crisis hit. The Zhoushan center delivered a few jets. The first 737 MAX from China went

to Air China in 2018. But, its future became cloudy once China halted MAX deliveries. Boeing had hoped to deliver up to 100 planes a year through Zhoushan. Yet, by 2020 to 2021, that pipeline had stopped. Simply put, Boeing was never as embedded in China's industrial landscape as Airbus is.

This means Airbus reaped goodwill that Boeing lacked. When Chinese officials look at Airbus, they see a partner who builds facilities in China, shares some work, and helps nurture China's aerospace ecosystem. When they look at Boeing, they see an important foreign supplier, but one that builds planes in Seattle and sells them to China with fewer local benefits. In an era when China is pushing "Made in China" industrial self-reliance, Airbus had the advantage of being seen as more cooperative and less threatening. There's one more layer.

China's ambition to build its own commercial jets and how that factors into the Boeing versus Airbus dynamic. For years, China has been developing a homegrown narrow-body airliner called the COMAC C919, designed to carry roughly 158 to 168 passengers, directly comparable to the Airbus A320 and Boeing 737. After many delays, the C919 received Chinese certification in 2022, and the first one was delivered to China Eastern Airlines in December 2022. This was hailed as a milestone, the world's first C919 entering service. It signaled the dawn of a potential third player in the duopoly of passenger jets.

However, the C919 isn't ready to replace Airbus or Boeing yet, not in 2022 and not for many years. Its production capacity is currently in the single digits. While COMAC has aggressive plans to churn out 150 jets a year by the end of the decade, the reality of aerospace manufacturing is brutal. Industry analysts are far more skeptical, projecting that COMAC will struggle to produce even 50 to 70 C919s annually by 2030. That is a drop in the bucket compared to Airbus and Boeing, who aim to produce that many single-aisle jets every month.

So, for the short term, Chinese airlines have no choice. They still need Western jets to meet passenger demand. Where the C919 did play a role was in the political calculus. China ultimately wants to lessen reliance on both Boeing and Airbus in favor of its own aircraft. In the meantime, if it has to buy foreign planes, there's an incentive to split orders in a way that benefits China's strategic goals.

Some analysts argue that China favored Airbus in 2022 partly to buy time for the C919, giving Airbus the orders needed for the next 5-plus years, rather than bolstering Boeing while COMAC scales up. Airbus, being a European entity, was seen as a less threatening bridge until Chinese jets can compete. Also, Airbus has been more willing to source parts and work in China and doesn't object to China's aerospace ambitions as vocally. Whereas Boeing is directly up against COMAC's intended market. In fact, conflicts with the US over trade and tech have only intensified China's push to develop the C919 and other domestic aviation tech.

Beijing became increasingly concerned about over-reliance on US suppliers, especially after witnessing US sanctions on other Chinese tech sectors. It's telling that the C919 relies on Western parts, engines by a GE Safran joint venture, avionics by Honeywell, etc. China is working to localize those, but that will take time. Until then, buying Airbus jets, which also use many US parts like engines from CFM or Pratt & Whitney, was acceptable because at least the deal is with a European integrator, not an American one. In a sense, Airbus became the interim supplier while China builds up Comac.

Boeing, unfortunately, was the odd man out. This blockbuster Airbus order and Boeing's exclusion had several immediate consequences for the aviation industry, especially in the US. Let's look at what it meant going forward. Boeing's financial hit and lost market share. Losing a $37 billion order is painful in pure dollar terms, but the bigger issue for Boeing is market access.

China's aviation market is expected to need around 8,600 plus new aircraft in the next 20 years, roughly a quarter of global demand. If Boeing can't sell into China, that's a huge chunk of future business gone. Boeing's own 20-year forecast from 2021 valued China's airplane demand at over $1 trillion. dollars. Missing out on that would significantly stunt Boeing's growth and could seed global leadership to Airbus for the foreseeable future.

In fact, Airbus ended 2022 with more new orders and deliveries than Boeing, marking the fourth straight year Airbus led, thanks in no small part to those Chinese orders. Boeing's stock and investors took note. While the July 2022 China order was just one event, it reinforced a narrative of Boeing struggling. The company's production was still recovering from the Max grounding and a separate halt in 787 Dreamliner deliveries. Now add the China freeze.

Boeing even began remarketing some of those 100-plus undelivered 737 Max originally built for Chinese airlines to other customers, essentially giving up hope that China would take them soon. That's revenue deferred or lost. Boeing's leadership signaled tempered expectations. CEO Dave Calhoun said in late 2022, it was hard to find signals that things in China would improve for Boeing in the near term. The big Airbus deal also raised an alarming question.

Are we witnessing a decoupling in the aviation sector? For decades, buying Boeing jets was a cornerstone of cooperation. Now, China was essentially boycotting Boeing, at least for passenger jets, and buying European. Some in the US feared this could become permanent if relations don't improve. In 2025, China even went so far as to reportedly ban its airlines from accepting new Boeing deliveries, which some analysts say is part of a tariff retaliation.

That indicates the Chinese government is willing to formally sacrifice Boeing deals when politics demand. A stark shift from the past, when aircraft orders were immune from trade fights. For the US aerospace industry, which includes not just Boeing, but countless suppliers, engine makers, avionics, etc., losing Chinese customers en masse would be a blow. The irony, however, is that Airbus planes still contain many US-made components. So, US suppliers like GE,

Collins, and Honeywell still get business when China buys Airbus. It's Boeing that loses the final assembly and sale. Over time, if China's COMAC ramps up, and if China avoids Boeing, US suppliers could be at risk, too, since China aims to replace Western parts in its jets. The 2022 order was a wake-up call that China is willing to leverage even high-tech trade like airliners in its geopolitical chess match. Airbus's strengthened position.

On the flip side, Airbus reaped a windfall. Securing nearly 300 orders from China gave Airbus a solid production backlog and bolstered its business case to increase output. Airbus was already cranking up A320neo family production globally with plans to hit 75 per month by 2025. The China order virtually guaranteed that Airbus will stay ahead of Boeing in narrow-body orders for a while. It also likely deepened Airbus's confidence in investing in China.

As we saw, Airbus soon announced a second assembly line in Tianjin by 2025, effectively doubling its manufacturing capacity in China. Airbus's strategy seems to be lock in the Chinese market now, make itself indispensable there, and by the time COMAC is building competitive jets in large numbers, if it ever does, Airbus will have decades of partnership under its belt. There's also a subtle diplomatic win for Airbus {slash} EU. Being China's preferred aircraft supplier could open doors for other business deals in China for European firms. And conversely, it puts pressure on Boeing's home country, the US, to consider if their broader China policy is costing American companies like Boeing.

In international foray, Chinese officials could point to the Airbus deal and say, "Look, if the US wants Boeing to sell planes here, maybe Washington should reconsider some of its hostile measures." In other words, Boeing became a hostage to geopolitics, reliant on political thawing to regain access. For China's airlines, one immediate effect is a tilt toward a more Airbus-heavy fleet. Traditionally, big Chinese carriers operated mixed Boeing and Airbus narrow-body fleets. For example, China Southern historically was a big Boeing 737 operator.

But tellingly, in 2022, Xiamen Airlines, a carrier that for decades only bought Boeing, switched sides and ordered 40 Airbus A320neo family jets. This was a symbolic defection that mirrored the broader trend. With the new orders, Chinese airlines signaled they can live without new Boeings. Over the next 5 years, 2023 to 2027, hundreds of Airbus A320 neo family jets will arrive, whereas Boeing MAX deliveries will be scant. If Boeing remains persona non grata, China's airlines could end up with fleets dominated by Airbus single-aisle aircraft, plus whatever COMAC C919s eventually trickle in.