---
video_title: "The Dreamliner Gamble: The One Plane That Made Scoot a Winner"
video_id: BG-9bTUDWgQ
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BG-9bTUDWgQ
video_date: 2026-03-07T10:13:06+00:00
video_description: |
  Most budget airlines fly cheap, basic, narrow-body jets. Scoot made a different, much riskier bet. This is the story of Scoot's bold and company-defining decision to build its entire long-haul fleet around the modern, advanced, and expensive Boeing 787 Dreamliner. It’s a story of a technological gamble that paid off spectacularly.
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
Picture this. You're about to board a longhaul flight on a budget airline. The ticket was dirt cheap. You brace yourself for a cramped old plane. After all, lowcost carriers aren't known for luxury. But instead, you step onto a brand new Boeing 787 Dreamliner. Ambient mood lighting glows

from the ceiling, and huge windows span the cabin. This is Scoot, a lowcost airline doing things differently. Scoot's approach was almost unthinkable at the time. Most budget airlines stick to short routes and small planes. Scoot gambled on the opposite, a fleet built around a big state-of-the-art jetliner, the Boeing 787 Dreamlininer. It was a bold, expensive bet that

many thought would never work. So why did Scoot make such a risky bet? And how did it pay off? This is the story of how one plane helped turn a scrappy, lowcost upstart into a surprising winner in the airline industry. To understand Scoot's gamble, we first need to look at the typical lowcost carrier playbook. For decades, budget airlines around the world have relied on a simple

formula. Short flights, quick turnarounds, and one type of small plane flown over and over. This model was pioneered by airlines like Southwest in the US and Ryionaire in Europe. Lowcost carriers, LCC's, usually stick to single aisle aircraft like the Boeing 737 or Airbus A320. These are the workh horses of short hall flying. They carry around 150 to 200 passengers, have

only one aisle, and can land at smaller airports. By using just one plane model, airlines save on training and maintenance. By flying short routes, they can do multiple trips a day with each plane. Every minute an airplane sits on the ground loses money, making quick 30inut turnarounds key. This model cuts costs to the bone. Budget airlines also save money by offering no frrills service,

no free meals, no assigned seating unless you pay, and sometimes even no reclining seats or seatback screens. Everything is optimized for efficiency and low price. It's how carriers like Air Asia, EasyJet, and Spirit offer unbelievably low fairs. The airline profits through volume, packing in many flights daily and charging extra for add-ons like baggage or snacks. But this formula breaks down on longer routes. Traditionally, lowcost carriers avoided long

haul flights. Flying over six or seven hours introduces new challenges. Passengers expect more comfort if stuck in a seat overnight. Crews require rest, meaning extra staffing, and an aircraft can only make one long round trip daily, reducing utilization. For many years, the idea of a successful longhaul budget airline seemed like a fantasy. A few tried and failed. In

the 1970s, Sir Freddy Lakers Sky Train offered cheap transatlantic flights, but went bust. In the 2000s, carriers like Oasis Hong Kong and Zoom Airlines attempted lowcost long haul with older jumbo and widebody jets, respectively, eventually collapsing. The consensus was that lowcost didn't mesh with long distance. The economics wouldn't work. Against this backdrop, Scoot took a different path. Established in 2011 and launching in June 2012, Scoot is

the lowcost arm of Singapore Airlines, SIA. From day one, Scoot's mission was to fly longer routes from Singapore, roots beyond the range of typical narrow body jets. SIA is a premier luxury carrier, consistently ranked among the world's best. But by the 2010s, SIA faced intense competition from Middle Eastern airlines and regional budget carriers. Rather than cheapening its own brand, SIA created Scoot to capture the growing budget travel market. Scoot had SIA's backing, but built

its own identity as a fun, cheeky LCC, evident in its bright yellow paint and casual get out of here slogan. Instead of following the playbook of small planes, Scoot went big. Scoot acquired used Boeing 777-200 widebody jets from SIA. Much larger than a 737, these twin aisle planes had over 300 seats and were designed for longhaul flights. Scoot stripped them to an all economy configuration with just a few premium seats at the front, allowing them to immediately start medium hall routes to Sydney and Taipei. Operating wide bodies was a bold move for a new LCC. Scoot needed to fill over

300 seats per flight to break even. And older 777s are gas guzzlers compared to newer jets. It wasn't a sustainable long-term solution, but it proved the initial concept. There was demand for budget options on longer routes. Behind the scenes, Scoot had a master plan, the Boeing 787 Dreamlininer.

Shortly after launching in 2012, Scoot took over an unheard of order for 20 Boeing 787s, a fledgling low-cost airline acquiring a fleet of cuttingedge widebody aircraft by having its parent company, Singapore Airlines, transfer its existing 2006 Dreamliner order to them. The 787 had entered service just a year prior. Many airlines were cautious due to early technical glitches, but Scoot was all in. To make longhaul lowcost work, executives knew they needed a gamecher. The Boeing 787 was lighter, built largely from carbon fiber composits instead of metal, and featured new engines that sipped fuel sparingly. It was designed for long, thin routes, distant flights

lacking the demand to fill a giant 500 seat jet. In other words, perfect for a niche player like Scoot carving out new routes. By 2015, Scoot's first Dreamliners arrived. The airline retired its last 777 that year, becoming the world's first all 787 Dreamlininer operator. It was a remarkable transformation within just a few years. Scoot now had a uniform fleet of advanced widebody jets,

taking a totally different path than nearly every other LCC. Scoot's bet on the 787 Dreamliner was a highstakes gamble. Each Dreamliner costs well over $100 million at list prices. For context, a smaller Boeing 737 or Airbus A320 costs maybe $50 to $80 million, and many budget carriers lease used ones for far less. Scoot essentially bet the house on one plane type. The primary driver behind

this decision was unmatched fuel efficiency. Jet fuel is often an airline's number one cost. Scoot's then CEO, Campbell Wilson, noted fuel made up about 50% of Scoot's operating costs. The Dreamliner promised a dramatic cut in fuel burn. Boeing advertised that the 787 used 20% less fuel per seat than the older 77720's. 20% might not sound huge, but in aviation, it's colossal.

That fuel saving can make an unprofitable route profitable or allow ticket prices to be lowered while still making money. A 20% fuel reduction meant Scoot could offer even cheaper fairs or pocket savings to improve their bottom line. This was vital because LCC's compete on razor thin margins. By mid 2015, as Scoot transitioned to an all 787 fleet, fuel savings kicked in. The airline announced it would pass these savings to customers, letting Scoot undercut competitors while still covering costs. The aircraft also allowed for more seats, which meant more revenue.

Scoot configured its 787s in a highdensity layout to maximize passengers and ticket revenue. The 7878 fit around 335 seats, while the 7879 carried 375 seats in Scoot's configuration. By comparison, a full service airline might put only 250 seats on a 787-9 to make room for spacious premium cabins. Scoot went for an all economy layout except a small premium cabin, squeezing in as many budget travelers as practical. Having more seats matters because it lowers the cost per seat. If you fill

them, your cost per passenger goes down. With the Dreamliner's fuel efficiency plus high seat count, Scoot achieved a rock bottom cost per available seat kilometer, CASK, a key metric of aviation efficiency. A lower CASK meant Scoot could sustain low fairs and still make a profit. Of course, selling those hundreds of tickets per flight was the challenge, but Scoot had tricks for that, too. Furthermore, the 787 offered a longer range, which opened up entirely new routes. The 787

brought big jet range to a midsize plane for Scoot. This opened up entirely new possibilities. The Dreamliner could fly over 10,000 km, enough to connect Singapore to Europe, deep into North Asia, or even Honolulu. In the years following its 787 rollout, Scoot indeed began stretching its wings. In 2017, Scoot started flying from Singapore to Athens, Greece. An over 10-hour flight that was

one of the longest operated by an LCC at the time. A year later, Scoot added Berlin. These ultra-long routes would have been impossible with a narrow body and prohibitively expensive with an older wide body. By entering such markets, Scoot tapped into completely new demand. Previously, budgetconscious travelers in Southeast Asia had no cheap non-stop options to Europe. they'd

have to fly a full service airline or connect via Middle East hubs. Scoot came in offering non-stop flights at a fraction of the usual price. Not everyone wants to fly 12 hours without free meals, but a sizable segment of travelers like backpackers and students will gladly trade frills for savings. A key part of Scoot's economic reasoning was the inclusion of a premium cabin, allowing them to focus on upselling Scoot Plus. Most lowcost carriers are all economy, but Scoot offered Scoot Plus. These were essentially premium economy seats at the front of the plane. On the

787, Scoot Plus typically had 21 to 35 seats with wider plush seating, extra leg room, and more recline. Scoot Plus passengers paid extra for these perks and got additional baggage allowance, meals, and priority boarding included. This is significant because those upsell seats generate disproportionately more revenue. The fair for Scoot Plus might be two to three times the regular economy fair, yet the cost to the airline isn't two to three times higher. Scoot Plus allowed Scoot to tap into a higherend market, small business owners or comfort seeking travelers willing to pay more, but still less than a business class ticket on SIA. Upselling these

premium seats gave a nice revenue boost that subsidized the rock bottom fairs in the back. One often overlooked benefit of the Dreamliner Gamble was the inherently better passenger experience. Budget airlines aren't usually concerned with luxury, but the 787 came with features that made the flying experience more pleasant for everyone with no extra cost required. The 787 has a cabin altitude and humidity control system that leaves you less dehydrated and jet-lagged. It's pressurized to a lower equivalent altitude and higher humidity, meaning you arrive feeling refreshed. The Dreamliner is also quieter and smoother.

Even if you're flying in a packed economy cabin eating instant noodles you brought yourself, the journey is a bit more comfortable. And then there are the big windows. Boeing gave the 787 the largest windows of any airliner. And they're electronically dimmable. When Scoot started flying these planes, passengers were wowed. It gave a sense that even though it's a budget flight,

you're on a cuttingedge aircraft. Sure, you paid $200 for this flight to China, but look, you're on a Dreamliner. It was a major selling point. Scoot's branding played into this modern, fun vibe. Flight attendants wore bright polo shirts and cracked jokes. The safety video was

cheeky. The message was, "This isn't your typical cramped budget plane. It's a 787 Dreamliner, and we're going to enjoy the ride." Scoot's strategy was unusual, but it wasn't totally alone. Other airlines have attempted long haul lowcost, each with their own twist. Looking at how Scoot

compares to other lowcost carriers, most LCC's still shy away from true longhaul flying. The giants like Southwest, Ryionaire, and Indigo stay within short to medium-range markets. However, a few notable players ventured further. Take Air Asia X for example. The longhaul sister of Malaysia's Air Asia started in the mid200s using Airbus A330 wide bodies. It connected Koala Lumpur

with Australia, Japan, and even London using acquired Airbus A340s. These older generation jets were not as efficient as a 787. Air Asia X managed some success but struggled on ultra-ong routes when fuel prices spiked eventually cutting their Europe flights due to the high fuel burn of the A340s. Then there is Jet Star in Australia. Quantis' lowcost subsidiary Jetstar also went long haul. Like Scoot, it invested in Boeing 787 Dreamlininers around 2013. With those,

Jet Star operates routes from Australia to Hawaii, Japan, and Southeast Asia. Being under Quantis, Jetstar had strong backing similar to Scoot's relationship with SIA. It proved the model could work in the Australia Asia market. In Europe, Norwegian Air shuttle made headlines in the 2010s by launching transatlantic budget flights using 787s. Offering one-way tickets as low as $150, they stimulated a new market of budget travelers. But Norwegian expanded too quickly and racked up

debt. coupled with 787 engine technical issues, the financial strain became too much. By 2020, they shut down all longhaul operations. Other examples include Iceland's WOW Air, which used A330s for lowcost flights between Europe and North America, but collapsed in 2019, while Canada's WestJet tried transatlantic 787 flights with a more measured approach. Compared to these competitors, Scoot has been relatively cautious. Crucially, it had the support of Singapore

Airlines. That backing meant access to capital, assistance with aircraft procurement and feed traffic. SIA could feed passengers to Scoot via Singapore. Scoot also picked its routes carefully, choosing places like Athens and Berlin, where SIA didn't operate, ensuring they opened new markets rather than cannibalizing the parent company. Scoot's all Dreamliner strategy was high stakes indeed. By depending on a single aircraft type for all its long and medium flights, Scoot essentially

put all its eggs in one basket. In 2013, while Scoot was awaiting its Dreamlininers, all Boeing 787s worldwide were grounded for months due to a battery fire issue. If that problem had persisted, Scoot would have had its growth plans paralyzed. A few years later, some Rolls-Royce engines on 787s had turbine blade durability problems. Scoot did face disruptions. A handful of its Dreamlininers

had to rotate out of service for fixes around 2018 to 2019. It was a reminder that a tech issue on a single type fleet can jeopardize the whole operation. Full service airlines have diverse fleets to fall back on, but Scoot had no such luxury. It was Dreamliner or bust. Another risk was economic. The 787 had higher ownership costs than older planes. It only paid

off if the promised fuel savings materialized and if Scoot kept planes full. In the beginning, Scoot had to build its brand. There were reports of light loads which the airline combed with tactical fair sales. Over time, Scoot became known and improved load factors. By 2019, Scoot was carrying over 10 million passengers annually. Did others follow Scoot's example? In Asia, Zepa Tokyo,

a lowcost subsidiary of Japan Airlines, launched in 2020, operates with Boeing 7878s from Tokyo to Bangkok, Seoul, Honolulu, and Los Angeles. Their model is very stripped down, explicitly taking inspiration from existing longhaul LCC's. Elsewhere, airlines like French B and Levelville have tried the lowcost longhaul idea using Airbus A350s or A330s. In a sense, Scoot was a bit ahead of its time. Today, with rising fuel costs, every airline wants the most efficient planes. Scoot's

early move set it up with a young fuelefficient fleet. While competitors operated older jets, then came 2020. The CO 19 pandemic hit airlines like a sledgehammer. While longhaul travel nearly vanished, Scoot was also heavily exposed regionally following its 2017 merger with Tiger Air. It had absorbed a large fleet of Airbus A320s and operated an extensive short hall network alongside its wide bodies. With global borders closing, Scoot was extremely vulnerable and had

to ground almost its entire fleet. Without strong financial support, Scoot could have easily gone bankrupt. Singapore Airlines raised billions in capital and crucially supported Scoot through the downturn. By 2022, travel demand started returning. Leisure travel rebounded strongly and Scoot gradually brought its 787s back into service. The pandemic was an unprecedented test

of the model's resilience. Some peers essentially collapsed, but Scoot, thanks to SIA's lifeline, survived intact. Aviation experts have long debated the viability of the longhaul lowcost business. With Scoot's experience, the verdict is nuanced. It can work, but only under certain conditions. Aircraft technology was a key enabler. Without planes like the 787, A350, or A330 Neo,

the economics would be far tougher. These new jets offer 15 to 25% fuel savings. In an industry where a few percentage points make or break profits, that leap is revolutionary. Scoot's 20% per seat fuel burn reduction gave it a fighting chance to make money on a $300 ticket to Australia. Analysts site fuel burn per seat as a critical metric. Scoots 787-9 with 375 seats burns less

fuel per passenger than older jets, keeping the cost drastically lower. Another metric is CASM, cost per available seat mile. Thanks to highdensity seating and fuel efficiency, Scoot's CASM was among the lowest in its region, which is essential if you want to consistently offer low fairs and survive price wars. One limitation is the lack of premium revenue compared to full service carriers. Singapore Airlines can charge $5,000 for a business class seat to cross-subsidize economy tickets. Scoots Scoot Plus might only be $800. Long haul LCC's

are superb when the economy cabin is full and fuel is reasonable, but they lack the cushion of high yield passengers to fall back on during a downturn. No gamble is without its risks. Let's balance the praise with the ongoing challenges. Starting with thin margins and volume risk. Scoot's model requires high passenger volumes. If a route doesn't attract enough travelers,

a 787 can lose a lot of money fast. The reliance on tourism means external events can quickly reduce demand, leaving Scoot flying half empty planes. Competition and price wars present another constant threat. Once Scoot proved some routes viable, competitors reacted. Jetstar and full service airlines matched fairs to defend their market. Longhaul LCC's can trigger brutal fair

wars. If a new competitor with an even lower cost base arrives flying the new single aisle Airbus A321 XLR, Scoot could feel the squeeze. There are also issues regarding service perception. There's a risk that a bad customer experience can turn people off. If someone has a miserable flight because they didn't realize nothing was included, they might vow never again. LCC's have to battle

the narrative that cheap means bad by delivering reliably. Furthermore, relying heavily on one hub, Singapore Changi Airport, exposes Scoot to the fortunes of Singapore as a transit market. They tried a secondary hub via Noxcoot in Bangkok, but it shut down in 2020. Finally, fleet constraints have proven challenging. Having all 787s is great until you need something smaller. Not every market can support a 335 seat aircraft. While Scoot eventually added narrow body

planes for shorter routes, there was initially a gap in their capabilities. Today, however, they have integrated the Airbus A321 Neo, which allows them to efficiently operate narrowbody aircraft on medium hall routes up to 6 hours without being forced to commit a big 787 or abandon the market.