---
video_title: "Why the Philippine Economy Keeps Slowing Down"
video_id: NyXwKmlQ-y0
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NyXwKmlQ-y0
video_date: 2026-08-27
video_description: |
  On July 1, 2026, the Philippines officially became an upper-middle-income economy. Weeks later, its growth target had been cut, the peso had reached a record low, and households were confronting rapidly rising fuel, food and transport costs.
  
  This video follows the two shocks behind that disconnect: the flood-control scandal that slowed public construction, and the Middle East oil shock that pushed up prices across the archipelago. The promotion was real—but it did not describe how the economy felt when it arrived.
  
  Narrated By Tom McKay
  https://www.instagram.com/tmckay715/
  https://www.youtube.com/@UC8blX3YnHDG9e9_E9KjPK6g 
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
  Source list
  World Bank promotion and economic growth
  World Bank: 2026–2027 country-income classification changes
  World Bank: FY2027 income thresholds and country groups
  World Bank: Philippine Atlas-method GNI per capita
  DBCC: Revised 2026 growth, inflation and fiscal framework
  PSA: First-quarter 2026 GDP growth
  Flood control and construction slowdown
  PCO: ₱545 billion spent on flood-control projects since July 2022
  COA findings on the Bulacan flood-control projects
  DBM: May 2026 national-government disbursement report
  Oil, the peso and external pressure
  PCO: State of National Energy Emergency
  Executive Order 118: Temporary ₱50 imported-rice ceiling
  BSP: Historical peso–US dollar exchange rates
  Philippine peso’s ₱61.847 record close on July 24
  PSA: May 2026 international merchandise trade
  BSP: Gross international reserves
  Inflation and interest rates
  PSA: June 2026 national inflation report
  PSA: June 2026 Central Visayas inflation
  BSP: Monetary-policy decisions
  Rappler: Carbon Market vendors facing higher fuel costs
  Poverty, employment and remittances
  SWS: March 2026 self-rated poverty survey
  PSA: April 2026 unemployment and underemployment
  BSP: Overseas Filipino cash remittances
  Government finances and project verification
  Bureau of the Treasury: 2025 deficit and fiscal results
  Bureau of the Treasury: National debt through May 2026
  PhilSA–DPWH satellite-monitoring partnership
  PCO: DPWH Transparency Portal and public reporting
  MindaNews: Incorrect project coordinates in Davao de Oro
  
  One pre-publication update: PSA has since reported 2.3% GDP growth in Q2 2026, below Q1’s 2.8%. Either update the growth sequence or say Q1 was the weakest result “at that point.” PSA Q2 release.
---
Last year, the Philippines failed to enter a richer income group by $26. Not $26 in total, $26 per person per year. That was how narrowly the country missed a World Bank income threshold it had been trying to cross for years. And this year, it finally made it. On the 1st of July in the World Bank's own tables, the Philippines officially became an upper middle inome economy. Now, this is where the promotion starts to feel disconnected from what was

actually happening inside the economy. A little over a week before the promotion took effect, officials disclosed that the growth target for 2026 had been cut again. The former DBCC framework followed on the 8th of July and then 16 days later the Peso closed at the weakest level in its recorded history. So how can the Philippines move into a higher income group lower its growth target and hit a record low currency at almost the same time? Well, because each announcement was answering a different question. The World Bank promotion was asking, "How much income did

the Philippines earn last year?" The growth target was asking, "How quickly is the economy expected to grow this year?" And the peso was showing how much pressure the economy was under right now. So, the Philippines could cross the income threshold based on what it had already earned in 2025 while growth slowed in 2026 and the peso weakened under newer pressures. The promotion was real, but it was a backwardlooking milestone, not a description of how the economy felt in July.

And to understand what changed, we need to follow two shocks. The first began inside the government's own infrastructure program. It slowed construction, delayed payments, and took work out of the economy. The second derived from the Middle East. It made fuel more expensive, weakened the peso, and raised the cost of moving almost everything. This story is really about what

happened when those two shocks met. Now, before we get into those shocks, we should be clear about what the World Bank promotion actually measures. The World Bank starts with the income generated in the Philippines, adds the net income received from abroad, divides it by the population, and converts the results into US dollars. Then it checks which side of the income threshold the number falls on. This year, the line separating lower middle inome economies from upper middle inome economies was $4,636 per person. The Philippines reached $4,850. So, it cleared the threshold by around 4.5%. That

is not a huge margin, but it is real and it came after years of genuine economic growth. The bank also smooths the exchange rate over 3 years through what is called the atlas method. And the reason is pretty sensible. It does not want one unusually strong or weak currency year to throw a country into or out of an income group. So July's record low peso did not suddenly cancel a promotion based on income earned in 2025. But that still did not mean every Filipino had suddenly

become richer. The classification had two major limits. First, it looked backwards. And second, it was still a national average. Now, averages are useful. You need them to compare countries

and to see whether the Philippines is wealthier than it was 10 or 20 years ago. But an average can tell you that a country is becoming richer without telling you what is happening to any particular household inside it. It does not tell you how income is divided between Manila and the provinces. It does not tell you whether somebody works formally or informally. And it does not tell you whether the same salary still covers the same weekly expenses. And once we move beyond the

income used for the promotion, the direction of the economy changes quite quickly. In the second quarter of last year, the economy grew by 5 1/2% compared with the same period a year later. The following quarter, growth fell to 3.9%. Then 3%. And in the first quarter of this year, 2.8%. That

was the weakest quarterly growth since early 2021. Now the economy was still growing and this was not a recession but the growth rate had fallen for three quarters in a row. The government's targets followed the same direction. The original target for this year was 6 to 7%. In December it was reduced to 5 to 6 and then in June it was reduced again to 3 1/2 to 4 1/2%. Two downgrades in 7

months. That is basically the government telling you in its own documents that the economy was no longer behaving the way it had expected. So look at it this way. The promotion tells us where the Philippines had reached while the growth figures show the economy slowing afterwards. What they don't explain, however, is why. And finding that reason is strange because it begins with flood

control. Flood control does not immediately sound like something that could slow an entire national economy. It is drainage, pumping stations, retaining walls into channels designed to protect communities during storms. But in a country regularly hit by tropical cyclones, this is basic infrastructure and it is also an enormous, highly fragmented program. Thousands of projects are spread across different regions, contractors, local offices, and government agencies. That makes

the system difficult to monitor, and it makes it easier for something to exist inside government paperwork without necessarily existing in the same form on the ground. One case shows what auditors were looking for. State auditors inspected a river revetment project in Balawag, Bulakan. The contract was worth 92 million pesos. It had reportedly been fully paid. But when auditors

inspected the approved location, they found no structure there. Their findings were sent for investigation. No court has yet ruled on the case. And that was one project inside a much larger system. Government data showed that 9,855 flood controlled projects worth more than 545 billion pesos had been funded between July 2022 and May 2025. So when the scandal broke, officials weren't

dealing with a handful of contracts. They were looking across a program involving nearly 10,000 projects and more than half a trillion pesos. In the first 5 months of the year, total national government spending actually rose by 4.8%. But infrastructure and other capital outlays fell by 42.9%. which meant roughly 200 billion pesos less was flowing into construction than at the

same point the year before. The Department of Budget and Management linked the fault to flood control concerns, weak progress billings, and longer reviews. So, by then, this was no longer affecting only the projects under suspicion. Legitimate construction was being slowed down, too. Now, imagine you're the government engineer being asked to sign off on a project after reports that some fully paid structures couldn't even be found. Would you be comfortable

approving the next payment based on the same amount of paperwork as before? Probably not. You'd ask for more documents, check the reported progress more carefully, and make sure that what the contractor was billing for actually existed on the ground. And honestly, that is exactly what should happen after a scandal like this. But when every approval starts taking longer, even real projects wait longer to be paid and construction slows down with them. And once those delays spread

across hundreds or thousands of contracts, a longer approval process inside one department becomes a construction slowdown across the economy. Contractors wait for payment, suppliers receive fewer orders, and workers lose shifts. You can see that in the first quarter national accounts general government construction fell by 31.5% while investment and construction across the wider economy also declined. So in just one quarter almost a third of government construction activity was gone. So that was the first shock. Public construction slowed, payments were delayed,

and contractors, suppliers, and workers lost activity. If that had been the only problem, the government could have focused on clearing reviews and restarting projects. But then the second shock arrived, and instead of taking money out of the economy, this one made almost everything more expensive. At the end of February, war broke out in the Middle East and the effects began reaching the Philippines through the things it imports, especially fuel. By March, the president had declared a state of national energy emergency. Then in May, the government placed a temporary

ceiling of 50 pesos per kilogram on 5% broken imported rice. So, a conflict happening thousands of kilometers away was already becoming a domestic problem. The government was preparing for higher energy costs, pressure on food prices, and the wider cost of living effects that would follow. So, here is how that shock actually reached the Philippines. Oil is priced in US dollars and the international price of oil had already risen. But at the same time, the peso was weakening,

which meant every dollar also cost more in local currency. So, the Philippines was being hit twice. It needed more dollars to buy every barrel and then more pesos to buy each of those dollars. And because fuel is one of the imports the country cannot quickly stop buying, that pressure began spreading through the rest of the economy. At the beginning of January, one US dollar cost 59 pesos.

By the 24th of July, the peso closed at 61.847 to the dollar, its weakest recorded close measured from January. The currency had weakened by roughly 4 to 5%. That was one of the weakest performances among Asian currencies that year. But it was still far from a currency crisis.

Now, you might assume that a record low peso means investors suddenly lost confidence in the Philippines, but that was not the main explanation economists were giving at the time. They pointed instead to expensive oil, geopolitical risk, and broad demand for the US dollar. So part of what looked like a weak peso was actually a strong dollar hitting many currencies at once. But that still leaves an important question. Other Asian countries were also buying oil. They were

also dealing with a stronger dollar. So why did the shock hurt the Philippines this much? Well, because the shock was global, but the country's exposure was local. The Philippines imports far more goods than it exports. And one of the things it depends heavily on is imported petroleum.

During the first 5 months of the year, the country exported around $ 38 billion in goods. It imported around 63 billion. That left a goods gap of roughly $25 billion. Now, a trade deficit can sound like one of those economic figures that only matters inside a spreadsheet, but the mechanism is actually quite physical. Importers need dollars to buy oil, machinery, and food from abroad. So,

they sell pesos and buy dollars. When a country imports far more than it exports, that creates constant demand for foreign currency. And when oil becomes more expensive, those same importers need even more dollars to buy it. The Philippines still had substantial protection. At the end of June, gross international reserves stood at around $15 billion, enough to cover nearly 7 months of imports. So the peso was under real pressure, but the country was

not running out of dollars. And the weaker peso did not affect every household in the same way. A family receiving money from a relative working abroad received more pesos for every dollar sent home. But a household or business paying for imported fuel faced the opposite result. The same exchange rate movement helped one part of the economy and hurt another. But overall,

expensive oil and a weaker peso made imported energy more expensive. And in an archipelago, fuel does not stay at the petrol station. It moves through almost everything. By this point, households were being squeezed from both sides. Public construction was slowing, which meant fewer shifts, delayed payments, and less money moving through the businesses around those projects. Then fuel became more expensive. And in a country where so much has to move by road

or by sea, that increase quickly spread into transport, food, and other basic goods. The central bank's inflation target is between two and 4%. In February, inflation was 2.4% 4% and by April it had reached 7.2, the highest level in 3 years. By June, it had eased to 6.4%,

but that was still well above the target and far higher than the 1.4% recorded a year earlier. Transport prices were rising at nearly 13% by June, while rice inflation reached 15%. So households were dealing with weaker or less secure income at the same time that fuel, food, and everyday travel were becoming more expensive. Now that 6.4% was the national inflation rate,

but prices weren't rising at the same pace everywhere. In Metro Manila, inflation was 4.9% in June. In central Vicas, it reached 10%. So households in those two regions were experiencing very different versions of the same economy. At Carbon Market in Cebu City, fish vendors were

doing that calculation every day. Rapler spoke to a seller named Yosephine Salientes who said the cost of transporting fish to her stall had doubled from around 15,000 pesos to 30,000. At the same time, fewer customers were buying and her son had paused his studies for the semester. So, the national inflation figure was accurate, but it compressed some very different experiences into one number. A household in Metro Manila was dealing with one rate of price increases, while a household in Central Visas was dealing with something more than twice as high. And that

left the central bank with an extremely difficult choice. Growth was weakening which normally calls for lower interest rates and more support for the economy. But inflation was moving well above the target which calls for higher interest rates and less spending. So whichever problem the bank chose to fight, it risked making the other one worse. In December, the central bank cut its policy rate to 4 and a half%. In February, it cut again to 4 and a quarter. Then inflation surged. In April,

the bank raised the rate back to 4 1/2%. And in June, it raised it again to 4.75. So within about 6 months, the central bank went from two rate cuts to two rate increases. Now, from the outside, that can look like indecision, but the economy it was responding to had changed. At first, growth was

slowing, so cheaper borrowing could help support businesses, investment, and household spending. Then, inflation accelerated, and the bank had to turn around and raise rates instead. The first wave begins when fuel becomes more expensive. Transport operators raise fairs, businesses pay more to move goods, and food prices rise. The next wave begins when workers, landlords, and businesses start assuming those higher prices will continue. Wages, rents, and new contracts are

then set around that expectation, and inflation can keep going even without another increase in oil prices. So, the central bank was trying to stop this year's fuel shock from becoming permanently built into next year's wages, fairs, rents, and prices. But there was a cost to doing that. Higher rates made loans more expensive, encouraged businesses to postpone investment, and gave households another reason to reduce spending. So, the policy being used to control inflation could also deepen the slowdown that had already begun with public construction. And that

brings us back to the title because the employment figures didn't look catastrophic, but they also didn't capture everything people were feeling. A social weather station survey found that 52% of families considered themselves poor. In the Vicas that figure reached 66%. So financial strain was clearly widespread but the headline employment figures were telling a much calmer story. In April unemployment stood at 4.7% representing around 2.4 million people. A year earlier it had been 4.1%.

So unemployment had increased, but the change didn't appear large enough to explain the level of financial pressure households were reporting. And part of the reason is that unemployment asks a very narrow question. Does somebody have work? It doesn't ask whether that job pays enough. It doesn't ask how much of the person's earnings are now being consumed by fuel, food, or transport.

And it doesn't ask whether somebody has to work longer just to maintain the same standard of living. So someone can remain officially employed while still becoming much worse off. A driver may still have passengers but keep less money after paying for fuel. A market vendor may still open every morning while transport costs rise and customers buy less. and a construction worker may still have a job attached to a project but receive fewer shifts while payments are delayed.

All three are still counted as employed. But that figure alone doesn't tell us whether the work is still providing enough income. Under employment gets closer to the problem. It measures people who already have jobs but want more hours, another job or work offering longer hours. In April, undermployment reached 15.2% representing around 7.4 million people. But even that measure has

limits. Somebody who is already working extremely long hours may not need more work. They need the hours they already work to pay more. So unemployment can miss the problem because the person still has a job, while underemployment can miss part of it because the person is already working as much as possible. Neither measure fully captures whether the income from that work still covers the person's costs. So around 2.4 million people had no work and around 7.4 million wanted

more of it. Beyond those groups was an unknown number of people whose jobs still existed but had become less valuable as prices rose. There was also one important cushion. Remittances. Filipinos working abroad sent roughly $14 billion home during the first 5 months of the year. And because

the peso had weakened, each dollar became more pesos after it arrived. Families with a worker overseas were also much less likely to describe themselves as poor. So by this point, the national figures were hiding a very uneven experience. Families receiving dollars from relatives abroad got some protection from the weaker peso because every dollar converted into more pesos. But households paying for fuel, transport, and food were being hit in the other direction.

Some salaried workers kept the same jobs, but found that their pay no longer went as far, and some construction workers were still technically employed even though stalled projects meant fewer shifts and less income. That helps explain why the economy could continue growing and employment could remain positive without people actually feeling better off. Those figures can tell us whether people are working. They can't fully tell us whether the money from that work is still enough to cover everyday life. Now, the obvious response would be to restart public construction, but the government was already running a deficit above 5%. National government debt had reached

around 18.55 trillion pesos by the end of May. and higher interest rates were making new borrowing more expensive. This wasn't an immediate debt crisis. The Philippines remained investment grade and much of the debt was domestic or denominated in pesos, but borrowing more was becoming increasingly expensive at exactly the moment the government needed to spend more. and

money was only one part of the problem. The government also had to prove that the next infrastructure peso would reach a real structure because the same spending program that could help revive the economy was now the program whose credibility had been damaged. Part of the response was technical. DPW and the Philippine Space Agency had already partnered to use satellite imagery and space-based analysts to help monitor and validate infrastructure projects. A public portal also allowed citizens to flag suspicious sites, but even basic verification remained difficult. Minda

News traveled to the listed coordinates for one project and found that the actual site was around an hour's drive away. So, the government can release the money, but that doesn't immediately restart construction. Officials still need to approve the payments. Auditors need to verify the work, and contractors need to show that the project on paper actually exists on the ground. After a scandal like this, rebuilding confidence in that process may take longer than realizing the budget itself. The picture can improve if oil prices ease, the peso stabilizes, and legitimate

infrastructure payments begin moving again. And the number I would watch is actual infrastructure disbursement. How much money reaches real projects and turns into construction orders and paid work? So why did the Philippines become richer while so many people felt poorer? Because the World Bank classification was based on the average income the country had already earned in 2025. After

that income was measured, public construction slowed, the work around those projects weakened, and fuel transport and food became more expensive. So yes, the Philippines genuinely crossed into the upper middle income group, but by the time the promotion was announced, Filipinos were already dealing with the slowdown and price increases that came afterwards.