---
video_title: "The 'Paper' Tiger: Is China’s GDP Real?"
video_id: Ynso-wBWAxk
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ynso-wBWAxk
video_date: 2026-01-17T10:18:37+00:00
video_description: |
  In 2007, a U.S. diplomatic cable leaked by WikiLeaks revealed a stunning admission from Li Keqiang (who would later become Premier). He reportedly told a U.S. ambassador that China's official GDP figures were "man-made" and "for reference only." He admitted he didn't look at the official GDP to gauge the economy; he looked at three physical indicators: Electricity, Rail Cargo, and Bank Loans. 
  
  Footage: Shutterstock
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
China's leaders say the economy is doing just fine. In early 2025, Beijing officially declared that GDP grew by close to 5% in the past year. On paper, China hit its 5% growth target for 2024, a 134 trillion UN economy growing at a healthy clip. Factories are cutting shifts, domestic spending is weak, and apartments sit empty. Yet, apart from the humiliating miss in 2022, the headline GDP somehow keeps chugging along at or near its target every single year. To an ordinary family,

those rosy stats feel divorced from reality. Key indicators on the ground are flashing red. In 2023, youth unemployment surged to a record 21.3%. The government didn't just fix the problem, they fixed the stats. They paused the data, tweaked the methodology to exclude students, and

only then released optimized numbers that looked far less alarming. China's massive property sector is slumping, too. Real estate investment dropped by over 10% in 2024, while new housing starts plunged even deeper, marking the third straight year of double-digit decline. Yet, the official GDP report hardly blinked. Beijing still declared 5.0% 0% growth for 2024 as if the slowdown and

social strains barely existed. It doesn't add up. Something is seriously off with the numbers. Today, we're investigating this big disconnect. Why China's GDP might be a paper tiger. We'll peel

back the layers of China's economic data. From a makeshift index created by a Chinese premier who didn't trust his own GDP numbers to the telltale signs that real activity is lagging far behind the official narrative. By the end, you'll see how China's economic story on paper could be masking a very different reality on the ground. Our story begins in 2007 at a private dinner in Lyoning Province. The host was Lee Ketiang, a rising star in Chinese politics who would later become China's premier. Over the meal, Lee made a startling confession to the US ambassador. He

candidly described China's GDP figures as man-made and unreliable. In other words, even he didn't buy the official numbers coming out of the system he served. Instead, Lee said he preferred to focus on just three concrete metrics to gauge the economy's health. Electricity consumption, rail cargo volume, and bank loan dispersements. By tracking how much power is being used, how much freight is moving, and how many loans banks are issuing, Lee believed he could measure with relative accuracy how fast the economy was actually growing. Everything else, especially

the local GDP statistics, was, in his words, for reference only. That off therecord remark revealed later via a leaked diplomatic cable sent ripples through the economic world. Here was an insider, the future premier of China, effectively admitting that China's GDP data was embellished and that he relied on alternative indicators to find the truth. It was an extraordinary moment of cander. Western analysts seized on it and the Economist magazine soon created what it dubbed the Lee Kekyang index in 2010, combining Lee's three preferred indicators into a single proxy for China's growth. The idea was simple. If you really want to know how China's economy is doing, look at

electricity, freight, and loans. Hard numbers that are less likely to be fiddled by local officials. The likes index began to be charted alongside official GDP and it often depicted a much more volatile and arguably more realistic economic trajectory. From the mid200s onward, doubts about Chinese data kept accumulating within China. Even state media started cautioning against GDP worship and overemphasis on growth targets at the expense of quality. And for good reason.

Cases of data fraud at the local level were periodically exposed, validating the skepticism. Take the rust belt province of Leoning, Leetyangs former power base. Years after Lee moved on to national politics, the province admitted to a massive deception. In 2017, officials confessed they had been cooking the books from 2011 to 2014, inflating fiscal revenues by double digits just to keep up appearances. It vindicated Lee's earlier distrust. The moment oversight loosened,

the numbers drifted from reality. But an even more shocking admission came from Tanzhin. In 2018, the city's economic hub, the Binhai new area, suddenly slashed its 2016 GDP figure by a massive 33%. Tens of billions of dollars in reported economic activity simply vanished overnight, admitted as statistical padding. These aren't minor fibs. They are egregious distortions and they happened

under the pressure of an environment where hitting that growth number was king. Why would local cadres go to such lengths? The incentive structure virtually demanded it. For decades, Chinese officials careers were built on delivering growth. A city mayor or provincial governor who reported 8% GDP growth in a year of target 7% might get a pat on the back or a promotion while one who reported 5% might get an angry phone call from Beijing. As a result, many learned to cook

the books when needed. A detailed study in China economic review highlighted that local leaders had explicit incentives to overstate their GDP numbers to advance their careers. And with limited checks and balances on provincial statistics, these overstatements could persist for years unnoticed or uncorrected. Beijing wasn't entirely unaware of this. In fact, China's National Bureau of Statistics, NBS, has periodically audited local data and found widespread fraud. In one sweep from

2017 to 2018, the NBS investigated thousands of enterprises and investment projects and found serious falsification in the majority of them. This included the examples we mentioned, Tanzin, Leoning, Inner Mongolia, where huge portions of reported growth were simply made up. Such findings were embarrassing, undercutting the credibility of China's economic miracle. They also vindicated the use of alternate measures like the Lekiang index. After all, electricity usage or rail freight tonnage are harder to fake at the local level. A kilowatt hour or a ton of coal shipped

is tangible. Some of the volume data such as power and rail freight and even credit are interesting because there is less incentive to massage them at the local level. One economist noted, though he cautioned they still reveal only part of the truth. Throughout the 2010s, the Lechyang index and other countable indicators became popular tools for China watchers. They were especially handy during moments of doubt. For instance, around 2015 when China had a noticeable

economic dip that wasn't fully reflected in the official 6.9% GDP growth. At that time, some economists estimated China's true growth was 2 to three percentage points lower than the official claim. Indeed, the Leica Chiang index was signaling a sharper slowdown. It seemed for a while that this index could serve as an alternative speedometer for China's economy, cutting through the propaganda fog. However, over time, a new twist emerged. The Chinese economy

itself was changing in ways that made measuring it far more complex. Relying on just electricity, rail, and loans might have worked in the heavy industrial economy of Leyangs Leoning. But what about a China that's increasingly driven by software, e-commerce, and services? By the late 2010s, over 50% of China's GDP came from the services sector, not industry. Think about things like internet companies, finance, healthcare, tourism. sectors where growth doesn't always

correspond neatly with burning more electricity or hauling more freight. This sets the stage for our midpoint turn. What happens when the old yard sticks start failing to capture the new economy? The leakyang index was born as a clever hack to bypass dodgy GDP data. And for a while, it appeared to track China's ups and downs more honestly, albeit with more volatility. But as

China's economy evolved, cracks appeared in this alternative gauge too. The very countables that made the leaky young index trustworthy. Coal fired electricity, steel and concrete freight, big bank loans are heavily skewed toward the old industrial economy. Meanwhile, China has been pivoting toward a services and digital economy where growth is often less resource inensive and less visible in those old metrics. Consider this. By 2023, services, the tertiary sector, made

up 54.6% of China's GDP, up from 50% just 5 years earlier. Industries like tech, retail, education, and entertainment are now giants in China. A surge in online shopping or mobile app usage won't show up in rail freight tonnage. A boom in the software industry won't spike electricity consumption the way a steel mill would. So if you only watch electricity and freight, you might miss growth

that's happening in bikes and offices rather than in factories and ports. We saw a clear example of this during the CO 19 pandemic. Services were hit hard by lockdowns, restaurants empty, travel halted, while heavy industry was often kept running. The official GDP data logged a historic slump in 2020. Growth fell to roughly plus 2.3% that year, extremely low by China's standards.

Meanwhile, a Lee Ketchyang style index focused on goods production did not fall as sharply. In fact, since 2020, the Leekyang index's growth stayed higher than official GDP growth because it does little to capture activity in the service sector, which was the most impacted by the pandemic. Ironically, the index that was supposed to tell the real story at one point made the economy look better than the official reports, not worse, simply because it wasn't seeing the pain in services. This highlighted a crucial point. No single metric can capture China's whole economy anymore. Not even Lee's trio of metrics. Critics have thus argued that the Lee Ketyang index,

while useful, has become outdated in the 2020s. Alicia Garcia Herrera, a prominent Asia-Pacific economist, admitted that she previously relied on electricity data as a proxy for China's growth. But today, she looks at other indicators like consumer durables, and luxury goods sales to gauge consumption. In other words, one needs to track things like car sales, smartphone shipments, movie ticket receipts, airline travel, and online shopping trends to get a fuller picture of China's domestic demand. Christopher Bedor, an analyst at Gavacal Research, suggests examining multiple data series to form a coherent picture. Cross-checking official numbers with trade statistics,

private sector surveys, and big data signals. No more single silver bullet index. It's about piecing together the truth from many pieces. Even the Leyang index itself has diverged among those who calculate it. Different analysts maintain their own versions of the index, sometimes adding tweaks. For example, one economist replaced the single rail freight metric with a combined rail,

road, air, and water freight total to reflect changes in logistics. His version still showed the broad trend of GDP, but with higher volatility. Interestingly, he found that while the Lee index was more resilient during COVID because it ignored collapsed services, it didn't indicate that the official stats were massively overstated. Since goods production held up, one could argue the truth wasn't far off. This viewpoint actually challenges the skeptics. If anything,

after 2020, the official GDP might have been underounting some industrial resilience because services dragged it down whereas the Lee index stayed high. So, where does that leave us? The midpoint twist is that measuring China's economy accurately is really hard. The government's headline GDP might be smoothed and massaged, yes, but simplistic alternatives can mislead, too, if they ignore half the economy. China circa 2025 is not the coal and steel juggernaut it was in 2005. Tech and services are driving growth in ways old gauges struggle to see. A smartphone game that

earns billions contributes to GDP, but it won't show up in electricity consumption the way a new aluminum smelter would. At the same time, let's be clear, many independent estimates still indicate that China's official GDP has been overstated in recent years, despite the service sector issues. The divergence between official data and what many economists feel is happening has grown too large to be explained purely by measurement quirks. The question becomes, how do we reconcile these stories? To find out, let's examine the concrete consequences of China's data problem and compare notes from various observers. This is where the rubber meets the road, where dubious data

translates into real world effects and reactions. The stakes for China's economic numbers are enormous. When GDP figures are exaggerated or just plain wrong, the consequences ripple through both policy and business decisions. Let's start at home in China. For Chinese officials in Beijing, reliable data is essential to steer the economy. You can't manage what you can't measure. If growth

is actually faltering, but the stats paint a rosy picture, policymakers might delay much needed stimulus or reforms. Conversely, if local cadres fake high growth, Beijing might think all is well and miss brewing crisis. There's evidence this has happened. Rodeium Group, a respected independent research firm, argues that China's post2021 economic slowdown has been far more severe than implied in official data, particularly due to the real estate crash, and that this distortion is harming global interests by obscuring the true extent of China's issues. In other words, if China's GDP is a paper tiger, it could lull leaders and the world into a false sense of security, even as critical problems worsen underneath. The Chinese government's own actions

in recent years often speak louder than their data. Consider 2023 and 2024. Officially, growth was supposedly back to around 5%, only a tad below prepandemic norms. If you took that at face value, you'd think the economy was humming along decently. But Beijing's policymakers behaved as if they were fighting a recession. They cut interest rates repeatedly, launched a massive 10 trillion

UN 1.4 trillion local government debt refinancing plan, loosened real estate restrictions, and even convened emergency meetings to support the economy. as roodium group said that no government rolls out that much firepower to counter a minor slowdown from 5.2% to 4.8% growth. The logical

conclusion the real economy was in much worse shape than the smooth GDP line indicated. In fact, some Chinese economists quietly suggest that GDP growth may have been overstated by as much as 3 percentage points in each of the past few years. Overstating by three points means that what was reported as say plus 5% might have been more like plus 2% in reality. A huge difference. It calls to mind those Leoning and Tanjin exaggerations except now at a nationwide scale. For ordinary

Chinese citizens and businesses, unreliable data breeds distrust and uncertainty. As that businessman quoted earlier observed, the official numbers don't match what people feel. If you're a factory owner seeing orders dry up, the claim of 5% growth feels meaningless. This disconnect can dampen confidence. Why invest or hire if you suspect the economy is weaker than officials admit? In late 2023, after youth unemployment hit record highs and data releases were halted,

social media in China buzzed with frustration. If you close your eyes, then it doesn't exist, one netizen quipped about the data coverup. Another compared it to burying your head in the sand. Such cynicism reflects a loss of faith in the stats. Not a good sign for social trust. Indeed,

when the National Bureau of Statistics announced it would stop publishing the youth jobless rate, even state-owned media commentators expressed concern that this lack of transparency would further weaken global investors confidence in China. Speaking of global investors, China's data credibility issues have international ramifications. The world relies on Chinese economic data to make decisions. From CEOs plotting supply chains to central bankers setting policy. If China's GDP is overstated, commodity exporters might overestimate demand. Think of oil,

iron, or if China isn't really growing as fast as it says, it will import less of those than expected. Multinationals might invest on the assumption of a larger market than actually exists. And perhaps most importantly, global financial markets, which treat China's growth as a key input, could be pricing risk incorrectly. One need only look at how international agencies handle China's numbers. The IMF and World Bank largely take China's official GDP at face value in their forecasts, which then feed into everything from global growth projections to climate models.

Rodium Group cheekily pointed out that Chinese officials often cite the IMF's rosy outlook to validate their policies, creating a feedback loop where everyone accepts the narrative and no one wants to rock the boat. But if that narrative is flawed, the whole world's understanding of economic trends is skewed. Now, how does this compare to other cases? Historically, suspicion of economic data is not unique to China, but the scale here is unprecedented. During the Soviet era, Western economists famously doubted the USSR's GDP growth claims, which turned out to be overstated before the Soviet collapse. More recently, countries like Greece had well

doumented issues with statistical accuracy leading up to the Eurozone crisis. The difference is that China is a global economic lynch pin, so its data credibility matters much more. Some commentators have drawn parallels to a hypothetical scenario. Imagine if the US government regularly overstated its GDP or if a president pressured the Bureau of Labor Statistics to fudge jobs numbers. In fact, a few years ago, the US saw a whiff of this when a high-ranking official at the BLS was abruptly replaced amid political pressure. The reaction was swift. Markets and media sounded the alarm,

highlighting how vital trustworthy data is. In China, by contrast, the politicization of data has been a slow burning issue for years, often met with a shrug until recently when it's become too blatant to ignore. We also see Beijing acknowledging the problem in its own way. In September 2024, China's leadership finally moved to tighten the screws on statistical fraud. The country's top legislative body amended the statistics law to explicitly prevent and punish data fraud with harsher penalties for officials who cook the numbers. The new law makes local

governments accountable for the integrity of their statistics and warns that anyone falsifying data will be investigated and held legally accountable. On paper, that's a positive step. An admission that statistical fraud and deception had become a prominent problem that needed urgent fixing. But will it work? Skeptics note that similar vows were made in the past with limited effect.

The same amended law also contains language that statistical work must adhere to the leadership of the Communist Party, which to some sounds like a mandate that the data should align with the party's political narrative. In other words, don't lie unless the truth makes us look bad, in which case maybe adjust it. It's a bit of a catch 22. What's certain is that the Chinese leadership is torn between two needs, accuracy and control. They need accurate data to manage economic risks and there are plenty local government debt, property market fragility, etc. Yet, they also need to project stability and success to maintain public confidence and

political legitimacy. Admitting growth has slumped to say 2% when you promised 5% could spook investors and citizens. So there is a temptation to smooth the edges, delay bad news, or quietly revise methods like excluding job-seeking students from unemployment figures to instantly cut the rate. Every government faces this temptation to some degree, but in China, the opacity of the system makes it easier to do and harder for outsiders to challenge.