---
video_title: "Why India’s Rupee Is Crashing"
video_id: i5fLPIpMZXQ
channel_name: "Behind Asia"
channel_id: UCokeVZg4VaSLVBDiziJsMDA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i5fLPIpMZXQ
video_date: 2026-06-12T10:30:45+00:00
video_description: |
  India’s rupee has fallen from around ₹85 to more than ₹95 per dollar. This video explains why: India’s oil bill surged, foreign investors pulled money out, the U.S. dollar stayed strong, and the Reserve Bank of India used reserves to slow the fall. The problem is not economic collapse. It is a balance-of-payments squeeze: India needs more dollars than it is receiving.
  
  Narrated By: Tom McKay
  https://www.instagram.com/tmckay715/
  https://www.youtube.com/@MetalRobotReviews
  
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/behindasian
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/behindasia
  
  Inquiries: behindasian@gmail.com
  Brought to you by the Behind Asian Team.
---
Over the last year, the Indian rupee has dropped from around 85 per dollar to over 95. Why does this matter? Because global trade runs on dollars. When the rupee falls, everything India imports instantly becomes more expensive. The country has to spend far more cash just to buy the exact same goods. So what is dragging the currency down? It comes down to a simple problem of supply

and demand. India desperately needs more dollars to buy oil. And it just so happens that foreign investors are pulling their dollars out at the exact same time. To see how this squeeze happens so quickly, we have to start with that first problem. Because for India, oil isn't just a fuel issue, it's a currency issue. Take a look at this chart. One of India's biggest expenses is oil. The

country imports roughly 85 to 90% of what it uses. And on the global market, that fuel is paid for in US dollars. So when global prices rise, India doesn't just pay more for fuel, it physically needs more dollars to buy it. To see how fast this happened, look right here at the data from early 2026. In March, India's oil import bill was 12.18 billion. But by April, that bar jumped

to $18.63 billion. That is a massive 53% jump in a single month. Even though India has tried hard to diversify where it gets its energy from, it is still highly exposed to global supply shifts. That month, the country pulled in over 4 and a half million barrels of crude oil every single day with nearly half of it coming straight from OPEC. And as you can see on this next graph, once the oil

bill rises, the country's trade deficit widens. Over that exact same period, India's trade deficit for physical goods reached 28.38 billion. Even after factoring in the money India makes from its strong services sector, the total trade gap still sat at $7.81 billion. While that sounds technical,

a trade deficit simply means India is buying more from the world than it is selling. To pay for that gap, it needs dollars. And as that dollar demand rises, the rupee comes under immediate pressure. But oil is only half the story. The real problem is that while India needed more dollars to pay for fuel, foreign investors were taking their dollars out at the exact same time. If we pull up the

data on foreign investors, you can see the sheer scale of this exit. In the first 4 months of 2026, foreign investors pulled more than $20 billion out of the Indian stock market. To put that into perspective, that 4-month exit already exceeded the total outflows for the entire year of 2025. And look what happened when the war broke out in late February. The exit drastically accelerated.

Investors sold roughly 12.14 billion in stocks and 152 billion rupees in bonds. On May 22nd alone, foreign investors sold over $548 billion in Indian stocks while buying only a tiny fraction of bonds. This kind of foreign investment is very different from a company building a physical factory. This is fastm moving money. It can enter a stock market quickly and it can leave just as fast.

When that money leaves, investors sell their Indian assets and move back into dollars. That creates a massive drain on the dollar supply, putting even more downward pressure on the rupee. So, the currency was hit by two forces at once. India needed more dollars for imports and investors were taking dollars out. But there was also a third force pushing down on the rupee, the dollar itself. The rupee was not only fighting India's domestic oil bill, it was fighting the

global strength of the US dollar. You can see this clearly in the data. By late May of 2026, the dollar index was sitting near 99, driven by the fact that US real yields were rising. Global investors expected the US Federal Reserve to keep interest rates high or even raise them later in the year. Now, real yield sounds technical, but it's simply the return investors get after accounting for inflation. If US real yields are high, global investors can earn very safe,

reliable returns just by holding US dollars. That makes emerging market currencies like the rupee much less attractive. What this actually means on the ground is that high US yields pull global money toward America which leaves us with less demand for rupees and more demand for dollars. At this point, the obvious question is why doesn't the Reserve Bank of India just step in and stop the fall? If we track India's foreign exchange reserves, you can see why they haven't exactly been standing still. They have been actively using reserves, swaps, and liquidity tools to keep the

rupee from falling too quickly. But there is a strict limit to what intervention can do. The RBI is slowing the fall, but it isn't removing the cause. Now, to stop the rupee from falling, the central bank uses a simple trick. They take dollars out of their emergency vault and they dump them into the market. By flooding the system with dollars, they bring the dollar's price down,

which may pull the rupee's value back up. But doing this burns through the country's emergency savings. If we look at the right side of this chart, you can see that cost in real time. In late February, India's reserves hit a record $728.49 billion. But as the RBI intervened,

reportedly selling around $1 billion a day to stabilize the currency, those reserves fell to $697.1 billion by early April and down to 688.89 billion by miday. Now this doesn't mean India is running out of reserves. The country still has a very large healthy buffer. But it proves that

fighting the open market is incredibly expensive. And this is where the problem goes from a central bank headache to a nationwide threat because a weak currency feeds directly back into inflation, interest rates, and the government budget. As this chart shows, a weaker rupee does not stay contained inside the financial markets. It moves directly into everyday prices. If the rupee weakens, imported oil becomes more expensive in rupee terms. Imported machinery becomes more

expensive. Industrial inputs become more expensive and that forces inflation higher. By April 2026, headline inflation climbed to almost 3 12%. The government also began facing fiscal pressure as cutting fuel taxes to relieve consumers would directly reduce government revenue. With inflation rising, the central bank now faces a difficult choice. If they cut interest rates to support

economic growth, the rupee could weaken even further. But if they keep rates high to defend the currency and fight inflation, borrowing stays expensive for everyday businesses. If you ask an economist, they'll call this a policy trap. Basically, the central bank has two massive problems, but they require completely opposite solutions. Economic growth needs cheaper money, but inflation and a weak currency demand extreme caution. So the rupee is not falling because

India's domestic economy is collapsing. It is falling because India is facing a balance of payments squeeze. Now balance of payments sounds highly technical but it's actually very simple. It's just the country's foreign currency scoreboard. If we put it on a board, it looks like this. How many dollars come in and how many dollars go out. When more dollars leave

than enter, the currency comes under pressure. As you can see here, in 2026, India's dollar demand rose aggressively because of expensive oil and imported goods. But at the exact same time, the dollar supply weakened because foreign investors were selling off Indian assets. By the third quarter of the fiscal year, India's broader foreign money gap, which includes trade, services, and transfers, hit 13.2 billion. Add in over $150 billion in short-term external

debt that the country had to manage, and the math becomes undeniable. When you put it all together, the picture is pretty clear. Dollar demand simply rose faster than dollar supply. That is the fundamental reason the rupee fell. So the Indian rupee is not falling because of one single reason. It is falling because three massive forces hit the country at the exact same time. First,

global oil became more expensive, meaning India physically needed more dollars just to keep the country running. Second, foreign investors pulled tens of billions out of the market, meaning fewer dollars were actually coming in. And third, while the central bank used its reserves and swaps to stabilize the market, they could only slow the fall, not completely remove the underlying pressure. And that is why this is not just a currency story. It is an oil story. It is a

capital flow story and it is a balance of payments story. The rupee can absolutely recover if global oil prices fall, if foreign investors return, and if the pressure from the US dollar eases. But as long as India needs more dollars than it is receiving, the rupee will remain squeezed.