---
video_title: "I'm 37. I wish I knew this in my 20s"
video_id: T9sZztXkDUo
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T9sZztXkDUo
video_date: 2026-02-13T14:00:43+00:00
video_description: |
  If I could sit down with my 20-year-old self... over a bowl of matcha.
  I wouldn’t talk about 'how to be successful.' 
  Instead, I’d share simple but powerful Japanese philosophies —
  And those are...
  
  0:00 Orpning
  0:31 The heart of 金継ぎ Kintsugi 🥣✨
  1:40 己事究明 Koji Kyumei: Look Inward👀
  3:23 Find Your True 生き甲斐 IKIGAI 🌱
  5:48 本来無一物  Honrai Muichimotsu: Back to Zero👶
  7:38 和時計 Wadokei: Future to Now 🕰️
  9:36 The Three "間 Ma" : 3 ways of changing your life
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
I'm 37 now. If I could sit down with my 20-year-old self over a cup of matcha, I wouldn't talk about how to be successful. Instead, I'd share simple but powerful Japanese philosophies once to carry you through your toughest times. Because in your 20s, things go wrong far more often than things go right. I've been there, too. So, this is my way of cheering you on.

A message to you in your 20s. First, the heart of kinsugi. In my 20s, there were moments when I felt completely broken. I got depressed. I lost my job and I became homeless. Over and over. I thought,

"Oh, my life is broken." Maybe you might the same way someday. But when that time comes, I want you to remember the spirit of kintsugi. kintsugi is the Japanese art of repairing broken pottery with gold. In kintsugi, the scars are not flaws. They are part of the beauty. They are what

make each piece one of a kind. Life is the same. The failures and pains you carry today may someday form a golden lines of your life story and that is how you become more strong and beautiful. Isn't it amazing? So even if you feel like your life is broken, please don't lose hope because those broken pieces will eventually shine beautifully in your future just like it did for me. Second,

Koji Kyumei: look inward. In my early 20s, I was completely comparing myself to others, their salary, careers, and their lives. For example, my boss, he lived in a luxury condo overseas while I was in a tiny kind of smelly share house in Tokyo. And looking at him, I just couldn't help but compare. So I always thought, okay, that what success looks like. I want to live like him.

I believed literally every word he said. And one day he told me, "Work until you pee blood. Just focus on the money. Oh my god. Can you believe it? Now I know it's too crazy,

but it's just I did at that time. Yeah, I worked like a machine. I spent countless nights at the office writing sales letters until down. Then what happened? Well, I didn't actually pee blood, but I got depressed. That's when I'm finally realized I'm not him. Yeah. Instead of chasing

someone else's success, I need to know how I truly want to live. In Zen we call this Koji Kyumei. it means instead of looking at others, you look inward. Keep asking who am I really and how do you actually want to live? Yeah, in our 20s it's easy to keep looking outward and comparing ourselves to others.

But what truly matters is looking inward and finding what truly makes you happy. Yeah, I really wish I'd have known this sooner. Third, find your true eeky guy. So, what is a happy life for me? The old me didn't know the answer, even how to find it, but now I do. It's a life of

nurturing your ikyu. You've probably seen this famous ikiguai diagram, right? But to be honest, it's actually quite different from how we see it in Japan. The Japanese sense of ikiguai is much simpler. It's about the joy that wells up from within you. It's those moments when your heart

feels full, like watering your plants, whisking a bowl of matcha, or just drawing a picture. So it's not about chasing external things like money or social success. I see a key. But how do I find that joy? Well, there are many ways to find it. But let's start with finding your own values

and then filling them. For example, my values are these simplicity, freedom, creativity and so on. So my morning matcha ritual, living a simple life or creating YouTube videos, these are my iky guys. Then once you find these small iky guys, the next step is to nurture them. It starts as a tiny seed but if you nurture it eventually it grows and someone will notice that seedling. When a joy

connects you with others, it grows into a big icky guy. Just like how my much simple life on YouTube connected me with all of you. I didn't start this journey for money or fame. I just kept going because it fulfilled my heart and amazing people and abandons followed naturally. To me, this is the true essence of Iky. So, start by fulfilling your own values. Don't chase someone else's values

like money or fame if they aren't truly yours. Oh, if you want to know how to find your true Ikigai, just wait a little longer. Right now, I'm creating a true ikiguai course with ikiguai specialists in Okinawa. I'm so excited about it because I know it's going to be amazing. Fourth, Honrai Muichimotsu: back to zero.

By my late 20s, I finally learned that fulfilling my values and finding my ikigai was the key to truly enjoying life. So, I opened a small matcha guest house in Tokyo and it was so much fun. Yeah, I was living with my values every day and I loved every second of it. But that in is gone now. Wait, Aki, what happened to your matcha in? Well, I was kicked out. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The suddenly

landlord changed and the new one was Yakuza like guy. He just wanted to sell the land so he forced me out. Yeah, I was so young. There was nothing I could do. Then I lost my job. I lost my home

and almost everything I owned. On top of that, my girlfriend broke up with me and finally I became homeless. I remember sitting by a fountain in the park at night crying and thinking, "What am I supposed to do now?" Yeah, it's definitely one of the most toughest times in my life. So, if I could go back and talk to myself, I'd share this Zen phrase. It means we are born with nothing.

We die with nothing. Yeah. Losing everything doesn't mean you've become unfortunate. It just means you've been reset to your original self. So whether you get dumped or you lose your job, you haven't gone into the negative. You're just back at zero. And if you have nothing, it means

you're free. You can start picking up things you love and restart your life from here. Fifth W future to now. After I lost everything and hit zero, I started a new journey to Canada. Luckily, I started working at a matcha cafe there, Jaga Silk in Victoria. Thank you so so much because it

changed my life. Honestly, I was so moved because even so far away from Japan, so many people loved matcha and were finding peace through Japanese culture. And seeing that, I felt a deep strong calling. I want to share the beauty of Japan more with the entire world. And that's why I'm here today talking to you on YouTube. What I learned from this experience is that the reason hard

things happen isn't in the past, it's actually in the future. Yeah. In Japan, we have a traditional clock called Wok. It's a little different from a regular clock. In the world of Wadok, time flows from the future. Yeah. From the future to the present and into the past. This makes it

easier to understand what I said. The past doesn't define your present because the past is just drifting away into more past. Future is connected to now. In my case, my future was already set as a YouTuber sharing Japanese culture with the world. That's why I had to lose everything, go back to zero, and go on a journey to Canada to know how Japanese culture is amazing. And that led

me to YouTube. Did that make sense? So, if you're going through something unfair or hitting rock bottom right now, maybe it's happening because it's absolutely necessary for your future ideal self. When you look at it that way, doesn't it make you feel a little bit lighter? Sixth, the three ma. Finally, I have one suggestion for you. If life feels too heavy right now or if you

ever feel stuck in the future, I want you to just leave behind everything for a moment and go on a journey. Oops. In Japan, we say if you want to change your life, you need to change three ma and these are time space and relationship. And it says traveling changes all at once. Yeah, it changes how you perceive them. It changes your environment and it changes the people you

meet. For me, my journey to Canada was the exact moment my life started to shift. So, go explore. Come to Japan and let's sit down and have a cup of matcha. Who knows, this one bowl of matcha might changes your life forever. I'm waiting for you in Japan. Have a great day. Thank you so much.