---
video_title: "10 Years of Minimalism Taught Me This"
video_id: JpiIVgClUyM
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JpiIVgClUyM
video_date: 2026-03-28T05:36:45+00:00
video_description: |
  In this video, I want to share 10 lessons from 10 years of Japanese minimalism with you. Not only usual ones, but unique ones too:)))
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Minimalism made me happy and unhappy too. Over the past 10 years of practicing Japanese minimalism, I've learned so many lessons that actually changed my life in many ways. In this video, I want to share 10 of them with you. It's not about lesses more usual stuff. There are some truly unique insights too. At first, this might sound a little strange, but objects have characters. Yeah, after spending 10 years truly emerging with things I own, I had one big realization. Every object has its own personality. It's like there are little characters living inside them. And they're always talking to us. You might think it's weird, but it's true. For example, trash in your room is like a needy kid. Pick me up! Pick me up! And old clothes are jealous type. Like, Akki, why don't you choose me anymore? And your phone, they're tempting witch. Whispering, hey, look at me. I'll give you anything you want. Of course, you can actually see them and hear them. But the moment you see an object, your brain is naturally picking up the voice without you noticing. And here's the point. When you have too many things in your room, your room is like this. Come on, pick me up! Pick me up! Read me! Why don't you pick me up? Come on, look at me! I'll give you everything! Ha ha! Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, let me ask you, if your room is like that, can you really focus on what you want to do? If so, that's great. But I couldn't sew in the past iris constantly being bothered by these voices. But when I reduce my stuff, guess what? This voice is got quieter. And I was like, wow, I finally have my quiet room. And I started building better habits too. So first, try reducing the number of characters in your room. And try to spend our time surrounded by only the characters we love. Second, stop buying happiness. I used to think happiness was something I could buy in the store. But it was an illusion. Because the happiness you get from buying things has an expiration date. Yeah, like you buy something new and you're so excited and you take good care of it at first. But a month later, you don't feel anything anymore. And you're treating it carelessly. You know that feeling, right? Yeah, happiness from buying face really fast. So then Akki, is there a kind of happiness that doesn't fade? Yes, there he is. It's the happiness of gratitude. Minimalism teach you that. So what happens is when you reduce your stuff, you naturally start paying more attention to what you have. For example, if you have 100 cups, you won't even know what you own. You don't know the shape and design. But with just three, you notice each one, each design, each characteristics, and start to feel more attached to them, right? It's like you get to know each item's character and slowly become friends with them. And when that happens, you naturally start to feel grateful for them. Yeah, and it's less a lifetime. But you might be thinking, what if I get bored with them? Because I always use it. Maybe I want to buy new things. If that's the case, try this next mindset. And you'll be all right. Third, Ichigo Ichie. It's one of the most important principles in the tea ceremony. It means even if you meet the same person again and again, that moment never comes twice. That's why you need to cherish each encounter. It's beautiful isn't it? But more beautiful is this mindset applies to objects too. You know what I mean? Even if you use the same thing every day, that moment will never come so again. You know what? Because your thoughts and emotions change. Strangely changes too. For example, this flower today I think, oh, you're so cute. But tomorrow I might be like, this starting to wilt, that's kind of sad. And if it's a different place, I might think, wow, I love this yellow. It's so beautiful. See, the same encounter never happens twice. With this mindset, you never get bored with things. Because it's always your first encounter with this. Don't you think your gratitude stays with you? Fourth, your room is literally you. In Zen, we say a clean room, a clean mind. You've probably heard this before. But have you ever wondered why? It's funny, but I recently found that I can explain it with a car. Have you ever gotten car sick as a passenger? But when you're a driver, you're completely fine. Why is that? Because when you're driving, your brains start to treat the car as an extension of your own body. Yeah, that's the secret. This idea might sound a little hard to understand. So think about crutches. At first, they just feel like a tool, hard to use. But after a while, they start to feel like part of you. Right? At least for me. It's like that. Your space you spend time in every day gradually starts to feel like part of you. So when your mind is messy, your room tends to get messy too. Because you and your room is connected. It's part of you. And the opposite is also true. When you're in the messy room, your mind starts to feel messy too. So question, what happens when you reduce your things, organize and clean your room, your mind starts to feel clean and organized? Two. Fifth, minimalism can be a curse. Some people say that a label of minimalism can be helpful when it comes to not buying things. Yes, it's true. But sometimes it can be a curse. What are you talking about, Aki? Okay, let me share my story. When I first became a minimalist, my goal was super simple. Just reduce the number of things I owned. And sure, my space became minimal. But somehow I felt a sense of amptiness. Why? Because back then, I wanted to play freesty-goal so bad from my heart. It looked so fun. But I was thinking, I want to do that. But I have to buy some free space. That's gonna increase my stuff. I struggled a lot. And finally, I gave it up. I started minimalism to have a happy life. But I wasn't happy at all at the time. That's when I realized something important. Minimalism can sometimes become a curse that takes away the joy of life. Yeah, really, the thing your thing is important. But is it making me unhappy? That's something you need to ask yourself sometimes. Sixth happiness is within one meter. One thing I realized after 10 years of minimalism in that happiness was actually right in front of me. Back in my 20s, I was always chasing far away, like success and money. I really believed that's where happiness was. But in the end, I worked so hard, like running on the hamster wheel in Tokyo. And I burned out. My room was mesh. I couldn't belly walk through it. And of course, my habits were completely broken. That's when I knew, okay, I had to change something. So I decided to become a minimalist. After a while, I became a minimalist. Well, morning, I noticed something interesting in my room. I opened the curtain and sunlight came into my room. And I just felt, wow, I'm so content. I'm so happy. By letting go things, I think my desire to earn more, more things to become more successful naturally start to fade somehow. And gradually, I became a person who can notice small happiness in the daily life. Your happiness that I couldn't see before when I was chasing that far away happiness. So I really think kind of minimalism brings happiness within one meter over you. But you think? Seven, reducing isn't enough. In the past, I really thought that once I reduced my items, my room would stay clean forever. But it didn't. Even if you reduce your stuff, without a system, your room will get messy again and again. So I want to share one simple system. It really worked for me. And it's this. Put things where they're easy to put back. Based on how often you use them, the key is easy to put back. Because your room get messy when putting things back feel like a hassle. So even if you decide where everything belongs, if it's a nine to put it back, what happens? You just leave it somewhere and the room get messy again. Right? So instead, make it easy. The more you use something, the easier it should be to return. It's a little change, but it makes a big difference in your life. A, an I for what matters to me. You know what? The process of reducing your things is a repeated practice of deciding what you need and what you don't. So as you continue doing that, you start to develop an I for what you truly need right now. And this I is powerful. For example, in the past, when I walked through a shopping mall, everything looked like treasure. I want that and that and that too. And ended up spending money and in my room got messy. But now it's completely different. More things in the shopping mall, I feel nothing. But when something is truly right for me, it's start to shine. I immediately know this is it. So like this, shopping became so simple. And good thing is this I doesn't just help with shopping. It helps with your life choices too. For example, when someone invites me to something, I used to say yes to everything because I was a yes man and ended up I exhausted. But now it's now I can tell, okay, which one I really want to go. I need to go. So as a result, you'll able to spend more time on what truly matters to you. Isn't it great? 9. The Loneliest I've Ever Been Minimalism can simplify your relationships too. Some people say that. And it's true, but did you know that simplifying your relationships too much can actually make you unhappy? So last year to pursue the ultimate simple life, I moved to Okinawa. Along, a beautiful ocean, warm weather, it felt like a dream place for me. And I didn't have many friends nearby and I didn't really know my neighbors too. Then I thought, okay, my life is gonna be simpler. Yeah. I was really excited at first. I worked while moving from cafe to cafe enjoying the freedom. But soon I felt so lonely. No matter what I did, something felt missing. And I found myself, I think I was actually happier when I lived in a share house in Nagano. Yet relationships can be sometimes messy there. But I realized something, when you try to simplify your life too much, you might accidentally end up letting go of connections that truly matters. So be careful. Keep asking, who do you wanna be with today? 10th, Minimal Dold. In the past, I thought minimalism had a finish line. For example, once I did the Combire Method, my minimalism journey was done. But in reality, it's not like that at all. You reduce your gest, sometimes you add new things. It's like that. It's like a journey with no end. Because your life changes. Your ideal life, your comfortable life changes too. So that's why I think minimalism is like a Dold that path. The Chado, the T. Ceremony, the Jude, Kendo, and Kado. They're not just traditions, martial arts. They're path of self-growth. Minimalism is the same. This path isn't always easy. Sometimes it's hard. But now I can say that this path has completely changed my life. And I wanna keep walking this Minimal Do for the rest of my life. Have a trip. If you feel like continuing this journey together or if you wanna start, put the comments below. Let's do it together. Have a great day. Bye-bye.