---
video_title: "We Thought Minimalist Living Would Be Easy… We Were Wrong"
video_id: UtvDmb9KNiU
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UtvDmb9KNiU
video_date: 2026-04-11T01:00:35+00:00
video_description: |
  Thinking about our future, we decided to start living together.
  We thought, “We’re minimalists, so even a small place will be fine.”
  But in reality… it’s been way harder than we expected.
  
  So today, I want to share what our life is really like.
  
  I get told off sometimes… but she’s actually super kind haha
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
What if two minimalists lived together? You'd think, yeah, they'd have a perfect simple life. But the reality, it's the opposite. They ended up with more stuff and life got way more complicated. Why? If you're new here, I'm Aki, former elementary school teacher, minimalist,

and this is Yupi, my partner, minimalist. She works at a natural clothing shop in a super rural village in Japan. I recently moved here to live with her. First, I was so excited, but after just 3 weeks of living together, that excitement gone. Problems kept piling up, conflict, stress. So, today I'm going to share six real struggles we've been facing. The kind

of problems minimalism creates. First of all, let me show you our home. Let's go. You'll see why a lot of conflicts happening right now. Yeah, this is where we live. Not this

big house, but a tiny space on the first floor. This house was actually an old Japanese inn. And my partner rents a small section of the ground floor. Let me give you a quick tour. Let's go.

This is the main entrance. And this is the entrance of ours. We actually going through the window. And here's our small bedroom. And next door is the living room. And going back,

this room is the tiny kitchen. This is the bathroom with a Japanese bedet. Of course, in the back sink and bathtub. That's it. What did you think? So tiny for two people,

right? I thought it was okay, but it's tough actually. Right, let's get into the first problem of living together as a minimalist. First, getting in trouble because of stuff. Yeah, ever since we started living together, honestly, I've been getting called out a lot. For example, the other

day I burned one of her favorite heatresistant globe. I just wasn't used to using it and I got it too closer to the fire and something smelly and I was like oh my goodness. Some people might say it's okay let's get something new one but when your partner is a minimalist it's not that simple because minimalists choose every single item very carefully. So which means we just have stronger love for stuff. So when something gets damaged or treated carelessly, it hits harder. I made her

feel bad. And the other day, this happened too. We are minimalists. We don't have so many hungers. So I temporarily put my code on top of her favorite clothes. And then I forgot about it. And she came

back, saw it, and said, "Please treat my clothes with care." Yeah. I made her feel bad again. Yeah, I totally get it because if someone broke my matchable, yeah, I really sad too. So, what I learned is this. When two minimalists live together, things can easily trigger emotions. So,

we have to try to treat each other's things with the same love as our own. Yeah, this is the key. Second, extreme cold. This place where we live is actually called Japanese Tibet because it's a high altitude rural area and it gets insanely cold. So, the snow is crazy. This year isn't that bad,

but the last year it was like this. Look at this. The first floor got completely buried in snow. So, inside the house is like a fridge. Crazy, right? So people living here tend to use wood stove,

powerful kerosene heater, thick carpets or kotatu to stay warm. But she's a minimalist, so heating system is minimal, too. She only have two normal kerosene heaters and one small electric heater. That's it. She said, "Yeah, it's cold, but I got you." it. Okay. But for me,

it's hell. Especially at night once the heater turns off, it gets freezing insanely. The floor feels like ice. All I had was a mattress and a sleeping bag. It wasn't enough. So,

I borrowed a blanket and a futon from my parents, but still cold. So, I added an electric blanket, but still cold. I couldn't sleep at all. Still struggling with it. So I really think I want to have a warm carpet or you know like central heating system like in Europe. I really want

that. Now from this experience I realized two things. Minimalists are not great with sudden environmental changes especially cold. And secondly, the fact that she can sleep in this cold environment. That's honestly amazing. She's strong. Third, more stuff. Even as a minimalist.

Yeah, we bought minimalists. So, we thought we wouldn't have more stuff in the future, but somehow we ended up with more stuff. Sounds strange, right? But the reason is quite simple. Minimalists tend to have a very clear sense of what matters to them. For example, she's been

using this heavy iron pan because for her health is very important, a priority. So even if it's heavy, it's worth it for her. On the other hand, I prefer lighter kitchen tools because for me, health is important of course, but freedom, easy to move matters more. When I was just visit and using it occasionally, it didn't really bother me. But using it every single day, that's a different story. Each time I use it, it slightly drains my energy. So recently, I said,

"Ah, why don't we switch to a lighter pan?" But of course, for her, she loves it. She didn't want to let it go. So we had a long conversation. I love lighter one, but she loved this heavy one.

We didn't want to compromise. So that's why we decided to buy a new another lighter pan. Yeah. I'm not sure if this was the right decision. What I've learned is because we each have, you know, our strong preferences, it's harder to compromise and sometimes that means ending up more stuff. We

are trying to figure this out. Let me ask you if you've ever had to choose things together. How do you compromise? I'd love to hear your thoughts. And next, this one is the most serious. Fourth,

routines fall apart. As you know, I have my own morning and night routine. Yeah, I shared a lot of videos about it. I think minimalists tend to have these own routines because we are a person who wants to make our lives better and better. And of course, she has her own specific routines.

So what happens when two people like that start living together? Yeah. The routines fall apart. Yeah. For example, I used to eat breakfast around 5:30, but she eats around 8 and takes her time.

When we lived separately, it's totally fine. But now that we've just started living together, so we just want to be together as long as we can. So that's why I adjusted my routine because I'm the one who moved into her place. For example, when I lived alone, I would have a smoothie or a quick Japanese meal. It took about 15 minutes including prep. But now just preparing breakfast takes about

30 minutes. Oh yeah, I'm in charge of breakfast. I just can't make something bad for her. Yeah, that's why it takes time. And then we eat for another 30 minutes. Yeah, time just flies when

we talk. So before by 9:00 a.m. I used to get a lot done radio exercises, my marta ritual, English study and so on. But now I can't do that by 9:00 a.m. like this. So yeah, my routine kind of fall

apart. And for her too, things just started taking more time because of me. And her routine started to fall apart, too. Of course, we are trying to find a routine that works well for both of us, like waking up at 3:45 a.m., but honestly, we are still trying to figure out our balance.

What about you? When you leave with partner, how do you spend your morning routine together? Fifth, different ideas of the ideal space. Minimalists tend to know exactly what feels good to them. So, which means we each have a very clear idea of what our ideal space looks like and that's where the problem starts. For example, I like a traditional Japanese space almost like a tea room. On the

other hand, she prefers a more western style simple space with flowers. So, this is a secret. This room was originally tatami room. Uh she covered it with wooden style flooring to make it feel more western. So the other day I quietly asked would you mind turn it back into tatami room? And she was like h of course I respect her this time because this used to be her place but

when we design a new house together in the future how will we do that? Yeah we got to figure it out. Sixth, relationships don't stay simple. There's a mindset I've been using for a long time to simplify my life. Derek Sever's idea, hell yeah or no. This idea that when someone invite you to

something, if you feel like hell yeah, then go. If not, say no. It's simple. When I was alone, it works really well. But once I'm in a relationship, I realized it doesn't work the same way anymore because now I have to think about her feelings too. For example,

the other day she was invited to dinner by one of her local friends and she asked me to come with her. Honestly, I didn't really know her local friends yet. So based on that principle, I should say no. But if I do that, she might feel a little lonely and making her feel that way. That's hell no thing for me. Also, if her friends thought her partner doesn't really come out much,

that might make her feeling uncomfortable too. So now it's not just about my feelings. I have to think about hers too. So on that day, I in the end said yes. And honestly, it was really fun. It was

great. But lately, this kind of situation has been happening a lot and I'm feeling my relationships here are kind of like starting to get more complicated. So now I'm trying to find the balance. Not too many and not too few either. What I've learned from this experience. So like this

there are a lot of problems, struggles. Yeah, this is the real life of minimalist living together. What I've learned from this experience is actually very simple. There is a version of minimalism for one person and a different version for two. The amount of stuff, the ideal space, daily routines, every relationships. It can't be just one person's answer. We have to find what works for both of us.

So lately, we've been doing things like setting simple rules for chores, creating intentional time alone, and trying out new routines together. Yeah, I'll share more about this in future videos. Oh, one thing I really want to share right now, before going to bed, we decided to say each other, "Thank you for today, and let's take care of each other tomorrow." I learned this from an 80-year-old woman in our neighborhood. She told us this is her secret to living happily together. Isn't it

beautiful? It's a little bit embarrassing to say that you know especially after fighting but when we say it your heart feels lighter and you feel grateful for your partner. Give it a try. What about your apartment in Okinawa? Yeah. Before we finish, there's one more thing I'd like to share.

Yeah. Some of you might be wondering what happened to Okinawa. What about your apartment there? Yeah, we actually considered, you know, living together in Okinawa in the future. But that room actually the place I decided to live before I met her. So, it was a place I wanted to live,

but not necessarily for her. So, we talked about it and decide to start living here and maybe after that traveling around Japan to find our favorite place. So, first I were thinking letting go of my Okinawan apartment, but you know, I spent a lot of time and effort doing DIY on it. So, it felt like a waste to just let it go. Also, with this apartment, if I cancel the lease within 2 years, I have to pay a penalty. Yeah, it's a kind of strange rule in Japan. So, after thinking about

it, I decided to turn it into a temporary Airbnb. Yes. As for my belongings, I'll bring back what we need for our life together. And for the rest, I'll give them to a friend who own Airbnb managing company in Okinawa. I think it's a great idea. So, if you ever come to Okinawa, you're always welcome

to stay there. Yeah, maybe you can feel minimalist vibes there. Anyway, from here on, our new journey begin from a minimalist life alone to a minimalist life together. You know, life sometimes get tough, but remember, spring always comes. It's right there. Have a great day. Bye-bye.