---
video_title: "O pior do calor na Europa ainda está por vir"
video_id: Ux-aD3MbYl4
channel_name: "Band Jornalismo"
channel_id: UCoa-D_VfMkFrCYodrOC9-mA
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ux-aD3MbYl4
video_date: 2026-07-02T08:01:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Ondas de calor acima de 40 °C devem se tornar cada vez mais frequentes na Europa, e temperaturas de 50 °C já aparecem em projeções climáticas. 
  
  Meteorologista diz que o continente terá de se adaptar, mas vê espaço para otimismo com avanços no combate ao aquecimento global.
  #BandJornalismo  #shorts
---
O pior do calor na Europa ainda tá por vir. E é a ciência que tá dizendo isso,

ou seja, os europeus vão ter que se acostumar com ondas de calor, como a que aconteceu em junho, quando os termômetros passaram dos 40º em várias regiões e o calor foi relacionado à centenas de mortes. Now we're not just seeing them as kind of you know every decade we're seeing them every other year typically temperatures being broken and that's going to become annes look back to the summer of 2026 faz décadas que cientistas vem alertando para esse tipo de onda de calor e para quem achou as temperaturas na casa dos 40º aqui na Europa altas demais pode ficar pior. So we've look at our climate models that obviously project decades ahead but to the end of the century and um you know we can see that temperatures are going to increase. The longer we keep putting green at those temperatures are going to keep going on Europe. >> E como os europeus poderiam se adaptar a essa nova realidade?

to 50 degrees happen in places like Dubai into kind of Asia. They just live very differently. They don't go out. They move from an airconditioned home into an airconditioned car into an airconditioned business, office or shopping m and that's probably where having to go across Europe if we need to start getting sóis dramáticas, tem muita coisa sendo feita no mundo para combater o aquecimento global e em lugares que muita gente nem imagina. president of the US saying one thing look across the different states even Texas that's a big oil uh state in the US they are still moving very fast towards renewables. China that's always

been mentioned as well why should we bother in the UK or across Europe when China are just you know burning lots of fossils. They are driving the green agendave made some huge changes in renewables and electric vehicles over there and making money as a country. Ou seja, para essa meteorologista britânica existem motivos para ser otimista. solutions. It's really about driving action forward to make that change.