---
video_title: "How to Learn Assembly Language (For Hackers)"
video_id: uypysBv71fo
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uypysBv71fo
video_date: 2026-07-14T15:00:14+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  Assembly language is one of the biggest skill gaps between beginner and advanced cybersecurity professionals. Whether you're interested in reverse engineering, malware analysis, exploit development, binary exploitation, game hacking, or vulnerability research, learning assembly will completely change the way you understand software.
  
  In this video, I explain the exact roadmap I would follow if I had to learn assembly language from scratch today—without wasting months on boring tutorials or memorizing instructions that you'll immediately forget.
  
  Instead of treating assembly as an isolated programming language, you'll learn how to connect it to C, understand how programs really execute on your CPU, and build the reading skills needed to analyze real binaries.
  
  What You'll Learn
  
  • What assembly language actually is (without the confusing explanations)
  • Why assembly is essential for hackers and security researchers
  • How machine code relates to C and compiled programs
  • The fastest way to build assembly intuition
  • How to read x86-64 assembly
  • Writing your first shellcode
  • Reverse engineering your own binaries
  • Binary analysis using professional tools
  • The best free resources to master assembly
  • A complete roadmap from beginner to advanced
  
  Whether you're learning ethical hacking, preparing for CTF competitions, getting into reverse engineering, or simply want to understand how computers actually work beneath high-level languages, this guide will point you in the right direction.
  
  📚 Resources Mentioned
  
  Computer Systems: A Programmer's Perspective (CS)
  https://csapp.cs.cmu.edu/
  
  Compiler Explorer (Godbolt)
  https://godbolt.org/
  
  Ghidra
  https://ghidra-sre.org/
  
  Binary Ninja
  https://binary.ninja/
  
  pwn.college
  https://pwn.college/
  
  Low Level Learning
  https://www.youtube.com/@LowLevelLearning
  
  LiveOverflow
  https://www.youtube.com/@LiveOverflow
  
  Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer Manuals
  https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/intel-sdm.html
  
  AMD64 Architecture Programmer's Manual
  https://www.amd.com/en/support/technical-docs
  
  x86 Opcode Reference
  https://www.felixcloutier.com/x86/
  
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #sqlinjection #metasploit #cyberflowsacademy
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  0:00 Why Every Hacker Eventually Learns Assembly
  0:29 What Assembly Actually Is
  1:04 Why Assembly Matters in Cybersecurity
  1:30 The Wrong Way to Learn Assembly
  1:55 Start with x86-64
  2:31 Learn Assembly with Compiler Explorer
  3:07 Reading Real Assembly Code
  3:36 Reverse Engineering Your Own Programs
  4:08 Learn Binary Exploitation with pwn.college
  4:40 The Best Assembly YouTube Channels
  5:02 How Much Assembly Do You Really Need?
  5:26 Your First Reverse Engineering Challenge
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
So at some point in this field you hit a wall. You're reading a disassembled binary, or you're looking at a buffer overflow exploit, or you're trying to understand what a piece of malware is actually doing under the hood, and everywhere you look there's this weird looking code with registers and memory addresses and instructions that look like someone fell asleep on a keyboard. That's assembly. And instead of ignoring it and pretending it's not there, which is what most people do for way too long, tonight we're actually going in. I'll be honest with you about what assembly actually is before we start because most explanations make it sound scarier than it needs to be. Every program you've ever run — your

browser, your terminal, Wireshark, literally everything — gets compiled down to machine code before the CPU runs it. Machine code is just numbers that the CPU understands as instructions. Assembly is that same thing but written in a form a human can actually read. MOV, PUSH, POP, CALL, JMP — these are just human readable names for operations the CPU already does. You're not learning something exotic. You're learning

to read the language your computer has been speaking the whole time without telling you. The reason this matters specifically for security is that when you're reversing a binary, doing exploit development, analyzing malware, or trying to understand what a piece of shellcode does, you are reading assembly whether you want to or not. There's no source code. There's no Python to read. Just the disassembled output and you, staring at each other. The people who can

read that fluently have a completely different ceiling in this field than the people who can't. Now here's where most people go wrong immediately. They try to learn assembly in the abstract. Generic tutorials, toy programs, print hello world in assembly, that kind of thing. It's dry and it gives you no intuition for why any of it matters.

The right way is to learn it in context, which means learn it by reading real programs while you're learning to write simple ones. Both at the same time. Here's how I'd actually do it. Start with the x86-64 architecture specifically because that's what you're going to be looking at in basically every real world scenario on modern machines. The resource I'd point you to first is the CS:APP book — Computer Systems: A Programmer's Perspective by Bryant and O'Hallaron — specifically the assembly chapters. It's genuinely the best

written explanation of how assembly relates to actual C code that exists, and understanding that relationship between C and assembly is more valuable than just memorizing instructions in isolation. You see a C function and then you see what the compiler turns it into, and the connection between the two is where the real understanding comes from. Alongside that, use Godbolt Compiler Explorer which is a free website where you write C code on the left and watch it compile to assembly on the right in real time. Change one line of C and watch the assembly update immediately. This single tool accelerated my assembly understanding faster than anything else because you're building intuition rather than just memorizing.

Write a simple if statement, see what the conditional jump looks like. Write a loop, see how it becomes a compare and branch at the bottom. Write a function call, watch the stack get set up. It becomes a game and a genuinely addictive one at that. Once you can read basic assembly comfortably, the projects are where it gets actually exciting.

The first one that will blow your mind is writing your own shellcode from scratch. Shellcode is position independent assembly code designed to be injected into a running process and executed. Writing it forces you to understand exactly what system calls are, how to invoke them directly, how to avoid null bytes that would terminate strings early, and how to make code that works regardless of where in memory it gets loaded. The gap between "I know some assembly" and "I just wrote working shellcode" is genuinely enormous in terms of what it does to your understanding of exploitation. After that, use a disassembler on something you already know. Take a small C program you wrote

yourself, compile it, then open it in Ghidra or Binary Ninja and read the disassembly. Because you wrote the original you already know what it's supposed to do, which means you can focus entirely on reading the assembly output and verifying your understanding instead of also trying to figure out what the program does at the same time. This is the fastest way to build reading fluency and it transfers directly to the moment you're staring at malware or a binary with no source code. Then go to pwn.college. This is probably the single best free resource in this entire

space and I genuinely cannot oversell it. It's built by Arizona State University specifically for learning binary exploitation and it starts from assembly basics and takes you all the way through stack exploitation, shellcoding, return oriented programming, and beyond. Every challenge gives you a real binary to work with, real tools, a real environment. It feels like a game and it teaches you more per hour than almost anything else I've found. For YouTube, look up Low Level Learning. The channel name is exactly what it does — assembly,

memory, how CPUs actually work, all explained in a way that's actually engaging instead of feeling like a lecture you're trying to stay awake through. Pair that with LiveOverflow's older videos on binary exploitation and you have a curriculum that goes from zero to genuinely dangerous in this space. The honest truth about assembly is that you don't need to be able to write it fluently from memory to get real value from it. What you need is reading fluency — the ability to sit down with a disassembled binary and follow what's happening, identify functions, understand control flow, spot interesting patterns. That's achievable in a few months of consistent practice and it opens doors in this field that stay closed to people who skip it entirely.

Go install a disassembler tonight. Open literally anything. Just look at it. You won't understand most of it yet and that's completely fine. The first step is just getting comfortable with what it looks like before you can start actually reading it.