---
video_title: "f**k it... let's try AthenaOS"
video_id: Zr4918ZIVDM
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zr4918ZIVDM
video_date: 2026-06-29T15:00:34+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  in this video i install and test athenaos or athena OS, the arch-based cybersecurity and hacking distro that's trying to combine aesthetics, customization, hyprland setups, and serious security tooling into one package. from installation and first impressions to the actual penetration testing toolkit, osint tools, recon workflow, and desktop customization experience, we're diving into everything.
  
  is athenaos actually worth using? is it better than blackarch? can a security distro somehow make suffering look beautiful?
  
  we cover:
  
  • athenaos installation process
  • hyprland setup and customization
  • blackarch repositories and hacking tools
  • osint and reconnaissance tools
  • zsh configuration and terminal workflow
  • security tool management
  • distro hopping addiction
  • thoughts on hacker productivity vs aesthetics
  
  under all the animations and terminal eye candy, athenaos has access to thousands of security tools while delivering a much smoother experience than many traditional security distributions. but the bigger question is whether changing distros every week actually makes you better... or just gives you a really nice screenshot for reddit.
  
  my setup : https://github.com/StrinGhost/KaliGhost
  
  
  Resources:
  
  athenaos:
  https://athenaos.org
  
  blackarch:
  https://www.blackarch.org
  
  hyprland:
  https://hypr.land
  
  nmap:
  https://nmap.org
  
  wireshark:
  https://www.wireshark.org
  
  burp suite:
  https://portswigger.net/burp
  
  arch wiki:
  https://wiki.archlinux.org
  
  #athenaos #linux #archlinux 
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  0:00 My Distro Hopping Problem Gets Worse
  0:17 What Makes AthenaOS Different?
  0:46 Installing AthenaOS
  1:04 Choosing Hyprland Was a Mistake
  1:29 First Impressions of AthenaOS
  1:46 Security Tools and BlackArch Integration
  2:13 Building a Lean Security Toolkit
  2:24 Discovering Hidden OSINT Tools
  2:31 The Surprisingly Good Shell Experience
  2:44 The Truth About Distro Hopping
  3:01 Skills Matter More Than Your Distro
  3:21 Is AthenaOS Actually Worth Using?
  3:48 My Full Hyprland Setup and Rice
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
So at this point you guys are going to start an intervention. I went from Parrot to BlackArch and now I'm sitting here at one in the morning installing AthenaOS and I genuinely cannot explain to you why except that distro hopping has become a personality trait at this point and I've accepted it. For people who don't know, AthenaOS is an Arch based security distribution that markets itself around customization and aesthetics as much as it does the actual toolkit. Built by hackers, for hackers, with a setup wizard that asks you about your preferred shell, your preferred terminal emulator, and your preferred window manager before you even get to the security tools. This is already a completely different philosophy from everything else I've used. BlackArch basically looked at me and said "figure it out yourself."

AthenaOS is more like "let's make this beautiful while we're at it." Installation is genuinely smoother than BlackArch. There's an interactive installer script that walks you through choices instead of immediately throwing you into a manual partitioning nightmare where one wrong move sends you directly into the Arch Wiki for the next hour and a half. You pick your desktop environment — Hyprland if you want the tiling window manager aesthetic that looks incredible in screenshots, or something more traditional if you're not ready for that yet. I go with Hyprland because if I'm doing this I might as well commit fully to becoming the guy whose desktop looks like a sci-fi movie.

Now I just want to say something. Hyprland screenshots on the internet are straight up propaganda. Every screenshot looks like someone achieved enlightenment. Floating transparent terminals. Perfect animations. Beautiful widgets. Everything organized

perfectly. Nobody shows the part where you spend forty minutes trying to figure out why your wallpaper disappeared and your status bar decided today was the day it stops existing. First boot and immediately I understand why this distro has the following it does. The default setup is genuinely gorgeous. Clean status bar, smooth animations, a color scheme that actually looks intentional instead of default Linux gray. This is the kind

of setup that gets posted on those Linux desktop communities and gets hundreds of upvotes immediately. I am fully aware that caring about how my terminal looks while doing security work is somewhat ridiculous. I do not care. It looks incredible and that matters to me on a deeply personal level I'm not going to examine further tonight. Underneath the aesthetics though, the actual toolkit is serious. AthenaOS pulls from the

BlackArch repository for its security tools so you get access to that same massive catalog — thousands of tools, the same depth I was talking about in the BlackArch video — but the installation and package management experience around it is noticeably more polished. There's a custom package manager wrapper that makes installing tool categories faster, and the documentation is actually written for humans instead of reading like an ancient text recovered from a cave somewhere. I start pulling tools the same way I did on BlackArch — install what I actually need instead of everything at once. Nmap, Wireshark, Burp Suite, the usual suspects. Because I learned my lesson after installing five thousand tools and realizing I use like seven of them. Security distros always make you feel

like you're assembling the Avengers. Then six months later you're opening Nmap and Burp while three hundred other tools sit there collecting dust wondering why they were invited. Then I start exploring the OSINT and reconnaissance categories specifically because that's where AthenaOS seems to have put real curation effort, and I find a handful of tools I genuinely hadn't heard of before tonight. That's becoming a pattern with these less mainstream security distros and it's honestly one of my favorite things about distro hopping even if it makes my actual workflow chaotic. The shell setup uses Zsh by default with a configuration that's actually thought through, autosuggestions working out of the box, a prompt that shows you relevant git and system information without looking cluttered. Coming from BlackArch where I had to configure

all of this manually, having it ready to go is honestly a relief. Not every part of the hacker experience needs to be suffering through dotfiles for three hours. Here's the thing about distro hopping that I'll be honest about. Constantly switching environments is genuinely bad for actually getting work done. Every time I switch I lose muscle memory, I have to relearn where things live, I spend an evening configuring instead of practicing actual skills.

I've realized I keep telling myself the same lie every time too. I install a new distro and think this is it. This is the setup. This is the final form. Three days later I see another desktop screenshot somewhere and suddenly my brain starts acting up again. Linux

users see one cool terminal and immediately start questioning their entire existence. If you're actually trying to build security skills rather than just enjoy nice desktop screenshots, depth matters more than the distro. That's the entire philosophy behind how the Cyberflow material is structured — it's tool agnostic on purpose, focused on actual methodology and skills that transfer no matter what's installed on your machine, with a community that's there regardless of which distro everyone's using that week. Link's in the description, code Cyberflow50 for fifty percent off. By the end of the night my actual take is that AthenaOS occupies a genuinely interesting space. It's not as raw as BlackArch, not as polished and beginner friendly as Parrot,

but it nails something neither of them really goes for — making your security environment something you actually enjoy looking at and using every day. For people who spend hours in a terminal that's not a shallow thing. Environment matters for motivation more than people admit. A bunch of you asked for my Hyprland config after the screenshots I posted in the Discord so I dropped the full rice — config files, color scheme, the whole setup — in the first comment. Steal it, make it yours, and please for the love of god stop asking if I'm ever going back to a normal desktop environment.