---
video_title: "I Was Wrong About Parrot OS.."
video_id: riyAbk30tik
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=riyAbk30tik
video_date: 2026-06-07T15:00:34+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  This video is about Parrot OS, one of the most popular Linux distributions for ethical hacking, cybersecurity, penetration testing, privacy, and daily use. After years of using Kali Linux, I decided to install Parrot OS and see whether it deserves its reputation as the best Kali Linux alternative.
  
  In this Parrot OS review, I walk through the installation process, explore the desktop environment, test the built-in hacking tools, compare Parrot OS vs Kali Linux, and examine the privacy features that make Parrot Security OS different from other cybersecurity-focused Linux distributions.
  
  Topics covered in this video:
  
  ✅ Parrot OS first impressions
  ✅ Parrot OS vs Kali Linux
  ✅ Parrot Security OS review
  ✅ Ethical hacking tools in Parrot OS
  ✅ Nmap, Wireshark, Metasploit, Burp Suite, SQLmap, Hydra and Aircrack-ng
  ✅ AnonSurf and Tor integration
  ✅ Privacy-focused Linux features
  ✅ Performance and resource usage
  ✅ Parrot OS for beginners
  ✅ Is Parrot OS better than Kali Linux?
  ✅ Best Linux distro for cybersecurity and penetration testing
  
  Parrot OS has become one of the most searched Linux distributions among ethical hackers, bug bounty hunters, penetration testers, OSCP students, and privacy enthusiasts. In this video, I show exactly what works, what doesn't, and whether Parrot OS is worth switching to in 2026.
  
  Whether you're learning cybersecurity, studying ethical hacking, preparing for OSCP, building a home lab, or looking for a Linux distro that balances security, privacy, and usability, this Parrot OS review should help you decide if it's the right operating system for you.
  
  Resources:
  
  Parrot Security OS
  https://parrotsec.org
  
  Kali Linux
  https://www.kali.org
  
  Nmap
  https://nmap.org
  
  Wireshark
  https://www.wireshark.org
  
  Metasploit Framework
  https://www.metasploit.com
  
  Burp Suite
  https://portswigger.net/burp
  
  Tor Project
  https://www.torproject.org
  
  Subscribe for more videos about Parrot OS, Kali Linux, ethical hacking, cybersecurity, bug bounty, Linux, reverse engineering, penetration testing, privacy, and hacking tools.
  
  00:00 Kali Linux vs Parrot OS
  01:09 Parrot OS First Impressions
  02:01 Security Tools Compared
  03:02 Wireshark Configuration Differences
  03:35 AnonSurf, Tor, and Privacy Features
  04:36 Daily Driving Parrot OS
  05:09 Metasploit, Burp Suite, Nmap & More
  05:49 Documentation and User Experience
  06:05 Problems You Should Know About
  07:00 Should You Switch from Kali Linux?
  07:53 Learn Hacking with Cyberflow Academy
  
  #parrotos #parrotsecurity #parrotsecurityos #kalilinux #ethicalhacking #cybersecurity #pentesting #linux #oscp #privacy
  
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #sqlinjection #metasploit #cyberflowsacademy
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
I've been using Kali Linux for a while now. It's been my go-to, I know where everything is, I'm comfortable with it. But people kept telling me to try Parrot OS. So I wiped a VM, downloaded the ISO, ran through the installer, and booted in for the first time. And within the first five minutes I already had opinions.

The first thing that hits you is the desktop. If you're coming from Kali you are expecting black. Dark theme, green accents, that aggressive aesthetic that basically says "yes this is a hacking machine." Parrot doesn't do that. The default desktop is clean. Light theme,

teal accents, a top bar with a menu on the left. It looks like something a designer actually thought about. My first reaction was that it looked too normal. Like I'd accidentally installed a regular Linux distro. But I kept going and that first impression changed pretty quickly.

Everything is where you'd expect it. The menu is organized, the panel is clean, the system tray works properly. And the performance is immediately noticeable. I opened a terminal and checked RAM usage at idle. Under 500 megabytes. Kali on a fresh boot sits around the same range,

but Parrot felt snappier in actual use. Clicking through menus, opening applications, switching between windows, there's no lag anywhere. On a VM with limited resources that matters a lot. So I open the application menu and go straight to the security tools section because that's what I'm here for. And this is where things get interesting. The categories are almost identical

to Kali, information gathering, vulnerability analysis, exploitation, password attacks, wireless, forensics, reverse engineering. The same structure, the same logic. But the selection of tools feels slightly more curated. Kali throws almost everything at you. Parrot feels like someone went through and kept the tools that actually get used regularly and skipped some of the obscure stuff that nobody touches. Whether that's better or worse depends on what you're

doing, but for someone learning, a slightly shorter list is actually less overwhelming. I run Nmap first. Same as always. `nmap -sV 192.168.1.0/24` against my local network.

Immediate output, everything works perfectly, no complaints. Then I open Wireshark and hit the first surprise. It opens without needing sudo. On Kali, depending on your setup, you sometimes need to either run it as root or manually configure the group permissions before Wireshark can capture on an interface. On Parrot it was already sorted during installation. Small

thing but it tells you something about how the OS is configured, a lot of the friction that you'd normally sort out yourself after installing Kali has already been handled here. Then I find AnonSurf and this is genuinely the thing that separates Parrot from Kali the most clearly. AnonSurf is Parrot's own anonymity tool. One command, `sudo anonsurf start`, and it routes your entire system traffic through the Tor network. Not just your browser. Every application,

every connection, the whole machine. There's also a GUI for it in the menu if you don't want to use the terminal. On Kali there's nothing like this built in. You can set up Tor yourself, you can configure proxychains, but it's manual work. Parrot ships with this ready to go and it works immediately. I tested it by checking my IP through the browser before and after. Before,

my real IP. After, a Tor exit node in a completely different country. Ten seconds of work. The Tor Browser also comes pre-installed. Again, on Kali you're downloading and configuring this yourself. On Parrot it's in the menu. There's also a dedicated privacy section with tools

around metadata scrubbing, secure deletion, and traffic analysis. Kali is built almost entirely around offensive security. Parrot is built around offensive security plus a genuine privacy focus. Those are two different philosophies and Parrot's is more complete if privacy is part of your work. I then start going through things I didn't expect to find. There's a full office suite. There's a

music player. There's a video editor. There's image editing software. Kali stripped all of that out years ago because Kali is a specialized tool and nothing else. Parrot wants to be your daily driver. The Home edition, which strips out the hacking tools but keeps everything else,

is specifically built for people who want a fast, private, lightweight Linux desktop for everyday use. The Security edition that I'm running has both. You get Metasploit and LibreOffice on the same machine. That sounds strange but it actually makes sense if you want one OS for everything. Metasploit launches the same way it does on Kali. First run initializes the database,

takes a couple of minutes, then you're at the `msf6>` prompt. No difference there. Burp Suite is present, same version. Hydra, SQLmap, Aircrack-ng, all there, all working. For the core penetration testing workflow there is genuinely no difference between Parrot and Kali. Every tool I reached for was there. The difference is in everything around those tools,

the OS design, the privacy features, the daily usability, the resource usage. One thing I did not expect was how good the documentation situation is inside the OS itself. There's a built-in help section with guides on the tools and the operating system. It's not exhaustive but it's a better starting point than Kali gives you by default. Kali points you to the website. Parrot puts some of that information directly on the machine.

The rough edges are real though and I want to be honest about them. First, Kali has a larger community. If you hit a problem on Kali, there are ten YouTube videos and fifteen forum threads about it. Parrot is growing but that depth of community support isn't there yet. If you hit a Parrot-specific issue you might be digging harder for an answer. Second,

update immediately after installation. `sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade` before you do anything else. A few tools had minor issues on first launch that completely disappeared after the update. Third, the Parrot-specific tools like AnonSurf occasionally have quirks. AnonSurf worked perfectly for me but I've seen reports of DNS leak issues in certain configurations. Test it, verify it, don't assume it.

So where does this leave things. Is Parrot better than Kali? That's the wrong question. Kali is a surgical instrument. It exists for one purpose and it is extremely good at that purpose. If

you are doing professional penetration testing, if you're preparing for OSCP, if you live in a terminal and don't care about anything else, Kali is the right tool. Parrot is something different. It's a security-focused operating system that also happens to be a fully functional daily driver with a genuine privacy layer built in. If you want one machine that does everything, if you care about anonymity as much as you care about exploitation, if you want something that feels like a real OS rather than a specialized toolkit, Parrot makes a strong case. What surprised me most wasn't any single tool or feature. It was how considered the

whole thing feels. Someone made decisions about what to include and why. The privacy tools aren't bolted on as an afterthought, they're treated as a core part of what the OS is for. The desktop isn't dark and aggressive because dark and aggressive isn't the only way to signal that a machine is serious. It's a different set of priorities from Kali and once you understand what those priorities are, the OS makes complete sense.

I'm going to keep running it alongside Kali for the next few weeks and see how the daily use actually holds up. First impressions are strong. Stronger than I expected.