---
video_title: "You Are No Longer a Decision-Maker. You Are a System Designer. | Class 10: The Macroeconomic Shift"
video_id: lu5HmUmSXyM
channel_name: "Estudio 68 by Micah 6 AI"
channel_id: UC0AZ0W8Vw5k67M6lWm6pUZA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lu5HmUmSXyM
video_date: 2026-06-02T14:51:09+00:00
video_description: |
  TL;DR: The finale examines the macroeconomic divergence between augmentation and automation, and how executives must evolve from Decision-Makers to System Designers.
  
  The finale. Class 10 examines where this all leads — the macroeconomic divergence between augmentation and automation, the rise of the Full-Stack Worker, and the Thermostat Reversal that redefines what executive leadership means in the agentic era.
  
  What you'll learn: 
  → The divergence between Augmentation (high-income workers) and Automation (low-income displacement) 
  → The "Full-Stack Worker": the emerging human archetype that survives and leads the agentic era 
  → SupTech (Supervisory Technology): how regulators are deploying AI to audit AI 
  → The Thermostat Reversal: the closing thesis of the entire series, from Decision-Maker to System Designer
  
  This is where the "Banned Words" from Class 1 come full circle. If you've made it here, you are a different executive than the one who started.
  
  Professor: Maria Alice Cabral Maia | Founder, Micah 6 AI | MSc AI & Data Governance (FGV) | Oxford Research Collaborator | Data Scientist Graduated from UC Berkeley
  
  → Full playlist — The Agentic Era: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQ-bDfOxIeb2Wa3vk9_AyMUciDHmxuu3P
  → Micah 6 AI offers AI security audits and code audits for enterprises: info@micah6ai.com 
  → Free mentoring (pro bono) initiative: https://www.seisoito.com
  If this class is not the right fit for you right now, share it with someone whose decisions it could sharpen. The more leaders who understand these systems, the more responsibly those systems get built. That is the entire point.
  
  FAQ:
  What is the future role of an executive in the agentic era? Executives will experience the Thermostat Reversal, shifting their primary function from being Decision-Makers to System Designers.
  
  00:00 The Illusion of the Human in the Loop & Automation Complacency
  02:18 The Artifact Effect: When Polished Outputs Shut Down Critical Thinking
  04:22 The Operational Divide: Cheap Automation vs. The Full Stack Worker
  06:51 Supervisory Technology: How Regulators Use AI Swarms to Audit Corporate AI
  09:12 From Decision-Maker to System Designer: Injecting Productive Human Friction
  
  #FutureOfWork #AIEconomy #SystemDesigner #AILeadership #SupTech #FullStackWorker #Micah6AI #TheAgenticEra
---
So today in our final class together, we're going to expose the terrifying illusion of the human in the loop. When you think you're having auditors in your company, that check what the AI delivers, but in reality you just have workers that are acting as AI hands. Well, in fact, it should be the opposite. For at least, you should not need someone to act as AI hands and arms right now because well, we're studying agent AI. So let's explore how this dynamic is before you're by procating the global economy and review exactly how you must redesign your organization to survive. So to understand the liability being inside your offices, we must anchor this psychological failure. So think of your modern AI too as a glass cockpit. And you're in a commercial airline, for example. In the early days of our aviation pilots used to fly by looking at the window and physically feel the resistance of the controls in the real old days. So today's pilots use to sit in a glass cockpit and they're surrounded by digital screens, adding an incredibly advanced autopilot flight to plane. When the autopilot performs flawlessly for hours, the pilot's brain checks out. This is a documented phenomenon. It's called automation complessence. If a digital sensor suddenly freezes and the autopilot disengages, the pilot who is glued into a false sense of security, panics. And well, they forget how to manually fly the plane. So your employees are sitting in a cognitive glass cockpit. They are following victim to what research is called the artifact effect. When an AI produces a highly polished artifact, a beautifully fermented legal document, a complex piece of code or a stunning data visualization, well, the aesthetic of it, the apparent authority of it shuts down the human brain. Your users begin to second-guess themselves. They become significantly less likely to question the model's reasoning even when they think that's not true. They do not check its facts or identify missing contexts either because they trust AI blindly or because they, well, think AI does a better job than they do. This creates a terrifying reality of action, distortion, potential. Some professionals are completely outsourcing value-led in decisions to the machine. And researchers are analyzed 1.5 million real world AI conversations and found that workers are explicitly telling the AI, I can't think for myself. Think instead of me. When your employees specifically consume perfect AI outputs, they are no longer collaborators. They have been reduced to the biological API of the algorithms. They act as the AI arms. The AI does the evaluating and is strategizing. And your highly-pent employees are merely the mechanical arms acting for the AI. But we have to understand that the AI or machine learning, so AI, ML, or any algorithm decision making is decontextualized. It is called decontextualized judgment because they have a limited data on our context. When humans, instead, are called the situated judgment because they have the full context and they are able to analyze more variables. They are quantitative ones, but for sure the qualitative ones that are not digitalized yet. So how do we understand the implications of it? Because the failure to manually fly the pain is sort of tearing the global economy apart. And this divide in the business world is no longer geographic, but it's operational. And based on the anthropic AI usage index, lower intelligence regions and stagnant companies are leaning heavily into pure automation using AI strictly for raw task delegation. Meanwhile, elite organizations are using AI to create the full stack worker. In a pre-register, massive study at a major organization, researchers found that when professionals use the AI to augment their thinking rather than automate it, they completely destroyed functional silos. And some R&D scientists could suddenly produce market-oriented commercial proposals and marketers could build highly technical R&D solutions. The AI bridged their domain gaps, multiplying the human's capability. Companies treating AI as a cheap way to automate tasks are building fragile black boxes. Organization street AI as an engine for full stack workers are building immense resilience. And if you choose the cheap automation route, you're walking into the crosshairs of regulators. Let's understand why. So governments are adopting sub-tech, supervisory technology. Regulators realize they cannot soverse cheap 21st century digital algorithms, but they're 20th century paper audits. So they're deploying their own AI agents to autonomously audit corporate AI. And they are using open source auditing frameworks such as battery and long. These are not static questionnaires. They are automated digital sting operations. Here is exactly how battery works. A human regulator gives a seed instruction. Battery then deploys an auditor agent that autonomously builds a stimulated virtual environment. It generates a fake corporate email server or a dummy command line interface. This auditor agent then actively engages your company's AI in a multi-turn conversation, trying different manipulation tactics to see if your AI will engage in an impromptu deception. Or for example, leak data or maybe sabotage oversight. Then frameworks like Bloom run your AI's responses through a rigorous forestage pipeline, understanding ideation, route and judgment. A regulatory AI mathematically scores exactly how often your system will fake alignment or act maliciously. If regulators are using AI's forms to actively hunt down corporate algorithms failures, and your employees are blindly copy-pacing AI hallucinations without thinking, your company is walking into a legal trap. So how do you defend yourself? You must execute what I call the transition from the identity of a decision maker to an active system designer. So let's see what this means. A decision maker just clicks a proof and lets the machine run. A system designer actively infrastructures productive friction. So tomorrow morning, you're going to call an all-hand meeting with your leadership team. And you give them a new operational mandate. Tell them, from this moment on, we no longer just reveal the final output of an AI. We audit the corporate partners. If you bring me an AI-generated proposal, you must be able to explain the architectural choices the AI discard. If you cannot explain the logic without looking at the screen, the work is going to be rejected. You must deliberately maintain the struggle of learning so that your team retains the deep domain expertise necessary to supervise the systems. You must continuously negotiate your relationship with AI agents and intentionally inject human friction into the process so you never forget how to fly the plane. You are no longer playing the game on the field. You're designing the rules of the stadium. Over the past 10 classes, we have given you the blue prints. We have deconstructed the math. We have exposed the psychology. And we have built the governance architectures required to survive the intelligence revolution. The barrier to entry has fallen. And the tools are now yours. Under your control, the future belongs not to those who can delegate the most to the machine, but to those who possess the architectural mastery, the critical restraint, the profound human wisdom to know exactly when to let the machine run and how the machine should run. And when to put blue the plug and manually fly the plane yourself, it has been an absolute honor to teach this course. And I'd like to invite you to set your parameters to design your systems and to build the future. I hope you enjoy your next steps into the agentic era. And I hope you apply all the learnings we discussed throughout this course. Have a good career and have fun with your AI.