---
video_title: "Why Most AI Education Is Dangerous | The Agentic Era"
video_id: cFbPaAoCI6Y
channel_name: "Estudio 68 by Micah 6 AI"
channel_id: UC0AZ0W8Vw5k67M6lWm6pUZA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cFbPaAoCI6Y
video_date: 2026-05-21T20:43:22+00:00
video_description: |
  TL;DR: A direct conversation about who this course is for, what it will and won't teach you, and why the executive layer of AI is so underserved.
  
  Before the first masterclass begins, a direct conversation about who this course is for, what it will and won't teach you, and why the executive layer of AI is so underserved.
  
  About the Professor:
  Maria Alice Cabral Maia is the Founder of Micah 6 AI, an AI strategy and governance firm, and Micah 6:8, its nonprofit education arm. She holds an MSc in AI and Data Governance from FGV EBAPE, conducts collaborative research with scholars from the major institutions in the world, such as  the Oxford Blavatnik School of Government. Her focus is on AI user behavior and polarization, and completed her Post-Graduation in Data Science at UC Berkeley. She led digital product growth at Ambev (four ventures, time-to-market reduced to 4 weeks), served as Executive Director of Growth at Grupo Águia, and spent years before that in private pro bono mentorship, nonprofit education, and public lectures. She built this course because knowledge that stays in one place is a waste.
  
  She built this course because she kept seeing the same problem: brilliant executives nodding along in AI strategy meetings with no structural framework for evaluating what they were deploying or the risks they were introducing.
  
  This is the course she wished existed.
  
  FAQ:
  Why do executives need specialized AI education? Because brilliant executives often nod along in strategy meetings without a structural framework for evaluating what they are deploying or the risks they are introducing.
  
  → The full playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQ-bDfOxIeb2Wa3vk9_AyMUciDHmxuu3P] 
  → Pro Bono mentoring initiative (Micah 6 AI): https://www.seisoito.com
  → Enterprise AI audits & team assessments: https://www.micah6ai.com
  
  Chapters & Topics
  00:00 Introduction & Background — Maria's background in digital transformation, causal inference, and NLP across Latin America (Airbnb, major banks).
  00:48 Academic Credentials — Data Science postgrad from UC Berkeley, a master's in data governance, and current PhD work in AI governance and behavioral science.
  01:20 The Executive Anxiety Around AI — The pressure to move fast on AI without a structural framework, relying on outdated security assumptions and reactive governance.
  02:33 Why Most AI Education is Lacking — Why teaching analysts to write prompts isn't enough, and why CDOs need to understand legal exposure and the psychological profiles of models.
  03:33 What This Course Is (And Isn't) — An overview of the 10-class, 4-sprint course built on peer-reviewed research for executives and compliance officers, not a "prompt engineering tutorial."
  04:36 Closing & Micah 6 AI Offering — Information about Micah 6 AI's pro bono work with private executive teams.
---
Before we dive into this course, I'd like to briefly introduce myself to you. Over the last decade, I have worked inside some of the most complex digital transformation in Latin America. I like product growth at ABMBF across four new ventures. I ran growth for a holding company covering eight businesses. I've worked in the real-time data department at one of the major banks in the world, the major bank in Latin America. And I have advised the sea suits on AI architectures and built proprietary algorithms in Cousel Infrance and NLP. I have a master's focused on data governance and I have a post-graduation in data science from UC Berkeley. I am currently pursuing my PhD in AI governance and behavioral science and I have collaborated with researchers from all over the world and from the most renowned institutions such as Oxford Blavatnik School of Government. And my research focus is AI governance and user behavior. And in all of that time, the most consistent thing I have witnessed in volume drones and strategy sessions in conversations with some of the most accomplished executives I know is the same anxiety, dressing in different clothes. So everyone is being told to move fast on the AI. It's a command, but almost no one has been given the structural framework to evaluate what they are actually deploying. The vocabulary is borrowed from marketing docs. The governance is react. The security assumptions are built from a paradigm that no longer exists in software development. And there is a social contract in both rooms that says you can ask the basic questions. Because ask them, implies you are behind. And truth is, you are not behind. Believe me, I've heard from many sea suits, many executives, many technical experts. The field itself is barely keeping up. I talk from myself. I can barely keep up. Because every day there are thousands of papers, thousands of new technologies. It's hard to keep up. But I build this course because the executive layer of AI education is profoundly underserved. There are thousands of tutorials teaching analysts how to write a better prompt. But there are almost none that teach a CDO what they are actually building when they deploy an agentic system. What the legal exposure looked like when that agent reads a confidential documents or what the psychological profile of the model they've chosen means for how their team should manage it. That is what this course is about. Ten classes. Four sprints each. We don't peer-reviewed research from Harvard, MIT, Oxford, Berkeley, Anthropic, and many others. No fluff, no affiliate recommendations, no five AI tools to try today. This course is for executives, senior product leaders, compliance officers, and anyone who governs AI rather than just uses it. If you are a developer or an analyst looking for a prompt engineering tutorial, I can point you to excellent resources. But this is not that course. If you're responsible for the organization's building with these systems or for the decisions that shape how AI is deployed inside our team, your department or your company, this was built for you. My name is Maria Lissimaya. I'm the founder of Micah6AI, and I will see you next class. Oh, and one more thing before we get started. Micah6AI works directly with a small number of executive teams on a private basis. No ball, no. Applying exactly these frameworks to their specific organizational context. So if your team is navigating these challenges and the old life to explore that, there's a link on the description.