---
video_title: "AI Is No Longer a Tool. It's an Agent That Negotiates Intent. | Class 1: The Thermostat Shift"
video_id: gYYQK8hQj2Q
channel_name: "Estudio 68 by Micah 6 AI"
channel_id: UC0AZ0W8Vw5k67M6lWm6pUZA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gYYQK8hQj2Q
video_date: 2026-05-21T21:10:21+00:00
video_description: |
  TL;DR: Discover the foundation of this masterclass: the shift from predictive to generative AI, the reversal of Human-Computer Interaction, and the emergence of Digital Enactment Systems.
  
  In Class 1, we establish the foundation of the entire masterclass: the shift from predictive to generative AI, the reversal of Human-Computer Interaction, and the emergence of Digital Enactment Systems.
  
  We introduced the core vocabulary shift (the "Banned Words" your professional life depends on replacing) and now we map the transition from organizations as "interpretation systems" to organizations as "enactment engines."
  
  What you'll learn: 
  → Why predictive AI was a thermometer, and why generative AI is a thermostat 
  → The Anomalous State of Knowledge (Belkin, 1980) and why it makes most executive AI use dangerous 
  → How High-Frequency Trading demonstrates what happens when digital enactment replaces human interpretation 
  → The Acquisition Lab: map one "Thermostat" workflow in your organization
  
  Sources include: 
  Daft & Weick (1984), Belkin (1980), Constantiou, Joshi & Stelmaszak (2023), Freeman, Ruparel & Vardoulakis.
  
  Professor: 
  Maria Alice Cabral Maia | Founder, Micah 6 AI | MSc AI & Data Governance (FGV) | Oxford Researcher | UC Berkeley Data Science
  
  → Full course — The Agentic Era: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQ-bDfOxIeb2Wa3vk9_AyMUciDHmxuu3P
  → Free training sessions (pro bono) initiative: https://www.seisoito.com
  
  If this class is not the right fit for you right now, share it with someone whose decisions it could sharpen. The more leaders who understand these systems, the more responsibly those systems get built. That is the entire point.
  
  This masterclass is built for CTOs, CDOs, CEOs, CPOs, compliance executives, and senior product leaders. It is not a beginner's course.
  
  FAQ:
  What is the "Thermostat Shift" in AI? It is the transition from using predictive AI as a "thermometer" to generative AI as a "thermostat," replacing human interpretation with digital enactment.  
  
  Chapters & Topics
  00:00 Introduction — Establishing the rules of engagement and the banned words (software, tool, prompting, output).
  01:44 The Thermometer Paradigm — For the last 50 years, organizations were human-powered thermometers where technology passively recorded data while humans interpreted it.
  04:43 The Thermostat Shift (The Generative Leap) — How large language models transitioned technology from passively reading the environment to actively enacting changes to match a desired state.
  05:54 The Friction of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) — Why the reliance on rigid syntax (Python, SQL) assumed users actually knew what they wanted, ignoring the "Anomalous State of Knowledge."
  07:31 The Illusion of AI "Speaking Human" — Why current commercial models will confidently execute your bad premises rather than negotiating your intent like a human expert would (Cognitive Triage).
  11:27 From Interpretation to Enactment — A whiteboard breakdown showing how scanning, interpreting, and learning collapse into a single autonomous action loop called "enactment."
  13:04 Digital Enactment Systems — How organizations seize to be human interpretation systems and become digital enactment systems that actively construct reality (e.g., high-frequency trading flash crashes).
  15:24 The Executive Role Shift — Why managers are pushed to the edge of the system to manage parameters and strategic foresight, rather than making daily decisions.
  16:18 Lab Assignment — Mapping a thermometer workflow in your company and redesigning it as a thermostat workflow, focusing on the security risks of removing human sovereignty.
  
  #AgenticAI #AILeadership #DigitalTransformation #AIGovernance #ExecutiveEducation #Micah6AI #TheAgenticEra
---
Hello, welcome to Class 1. We're going to begin this course with a master class that will lead you from the past to the future. So welcome to our master class. Over the next 10 sessions, we're going to fundamentally deconstruct and rebuild your understanding of artificial intelligence, organizational security, and your own professional identity, I hope. But before we begin the architecture, we have to establish the rows of engagement because this is a pre-recorded session. I am not in the room to correct you. So I need you to open your architectural blueprint workbook. And I want you to work with me through this course. You have already seen the band words. So from this moment forward in your professional lives, you are no longer allowed to use the word software or tool. Cross them out, write the word agentic actor as we discussed. You are no longer allowed to use the word prompting. Cross it out. You have to say, managing digital psychology. And you are no longer allowed to use the word output. Cross it out. We're going to talk about enactment instead. And if you change your vocabulary, you change your reality. And reality is exactly what is at stake at this course. To understand where you are going, we must understand where we have been. And for the last 50 years, the dominant paradigm was to view your company as a giant human-powered thermometer. In 1984, researchers formalized this arguing that organizations are fundamentally interpretation systems. In this traditional view, your human employees acted as the sensory receptors. They scanned the market, they passed the data to the chain-off command, and executive setting boardrooms trying to give meaning to that data. Technology was just a passive instrument used to record the temperature. Even for the last decade, as we adopted the first wave of machine learning, we lived in the predictive era. Predictive AI was just a highly sophisticated thermometer. It reads the environment, measures variables, and it even gave you a classification based on aesthetic historical data. It automated the analysis of data, but it completely failed at the synthesis and execution of solutions. It did not change the wrong. It only told you about it. The machine was a passive observer, but we have crossed a threshold. But before we go further, I'd like you to consider if someone is governing AI in their organization and they have not seen this series yet, send them this video. Not because I need a verse, but because the gap between how these systems actually work and how most executive teams and even technical teams think they work is a dangerous gap. The only way to close it is to talk about it. Now I'd like to invite you to talk about a very relevant loop. Let's discuss it. Over the time we had humans or interpreters. So technology would tell us the temperature, but the interpretation would be always depending on humans. So if we were to need some data to achieve some conclusions, to have some decisions, and even to generate actions, we would need humans to work over that. But now we're talking about something really different. We're talking about enactment. So we do not have thermometers anymore. We have thermostats. We have technology that act by themselves. And this is what we call enactment. So this is the major leap we're living through. So this is the generative leap. To the advent of large language models, the machine transition from a thermometer to a thermostat. A thermostat doesn't just read the temperature. It possesses an internal model of the desired state of the world. And it actively initiates processes to change the room until reality matches that desired state. But to operate a thermostat, you have to tell it what you want. And here lies the greatest friction in computing. For the last 50 years, human computer interaction, or HCI, has been a one-way street. If you wanted a computer to do something, you had to learn its language. You had to learn Python, SQL, or Java, or any other language. Or any rigid programming syntax. The burden of translation fell entirely on the human. But these reliance on perfect human structure relies on a federally flawed assumption. The assumption that the user actually knows what they want. In 1980, information scientists Nicholas Belkin introduced a foundational concept called the anomalous state of knowledge. Essentially, you don't know what you don't know. If you're following me through, you're probably already understanding where I'm diving into. When non-experts attempt to seek information in a specialized domain, they lack the jargon and the conceptual frameworks required to formulate a precise query. So if we talk about it a little bit further, then we understand that under the old paradigm, if you asked a database a bad question, it would give you a bad answer. We keep hearing that modern AI is reversing this, that the machine is learning to speak human. But let's be incredibly clear about your current reality. For the vast majority of you using chat chat, Gemini, Clod, or deep-seek models today, that is a dangerous solution. Current AI does not truly speak human. When you ask a human expert a poorly formulated question, they don't blindly answer it. They negotiate with you. As mapped out by researchers recently, human experts use a strategy called cognitive triage. If your question is too broad, they zoom in. If your question is based on a flawed assumption, they zoom out to try to understand what you really want. And that's where we need to discuss the ATI illusion. So let's discuss it really, really, really, honestly. Proactive AI that uses these exact cognitive triage strategies is the fun word. But it's not what they have available today. It is a future solution currently understudy in frontier frameworks like InstructPipe or Open Source Agenteic Accusystems like OpenClaw, where the AI acts as a compiler, proactively negotiating your intent and observing the technical burden. Some commercial models are beginning to use it, such as Claude, for example. But until that frontier is fully deployed across your enterprise, your reality is the chat window. And if you ask current commercial AI, a flawed question based on an anomalous state of knowledge, meaning if you ask any question about a demand that you do not possess a expert knowledge, it won't negotiate with you. It will confidently execute your bad premise, your bad command. It will confidently answer your incomplete question. This is exactly why you must be hyper conscious of how you communicate with AI. You cannot just type words and hope for the best. Here's your insight for class one. The frontier of AI is no longer a tool you pick up. It is an agent that negotiates intent. But until you reach that autonomous frontier, you cannot afford to be passive. You must actively manage the digital psychology of the machine, because right now it will not save you from your own assumptions. A tool is passive. A hammer does not help you decide where the NeoShed go. An agent is an active collaborator, and you must learn to direct it. So let's talk about what AI really does. So let's go back to our drawings. Before AI, we had scanning, interpretation, and learning. So, as different parts of a process. So all of this would be performed by a different actor. Technology could scan for example, but the interpretation and the learning, the decision making included, would be a responsibility of humans. But now with AI, we're talking that all of this, so we're talking that all of these actions are now performed by a single agent. So we now have something different that encompasses all of it. We have something called inactment. So that's what you have to keep in mind. Now all of these processes are performed by one technological agent. So let's talk about a little bit more. So if the machine is moving toward active execution, what happens when we connect it to the real world? This brings us to the core framework of our governance model. So let's talk a little bit about it a little bit. Some researchers in 2023 wrote about digital enactment systems. When you replace the human sensory organ with an AI, the three distinct processes of scanning the market and interpreting the data and learning to take action, collapse into a single, tightly integrated loop, performed by a machine autonomously. And when this happens, your organization fundamentally changes. And your organization changes the relationship with the environment. Organizations cease to be human interpretation systems and instead they become digital enactment systems. They no longer just interpret information. They actively enact and construct these environments. So if we talk about the 2010 crash, look at high frequency trading. The algorithms do not wait for humans to interpret a quarterly earnings report. They autonomously scan order books and execute trades in nanoseconds. When an algorithm executes 10,000 trades in a millisecond, it is not reading the market price. It is actually creating the market price. It enacts the reality that every other participant must react to. This is how we got the flash crashes. The algorithms enact a panic before a human even registers the environment has changed. And a digitally transformed organization, your role as executive fundamentally changes. Because the AI handles the real-time scanning and interpreting human managers are pushed to the edge of the system. You are no longer making the decisions. You are managing the parameters of the digital technologies that make the decisions and not only make the decisions but also act on them. You were forced to engage in strategic foresight trying to predict the unpredictable. The consequences of a machine that constructs reality at light speed. This is the paradigm shift you must internalize. You are not implementing a new IT system. You are building an autonomous and actement engine. This brings us to our live assignment. So I want you to open your workbook and look at your own company, your own routine, your own environment. First, map out one thermometer workflow. Find a process that currently relies on human interpretation, decision and action. Consensus building and reactive learning. Second, redesign that exact process as a thermostat workflow. How would this process look if digital scanning, interpretation, learning and decision and action were collapsed into a single tightly coupled algorithm loop? What reality is what this new workflow in act? And most quickly, what new security risks do you introduce when human sovereignty is removed from the loop of interpretation or from the loop of acting? Welcome to the agentic era. I will show you in class two where we will look into the mind of the machine. Oh, and one more thing before we get started. MITre6 AI works directly with a small number of executive teams on a private basis and we apply exactly these frameworks to their specific organizational context. And we do that pro bono. So if your team is navigating these challenges and you'd like to explore that, there is a link in the description. See you on next class.