---
video_title: "Why I Built This Executive Course on AI | The Agentic Era"
video_id: dap6QyK9zHY
channel_name: "Estudio 68 by Micah 6 AI"
channel_id: UC0AZ0W8Vw5k67M6lWm6pUZA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dap6QyK9zHY
video_date: 2026-05-21T20:42:13+00:00
video_description: |
  Before the first masterclass begins, a direct conversation about who is the instructor and why she is releasing this course for free.
  
  About the Professor:
  Maria Alice Cabral Maia is the Founder of Micah 6 AI, an AI strategy and governance firm, and Micah 6:8, its nonprofit education arm. She holds an MSc in AI and Data Governance from FGV EBAPE, conducts collaborative research with scholars from the major institutions in the world, such as  the Oxford Blavatnik School of Government. Her focus is on AI user behavior and polarization, and completed her Post-Graduation in Data Science at UC Berkeley. She led digital product growth at Ambev (four ventures, time-to-market reduced to 4 weeks), served as Executive Director of Growth at a major tourism holding, and spent years before that in private pro bono mentorship, nonprofit education, and public lectures. She built this course because knowledge that stays in one place is a waste.
  
  She built this course because she kept seeing the same problem: brilliant executives nodding along in AI strategy meetings with no structural framework for evaluating what they were deploying or the risks they were introducing.
  
  This is the course she wished existed.
  
  → The full playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQ-bDfOxIeb2Wa3vk9_AyMUciDHmxuu3P
  → Pro Bono mentoring initiative (Micah 6 AI): https://www.seisoito.com
  → Enterprise AI audits & team assessments: https://www.micah6ai.com
  
  Chapters & Topics
  0:00 Introduction & Personal Background
  0:54 Career Milestones & Giving Back
  1:54 Losing the Mission
  2:34 The Turning Point
  3:35 Returning to the Core Mission
  4:05 The Meaning of "Micah 6 AI"
  5:20 The Purpose of the Course
---
Hello, I want to start by telling something I don't usually bring in professional context. I am here because of people who had no obligation to help me. I grew up in a single family. We are not poor in the way that the word simple usually means of extreme deprivation, but we were not a family with access. Access to networks, access to mentors, access to the kind of education that changes the trajectory of what you become. Those things came to me through people, teachers, colleagues, bosses, strangers who saw something and decided to give their time. Their knowledge, their attention, their resources to someone who was not guaranteed to pay them back. I am sitting in front of this camera today having worked at AB&Bav, having studied at Berkeley, at Babson College, at Ashisipahi, having worked as a researcher in projects of Oxford, FGV, and having built companies and advised sea suits because too many people chose to share what they had with me when they didn't have to. For a long time, I gave that back. Private mentorship, pro bono, unofficial, classes for nonprofits, public lectures at universities that couldn't pay a speaker's fee. I believed and I still believe that knowledge that stays in one place is a waste. That the point of learning something is to keep moving forward to as many as people as possible. And then I stopped. Not for one dramatic reason. For this low quiet reason that most people stopped doing what matters. I was making money, real money, for the first sign in my life. And I let that feel like that was the point. I let the calendar fill up with things that looked like success, advisory board meetings, consulting contracts, titles. And I told myself I would get back to the mission when things settle down. You know how that sentence ends. By 2020, I had almost completely stopped. The mentorships quietly trailed off. The nonprofit classes became not right now. The public lectures became made next quarter. I was busy. I was successful. I was getting further from myself every year. Last September, I had surgeries on both of my feet at the same time. Eight months ago, I still feel pain when I walk. And I cannot run. So I had to stop my sport practice. And I cannot practice the level of sports that have always been how I process the world. For someone who has spent their entire adult life in motion, literally and professionally, being forced to be still was not something I handled gracefully at first. But something happened in that stillness. I started asking the question, I had been too busy to ask, what am I actually trying to build? Not a company, not a career, the life. What does the thing I'm here to actually look like? And the answer was inversely obvious. It looked like what I was doing before. And I got distracted. What I wanted to do, what I wanted to build, looked like teaching, looked like making what I know available to people who needed and cannot afford to pay for it. It looked like honoring the people who gave me what I have by passing it forward with at least as much generosity. Micah 6 AI takes its name from a verse I keep coming back to. Micah 6.8. What does the Lord require of you to act justly, to love mercy and to walk humbly? I am not going to push any theology on you, that's not my role in here. But as a framework for how to live and how to build, I have to justly love mercy and walk humbly, I have not found a better one to describe my values. It is the standard I want to hold myself to. It is what I feel like the reason the consulting firms nonprofit arm carries the name. And the reason and the mission of my nonprofit arm, my pro bono arm, builds upon to make this kind of education available to people who cannot pay for it. This course is one expression of that mission. Over the next 10 classes we are going to dismantle everything most executives think they know about artificial intelligence and rebuild it from the ground. The architecture, the governance, the psychology of these systems, the security, the vulnerabilities, the macro economic consequences. It is built on prior, reviewed research. It is rigorous. It does not condense to you and it does not simplify what should not be simplified. And it is completely free. Not as a marketing strategy, not as a lead magnet because the knowledge should be accessible. Because the executives and leaders and practitioners who understand these systems very well are more likely to deploy them responsibly when they know how they work. Because if I build this course well enough that it is useful to you and you build something better because of it, then the people who gave me what I have will have gotten a return on their investment. A return that I could never have repaid alone. That is the entire calculation. My name is Maria Lisi Maya. I am the founder of Michael Six AI and I have been looking forward to this for a long time. Class 1 is next. I will see you there.