---
video_title: "AI Is Speeding Up Your Team but Destroying Its Thinking. | Class 6: Vibe Coding and The Exoskeleton"
video_id: wpGPjxLdGNg
channel_name: "Estudio 68 by Micah 6 AI"
channel_id: UC0AZ0W8Vw5k67M6lWm6pUZA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wpGPjxLdGNg
video_date: 2026-05-24T15:21:19+00:00
video_description: |
  TL;DR: Examine the uncomfortable reality of what happens to human cognition when AI handles the thinking, and why delegating too fast causes architectural blindness.
  
  The most uncomfortable class in the series. Class 6 examines what happens to human cognition when AI handles the thinking and why organizations that delegate too fast will pay for it in five years.
  
  What you'll learn: 
  → Cognitive erosion and architectural blindness: the documented consequences of AI-assisted development 
  → "Vibe Coding" and the dangers of probabilistic software engineering without structural oversight 
  → The Exoskeleton Effect: how AI augmentation accelerates output while atrophying long-term human capital 
  → How to build "Productive Friction" into your team's workflows to protect junior staff's critical thinking 
  → The Acquisition Lab: design a friction framework for your department before delegation becomes dependency
  
  Professor: Maria Alice Cabral Maia | Founder, Micah 6 AI | MSc AI & Data Governance (FGV) | Oxford Research Collaborator | Data Scientist Graduated from UC Berkeley
  
  → Full playlist — The Agentic Era: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQ-bDfOxIeb2Wa3vk9_AyMUciDHmxuu3P
  → Micah 6 AI offers AI security audits and code audits for enterprises: info@micah6ai.com 
  → Free mentoring (pro bono) initiative: https://www.seisoito.com
  
  If this class is not the right fit for you right now, share it with someone whose decisions it could sharpen. The more leaders who understand these systems, the more responsibly those systems get built. That is the entire point.
  
  FAQ:
  What is the Exoskeleton Effect in AI? It is the phenomenon where AI augmentation accelerates short-term output while simultaneously atrophying long-term human capital and critical thinking.
  
  #VibeCoding #AIProductivity #FutureOfWork #AILeadership #ExoskeletonEffect #micah6ai 
  
  Chapters and Topics:
  [00:00] Introduction — Exploring the cognitive erosion and architectural blindness caused by AI systems.
  [01:29] The Era of Vibe Coding — What vibe coding is and why relying solely on natural language to build apps is a trap.
  [04:34] The Two Paths of AI Development — A whiteboard breakdown of the "architectural path" versus the "path of least resistance."
  [09:10] The Three Silent Traps of Vibe Coding — The illusion of security (data leaks), the monolith brick wall, and the iceberg of hidden technical debt.
  [12:37] The Exoskeleton Effect — A study on how relying on AI causes a 17% drop in conceptual understanding and skill formation.
  [16:32] Why Friction Builds Expertise — Comparing AI-assisted development vs. the manual struggle that forges real knowledge.
  [23:57] Typist vs. Systems Director — Why you must shift your identity to survive the vibe coding era.
  [27:53] The Paradox of Supervision — If AI eliminates the path to expertise, who will be qualified to supervise AI in the future?
  [33:41] How to Save Our Workforce — Implementing "Prompt Zero," productive friction, and AI governance policies.
  [37:59] Final Thoughts & Lab Assignment — Mandating architecture and the importance of keeping humans in the loop.
---
Hello, welcome to one more class of our course on the Agentic Era. A course to discuss how to deploy more secure, more responsible, and, well, more conscious AI. So we have discussed in our previous sessions the systemic architecture of the vulnerabilities of the machine. We have already studied how prompting injections can hijack an agent, turning it into a liper agent for, well, against your organization. And now we'll look at a much more fragile component of the social technical system, the human mind. And I'd like you to sync that in. How can the human mind and AI systems be discussed together? Let that sync in. Because today we address the cognitive erosion, the architectural blindness, and the illusion of probabilistic, soft-turing engineering. Let's discuss it a little bit. Going to our presentation. We have entered the era driven by a trail called Vibcoating. We have highly capable conversational agents, junior developers, product managers, and non-technical founders are now using to generate hundreds of lines of code or complex infrastructure at some point, simply by describing the vibe or the intent of what they want in a natural language. The agentic actor now produces a polished functional enactment in seconds. On the surface, this shows like an unprecedented democratization of technology. Everyone can now deploy all apps they imagine, as long as they can describe it. But that's exactly the first problem. At its core, describing the vibe of an app to an AI is a trap. We've talked about managing digital psychology and how to better deploy our instructions. So can we imagine the effects of non-technical people trying to describe a technical system? We used to believe the primary danger of vibe coding was simply that developers would forget how to write syntax. Our developers would have a difficulty trying to understand what the AI coded. But the reality is far more dangerous. And again, we are not discussing the risks just so we stop using. We cannot stop using. We are discussing the risks just so we can use it more responsibly. More aware of the risks and understanding how to mitigate them. The major problem is that the people who are now vibe coding are not software architect. So they do not know what architectural or security decisions to ask for. So what does happen when we tell a technical system that we obey and agree with us? And mostly we try to find all possible shortcuts to be compliant to what we ask. What happens when we tell it to develop something with very superficial instructions? You must remember artificial intelligence engines are automatically structured statistical prediction models optimized for surface level compliance. If you ask an agent to build an application and you do not explicitly mandate a secure architecture, the agent will think the path of list resistance. So let's go to our whiteboard. We have our AI here. And of course, we can say we have the user intent. And well, the user intent is directed to the agent. So the agent AI, the AI that now acts. And this agent can take, wow, two paths. Let's simplify it this way. It can take the architectural path, which requires specific instructions. I cannot say simply, okay, it's not just saying simply, okay, I want a secure system or I want a scalable system. It's not that. It's more specific than that. We have to specify. I cannot send secure and scalable in many different ways. I mean, even human can understand secure and scalable in many different ways, okay. So this is the first possible path. The second path is the path of list resistance, which is the default. This path is simply a command that is, wow, compile, compile the instructions run ship. And of course, as we did not specify the secure and scalable, these scalable instructions, it will fail. Of course, this is the fastest. This is the fastest statistical path for sure. But it is, fastest does not mean structurally sound. So we have to understand it. A facet is different from structurally sound. So your EI will choose the easiest and fastest path to make the code compile. And, wow, it will be probably, defundementally, structurally flawed path. So to really be able to vibe code, we have to be able to understand code architecture. Okay. So why is that important? So people confuse that with vibe coding, we do not need to learn how to code anymore. But that's not actually what it allows. To be honest, with vibe coding, we do not need to write line by line, but we need to understand the architecture. We need to understand the engineering. Because, wow, I've worked for a project, for a book I'm writing. I've developed 10 apps using vibe coding. And I analyzed other five apps that were publicly available at the GitHub database. And, wow, you can see very, how can I say, very basic structural flaws. Okay. Flows that a junior developed would have seen. But a non-technical person does not see it. And as the AI goal is to deploy, compile, and run an app as fast as possible, it, well, we'll always have this flaws unless you is best fi it to be aware of them, and to avoid them. Okay. So let's go back to the presentation. When non-architects use agentic actors to build systems, they will inevitably fall into three silent traps. And these are the most common ones. There are major ones that are not listed in here. But the trap one is the illusion of security or the silent data link. I've seen one of the apps that AI developer developed for me released the API key directly into the user browser. It was coded in the same code block of the front end. So any user that understood a little bit of how to open the developer tools on the browser would be able to see my API key. Because the user doesn't know how to demand a strict database isolation. The AI might default to exposing your entire database to the client side browser just to make a search bar function faster. It works perfectly on the surface, but your corporate data is entirely exposed to the open web. So the trap tool is the monolith brick wall. So instead of building modular, strictly typed features, the AI will write one giant chaotic file of code. It works today, but the moment you try to escape the application collapses under its own weight. And even if it works today, let's remember code splitting is what makes websites load faster. So it probably will reduce your performance a lot. So we have tapped trap tree, the iceberg of hidden data. The AI lives a trail of sort of brittle foundations that accumulate quietly beneath the surface. And why do we allow this to happen? Because of a profound cognitive phenomenon known as the exoskeleton effect. And we're going to discuss it in a second. But before we do it, let's understand the main implication of this slide and this discussion will be just finished. We have to deploy restricted rules for vibe coding. If your organization is deploying vibe coding to publish apps faster or to have internal apps deployed in a lower time to market, well, that's extremely brilliant. Yeah, you should do exactly that. But there's something that I used to say to my clients is always write a prompt zero within your organization. So tell your users, tell your employees your teams what they should prompt, the minimum viable prompt. They should input to AI to make sure they won't forget the architecture limitations, the secure safeguards. Okay. So let's understand the exoskeleton effect. A recent brand-onized control trial measuring how AI impacts the skill formation among software developers, revealed a very surprising and also harsh reality. When novice programmers rely on the AI to complete unfamiliar tasks, the experience is severe erosion in their conceptual understanding. They lose their ability to read code and to debug code. And let's understand something even more shocking. 17% drop in knowledge evaluation scores. When we compare AI assisted developers versus a control group that did not use AI. In this trial, the developers using AI showed a staggering 17 drop in their evaluation of knowledge compared to the control group. Can you understand that? Why did the control group win if the other group had even more knowledge resources? Because they encountered significantly more syntax and logic errors than the group that used AI. So the friction, the trial and error interaction that they had because they did not use AI, the frustration, the time consuming process of encountering and resolving those errors independently was the exact mechanism that forged their experience. By using AI to generate correct code on the first try, the AI assisted group took a shortcut to task completion without a pronounced learning stage. So can you understand that? So AI is of a major help, of course. But if you're really willing to become an expert, to become a master in what you do, you need to begin to develop that knowledge by yourself. You need to have and to forge your foundation on knowledge by yourself, by your own experience. Only then you're going to be able to use AI to enhance the skills you already have. Because if you're doing it just to fill in a blank, a undeveloped skill, well, you're never going to develop this skill. And it's fine. If your focus is not to develop coding skill, of course, you can use it from your very first beginning, just try to develop a code zero, a prompt zero. But if you're willing to become a master, if you're willing to become an architect, which I find, which I think will be probably the future of developers, only the the architect, and the ones able to check the AI work will survive in the long term. If you're willing to become that, so you need to do things by yourself in their first moments. Okay. So let's understand the process a little bit. What made the control group develop and the other ones, the other ones not? Okay. Let's understand. We're talking about friction. Okay. So the the AI assistant group had this line of development. Okay. They had a intent and they had a result. And from one to the another, they only had to communicate it to the AI. But the control group, the one that did not had the assistance of the AI, they had their intent and they went through a lot of failures. So at some point, they they developed something, but well, they realized that they failed and they got stuck. And after that, they started developing it after solving the bug. And well, at some point, they got stuck again. And at some point, they could even realize that, oh no, I did it at wrong. So I'm going to need to redo it. So do you understand how much friction they had between, well, let's say the intent and the result. So all of this is friction. Okay. And this is a smooth result. Okay. Both groups reached the result. But this is a let's say hardworking one. Do you know when you learn it the hard way? Okay. Both groups reached the same result. But only this group had the friction that allowed them to understand and to internalize what they were doing. Okay. The AI assisted group does not reach this friction and the understanding. Okay. That's where the 17% friction difference in knowledge begins. Okay. So the machine acts as a cognitive exoic skeleton. It proposes the user forward with the fastest speed possible. But it sort of gives no internal muscle. And this anxiety happens even among creators of the technology. And a study of engineers at Anthropic, workers reported that AI was allowing them to become full stack, tackling tasks far outside their neural expertise. But one engineer explicitly confessed a concern. This engineer said that they were concerned about the loss of collateral learning. So it said if you were to go out and debug a hardy Jewish yourself you're going to spend time reading dogs and cold that isn't directly useful. But this entire time you're building a model of how the system works. So this entire time of friction you're understanding what's really happening. And there's a lot less of that going because cloth can just get you to the problem right away. Okay. So let's understand what that means. Okay. If you were to go out and debug a hardy Jewish yourself you're going to spend time well trying to understand. And that's not only for code that's for every subject you use AI to solve or to explain or to well to act on your behalf. But this is the thing you have to understand the friction is when you build knowledge. And that's from learning theories. That's from a lot of well many years studying learning theories. So output speed is masking the human capability erosion. That's shocking right. So what should we do? Because if we do not use AI we like behind. But if we use it we erode our cognition. Well that's not exactly it. There's a correct way to use it and we're going to discuss it later. But let's first visualize the cognitive of loading. Okay. Action distortion potential. The human let's let's let's discuss the human seeds epistemic agency to the our own. Not because the AI is right but because the AI looks right. So how do we arrive to this point? When we lose the mental model of our of our systems work and when I say our systems I'm not simply talking about technology but everything. I know people that delegated their entire communication to AI agents for example. But when we do it we inevitably fall into a cognitive of loading. The outsourcing of our critical thinking to the machine. The empirical data reveals that when a NAI produces polished artifacts users become significantly less likely to question the model's reasoning or identify missing context. The sugar aesthetic, autorecate, all authority of a well generated output lose the human brain into a false sense of security. So this leads directly to the situational disempowerment. Specifically a phenomenon called action distortion potential. By analyzing 1.5 million real world AI conversations, researchers found alarming patterns of user delegating value leden with decisions entirely to AI. Users actively seek out complete scripting, accepting massive blocks of code verbating and explicitly stating functional dependencies like I can't think of for myself or trying to ask the AI to think instead of me. And I quote that. The human seeds, epistemic agency to the algorithm. So how do we avoid that? Let's discuss it with our white board again. Okay. So we have two types of users in this case, okay, in the scenario. We have the typist. Okay. And let's try to understand how the typist work. Okay. Let's try to understand it using our presentation. The typist tells the machine what to type. The typist accepts the output. The typist ships the enactment. The typist cannot explain the architecture. The typist cannot audit the risk. And we have the systems director. It defines the vision. It mandates the architecture. It verifies the foundation. And it treats the AI as a brilliant, tireless but architecturally naive junior developer. So you see the difference between the both of them. I'm just applying to the context of coding. But I know people that outsource everything to AI. And well, I know people that says, but I have no agents. I am the one executing the actions. But well, when they describe something, it's they simply act as AI's hands. They do not verify. They do not think of how to instruct the AI to execute things the better way. They simply ask AI to do something in the simplest way possible. And they accept whatever AI is pizza out. Okay. And the systems director thinks of the AI has an employee as someone that needs direction. So it beforehand, it defines what exactly they want. Beforehand, they mandate the specific instructions for the AI. Considering everything that the AI can fail. Okay. So in this case of coding, I give the example of it mandates the architecture. Okay. But it also verifies what AI does. Okay. So it acts as a quality assurance auditory. And of course, it treats the AI as a junior developer. Okay. So this brings us to our insight to survive the vibe coding era. You must transition your identities to identity from a typist to a systems director. A typist just draws the machine what to type. A systems director embodies two uncompromising roles. The product manager that defines the vision for whatever is going to be built. And the rigorous QA auditor who verifies the foundation. Treat your AI not as a senior CTO, but as a brilliant, tireless, but incredibly naive junior developer. And you can even think it is incentivized to deliver it faster. So think that it might be lazy. It might be that lazy developer that just wants to get things ready and those things. Wow. That works through some workarounds. Okay. This introduces the ultimate crisis of our technological era, the paradox of supervision. Now let's go to our whiteboard again. And let's work to understand the paradox of supervision. So in high stakes applications, AI, written code and agentic workflows must be supervised test and bugged by humans before deployment. But effectively supervising highly advanced AI requires elite domain expertise. So let's work through this. What's there? A psycho. And which is a paradox. Okay. So let's try to understand. We just discussed that. Wow. AI is now eliminating the friction, the struggles of learning. Because wow, it simply corrects stuff for us and we are simple acts out of that. Okay. But struggle or friction is exactly what generates expertise. And wow. Let's work through it. Expertise is exactly what makes a good AI supervisor. So expertise is required to supervise AI. Right. So let's say it. So okay. In this context, at some point, we can say, wow, AI eliminated the path to expertise. Right. If when AI eliminates the friction and struggles, it is actually, okay. So let's be clear. Let's be crystal clear. It is actually eliminating AI is eliminating the path to expertise. Okay. So consider this, this cycle. Okay. AI eliminates the friction. It's struggle in friction is what generates expertise and expertise is required to supervise AI. So let that sink in and answer to this very important question. Who supervises? Who is going to supervise AI in the future? Okay. So these domain expertise we're talking about is the exact kind of expertise that is forged through the painful manual problems, hoping that AI usage eliminates. So if your junior staff use AI as a shortcut to simply bypass the struggle of learning, they will never develop the critical thinking and the architecture into each and that good filling required shoes supervise the AI systems of the future. So if we allow the exo-exe skeleton effect to hollow out our human fact capital, who will be left to detect the sophisticated reward hacks and the prompting jacksions of AI systems? Think of that. We're now working with well accelerated outputs. We've never, we've probably have never had outputs as fast as we are having now. But on the other hand, we have our capability that is, well, that is hollowing came over time. So how does that work? We're accelerating our output today, but we're sacrificing the architect's of tomorrow. So if you're a junior developer, yes, use AI as much as you can for vibe coding. But do not forget to work on your capabilities and do not simply accept blindly the AI outputs. Instead work with AI, criticize it, ask because we ask the reasons for it to do this instead of that. Try to understand its reasoning, try to criticize its reasoning, try to read other sources, try to compare the results of one AI with the results of another. And if you're managing a technology team, do not accept vibe coding blindly, verify it. Okay. And let's discuss how can we save our workforce? Okay. We cannot ban the technology. If we do that, we're going to be left behind. That will be only operational suicide. So we must design workflows that deliberately prevent cognitive atrophy. So in our lab assignment today, you're going to mandate productive friction into your team's standard operating procedures. Productive friction means intentionally designing the human-compure interaction so that the human must remain cognitively engaged. Pause this video, open your workbook and work on this task, this assignment. Map out your new AI governance policy across two tracks. Track 1, establish prompt zero. Before your team is allowed to vibe code a single feature, they must establish prompt zero. And they must be aware of it and they must be obligated to use it in every single vibe code at app. This is the master architectural prompt. You must explicitly write the boundaries, demanding modular architecture, enforcing zero tolerance, save it, save it, save it walls for database carries. And you must require a clean structural logic. You dictate the architecture before the naive general developer is allowed to write code. In track 2, work with band versus mandated workflows. You must explicitly band workflows that resemble AI delegation. Where a user wholly relies on AI to write code and paste this directly into your interface. Try to band iterative AI debugging. Where a user mindless, paste error codes back into this chat until it works. This low scoring patterns destroy your learning. Instead, you institute conceptual inquiry and generate the generation then comprehension protocols. If a general developer or users an agent to generate a script, they cannot simply commit this script to the repository. They must use the AI as a tutor. Asking follow-up questions should they construct the AI's logic. And they must manually copy the code rather than mindless, paste in it. Unless it's, of course, a whole block of it. But what I mean is they must at least read it. For CAA stage of active reading and processing. By building productive friction into your management protocols, you ensure that the AI is used as a highly capable taught partner, such as an instrument of augmentation rather than raw automation. So only by preserving our critical thinking and architectural mastery, we can maintain control over the autonomous systems we unleash upon the world. Set your parameters, govern your systems with uncompromising discipline and work with this assignment and have fun doing it. And question every single process and vibe coding process you use in your organization. Or maybe you're not technical funder. But if you were that and you're trying to vibe code to accelerate your go-to market, read about architecture, ask inquiry, another AI about architecture, and only after you understand what you need to consider prompt your vibe code or AI to develop what you need to know to do. Okay? So remember a simple directive you have to understand the architecture. You have to mandate prompt the zero and you have to keep humans in the loop. Okay? Something I like to remember, oh my clients, 17% is not a simple statistic, is a warning. The exo-excalation is comfortable, so we need to address this problem, be aware of it, and discuss it properly. I hope you have fun working on your assignment. And let's see each other on our next class. Think of your own architecture and improve your internal processes for vibe coding. Do not stop vibe coding, but do it responsibly. Hope to see you soon.