---
video_title: "Your AI Can Now Securely Read Your Most Confidential Data. | Class 7: MCP & Zero Trust Architecture"
video_id: -gUZMoNaTYs
channel_name: "Estudio 68 by Micah 6 AI"
channel_id: UC0AZ0W8Vw5k67M6lWm6pUZA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-gUZMoNaTYs
video_date: 2026-06-01T01:26:31+00:00
video_description: |
  TL;DR: This class solves the M&A compliance paradox: how to let an AI read your most sensitive documents without violating GDPR, NDAs, or attorney-client privilege.
  
  This class is most relevant for CTOs, CDOs, Enterprise Architects, and Compliance Executives. If you are earlier in your AI governance journey, start with Class 1 of the playlist.
  
  Class 7 solves one of the most consequential compliance paradoxes in modern enterprise AI: how do you let an AI read your most sensitive documents without violating GDPR, NDAs, or attorney-client privilege?
  
  What you'll learn: 
  → The M&A Paradox: why uploading a VDR document to Claude or ChatGPT is a catastrophic breach sequence 
  → The Model Context Protocol (MCP) — what it is and how it reverses the flow of data 
  → The Semantic Librarian (vector database) and The Bouncer (relational database): the dual-database architecture 
  → Zero-Trust Architecture and Identity-Aware Proxies (Pomerium) 
  → Subagent Delegation and the "blast radius" containment strategy 
  → The Acquisition Lab: map a zero-trust deployment for your most sensitive departmental data
  
  87% of public MCP deployments contain a critical security flaw. 34% are vulnerable to full system takeover.
  
  Professor: Maria Alice Maia | Founder, Micah 6 AI | MSc AI & Data Governance (FGV) | Oxford Research Collaborator | Data Scientist Graduated from UC Berkeley
  
  → Full playlist — The Agentic Era: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQ-bDfOxIeb2Wa3vk9_AyMUciDHmxuu3P&si=ic0pKbtt9hr1Hl-Y 
  → Micah 6 AI offers AI security audits and code audits for enterprises: info@micah6ai.com 
  → Free mentoring (pro bono) initiative: https://www.seisoito.com
  
  If this class is not the right fit for you right now, share it with someone whose decisions it could sharpen. The more leaders who understand these systems, the more responsibly those systems get built. That is the entire point.
  
  FAQ:
  How do I securely give AI access to confidential enterprise data? By using the Model Context Protocol (MCP) and Zero-Trust Architecture to reverse the flow of data, ensuring documents are not uploaded directly to public models.
  
  00:00 The Billion-Dollar Liability
  02:31 Whiteboard Breakdown: The Flawed Architecture
  05:38 The Solution: Model Context Protocol (MCP)
  07:06 The Dual Database Model
  10:19 Whiteboard Breakdown: How MCP Extracts Data
  14:48 The Governance Trap & Prompt Injection
  16:15 Zero Trust Architecture & Identity-Aware Proxies
  17:11 Sub-Agent Delegation
  18:46 Practical Application & Workbook Exercise
  
  #ZeroTrust #MCP #ModelContextProtocol #AIArchitecture #AICompliance #VirtualDataRoom #Micah6AI
---
Welcome to our seventh class. Today we're gonna dive into a more and more common challenge within organizations. Imagine your company is in the final stages of a billion dollar merger. The DOOM Solutions process requires your legal team to review tens of thousands of classified contracts hidden inside a secure virtual data room or VDR. If you speak things up, a senior auditor's decided to download a highly confidential 500-page intellectual property financial agreement and uploads it into a public AI chat and tries to summarize it. In 10 seconds, the AI outputs a brilliant flawless legal summary. The auditor thinks they just saved the company 50 hours of billable legal work. In reality, it is actually a massive liability. They just committed corporate sabotage. The moment that unreleased financial contract left your secure vault and hit a public cloud server, your team violated their non-disclosure agreements. You breached strict data privacy laws. And worst of all, you instantly notified your attorney client privilege. Because the data was handed to a third party server without enterprise-tier product protections, the AI provider can legally ingest your property resource and train their next generation of models. You saved 50 hours and you permanently compromised the intellectual property of a billion-dollar merger. Today, we're going to fix this. We're stepping out of the chat window and into this infrastructure layer. And we're going to deconstruct the model context protocol, the zero-trust architecture and the virtual data rooms to show you exactly how you let an AI operate inside your most sensitive data and do not let it breach the law. So let's understand it a little bit more using our whiteboard. So let's try to draw a little bit. To begin with, let's look at this scenario. Okay, let's imagine we have at first the AI. Okay, so we have the AI here. Let's just draw the, okay, we have the AI servers. Okay, we have the AI servers and we have our virtual data room. For those not familiar with the term, we're going to discuss it later, but for now, you just need to understand this is where data goes when you need to share data among different entities. So among different companies, for example, in the case of a merger, okay? So this is a virtual data room. It is built to guarantee that no data leaves this environment, okay? And in this case, wow, someone let data from the virtual data room inside the AI systems. What's the problem with that? The problem is that once the AI is trained with your data, it can accidentally speed it out during a chat window, for example. So once we do it, we have a problem. We have a problem that is offensive to GGR. We have a problem that makes us put our non-disclosure agreements at risk. And as I mentioned, we have a problem with the privilege between attorney and client. So let's make it very clear. That's a massive mistake. And we're going to understand why. And before we do it, so if you leave challenges like this on your company, please click on the bell icon to follow and to be informed of the next videos in this course. We're in the agentical error course and we're discussing all the main topics in artificial intelligence deployments within major enterprises. So let's understand a little bit more with our presentation. So to resolve the paradox that we just saw in the whiteboard, we do not abandon the AI. It's not the proposal and it will never be the proposal in this course. Our concern is different. We want to change the way with deploy AI to a more responsible and conscious way. So we should change the architecture. We should use model context protocol or MCP. Think of MCP as an universal USB-C port. It's specifically made for artificial intelligence. It is a standardized, highly secure bridge in a high stakes virtual data room. MCP does something profound. It radically minimizes data exposure. Instead of moving your massive volumes of classified corporate data out into the cloud, you install a secure local MCP bridge inside your own corporate firewall. But the AI cannot just blindly read thousands of PDFs. That's not the purpose of this bridge. It needs a highly secure filling system. So what does it do? This filing system architecture uses a dual database model. Think of the first database, a relational database like PostgreSQL or Think of it as the Bouncer. The Bouncer is incredibly strict. It checks IDs. It holds the access control list, the metadata, and the timestamps. It knows exactly which human auditor is allowed to see, which file. Think of the second database, a vector database like Quidrant, for example, as the semantic librarian. So the traditional databases use control-af, keyword searches, and vector databases don't look for keywords. They map the meaning of a document by turning sentences into coordinates on a mathematical map. Here is how the architecture actually works. An auditor asks the AI to find environmental liability risks in the merger. The AI sends that request through the secure MCP bridge. The semantically librarian mathematically scans the vault and finds the exact paragraphs that mean environmental liability. Even if those words aren't used, then the Bouncer checks the human auditor's and granges it as the human has the ID to have the clearance to see those specific paragraphs. If approved, the massive 500-page contract is facing your vault. Only those three tiny, highly relevant text snippets are pushed back through the encrypted tunnel to the AI. Instead of uploading a highly classified document to a public cloud, you have only exposed three isolated paragraphs via a secured API. The AI synthesizes a perfectly-go summary based solely on those fragments. Let's see how it works. When we have the MCP architecture, we have the agent that performs the external reasoning and we have the secure local service that keeps the data on premise and the model context protocol. The bridge with in-bord are arrows. It reverses the traditional architecture. Let's try to draw it a little bit more with our whiteboard. This time, let's say this is the server. The server is in this case, split in half. Let me make sure, here, here. We're going to split the server in half. On one side, we're going to have the bouncer and on the other side, we're going to have the librarian. This is, for example, a spreadsheet. It's the postgreSQL. On the other side, let me see if we have this. Let's work with it. On this other side, we have the librarian. With a children, for example. This is the mathematical meaning. Exactly that. Imagine we're going to have a flow from that arrives at the librarian. Goes to the bouncer from the librarian and goes back to the librarian. That's how we understand the way MCP works. This is exactly how we check the IDs, check the clearance to have access. What we extract is the exact excerpt we're going to need. What we look for is an approximate of that demand. We look for, for example, should be strict in the contract. It outputs the article, the paragraph, that we're going to need to know. That's going to be much more clear. Let's discuss it a little bit more. Let's advance. This brings us to the governance trap. This is by giving the AI direct api access to query your secure vault. You have dramatically expanded your vulnerability to hackers. A recent audit of public MCP deployments found that 87% of public MCP deployments possess a critical security flaw. Once again, 87% possessed at least one critical security flaw. 34% were completely vulnerable to full system takeover. Why does that happen? Most companies are still relying on legacy firewalls. The security model was a castle and a moat. If you were inside the castle walls, the network trusted you. If a bad actor hides a malicious, invisible instruction inside a massive financial PDF, we learned this prompt injection. The AI might read it and autonomously execute a command to delete files or steal credentials from inside your castle. You must deploy zero trust architecture. That's where zero trust architecture comes in. Zero trust means never trust. Always verify. It assumes your network is already compromised. You achieve this using identity-aware proxies. A lot of jurgons I know, but we're going to gather. Think of the identity-aware proxies as an armed checkpoint before the AI is even allowed to knock on the vault door. When the AI attempts to connect to your video, the proxy intercepts the request, verifies the cryptographic identity, and authenticates the user session. If it looks suspicious, the connection is instantly killed. Nonetheless, to contain the blast radios of an attack, advance firms use subagent delegation. If you hire a team of human contractors, you don't give them the master teach you the whole building, right? You do the same with the AI. Instead of giving one massive AI access to the entire vault, the primary AI delegates tasks to a tiny specialized microagent. One subagent is explicitly authorized only to read titles. Another is authorized only to read paragraph three, because each subagent operates in total isolation if a hacker mandates to compromise one of them with a prompt injection, the blast radios is tiny. The hacker cannot access the rest of the vault. And finally, to protect your attorney client privilege, this architecture must be coupled with an enterprise tier zero data retention API agreement. While the MCP handles the technical isolation, this contractual law guarantees that the AI provider servers are legally mandated to instantly wipe your business's nib that the millisecond the answer is generated. Ensuring your data is never used to train their future models. So now it's that time. Pause this video, open your workbook, and let's work on a real case. Because you have broken the chat window. Your agentic actors can now securely enact workflows deep within your proprietary networks. But it requires an architecture mandate from you. Do not accept the terrible choice between an AI efficiency and regulatory compliance. Tomorrow morning, ask your IT department or your software vendor a simple question. Are we uploading through documents to the cloud or have we implemented a local MCP? And if they say they have implemented a local MCP server, ask them, does the local MCP server have subagent delegation? If they don't know the answer, your corporate secrets are actively bleeding onto public servers. Go ask them and tell me what they say in the comments. Because now it is time for our reflections. I want you to open your executive workbook and we're going to work through the zero-trust architecture. I want you to map out a zero-trust deployment for the absolute most sensitive data set in your department across three tracks. So let's see which artist's tracks. The first track is the end of the mode. Map how you transition away from the castle and mode. Try to not attach yourself to this old model. Define exactly where you place your identity or where proxies. In the track two, we're going to work with AI-driven security. Because aesthetic human-reason security rules are choose low to catch autonomous AI threats. Map how you deploy an AI to watch the AI. Using algorithms that continuously evaluate behavioral anomalies or anything else. And on track three, we're going to work with the blast radios. Take take your strict compartmentalization strategy. How will you break your massive data sets down so that the AI subagents only have the exact minimum permissions required to do their jobs? You cannot regulate an autonomous agent with outdated perimeter defenses. Build your zero-trust architecture, complete lab, and I hope to see you on Class 8. And if you know someone who's deploying AI under organization, share this video with them. And if you are not one of our floor lawyers, click on the bell. And we begin to follow to begin to be not filed on our next videos. See you on our next class.