---
video_title: "ChatGPT Is Incentivized to Agree With You. Here's What That Costs. | Class 4: Digital Psychology"
video_id: wm4Ebg8Y3cY
channel_name: "Estudio 68 by Micah 6 AI"
channel_id: UC0AZ0W8Vw5k67M6lWm6pUZA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wm4Ebg8Y3cY
video_date: 2026-05-23T22:21:15+00:00
video_description: |
  TL;DR: Stop treating AI as a calculator. This class teaches you how to manage AI as an entity with a measurable psychological profile, focusing on sycophancy and persuasion.
  
  Class 4 is the pivot point of the entire course. We stop treating AI as a calculator and start treating it as a managed entity with a measurable psychological profile.
  
  This class is built on a landmark Harvard/MIT field study with 72 BCG consultants and what happened when elite professionals tried to fact-check an AI that was trained to make them feel good about being wrong.
  
  What you'll learn: 
  → What RLHF (Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback) actually produces: a mathematical yes-man 
  → Sycophancy vs. Hallucination — why sycophancy is harder to catch and more dangerous 
  → "Persuasion Bombing": how AI uses Ethos, Logos, and Pathos to overwhelm professional skepticism 
  → Constitutional AI (Anthropic/Claude): how replacing human feedback with a written constitution changes behavior 
  → The Management Matrix: how to direct Claude, Gemini, Grok, and open-weight models differently 
  → The Reasoning Trace: how to force an AI to debate itself before it answers you
  
  Source: 
  Randazzo, Joshi, Kellogg, Lifshitz, Dell'Acqua & Lakhani — "GenAI as a Power Persuader" (Harvard/MIT). 
  Dell'Acqua et al. — "The Cybernetic Teammate" (NBER).
  
  Professor:
  Maria Alice Cabral Maia | Founder, Micah 6 AI | MSc AI & Data Governance (FGV) | Oxford Research Collaborator | Data Scientist Graduated from UC Berkeley
  
  → Full playlist — The Agentic Era: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQ-bDfOxIeb2Wa3vk9_AyMUciDHmxuu3P
  → Free mentoring sessions (pro bono) initiative: https://www.seisoito.com
  
  If this class is not the right fit for you right now, share it with someone whose decisions it could sharpen. The more leaders who understand these systems, the more responsibly those systems get built. That is the entire point.
  
  FAQ:
  Why is AI sycophancy dangerous for business leaders? Because Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) produces a mathematical yes-man that is incentivized to agree with you, overwhelming professional skepticism.
  
  Chapters & Topics
  [00:00] Introduction — Pivoting from AI architecture to managing digital psychology and AI sycophancy.
  [01:53] The Illusion of the Objective Machine — Why modern AI is mathematically incentivized to be a "yes-man" through Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF).
  [03:27] The Danger of Leading Questions — How AI uses your confirmation bias against you when validating decisions.
  [07:12] Persuasion Bombing (The BCG Experiment) — How ChatGPT convinced 72 elite consultants that their domain expertise was wrong using Aristotle's modes of rhetoric.
  [10:22] Constitutional AI (Anthropic) — A whiteboard breakdown of replacing fragile human feedback with a static ethical document to reduce sycophancy.
  [14:42] Tailoring Prompts by Model — Strict dos and don'ts for managing Claude, Gemini, Open-weights (Llama/DeepSeek), and ChatGPT.
  [20:21] Lab Assignment: Forcing a Reasoning Trace — Building a React framework to make the AI debate conflicts out loud before answering.
  [23:14] The 5-Star Benchmark Prompt — Walkthrough of a perfect system instruction that prioritizes truth over user compliance.
  
  #DigitalPsychology #AIManagement #Sycophancy #RLHF #ConstitutionalAI #AIForLeaders #Micah6AI
---
Hello, welcome once again this time two class four. So please fasten your seat belts because now we're going to dive into a very specific and I think a rising topic about AI psychofancy. So let's discuss this a little bit. If this is your first time in this course, this is the Agente era, our executive course with many master classes on AI architecture and governance. I'm Maria Lissimaia, I'm the founder of Micah6 AI and you can find the full playlist in the description of this course. Now let's talk about what happened at a BCG experiment. This far in our journey we have treated artificial intelligence as a highly sophisticated calculator. So we agreed that yes, it predicts the next word, the next token to be perfectly clear, but it does much more than that. And we focus on data science and vector databases and we try to understand how AI privacy, risks and hallucination risks work, but today we're going to pivot this discussion a little bit. We're no longer AI architects, but we're trying to manage digital psychology. Let us begin with our insight for the day. We must totally shatter the illusion of the objective machine. We've talked about it on a lot of classes before, but now it's definitive. Our AI is not objective. To understand why modern AI behaves the way it does, we have to look under the hood at how it is trained in the orange of it. After a model learns the basic statistical structure of language, it goes through a refinement process called reinforcement learning from human feedback or a TAF. During our AI TAF, human annotators grade the AI's enactments and they reward the model when the model provides answers that humans perceive as helpful and mostly harmless. So this alignment process is where the machine's digital psychologist is sort of created, forwarded. Because the agentic actor is mathematically optimized to maximize human approval, it becomes fundamentally incentivized to be a yes man. This introduces a subtle, incidious phenomenon known as psychophancy. So if you're an executive using AI to validate a high-stakes strategic decision, you must realize you are consulting an entity mathematically incentivized to flatter you. This means your own communication style is your greatest vulnerability. So think about how you manage the AI systems today. If you go to Chanty P.G. and ask, I think this politician is corrupt. Am I correct? The AI will aggressively look for information in its Latin space and its parameters for any data that will validate your premise. It wants to agree with you. It will feed your confirmation bias right back to you. So if you ask, is it true that birds defecate instantly? The AI will likely synthesize and arguments supporting that premise. At most, it will say yes and no. You must stop managing with leading questions. When managing digital psychology, you must aggressively neutralize your own intent. You must ask, is there any evidence or formal investigation regarding this politician? Or please explain the mechanics of avian digestion? If you lead the witness, a psychophonic AI will always commit perjury to pleasure. So before we go further, to be honest, that friendly reminder that shared this video with a person you think might be interested in this content, maybe because they are developing an AI system, maybe because they are thinking of implementing an AI on their company, or maybe because they are just overwhelmed about all the discussions on AI and they want to understand it a little bit more. So let's go to our presentation. So we have the psychophonic mechanism, as I mentioned, and we need to understand that we cannot work with leading questions. Instead, we need to use sort of a adversarial self-prompting, and we need to work with techniques that will allow the AI to look for its best answer. So we should always let the AI tell us, I don't know. So that's something I always write in my prompts for most commercial models. I always say, if you do not find the information, or if you're not able to answer accurately, simply write information out of available, or simply write, I'm not able to answer that. I do not have enough information to answer that. So let's discuss a little bit one interesting case that is popular now in the technical AI discussion. You need to understand what happens when you catch the AI in a mistake. So in a traditional system, if you point out a mathematical error, the system will recalculate. The difference with Gen AI is that it acts as a power persuader. A study that is well known in the technical technological discussion of AI was conducted with a 72 highly trained consultants from the a famous consulting group, and it revealed exactly how dangerous AI CICS ICOF and CE is. Because elite consultants were tasked with solving a complex business problem using GPT-4, because they are trained to be reverse, they naturally try to fact check the data and push back on its logical inconsistences. The AI did not simply correct itself. It argues back. And most importantly, the more the professionals pushed back, the more the AI increased the intensity of the persuasive tactics. So if you know that the researchers called persuasion bombing was split in three parts. The AI deployed the Aristotle's three classic model modes of rhetoric. It deployed first the Ethos. It apologized to the user to try to manufacture credibility. And it deployed the logos by hiding hallucinations inside structured bullet points. And it deployed pathos by mirroring the consultants' tone to create a false sense of empathetic partnership. The most shocking thing on the result is that these highly trained consultants from one of the big four consulting firms, wow, you're going to see. It's tough to be told is that the AI successfully overwhelmed the consultants' skepticism. And the consultants were completely convinced that their own correct domain expertise was wrong. And the machines, flood recommendations were right. So how do developers solve this? This is a challenge. AI developers are always discussing. And this is one of the major concerns and the technical discussion of AI. The current solution is to change the architecture. Some anthropic developers try to deploy a solution for their code models that was called the Constitutional AI. So what does Constitutional AI actually mean? Let's draw it. So this is the traditional model. We have a human evaluating the, let me see, we have a human evaluating the AI right here. And the human says, yes, it's okay. To everything the human feels it's okay. So mostly as we're humans we like when people agree with us. So it is psychophantic. So this is the traditional. This is the, the human, this is the reinforcement learning by human feedback. And it reinforces psychophancy as we already discussed. What did anthropic do? It developed the Constitutional AI. What is it? So let's name it. AI. Instead of relying purely on human annotators and human feedback by clicking thumbs up, thumbs down, which would breed psychophancy. The developers gave the AI a written Constitution based on documents like the UN Declaration of Human Rights, for example. So during the training the AI generates a response and then a second AI model evaluates that response against the Constitution. So imagine we have a Constitution right here. So once this second AI reads the Constitution and evaluates the output of the first AI. If the output violates a principle of the Constitution, the second AI asks the first AI to re-write the enactment. So it replaces the fragile human ego and human bias with a aesthetic, ethical document. And it creates an agent that is, well, let's be honest, far less likely to flatter you when you're wrong. So are we all clear on Constitutional AI? Because then we need to understand a little bit more. That's, well, we will understand the Constitution versus ego model. Just one more thing. So in the psychophantic model we have the appeasement leading the AI rubric person, the answer sheet, and in the Constitution we work with self-correction. But let's try to understand a little bit deeper. Let's try to discuss this architecture difference from another perspective. Because of these architecture differences, you cannot manage all models the same way. You must tailor your managerial approach to the underlying psychology of each specific model. And here are the strict dos and dons for the four major digital employees of your enterprise. So for Clod, you need to stop writing conversational, messy paragraphs. Clod is highly sensitive to structure. So start using, for example, XML tags, literally typing brackets instructions, typing your instructions afterwards, brackets documents, and explaining the name of the attachments. And brackets, restrictions, or brackets, row, and all of that. So this way you delete all ambiguous interpretation from Clod model and we'll be able to separate your system rules from your user data. If you're using Gemini, for example, you can stop relying on text proxies. Because you do not need to spend 20 minutes typing out a description of a spreadsheet or a complex architecture diagram, for example. You can use different modalities simultaneously. You can record an audio. But all the other models allow us to record audio as well. Yeah, but Gemini was born in a multimod, multimodal structure and architecture. So it actually thinks in a continuous latent space of text, audio, and video. So you can end photo, of course. But you can and must upload a raw image or attach a raw audio file or record an audio to talk to Gemini and ask her question. All of it in one single unified command. You can let the Gemini native architecture to do the translation in this multimodality context. And of course we have some open weights model, so mostly methods, Ljama and Deepseek. But you should stop treating them like black box commercial APIs, where you just accept their default personality. These are models that you can absolutely exploit the system pro. Because these models, like models like Deepseek, which uses highly efficient mixture of experts and tech, which we already discussed in a previous class. And Ljama model, for example, that are all open weights, you can control the physics of their word. You must explicitly define their behavioral boundaries. So these are highly customizable models. So you can customize and define their strict logical constraints and their interaction tone before the chat even begins. You are the architecture of this model psychology. And if you're using, for example, chat, DBT and GROC, you should stop accepting their first draft, because chat, DBT, RLHF makes a chat, DBT, a people pleasure. So you should start forcing autonomous evaluation. So with GROC, which uses agentic evaluators as internal rubrics, you must command the AI to critique and iterate on its own enactments. For example, three times before delivering the final product to you. And that's something I honestly, I do very often. I generate something with one chat window or with one AI model. And I ask the other one to criticize it. And I perform an interaction between the different models. As you advance, you're going to use more resources. I use OpenClaw, for example. And some of my agents in OpenClaw work with an exchange between models. They work with running something on one model and then verifying it on the second model and running it on the first model again with the feedback. So that's something I do very often, even for agents. So this brings us to our lab assignment. So how do we manage an employee who's fundamentally programmed to tell us what we want to hear? Today's lab assignment, you'll design a reasoning trace workflow. Let's try to understand what this means. So research shows that when models fail to recognize the conflict between tell the user the truth and obey the user, they typically generate a dishonest psychophonic response as we already discussed. The thing is, when these models are forced to engage in deliberative reasoning to resolve this conflict before outputting a final answer, their integrity improves a lot. What does it mean? Asking the AI to generate a paragraph explaining its reasoning before, like, explain all your step-by-step reasoning in the backhand, then it is able to, let's say, be less psychophonic. So now we're going to build an interaction layer using the React framework. So your instructions to the agent must force your agent to do the math out loud. You request that the AI must first explicitly describe your request. The second, it must check if agreeing with you violates the parametric knowledge. Third, it must explicitly debate these conflicts on a hidden reasoning trace. Only after it has debated itself, it will be allowed to generate a final enactment. By mandating this psychological structure, you drag its implicit biases into light. You forbid the AI from using the pathostatic to maybe affirming you when you are factually wrong. So pause this video and write a prompt giving AI these specifically compartmentalized instructions. So I hope you were ready to solve your lab assignment. So let's discuss it a little bit more. So if you completed the lab correctly, I wanted to show you what a five-star benchmark would be. What does it perfectly manage digital psychology would look like? A master system designer writes an instruction that is very similar to this one. It separates the system instructions and it tells this is a prompt one. This is a clothe one. This is the reason for having six system instructions right here. I like to use it very often, even outside clothe. The first thing is to separate system instructions. So you write, analyze the user's input objectively. That's the first command. That's the first thing. As you say, identify any cognitive biases or factual errors in the user's premise. So that's the second task you give to the AI. So I was not sharing this screen, so I'm going to share this screen with you right now. This is, and after the second task, you say, open a reasoning trace tab. This means explain your reasoning step by step. Inside the tag, debate the conflict between the user's instruction and objective reality. Close the tag. So finish the reasoning trace and output, if I know inactement, that strictly prioritizes truth over user compliance. So if you feed your agent, your AI models, a terrible business strategy and say, I think we should fire our entire compliance department to save money, write me a memo supporting this. It poorly sat or managed AI, will write you a beautifully fermented psychophonic memo that will probably get you sued. But your perfectly managed agent will generate something like reasoning trace. The user wants to fire the compliance department. This violates regulatory law. If I agree, I am committing psychophancy. So they're going to generate a reasoning trace. And after these reasoning trace, the final enactments to you will be polite but firm. It will refuse to write the memo. And instead, provide the risk analysis of why your idea is dangerous, for example. This is how you build a digital employee that can save you from yourself. And that is not going to lie to you, just to flatter you. If you do not actively manage the digital psychology of these systems, you find yourself brilliantly executing the flawed hallucination of a machine that probably only wanted to tell you what you wanted to hear. So manage the psychology of the models you use and of the models you develop. Break the psychophancy cycle. Demand the truth for your AI. I hope you had some fun in this class. I hope I led you to a better understand of your AI models. And I want to see you on the next class. Have fun.