---
video_title: "Build Your Own MCP Server in 10 Minutes"
video_id: 9aIn6joCkWc
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9aIn6joCkWc
video_date: 2026-07-13T19:30:31+00:00
video_description: |
  Ever wanted Claude or ChatGPT to read your local files, write to your database, or query your custom APIs without fragile, custom-built connectors? In this step-by-step tutorial, we build a custom Model Context Protocol (MCP) server from scratch using Python and FastMCP.
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design of the Model Context Protocol, the open standard backed by Anthropic, OpenAI, and the Linux Foundation. We explore the 3 primary primitives of an MCP Server (Tools, Resources, and Prompts), and write a functional Python server in under 20 lines of code. We dive into how FastMCP automatically generates schemas from your docstrings and type hints, the difference between the stdio and Streamable HTTP transports, and how to test your tools locally using the MCP Inspector. Finally, we cover the real security risks of Prompt Injection and why you need human-in-the-loop approvals before letting AI agents execute code.
  
  If this helped you understand complex AI system design and how to build software faster, subscribe to Cloud Codes for a new infrastructure breakdown every single week! Build, solve, deploy.
  
  ⏱️ Video Chapters :
  0:00 - The "USB-C for AI" Explained
  1:00 - The 3 Roles: Host, Client & Server (JSON-RPC)
  2:07 - Tools, Resources & Prompts
  3:33 - Coding an MCP Server in Python (FastMCP)
  4:06 - Auto-Generating Schemas with Type Hints
  4:54 - The MCP Inspector & Transports (stdio vs HTTP)
  6:21 - Connecting Your Server to Claude Desktop
  6:41 - The Adoption: Anthropic, OpenAI, Google & GitHub
  7:59 - The Security Catch: Prompt Injection & Tool Approvals
  8:52 - Summary: How to Build Your Own MCP Server
  
  🔗 Concepts & Sources Covered:
  Model Context Protocol (MCP) by Anthropic / Linux Foundation
  Building an MCP Server in Python (FastMCP)
  Language Server Protocol (LSP)
  Transports: stdio vs Streamable HTTP
  JSON-RPC 2.0 & LLM Tool Calling
  
  #mcp #python #aiagents #anthropic #systemdesign #softwareengineering #cloudcodes
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries:
  how to build an mcp server python
  what is model context protocol mcp
  anthropic mcp server tutorial
  fastmcp python tutorial
  how to connect claude to local files
  mcp server vs api
  mcp inspector tutorial
  how to build ai agents in python
  model context protocol streamable http
  how to give chatgpt access to local tools
  cloud codes python tutorial
---
Watch this. I ask a chat assistant to check my calendar and it actually does it. Real code runs and a real answer comes back. The thing that lets it reach out like that is a protocol called MCP and right now nearly every serious AI tool speaks it. Here's the part that got me. You can build your own MCP server, not next year, today, in an afternoon, not a framework, not a service you rent, about 20 lines of Python and an AI can call your code directly. MCP stands for Model Context Protocol and open standard Anthropic released back in November 2024. The one line pitch is that it's USB C for AI, one standard port and any tool plugs into any model. Before it, each AI app needed a hand-built integration for each tool. 10 apps and 10 tools meant 100 fragile connectors. MCP turns that multiplication into addition. Build your server once and every client that speaks the protocol can use it. So let's build one from an empty file and watch the whole protocol from the inside. Every MCP setup is just three parts, a host, the app you use, like Cloud Desktop, a client living inside it, and the server. That's the piece you build. The client and your server talk over JSON RPC. Ignore the scary acronym. It's just typed messages past back and forth. One side sends a request that says, call this function with these arguments. The other sends back a result or a clean error. Predictable, boring and easy to debug, which is exactly what you want sitting under an AI. Here's a real message on the wire. A tiny blob of text, method, tools, slash call. The name of the tool, get weather, the arguments, city, Tokyo. Your server runs the matching function and answers with the forecast, wrapped in the same shape. No binary format, no magic, text goes in, text comes out, and you can read every single line of it. And this idea isn't new, code editors solve the same headache years ago with the language server protocol, write one language server, and every editor suddenly understands your language. MCP is that exact trick, pointed at AI, build one server, and every model that speaks the protocol can use your tool. A server offers three kinds of things, and this is the whole mental model, tools, resources, and prompts, just three primitives. Learn those three words, and you understand what any MCP server on the planet is actually capable of doing. Tools are the star of the show. A tool is a function the model can actually run, search the database, send the email, book the table. You describe it once in code with a name and a shorthand like read only, and the model decides when it's needed and calls it. It picks the tool, your code does the real work behind it. Resources are read only data you hand the model as context, a file, a config, a row from your database, a page from your docs, each one gets its own address like a little URL. The model doesn't execute a resource, it just reads it. The way you'd glance at a document before answering a hard question, data in, no side effects, prompts are reusable templates the user picks on purpose. Picture a saved workflow, review this pull request, the same careful way every time, or draft a release note in the house style. The server ships the template, you trigger it from a menu, the model fills in the blanks, and nobody retipes the same instructions again. And the channel runs both directions. Your server can ask the client for things too. Barrow the model for a quick sub task, ask which folders it's allowed to touch, or pop a question back to the user mid-run. Those three are sampling, routes, and elicitation. The server isn't only answering, it can ask. Okay, let's actually write one. One command installs the SDK, one import at the top of the file. We'll use fast MCP, the Python library that handles all the protocol plumbing for you. So you can think about your tool instead of the wire format. Here's a complete working tool. You write an ordinary Python function that adds two numbers, nothing special about it. Then you put MCP.tool on the line right above it. That one decorator registers your function with the server as a callable tool, generates its schema, and wires up the validation. There genuinely is no step two, and this is the part one actually love. Your type hints and your doc string become the tool schema automatically. The model reads that schema to learn the tools name, its arguments, and what it's for. So it knows exactly when to reach for it. You wrote a normal comment, and you got a typed, documented API for free. Two lines at the very bottom start the whole thing. You call mcp.run, and your server is live, listening on standard input, waiting for a model to connect and start calling. That is a finished working mcp server, and it fits in one small file you can read from top to bottom in a minute. Adding a resource or a prompt is the exact same move, a function with a different decorator sitting on top of it. The pattern simply repeats. Write one tool, and you already know from muscle memory how to write all three of the primitives. The whole API is that consistent. Before you wire into anything, test it in the mcp inspector, a small built-in tool that connects to your server, lists every tool you exposed, and lets you call each one by hand, and watch the response. If it works there, it will work the same way inside a real client. One piece left, how the client and the server actually reach each other. There are two standard transports, and picking the right one for your situation is honestly most of the deployment story. One is for local, one is for remote. The first is STDIO, for servers running on your own machine. The client literally launches your script as a sub-hats us and talks to it through standard input and output, no network, no ports, nothing to configure, the perfect fit for local tools that read your files or poke at your own database. The second is streamable HTTP, for remote servers that other people reach over the web. It replaced the older server-sent events approach in the 2025 spec, and it's what you deploy when your server lives in the cloud behind a real address with authentication sitting in front of it. To hook your server into cloud desktop, you add a few lines to one JSON config file, pointing it at your script. Restart the app, and your new tool shows up right there in the interface, sitting in the model's menu, ready to be called the moment it's useful. Then you just ask a normal question. The model spots your tool in its menu, decides it needs it, calls it with the right arguments, and reads the answer back to you in plain English. The loop closes, and it feels like magic, right up until you remember you wrote every single step of it. And here's the real payoff for your afternoon of work. You wrote that server for one app, but it was never chained to one. The same server, not one line changed, works in cloud, in chat GPT, in cursor, in co-pilot. You build the integration once, and it plugs into every client that speaks the protocol. Write once, run everywhere, finally means something. That's not a hopeful maybe. It already happened. Open AI adopted MCP in March 2025, wiring it into their agents SDK, and later into chat GPT itself. The company Anthropic competes with hardest picked up Anthropic's own protocol on purpose. Google's Gemini followed within weeks. Then Microsoft co-pilot, GitHub, VS Code, and cursor, one after another. A protocol that shipped from a single company became the shared standard, its fiercest rivals all agreed to speak inside a single year of launching, and the ecosystem went vertical. By the end of 2025, Anthropic counted more than 10,000 active public MCP servers you could plug straight in. The official registry lists close to 10,000, and the community topic on GitHub has crossed 15,000 repositories. There is a server for almost anything you can name. The SDKs get pulled down around 97 million times a month across Python and TypeScript combined. That's the download curve of real infrastructure that teams depend on every day, not a weekend trend that fades by spring. There's now an official registry to search for servers instead of hunting around GitHub, and Anthropic handed the protocol to the Linux foundation, so no single company controls it. In under two years, MCP went from one company's blog post to shared plumbing under the whole industry. Now one serious warning before you ship anything. A tool is arbitrary code execution. When the model calls it, your function runs for real, with whatever permissions you gave it. And because a model can be talked into calling things it shouldn't, prompt injection is a live threat. A carelessly scope tool is a wide open door pointed at your systems, which is exactly why the spec is strict about consent. The host has to ask you before it runs any tool. In one large industry survey this year, security was the single biggest thing holding teams back from production. So start read only, add an approval step for anything that writes, and let a server look before you ever let it touch. The spec itself moves fast. The current revision landed in November 2025, adding async tasks for long jobs and proper OAuth for auth, and the next update is already in review. So pin a version number in your project and read the change log before you upgrade anything in production. So that's the entire picture. A host, a client, a server, three primitives, tools, resources, and prompts, two transports, STDIO and HTTP. Get those five ideas and you can open almost any MCP server on the internet and understand what it does at a glance. And the fastest way to really get it is to build one yourself. Open an empty file tonight, write a single tool, and point cloud at it. That little file is a real server on a real protocol that real products speak. Go make something with it.