---
video_title: "GitHub Repos That Feel Illegal to Know"
video_id: jgsDu9MubJM
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgsDu9MubJM
video_date: 2026-07-15T09:00:31+00:00
video_description: |
  Stop paying expensive software subscriptions. Here are the 10 best open-source GitHub repositories that feel illegal to know from self-hosted Google Photos alternatives to complete, free computer science curriculums.
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the most starred, highest-value open-source projects on GitHub in 2026. We explore three different categories: Free Developer Education (freeCodeCamp, OSSU, build-your-own-x), Paid-App Killers (Immich, Stirling-PDF, LocalSend, Coolify), and Developer Cheat Codes (Ollama, public-apis). You will learn how to self-host your own AI models entirely offline using Ollama, how to bypass the Adobe PDF tax, and how to get a full FAANG software engineering education for zero dollars.
  
  If this helped you discover new developer tools or saved you money, subscribe to Cloud Codes for a new tech breakdown every single week! Build, solve, deploy.
  
  ⏱️ Video Chapters:
  0:00 - Free GitHub Repos That Feel Illegal
  0:59 - Shelf 1: The Free Education (CS Degrees & Prep)
  3:45 - Shelf 2: The Paid-App Killers (Self-Hosting)
  5:52 - Shelf 3: Developer Cheat Codes
  6:46 - Ollama: Running Local AI for Free
  7:55 - The Honest Catch of Self-Hosting Open Source
  8:32 - Final Verdict: The Best Kept Secret in Software
  
  🔗 Repositories Mentioned:
  Free Education Shelf
  1. freeCodeCamp — https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp
  2. build-your-own-x — https://github.com/codecrafters-io/build-your-own-x
  3. developer-roadmap — https://github.com/kamranahmedse/developer-roadmap
  4. OSSU (Open Source Society University) — https://github.com/ossu/computer-science
  5. free-programming-books — https://github.com/EbookFoundation/free-programming-books
  6. TheAlgorithms (Python) — https://github.com/TheAlgorithms/Python
  7. javascript-algorithms — https://github.com/trekhleb/javascript-algorithms
  8. coding-interview-university — https://github.com/jwasham/coding-interview-university
  9. system-design-primer — https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer
  
  Paid-App Killers 
  1. ShelfImmich (self-hosted Google Photos) — https://github.com/immich-app/immich
  2. Stirling-PDF — https://github.com/Stirling-Tools/stirling-pdf
  3. LocalSend (AirDrop alternative) — https://github.com/localsend/localsend
  4. Excalidraw — https://github.com/excalidraw/excalidraw
  5. AppFlowy (Notion alternative) — https://github.com/AppFlowy-IO/AppFlowy
  6. Coolify (Vercel/Heroku alternative) — https://github.com/coollabsio/coolify
  
  Developer Cheat Codes 
  1. Shelfpublic-apis — https://github.com/public-apis/public-apis
  2. free-for-dev — https://github.com/ripienaar/free-for-dev
  3. Ollama (local AI models) — https://github.com/ollama/ollama
  4. awesome (main awesome list) — https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome
  
  #gitHub #opensource #softwareengineering #ollama #selfhosted #cloudcodes
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries:
  free github repos that feel illegal
  best open source software 2026
  how to self host immich
  google photos open source alternative
  best github repos for developers
  free computer science degree github
  build your own x github
  how to run ollama locally
  free for dev github
  adobe pdf free alternative
  cloud codes developer tools
---
This is Imic. It backs up every photo you own, with face search on your own hardware for $0. It replaces a subscription you pay for right now, and it is one of a dozen free repos that feel illegal to have. None of this is pirated. It is all open source, and the license actually invites you to take it and change it. Together, the repos in this video hold over 3 million GitHub stars, millions of developers all voting. One runs a chat GPT class model on your own laptop, offline from a single command. One does everything Adobe charges you for on a PDF right in your browser. One is airdrop that finally works between an iPhone and a Windows laptop. A few of them can take you from zero to a hired engineer with no tuition bill. Fair warning, your bookmarks bar is about to get heavier. I am a little annoyed these are free, so why would anyone give work this good away? Open source, and it is the best deal in all of software. Three shelves, the free education, the paid app killers, and the developer cheat codes. Let us go. Start with the shelf that made me want to make this video because it is the one that changed my own path the most, the free education. In the last few years, the price of learning to code from scratch collapsed to nothing, and the quality of the material went up at the same time. Free code camp is the anchor of the whole thing. 450,000 stars, and behind them are genuinely complete curriculum. Thousands of hours of hands-on, browser-based coding, plus real certifications in web design, JavaScript algorithms, data analysis, and machine learning. Here is the part that gets me. It is run by a nonprofit and funded by donations, so there is no upsell, no locked premium tier, no trial timer. People have walked out of this curriculum into six figure jobs, paying nothing for training that costs 15 grand at a bootcamp. Next to it, build your own X, the single most star repo of the entire group at over 500,000 stars. It is a guided list that walks you through rebuilding the tools you lean on every day. Your own git, your own docker, your own database, your own text editor from an empty file. This is how a lot of senior engineers actually leveled up. You do not truly understand how Redis works until you have built a slower, uglier Redis yourself, one function at a time, and watch exactly where it breaks. Not sure what to even learn first. Developer Roadmap has over 350,000 stars, and it is a set of interactive maps for front end, back end, and DevOps. Every note is a skill laid out in the order that actually makes sense, so you stop guessing what comes next. If you want the real thing, OSSU computer science is a full university level CS degree, assembled entirely from free courses in the proper sequence with a community working through it alongside you. 200,000 people have started a curriculum that mirrors an actual bachelor's program. Free programming books sits at nearly 400,000 stars, and it is exactly what the name says, thousands of complete programming books, in more than 30 human languages, every single one legal to read for free. Your whole technical library collapsed into one repository, and when the interview turns to data structures, the algorithms repos have you covered. The algorithms Python and JavaScript algorithms hold clean, commented versions of essentially every algorithm you will be asked about, each with the theory linked right next to the code. Around 200,000 stars a piece. When you are actually ready to get hired, two more repos own that lane. Coding, interview, and university is one man's complete study plan that took him from self-taught coder to a job at Amazon. System design primer preps the whiteboard interview that trips up even senior engineers with real diagrams and flashcards, both sit above 350,000 stars, and both are completely free. That is a feng interview prep package private coaching services will happily sell you for a few thousand dollars handed over for nothing. Second shelf, and this is the one that genuinely feels against the rules. Not learning material this time, but finished software that does the exact job of a product you pay a monthly bill for, running self-hosted on hardware you already own. So back to IMAG properly. It is a self-hosted Google Photos. You point your phone at your own server, and it auto-backs up every photo and video, then runs machine learning face, object, and location search on that box locally. It does albums, shared libraries, and even raw camera files, with no monthly cloud bill, and no company mining your family album. It has pulled 100,000 stars in barely two years, with genuinely polished iPhone and Android apps that back up in the background. People are simply done renting space for photos they already own. Sterling PayTF is a complete PDF workshop living on one web page. Merge, Split, Sign, Compress, Convert, Rotate, Run OCR, Strip a Password, more than 50 separate tools. The exact features Adobe locks behind a subscription, running on your own box, and nothing you upload is ever sent anywhere else. LocalSend is airdrop without the AppleTax. Two devices on the same network, a file flies across in a couple of seconds, and it works phone to laptop, Windows to Mac, Linux to Android in every direction. It runs on an open protocol with the transfer encrypted, so nobody on the Wi-Fi in between can read it, and nothing touches the cloud. X-A-Cloud Draw is the whiteboard I actually use, that hand drawn sketchy diagram style, end-to-end encrypted, with nothing to install, and no seat license. Millions of people draw system diagrams on it every month, and the whole thing is a free open repo you can also self-host. And the shelf keeps going. AppFloey is an open source notion for your notes and databases. Coolify replaces Versaille and Heroku, deploying your apps to your own server with one click and zero monthly platform fee. Each of these is one more bill you get to cancel. Now add up only this shelf. Google Photos, Notion, a Design Tool, a Deploy Platform, the Adobe Tax On Top. That is easily three to four hundred dollars a year in subscriptions, swapped out for repos that cost zero, and that never raised the price on you at renewal. And if you think that is the whole trick, the last shelf is the one that saves working developers the most time. It is where I do most of my own repo hunting. Third shelf is the developer cheat codes. These are not apps you run for yourself, but reference repos that save you real hours on nearly every project you start, and plenty of people go years without finding them. Public APs has 450,000 stars, and it is a giant sorted directory of free APIs. Weather, Finance, Maps, Sports, Games, Machine Learning, hundreds of them. Every entry is tagged with whether it needs a key, support HTTPS, and allows cores, so you know in one glance if it fits. Your next side projects data solved before you write a line. Free for dev is the same idea aimed at infrastructure. Every cloud service with a real, usable free tier gathered onto one page so you can host a genuine full stack app and pay nothing at all until you actually have users hitting it. Now the one I did not actually believe until I ran it on my own laptop. Allama runs open models like Lama, Quin, and DeepSeek directly on your machine. One command in the terminal, and a model that rivals last year's chat GPT is answering you, completely offline, completely private, with no API bill. 175,000 stars, and installs as a single small binary on Mac, Windows, or Linux. It even exposes a local API on your own machine, so your scripts and apps can call the model like any other service. The barrier to running your own AI just dropped from a data center to a laptop and a coffee break, and sitting on top of every list I just showed you is awesome, at nearly half a million stars. It is the index of the indexes, a single curated list that points out to thousands more curated lists on every topic in software you can name. The whole awesome list movement started right here, and now there is one for basically every language and framework. Step back and look at the whole pile. These repos hold millions of stars between them, maintained by volunteers, translated by strangers, and used by companies that could easily afford to pay. It is the largest give it away our industry has ever run. So what is the actual catch? For the self-hosted apps, you become the host, you run the server, you apply the updates, you own the backups when something breaks, free means free of a bill, not free of effort, and that trade is not for every project, and clicking star is not a favor you do the maintainer. It is your own bookmark for the day you need it, and it is the signal that keeps a free project visible, alive, and worth someone's weekend to keep building. Getting in is genuinely one line. Clown the repo, or for the apps, run a single docker command, and it is live on your own machine within minutes. The readme of each one walks you through the rest, step by step. This is the best kept open secret in software. A full education, a shelf of paid apps, and your own private AI, all of it for the cost of the electricity to run them. So go star a few of these tonight. Seriously, your future self will thank you, and if this saved you some money, subscribe, because I make one of these every single week. I'll see you in the next one.