---
video_title: "How LoRA Actually Works: The Mathematics of Fine-Tuning"
video_id: oU9qoLk4qIw
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oU9qoLk4qIw
video_date: 2026-06-22T07:55:23+00:00
video_description: |
  Full fine-tuning a 175-billion parameter model like GPT-3 requires up to 1.4 terabytes of VRAM. Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) reduces trainable parameters by up to 10,000 times by proving that weight changes (Delta W) live in a low-dimensional "intrinsic rank" subspace.
  
  In this video, we go under the hood of LoRA's mathematics, exploring the matrix decomposition equations (Delta W = A x B) that make 1-GPU fine-tuning possible. 
  
  We break down the mathematical limits of PEFT variants: how QLoRA compresses the base model into 4-bit NormalFloat, why rsLoRA resolves the rank stabilization bug by dividing scaling by the square root of r, how DoRA separates magnitude updates from direction, and how PiSSA uses singular value decomposition (SVD) for optimal weight initialization. We also analyze 2026's newest research—including SDS-LoRA, Cheap LoRA, and Edge LoRA architectures.
  
  📌 Timestamps:
  0:00 - Introduction: The Extreme VRAM Cost of Full Fine-Tuning
  1:09 - Intrinsic Rank Hypothesis & Edward Hu (Microsoft, 2021)
  1:43 - The Mathematics of LoRA (Delta W = A x B)
  3:02 - LoRA vs. Other PEFT Methods (Adapters, Prompt & Prefix Tuning)
  3:27 - QLoRA (Dettmers, 2023): NF4, Double Quantization & Paged Optimizers
  4:49 - Gradient Flows & Backward Pass Mechanics
  5:38 - The Rank Stabilization Problem: Why rsLoRA divides by √r
  6:16 - AdaLoRA: Dynamic Parameter Allocation and Singular Values
  6:41 - Weight Decomposition: Magnitude & Direction Updates (DoRA)
  7:00 - Principal Singular Vector Initialization (PiSSA)
  7:35 - Optimizer State Compression via Gradient Projection (GaLore)
  8:00 - June 2026 Frontier: SDS-LoRA & Decoupling Anisotropic Gradients
  8:33 - Cheap LoRA & Information-Theoretic Generalization Bounds
  9:02 - Edge LoRA: Memory Optimization for On-Device Fine-Tuning
  9:33 - The Mental Model: Learning the Delta, Not the Model
  10:00 - Decision Matrix: Which Fine-Tuning Method to Use?
  10:27 - Summary & Outro (Cloud Codes)
  
  🔗 Resources & References:
  - Hu et al. (2021) - "LoRA: Low-Rank Adaptation of Large Language Models"
  - Dettmers et al. (2023) - "QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs"
  
  If you found this machine learning and system optimization comparison useful, subscribe to Cloud Codes. We take apart one systems design, mathematical paper, or backend framework like this every week. Build, solve, deploy.
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE & WATCH NEXT
  Subscribe for a new systems deep-dive every week: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=11
  
  Watch Next: https://youtu.be/v_wvXLq6OS8
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH US
  Twitter/X:  x.com/cloud_codes
  Join our developer community: discord.gg/HVnH9SY48 
  
  User Queries: 
  math behind lora low rank adaptation
  how does qlora save vram
  difference between lora and dora
  pissa vs lora svd initialization
  galore optimizer memory gradient projection
  rslora vs lora rank stabilization
  sds-lora anisotropic gradient scaling
  how to fine tune llama on edge devices
  double quantization and normalfloat4
---
GPT-3 has 175 billion parameters. Fine-tuning them all? 700 gigabytes of VRAM, but the actual changes you need are tiny. The fine-tuning delta lives in a space 100 times smaller than the model. That's Laura, low-rank adaptation. It's why you can fine-tune a 65 billion parameter model on a single 48 gigabyte GPU. Here's why full fine-tuning is brutal. You update every parameter. GPT-3 has 175 billion of them. The weights alone are 350 gigabytes in 16-bit precision, but training needs more. The atom optimizer stores two extra copies of every parameter for momentum and variance. Gradients add another copy, so the total is roughly four times the model size. For GPT-3, that's 1.4 terabytes, and every fine-tuned variant is a complete copy. Ten tasks means 10 copies of 175 billion parameters. The deployment problem is just as bad. Ten fine-tuned models means 10 full copies in memory. Switching tasks means swapping the entire model. This doesn't scale. In 2021, Edward Hue and his team at Microsoft asked a simple question, do we really need to update all the parameters, or is the important change concentrated in a much smaller space? Their key insight was something they called intrinsic rank. When you find two in a model, the weight changes, delta W, don't need the full dimensionality of the weight matrix. They live in a low-dimensional subspace. A weight matrix that's 4,096 by 4,096, 16 million numbers might only need changes that span a rank 8 space. That's the hypothesis, and it turned out to be remarkably accurate. Here's the math. Instead of updating the full weight matrix, W, Laura approximates the change as a product of two smaller matrices, delta W equals A times B, A is D by R, B is R by K, R is the rank, usually 4,8 or 16. For a 4,096 by 4,096 matrix, that's 16.7 million parameters. The Laura adapter at rank 8 is 4,096 times 8 plus 8 times 4,096, 65,000 parameters, 256 times fewer. The output is simple. Y equals W times X plus alpha over R times B times A times X. W is frozen, only A and B train. Alpha controls the adapter's influence. Alpha over R is the scaling factor, and that ratio matters more than you think. The results were striking. Laura cut trainable parameters by 10,000 times compared to full fine tuning with Adam. GPU memory dropped by three times, and there's zero inference latency, because at serving time, you merge A times B back into W. The model is the same size. Laura matched or beat full fine tuning on Roberta, Deberta, GPT-2, and GPT-3. Laura isn't the only parameter efficient method. There's prefix tuning, which adds trainable tokens to the input. Adapter layers, which insert small modules between transformer layers, prompt tuning, which optimizes a soft prompt. But Laura won, adapters add inference latency, you run extra layers, prefix and prompt tuning, e into the context window. Laura has zero overhead, because you merge the adapter into the weights, same speed, same memory at serving time. But Laura has a limitation. You still need to load the full model in memory. A 65 billion parameter model in 16-bit precision takes 130 gigabytes. Laura reduces the trainable parameters, but the base model still has to fit on the GPU. In 2023, Tim Demers at the University of Washington solved this with Q-Laura. Quantize the base model to four-bit, freeze it, train Laura adapters on top in full precision. Three innovations made it work. NF-4, four-bit normal float, a data type that's information theoretically optimal for normally distributed weights. Double quantization, which quantizes the quantization constants themselves, and paged optimizers, which you CPU RAM for memory spikes during training. The result, fine-tune a 65 billion parameter model on a single 48 gigabyte GPU, 24 hours of training. The model reached 99.3 percent of chat GPT's performance on the Vekuna benchmark. Demers fine-tuned over 1000 models for the paper. Impossible with regular fine-tuning. Here's how the gradients flow. The forward pass goes through frozen four-bit weights. The backward pass computes gradients that flow through the quantized model into the Laura adapters. The base model never changes. Only A and B update. The four-bit weights are a fixed reference. The adapters learn the delta in full precision. Now the scaling factor. This is where the math gets interesting. Original Laura scales the adapter by alpha over R. As you increase the rank R, the scaling shrinks proportionally. Sounds reasonable, but it's a bug. At higher ranks, the shrinking scaling suppresses the adapter's contribution. The model learns slower. This is the rank stabilization problem. In late 2023, Damjan Kalecki-Jewski identified this and proposed a fix. RS Laura. Instead of dividing by R, divide by the square root of R, rank stabilization. With this change, higher ranks actually help. The adapter maintains its influence regardless of rank. The scaling no longer fights the learning rate. How low can R go? Empirically, rank 1 or rank 2 works surprisingly well for many tasks. Rank 8 is the sweet spot. Rank 64 gives diminishing returns. The rank controls the capacity of the adaptation. Think of it as the number of independent directions the model can adjust along. Rank 4 means 4 directions. Most fine tuning doesn't need more than a handful. There's a trade-off. Higher rank means more expressive power, but more parameters and potential overfitting. Lower rank means faster training and less memory, but you might underfit complex tasks. The art is finding the minimum rank that captures the adaptation. Start at 8, increase if the model underfits. Decrease if it overfits or memory is tight. 8 of Laura from Jean in Colleagues in 2023 took a different angle. Instead of the same rank for every layer, it adapts the parameter budget. Important layers get higher rank, less important get lower. It uses an important score based on singular values to decide where to allocate. The result is a more efficient use of the parameter budget. Dora from Envidia in 2024 made a deceptively simple change. It decomposes the weight into magnitude and direction. Full fine tuning updates both. Vanilla Laura conflates them. Dora applies Laura only to the directional update with a separate trainable magnitude scalar. This closes the gap to full fine tuning. It consistently outperforms Laura on Lama and Visual Language tasks. Pisa from Meng and Colleagues in 2024 attacked the initialization. Vanilla Laura starts A with random noise and B with zeros meaning the adapter starts at zero. Pisa runs SVD on the original weight and Asylis A and B with the principle singular vectors. The adapter starts near optimal. On GSM 8K with Mistral 7B, Pisa hit 72.9%. Laura got 67.7 and Qpisa beat Qlora on Lama 37B B 86% vs 81.7. Galore from Zao and Colleagues in 2024 attacked memory differently. Instead of reducing weight rank, it projects gradients to low rank space. You train with full rank weights but reduce the optimizer state memory. The optimizer states are the real memory hogs not the weights. Galore trains a 7 billion model on a single 24GB GPU and a 70 billion model on 880GB GPUs. Now the fresh research. In June 2026, SDS Laura from O and Colleagues discovered anti-cytropic gradient scaling. When gradients flow back through the low rank matrices, they get skewed toward dominant singular directions while suppressing others. This reduces the effective rank of the gradients and widens the gap to full fine tuning. SDS Laura decouples singular values from the backward pass propagating gradients through orthonormal bases better convergence smaller gap the second paper beyond Laura from Kadenhead and Colleagues asked whether sparsity could beat low rank. They proposed cheap Laura training only one factor while keeping the other fixed. They evaluated 11 methods across 10 models and 14 data sets. Sparse structured adaptation stays competitive while cutting training time by 10% and peak GPU memory by 15%. They also derived information theoretic generalization bounds one of the first theoretical frameworks for comparing PEPF methods. The third paper from Debouk and Colleagues at NVIDIA tackled peak memory for edge devices. Four techniques, base model quantization with on-the-fly de-quantization, memory efficient check pointing with disk offloading, softmax approximation using semantically relevant tokens and low jits masking. On Lama 3.23 billion and Quinn 2.53 billion, they achieved 26 to 28 times reduction in peak memory fine tuning on phones and laptops, not data centers. Here's the mental model. Laura doesn't learn the model. It learns the delta the difference between what the model already knows and what you need it to know. The preprainted model is the canvas. The adapter is the paint. You're not repainting the canvas. You're adding a thin layer. And because that layer is low rank, it's tiny. A few megabytes instead of hundreds of gigabytes, swap adapters at runtime. One base model, many tasks. When do you use what? Vanilla Laura for general fine tuning? Q Laura when VRAM is tight. Dora when you need maximum quality. Pissa for faster convergence, especially on math and reasoning. Galora for pre-training or full rank weights with less optimizer memory and always use RS Laura scaling square root of rank for ranks above 16. The math is elegant. A 4000 by 4000 matrix 16 million numbers can be approximated by two matrices with 65,000. That's the power of low rank. The model is big. The change is small. Laura finds the small change. If that clicked, subscribe. Cloud codes take apart one system like this every week. Build, solve, deploy. See you in the next one.