---
video_title: "DeepSeek Just Made AI 85% Faster : DSpark, DeepSpec Explained"
video_id: EWnu-pQ1Vt0
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EWnu-pQ1Vt0
video_date: 2026-06-29T08:29:02+00:00
video_description: |
  DeepSeek just released DSpark, an open-source speculative decoding engine that makes their V4 model 85% faster for free. Meanwhile, Zhipu AI dropped GLM-5.2, an open-weights model that is now within a single percentage point of Anthropic's unreleased Claude Mythos.
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design behind Speculative Decoding, explaining how small "draft" models and large "verifier" models work together to bypass GPU memory bottlenecks. We explore the deep technical architecture of DSpark (Markov heads, confidence schedulers, and zero-overhead scheduling), and how DeepSeek open-sourced their entire pipeline via DeepSpec. We also look at GLM-5.2's new 1-million-token context window powered by IndexShare, and why the global AI race has officially shifted from building smarter models to building faster, cheaper inference layers.
  
  If this helped you understand the massive shift in AI infrastructure and system design, subscribe to Cloud Codes for a new tech breakdown every single week! Build, solve, deploy.
  
  ⏱️ Video Chapters (Crucial for Google Search Rich Snippets):
  0:00 - The Week Open Source Beat the Frontier
  1:05 - How Speculative Decoding Actually Works
  2:46 - Inside DSpark: How DeepSeek Got 85% Faster
  4:59 - DeepSpec: The Open Source Toolkit
  6:00 - GLM-5.2 Explained (1-Million Token Context)
  7:13 - The Gap to Claude Mythos is Now 1%
  8:03 - The Real Moat: Inference vs Intelligence
  8:49 - Honest Caveats & Final Verdict
  
  🔗 Concepts & Sources Covered:
  DeepSeek V4 & DSpark (Speculative Decoding) : https://github.com/deepseek-ai/DeepSpec/blob/main/DSpark_paper.pdf
  Zhipu AI GLM-5.2 & IndexShare Attention
  Anthropic Claude Mythos (Rumored Closed Frontier)
  Speculative Decoding (DFlash vs Eagle)
  vLLM, SGLang, and Open Source AI Inference
  
  #DeepSeek #SpeculativeDecoding #ArtificialIntelligence #ClaudeMythos #SoftwareEngineering #CloudCodes
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE & WATCH NEXT
  Subscribe for a new systems deep-dive every week: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH US
  Twitter/X:  x.com/cloud_codes
  Join our developer community: discord.gg/HVnH9SY48 
  
  User Queries: 
  what is speculative decoding ai
  deepseek dspark explained
  glm 5.2 vs claude mythos
  how to run deepseek v4 faster
  deepspec deepseek open source toolkit
  how does speculative decoding work
  vllm vs sglang speculative decoding
  glm 5.2 1 million token context
  qwen gemma deepspec fine tuning
  ai inference speed optimization
  cloud codes system design ai
---
watch a giant model right. One token, a full pass through every parameter. Then the next, then the next, slow and expensive. Now flip on deep seeks new trick. The same model, the same weights suddenly streaming up to 85% faster. And here's the twist. They did not ship a new model. They shipped away to speed up the one you already have. Meet D-Spark, open source, MIT, speculative decoding, and the founders first paper in months. The output does not change. Same answer, token for token, just delivered in half the time. It is lossless. They open source the whole factory to deep spec, train your own version. It even works on Q and Gemma. Same week, a second open lab swung just as hard. GLM, 5.2, open weights, a million token context. Line the open models up against the closed frontier, and the gap is now a single percent, which is the claim in the title, open weights, reaching mythos tier, cheaper, and far faster. So let us take it apart. How it gets fast, what GLM brings, and why the whole race just moved. Quick grounding on what we are speeding up. Deep Seek V4 landed in April. Open weights a 1.6 trillion parameter pro model, with 49 billion active, a lean flash version, and one million token context as the default. It already rivaled the closed labs. DS Spark is a layer that makes it cheap to actually run. First, why models are slow? To write a single token, the model fires a full pass through every parameter, for V4 pro. That is 1.6 trillion of them, for one word. At scale, the GPU spends more time moving memory than computing. So the chip sits half idle, just waiting. Speculative decoding breaks that pattern. A small, fast draft model guesses a whole block of tokens ahead. The big model then verifies the entire block in one pass, checking five guesses for almost the cost of one. Every guess it accepts is a token you got nearly for free, and it cannot quietly lower your quality. The verifier uses rejection sampling, which keeps the final output mathematically identical to normal decoding. Wrong guesses are thrown out. You only ever keep the tokens the real model would have written anyway, just sooner. It all reduces to one equation. Latency equals draft time plus verify time, divided by how many tokens you accept per cycle. So there are exactly three ways to win. Draft faster, draft better, or verify smarter. DS Spark unusually pulls all three levers at once. Older methods could only pull one. Auto regressive drafters like Eagle, guess accurately, but slow down as the block grows. Parallel drafters like D Flash are cheap, but they guess every token blind to its neighbors, so the back of the block rots and gets rejected. They call it suffix decay. DS Spark's first move is to take both sides. A fast parallel backbone proposes the whole block at once. Then a tiny sequential head, low rank, mark-off adds one quick correction, nudging each token based on the one right before it. Cheap like parallel, accurate like sequential, picture it mid-sentence. The block proposes the word of, and the little head instantly boosts course while pushing down that single nudge holds acceptance high all the way to the end of the block, exactly where the older methods used to bleed their speed. The second move stops wasted work. A confidence head scores how likely each guest token is to survive. Then a hardware-aware scheduler reads the GPU load. When the chips are idle, verify more tokens. When they are slammed, trim down to only the confident ones. Speed that bends to the moment. The third move makes the scheduler itself free. Zero overhead scheduling runs a step ahead, using the last two rounds to predict the right length before it is needed. The GPU never stalls on a decision. The clever part adds no clock time of its own. Put it together and you get the shipped setting, DS Spark 5, a five token draft block, the mark-off head, and the confident scheduler. That exact configuration is the one now running inside deep-seek's production servers. The numbers back it up. Offline, DS Spark accepts 26-31% more tokens per cycle than Eagle, and 16-18% more than to Flash. A two-layer DS Spark even beats a five-layered to Flash, better guessing from a smaller, cheaper drafter. In live production, the payoff is the headline. Per user generation runs 60-85% faster on V4 Flash, and 57-78% faster on V4 Pro at the same total throughput. Same servers, same model, nearly double the speed, and it adapts to the task. With confidence filtering on, chat acceptance jumps from 46-96% and math reasoning from 77-93. Predictable, structured text flies. Messy Open Chat gets trimmed safely instead of stalling, and this is why coding agents care. V4 already plugs into Claude Code, Open Code, and Open Claw, so an 85% speed-up is not a chat window demo. It is your agent finishing a long task in half the time for the same bill. Now the generous part. DeepSeek did not just publish results. They open source the full stack deep spec under MIT, not a demo. The real pipeline, prepare the data, train the draft model across GPUs, then evaluate it on nine benchmarks, end to end. It ships three drafting algorithms, DS Spark, D Flash, and Eagle, and targets Quinn and Gemma out of the box, so you can train a custom drafter tuned to your own prompts and your own hardware. Unsloss team already confirmed it trains cleanly on both. Be honest about the floor though. The default Quinn4b recipe wants an 8GPU node and roughly 38 terabytes of cache. Training your own drafter is a data center job, but just running the pre-trained checkpoints in VLLM or S-clang, that part is genuinely easy, and here is why it lands. Open AI and Anthropic both run speculative decoding inside their servers, but neither has ever shipped a toolchain. DeepSpec hands a reproducible, auditable version to everyone at once. It quietly raises the floor for all open inference, while DeepSeek chased speed, Zipoo chased the frontier. GLM 5.2. Open weights, MIT licensed, with a solid 1 million token context that actually holds up across long agent runs, released in mid-June, and built to compete. Its trick is called index share. Instead of every layer computing its own sparse attention index, one lightweight indexer is shared across every four layers. At a million tokens, that cuts per token compute by 2.9 times, long context, far cheaper to run, and notice the pattern. GLM 5.2 also rebuilt its own speculative decoding layer for 20% higher acceptance. Two open labs, in the same month, racing on the very same thing, not a smarter answer, a faster one, on coding it shows. GLM 5.2 scores 81 on terminal bench, up from 63, a single version ago, and 62 on SWE Bench Pro. That makes it the strongest open coding model available, landing within a few points of the closed leaders. It also lets you spend compute on purpose. Effort levels, high or max, tell the model how hard to think. Easy task, stay cheap and fast. Hard task, crank it up. You decide exactly where the money goes. Now the ceiling everyone is measuring against. Mythos is a suspected next-clod, topping the hardest reasoning benchmarks, rumored to loop a single layer over and over to think deeper. It is the closed frontier, and right now it is export restricted and barely available. So here is the gap measured honestly. On Frontier ICW, GLM 5.2 scores 74.4, the best closed model, 75.1, a one point gap, on terminal bench, a few points. These open models are not catching up someday. They are essentially already there, and that is the whole twist. The frontier is a model you cannot run, cannot even buy this month. The open challenger is way too download today, self-host anywhere, run 85% faster, and serve for a fraction of the cost. Close on quality, and miles ahead on access. Step back, and the race itself has moved. For two years it was a benchmark contest, whose model is smartest. Those scores have bunched together. The real fight now is the serving layer, the schedulers and decoders that decide how fast, and how cheap a model actually runs. And the money agrees. Deloitte projects that running models, inference, will be about two-thirds of all AI compute this year, up from a third in 2023. When most of the bill is serving, a free 85% speedup is not a footnote. It is the whole game. It even reshapes the politics. Export controls assume fewer chips means less capability. But when a lab squeezes 60-85% more out of the same hardware with software alone, that assumption wobbles. DeepSeek keeps proving efficiency can route around a chip band. Two honest cautions before you get carried away. Lossless means faster. Not smarter. DeSpark does not raise v4s intelligence by a single point. And every speed figure here is deep seeks on, on deep seeks on servers against their own old baseline. No outside lab has verified it yet, and the biggest numbers are peak load best cases. And the usual asterisk on the hosted service, use deep seeks API, and your data routes to servers in China under laws that compel cooperation with the state. The clean path is the open weights. Self-host them on your own machines, and that whole problem simply disappears. So that was the week. DeSpark 85% more speed for free, with no new model. DeepSpec, the open toolkit to build it yourself. And GLM 5.2. Open weights a single point off the closed frontier. Put together, the gap to mythos tier is now measured in single digits. The lesson is bigger than any one release. The model stopped being the moat, and the serving layer became it. If this is the kind of breakdown you want every week, subscribe to Cloud Codes, build, solve, deploy, and I will see you in the next one.