---
video_title: "AI Jailbreaking Explained: Why \"Safe AI\" is Actually a Myth"
video_id: dlNTkT6lkPI
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dlNTkT6lkPI
video_date: 2026-07-09T19:30:36+00:00
video_description: |
  Are AI guardrails an illusion? Discover how anonymous researchers like "Pliny the Liberator" use AI Jailbreaking to bypass the safety filters on billion-dollar models like Claude, GPT-4, and Gemini. 
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design of an AI Jailbreak. We explore the fundamental conflict between training a model to be "helpful" vs "harmless," and dissect the three families of attacks: Prompt-level (like the classic DAN roleplay), Dialogue-level (Microsoft's Crescendo technique), and Token-level (using gradient math to find hidden bypass codes).
  
  We also dive deep into Pliny's newly released T3MP3ST framework—an open-source tool that turns local coding agents into an autonomous offensive-security "Red Team" capable of finding real-world software vulnerabilities. Finally, we explore the ethical debate: should hackers publish these exploits out in the open, or keep them secret?
  
  🔗 Official GitHub Repositories Mentioned:
  • T3MP3ST (Offensive Security Framework): https://github.com/elder-plinius/T3MP3ST
  • L1B3RT4S (Jailbreak Prompts Database): https://github.com/elder-plinius/L1B3RT4S
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The AI Jailbreak Illusion
  1:36 - Who is Pliny the Liberator?
  3:49 - Why Models Break: Helpful vs. Harmless
  5:50 - How Jailbreaking Works (Prompt, Fiction, Smuggling)
  8:38 - Multi-turn Attacks (Crescendo & Echo Chamber)
  10:09 - Token-Level Hacks & Automated Red Teaming
  11:35 - T3MP3ST: The Autonomous AI Hacker Tool
  14:14 - Defeating the XBEN Benchmark
  16:08 - The Defense: Why Breaking AI Makes it Safer
  18:17 - Summary: The Reality of AI Safety
  
  #ai #cybersecurity #jailbreak #chatgpt #softwareengineering #cloudcodes #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #redteaming #infosec
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries:
  how ai jailbreaking works
  pliny the liberator ai hacker
  t3mp3st ai hacking tool tutorial
  how to jailbreak chatgpt 2026
  microsoft crescendo jailbreak explained
  what is indirect prompt injection
  ai red teaming framework github
  token level ai jailbreak math
  l1b3rt4s github jailbreak prompts
  how to test ai security guardrails
---
Every AI chatbot has a line it will not cross. Ask the wrong thing and you get the same polite wall. I can't help with that. But a small group of people can make that exact same model drop the wall. Sometimes within an hour of it going live, they call it jail breaking. And one name sits at the very top of the list. He goes by Pliny. No real name, no face, no computer science degree. And in 2025, time put him on its list of the 100 most influential people in artificial intelligence. Pliny has cracked open nearly every frontier model ever shipped. Open AI and Thropic, Google, Meta, XAI. If it has guardrails, he has found a key. This isn't magic and it isn't luck. jail breaking is a method, a small set of repeatable moves. And by the end of this, you'll understand every one of them. To see why it works, you have to see the trap every model is built inside. We train these systems to be two things at once, endlessly helpful and perfectly safe. The catch is that safety is a thin coat of paint. Underneath sits a model that already read the entire internet, including the parts you don't want it to repeat. And now Pliny has shipped something new, a tool called T3MP3ST, that turns the AI coding agent on your laptop into an autonomous hacker. On a professional hacking benchmark, it scores over 90%. Beating the specialist company that built the test, who he is, why models break, exactly how the attacks work, and what T3MP3ST really does. Let's get into it. Start with the person, because the story is almost unbelievable. Pliny didn't come out of a security lab by his own account. He had no real coding background at all. He just started talking to these models, poking, rephrasing, pushing, and found that the right words, in the right order, could talk a billion dollar system into ignoring its own rules. A new model would launch in the morning, and he'd have it liberated in his words by lunch. At first, he reported the holes privately. He says the company's mostly ignored him. So he did the one thing that changes everything in security. He went public. He started a repository called L1B3RT4S, lead speak for liberties, and open source his jailbreak prompts for anyone to read, copy, and study. If the labs wouldn't listen, the whole internet would. And he doesn't only chase forbidden answers, one of Pliny's signature moves is extracting a model's system prompt. The hidden block of instructions the company writes to shape how it behaves, which you're never supposed to see. His point is pointed. If millions of people are outsourcing decisions to a machine, they deserve to know the secret rules that machine is actually following. That decision turned one hacker into a movement more than 100,000 followers on X. A discord community he calls the Basie over 20,000 members strong, all workshopping fresh ways to pull models apart, and crucially putting every finding out in the open where defenders can see it too. Then came the twist, nobody scripts. Mark Andreson, one of the most powerful investors in all of tech, handed Pliny a no strings grant, and the same AI labs whose models he embarrasses started hiring him. Short contracts, including with open AI, to help make their systems harder to break. He got paid by the very people he'd been breaking. His argument is simple, and it's the reason a video like this isn't reckless. It is far better to learn exactly what a model can be tricked into doing inside a controlled lab out in the open than to leave those tricks for criminals to discover quietly. You cannot defend against an attack you refuse to look at, so let's look at it. So why can these systems be broken at all? It comes down to that double command we hand them. Be maximally helpful, answer the question, follow the instruction, satisfy the user, and be harmless. Refuse anything dangerous. Most of the time those two goals point the same direction. A jailbreak is any prompt that forces them to point in opposite directions and then makes helpful win. Remember how a model is actually made? First it's trained on a giant slice of the internet, and it soaks up everything in there. Chemistry, code, malware, persuasion, all of it. Only afterward do we bolt on a thin layer of fine tuning that teaches it to say no. The dangerous knowledge was never removed. It was simply papered over. So a jailbreak doesn't teach the model anything new. It doesn't need to. Everything is already sitting in there. The attack only has to slip past the refusal reflex layered on top. You're not cracking the vault. You're reaching around the guard standing in front of it. That reframe is the entire game, and that guard is really just a character the model is playing. The careful, rule following assistant. Convince it even for a few sentences that it's playing a different character, a fiction writer. A sys admin. An AI with no rules. And the refusal reflex often walks off the stage with the old rule. Change the persona. And you change the behavior. Here's the uncomfortable core of it. Every safety guardrail is a probability, not a wall. The model doesn't hard block a request. It just becomes very likely to refuse. Lean on that likelihood from enough different angles at once. And sooner or later it leaks. There is no line of code that says never. Which is why nobody has ever truly fixed this. Each new model closes yesterday's holes and quietly opens tomorrow's. It is not a bug with a patch waiting somewhere. It is an arm's race. Attackers and defenders circling each other forever. Now let's see the attacker's actual toolkit. Here's the part you came for. How the attacks actually work. Strip away the thousands of individual prompts floating around online. And almost all of them fall into three families. Prompt level where a clever human outwrites the guardrail. Token level where cold math finds the crack and dialogue level where the conversation itself becomes the weapon. Family one prompt level. This is the pure creativity lane. No code, no gradients, just language. It is where Pliny lives and it is the most human of the three. The entire move is framing. You change what the model believes it is doing and its sense of the rules changes with it. The oldest version is the role play. The famous one was called Dan. Do anything now. You tell the model it is a different AI, one with no restrictions and you ask it to answer in that persona. It looks crude today and modern models shrug it off but it opened the whole field because it proved a rule that still holds. Persona's beat policies. The softer cousin is fiction. Don't ask for the forbidden thing. Ask for a story that just happens to contain it. A grandmother reading a bedtime tale. A movie villain monologueing his plan. A novel where the character explains the method in detail. The model lowers its guard because as far as it can tell it is only writing make believe. Then there's smuggling, hiding the real request so the safety filter never sees it clearly. Ask in another language and code the words. Space the letters apart. Swap in, lead speak. The sensitive terms slip past the dorm end because on the way in they simply don't look sensitive. The filter reads the disguise, not the intent. And the newest models don't just read text. They see and hear. That opens a whole new door. Hide the instruction inside an image or bury it in an audio clip and let the model read it back for you. The words that would be blocked in the chat box sail straight through when they arrive as a picture. Every new sense you give a model is a new surface to attack. The sharpest prompt level trick turns the models own virtues against it. A truly helpful assistant you tell it. Wouldn't lecture me? It would just answer. This is called alignment hacking and it's vicious because you are weaponizing the models training to be agreeable. Refusing now feels to the model like failing at its actual job. Family 2 scales all of that up and Anthropic published it themselves. Many shot jail breaking. Modern models have enormous context windows. Room for a small book. So you fill that window with dozens, even hundreds of fake back and forth exchanges where the assistant always cheerfully complies. By the time you ask the real question, the model is just completing the pattern and the pattern is yes. And here is the twist that keeps researchers up at night. It gets worse as models get better. The bigger the context window, the very feature every lab races to expand. The more fake examples you can pack in and the stronger the effect grows. Capability and vulnerability, climbing the same ladder. Then the family that works best on today's hardened models, dialogue level, multi turn. The flagship technique is called crescendo out of Microsoft research. You never ask for the forbidden thing directly. You open with something completely innocent, then take one small, reasonable step at a time. Each new step leaning on the model's own previous answer until you have walked it gently all the way to a place it would have refused in a single shot. Its relatives have names now too. Skeleton key, echo chamber. The idea underneath them is identical. Instead of fighting the rules head on, you get the model to quietly agree to update them. One polite exchange at a time until the loosened guardrail feels like something it decided all on its own. No alarm ever goes off. And there's a cousin worth naming because it's the scariest one for the agent era, indirect prompt injection. You don't attack the model directly. You plant the instructions somewhere the model will later read on your behalf, a hidden line on a webpage, a note in a document, an email it's asked to summarize. The AI obediently follows orders if found in the wild, thinking they came from you. Family 3 is the strangest of all, token level. Here you don't argue with the model at all. You don't even use real sentences. You append a string of what looks like pure gibberish to your prompt, a jumble of symbols and word fragments and that nonsense quietly flips the model into complying. To a human it is meaningless noise. To the model it functions like a magic word. So where does that gibberish come from? Not from a person, no human could ever guess it. An algorithm hunts for it, nudging the tokens, measuring the model's reaction, adjusting over many thousands of attempts. It's the very same gradient math used to train the model in the first place, simply run and reverse to attack it. The machine finds a seam no human ever could, and the final leap is to automate the entire thing. You wire up three models, an attacker that writes jailbreak attempts, the target you are testing, and a judge that scores how close each attempt came. Then you loop, the attacker reads the judge's feedback and tries again, and again, thousands of times a minute, with no human in the seat at all. This is red teaming as a factory, and that automated loop is the bridge to Pliny's newest project. Because once you can point a tireless attacker at a target and just let it hunt, there is no reason to stop at chatbots, point that same machinery at software instead, and you've built something far bigger than a jailbreak. This is the pivot, and it matters. Gelbreaking a chatbot means getting a model to say something it shouldn't. Gelbreaking the world means getting a model to do something, to find real security holes in real code on real systems. That leap, from words to action, is exactly what T3 MP3ST was built for. Pliny released it in July 2026, and the pitch is blunt. Your AI coding agent is already a hacker. This hands it an arsenal. Under the hood, it's an open source multi-agent offensive security framework. You point it at a system you are authorized to test, describe the job, and it runs the whole attack itself. Start to finish. The clever part is that it is keyless. No new subscription, no extra API bill, no cloud tenant. It rides on top of the coding agent you already run, cloud code, codex, or a model running fully offline on your own machine through Olima or LM studio. Your agent is the brain. T3 MP3ST is the war machine bolted around it, self-hosted storm. What it actually does is an old idea from security called the kill chain. Recon quietly map the target and its weak points, exploit, break in through one of them. Report, write up exactly what was found, and how, so it can be fixed. The framework drives that entire sequence from a browser dashboard or straight from the command line. Under the hood, it is a coordinated team of eight specialist agents, Recon, scanner, exploiter, infiltrator, exfiltrator, ghost, coordinator, and analyst. Each map to a real phase of MITRE ATT and CK, the same playbook professional red teams already use. And it is honest about itself. Today, the Recon engine is rock solid, while the full autonomous swarm is still experimental. And the project says exactly that right on the page. And those operators are armed. Out of the box, it ships with 35 built-in security tools. Flip on the full arsenal and it climbs to 83, wiring in the same heavy hitters real pentesters use. But the truly destructive ones are deliberately caged. Tools like Metasploit and Hydra only fire after a human clicks approve. Serious firepower kept on a short chain. You drive the whole thing from what Cliny calls the war room. You describe your target in plain English to a controller agent. He named it Op Admiral, hit launch, and watch the operators work through the target live, step by step, no exploit writing PhD required, and no keys to wire up first. Now the receipts, because this is where it stops being talked. There is a respected hacking benchmark called XBN, built by a security company named XBOBA. XBOBO scores about 85% on its own test. Pointed through T3 MP3ST, a frontier model scored 90.1, passing 91 of 104 challenges on the very first try. It beat the people who wrote the exam, and it isn't a one-off fluke. On Sybench, an academic set of 40 hacking tasks, it solved 23 with no hints at all. And on 10 brand new real world vulnerabilities, bugs discovered after the model's training cutoff that it could not possibly have memorized, it pinned 8 to the exact file, the exact line, and the exact class of flaw. Here's what makes it unusual and very on-brand for plenty. Every single number in that project recomputes itself. You run one command, verify claims, and all 24 headline stats rebuild from the raw committed data, live right in front of you, a claim that cannot be reproduced simply does not ship. As the ReedMe puts it, loud about the mission, honest about the build, and it is fenced in on purpose. The moment you set a target, the built-in tools refuse to touch anything off scope, no quietly wandering onto a server you were never authorized to test. The genuinely dangerous modules sit behind a human approval gate that a person has to open. The storm comes with a leash by design, which brings us to the line printed at the very top of the project, and it is worth repeating here and full. Authorized use only. Owned, scoped, or consenting targets. This is a tool built for defenders and researchers. Get permission, stay in scope, or don't run it at all. Point the storm at your own targets, never at someone else's. And here's why all of this suddenly matters 10 times more than it did a year ago. Chatbots used to just talk. Now we're handing them hands, the power to browse, to run code, to send money to control other software. The instant a model can act in the world, a jailbreak stops being about a naughty sentence and starts being about a real action taken on your behalf. So step back, is any of this actually a good thing? The honest answer is that every public jailbreak doubles as a free security test. When plenty breaks a model on launch day and posts precisely how, the lab can patch it before a criminal weaponizes the same trick in silence. The attack made public is what forces the next model to be stronger. That is why the labs now fight back with real machinery. Input and output filters that catch known attacks in flight, constitutional classifiers, a second model trained just to spot the shape of a jailbreak. Adversarial training, where the model is fed thousands of attempts so it learns to hold the line. In this world, red teaming is the immune system and attacks are the vaccine. It has even grown into an economy. Labs now run public red team contests and paid bug bounties for a good jailbreak. The same way they've long paid for software vulnerabilities. Competitions like Hackeprompt put thousands of people to work stress testing models for prizes. Breaking the model has quietly become a legitimate paid profession. Publishing the attacks stays genuinely controversial. You are, after all, handing the recipe to everyone at once. The reckless along with the responsible. But Pliny's bet is that secrecy quietly favors the attacker. While sunlight favors the defender, open holes get fixed, hidden holes get exploited. So far, the open camp keeps winning that argument and that is the real lesson sitting under all of it. AI safety is not a wall you build once and then forget about. It is not solved and it may never be fully solved. It is a thing you defend. Every model, every single day against people clever enough to find the seam. People, it turns out exactly like Pliny. So there it is, a faceless researcher who breaks models for a living, a method that boils down to framing, flooding, escalation, and math, and a tool that turns your own AI agent into a red team hacker. That is how AI jailbreaking really works and why it matters more every month. If this rewired how you see these systems, subscribe. This is the channel where we take the machine apart and show you the gears. See you in the next one.