---
video_title: "GLM-5.2 + DSpark Is INSANE (Beats Claude + 85% Faster + OpenSource)"
video_id: wDpN2ORnqZk
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wDpN2ORnqZk
video_date: 2026-07-06T16:30:26+00:00
video_description: |
  Why are developers abandoning the expensive Claude Opus API to run local, open-source AI models? Discover the ultimate open AI stack: Z.ai's new GLM-5.2 (a 744B Mixture-of-Experts model) combined with DeepSeek's DSpark, a Speculative Decoding framework that makes local inference up to 85% faster with zero loss in quality.
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design behind GLM-5.2 and how it mathematically matches Claude Opus 4.8 on the FrontierSWE and SWE-bench Pro benchmarks for 1/6th of the cost. 
  
  Then, we dive deep into the architecture of DeepSeek DSpark. We explain why Large Language Models are bottlenecked by autoregressive token generation, and how DSpark solves this using a parallel backbone, a Markov head, and a confidence-scheduled verification system. Finally, we give an honest reality check on the hardware you actually need to run a 744B MoE model locally, and how you can use NVIDIA NeMo to train your own DSpark drafters for Qwen and Gemma.
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The Free Claude-Beating AI Stack
  2:27 - What is GLM-5.2? (744B Mixture of Experts)
  3:22 - FrontierSWE Benchmarks vs Claude Opus
  4:25 - The Inference Bottleneck: Why LLMs are Slow
  4:55 - DeepSeek DSpark & Speculative Decoding Explained
  5:39 - The DSpark Architecture (Markov Head & Confidence Head)
  6:41 - Wiring GLM-5.2 and DSpark Together 
  8:12 - The Catch: Hardware Limits & Draft Models
  8:57 - Summary: The New Open Source Frontier
  
  #glm5 #deepseek #localai #speculativedecoding #claudeopus #systemdesign #softwareengineering #cloudcodes #machinelearning
  #fable5 #gpt5.6sol
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries: 
  how to run glm-5.2 locally
  deepseek dspark speculative decoding
  glm 5.2 vs claude opus swe bench
  how to speed up local llm inference
  what is speculative decoding ai explained
  z.ai glm 5.2 benchmarks
  train dspark drafter nvidia nemo
  mixture of experts ai architecture
  open source alternative to claude opus 4.8
  system design local ai agents
---
Two coding models. One cost $15 a million tokens and lives behind an API you can never open. The other is free to download. Beats it on real benchmarks and this month it started running 85% faster. This is GLM 5.2 from a lab called Z.AI. Hand it a nasty bug and it fixes it. The same league as Claude Opus, the best coding model on Earth, except awaits are public. You can run this one yourself. Then came the part nobody expected. A second lab deep seek shipped a trick called DeSpark and bolted onto a model like this it makes the exact same model generate up to 85% faster. Watch the tokens fly and here is the wild part. The output is bite identical, not similar identical. Same weights, same answer, same every character, just far fewer trips through the GPU. No retraining, no fine tune, no quality tax. Start with the model itself. On Frontier SFUE, Long, Messy, Real Engineering Tasks, GLM 5.2 scores 74.4. Claude Opus 4.8 scores 75.1. That gap is a single point. On SFUE Bench Pro it posts 62.1 and walks straight past GPT 5.5 at 58.6. On terminal bench it jumps to 81 up from 62 in the version before. This is not a toy. Now the money. Claude Opus runs about 15 dollars per million tokens. GLM 5.2 runs at roughly 1.6 of that and the weights ship under an MIT license the most permissive there is. The leader undercut for free. So the model is cheap and it is good. DeSpark is what makes it fast. It is a smarter way to generate text. The model guesses several tokens ahead then checks its own guesses in one pass instead of one word at a time. Put them together and you get the headline. A free open model that already trades blows with Claude. Now running almost twice as fast on the same hardware. GLM brings the brains. DeSpark brings the speed. Three parts. First, why GLM 5.2 is a genuine Claude beater. Second, how DeSpark actually squeezes out that 85 percent. Third, the honest catch because there is always a catch. Let us get into it. GLM 5.2 is a mixture of experts model. 744 billion parameters in total but for any single token only 40 billion actually fire. Picture a giant firm where only the 40 people who know the answer walk into each meeting. Full knowledge, a fraction of the work. It holds a full million tokens of context, roughly 15 novels or an entire code base in mind at once. It pulls that off with deep seek sparse attention. Instead of comparing every word to every other word, it only compares the ones that matter. Line the scores up. Terminal bench 81. SWE Bench Pro 62. Frontiers SWE 74. One point behind Opus. On design and front end tasks it ranks first above GPT 5.5. For an open model, this was not supposed to happen yet. Watch it work. Point Claude code at GLM 5.2. Handed a failing test and it reads the stack trace at its three files across the repo and turns the whole sweet green. The same agent loop you would run with Opus on weights that you own. Here is the same job, price three ways. Claude Opus $15.1 million out. GPT 5.5 right in that range. GLM 5.2 under three. Same task, one six the bill and you are allowed to read every last wait because it is MIT licensed. The whole thing sits on hugging face for anyone to download. No waitlist, no per seat fee, no terms that can be revoked overnight. If Z.ai vanished tomorrow, the copy you pulled keeps working forever and you do not need a new tool. Claude code, cursor, any agent that speaks the anthropic API point its base URL at GLM instead. Keep the harness you already know, swap the brain underneath. The agent never notices the difference. So why is GLM or any large model slow? Because it writes one token at a time. To produce a single word it runs the entire network gets one token back then does it all over again for the next. Every word is a full round trip. Speculative decoding breaks that rule. A small fast draft model sprints ahead and guesses the next several tokens. Then the big model checks all of those guesses in one pass. The right ones are kept for free. It is spell check for the future. But classic speculative decoding has a weakness. The draft is dumb so the big model rejects a lot of guesses and every rejected guess is wasted work. Push too hard and you actually slow down. The whole game is guessing well and knowing when to stop. How big is the wind? Really? On deep seeks own lightweight model, D spark ran 60 to 85% faster than their previous multi token baseline. On the heavier flagship 57 to 78. Same trick tuned to each model. De spark attacks both sides at once. It has three pieces working together. A parallel backbone, a mark off head, and a confidence head. Each one fixes a different weakness of the old approach. The parallel backbone proposes every token in a block at once in a single forward pass. semi-autoregressive, not one by one. Then a lightweight mark off head stitches those tokens together so they read like a real sentence, not a bag of words. The clever part is the confidence head. It scores how likely each guess token is to survive. And D spark only bothers verifying the one's worth checking. It literally decides what not to verify. Skip the sure things, spend the compute where it counts. It even watches the GPU. When the machine has headroom, it drafts longer blocks. When it is busy, it backs off. The result measured against deep seeks own previous best, 57 to 85% faster depending on the model and the load. And remember, none of this changes the answer. Verification guarantees the output is exactly what the model would have written token by token. Bite for bite identical. You are not trading quality for speed. You are getting the speed for free. Here's why these two belong together. Ds spark needs a compatible base with a draft checkpoint. And it already works on QN and Gemma. The same open architecture's GLM is cut from. A model built in the open is exactly what a trick like this can grab onto. You do not even train it from scratch. In video ship the recipe in Nemo to train a D spark drafter for a model in an afternoon. Feed it the base, get back the little geesser, and the speed up is yours to keep. And the on ramp is short. The weight land on hugging face. An open server like GLM loads the mixture of experts and the D spark drafter clips on top. Open model, open server, open speed up, not a single piece of the stack locked behind a login. So here is the full picture. Download GLM 5.2, attach a Ds spark drafter and run a Claude class coding model on your own box at nearly double the speed it shipped with. No API bill, no rate limit, no one watching over your shoulder. Now stack the savings. The model is already one sixth of Claude's price. Ds spark cuts the compute per answer by up to 85% on top of that. Cheaper weights times fewer forward passes. The cost of a hard task drops toward pocket change. Step back and the pattern is obvious. Two open labs, months apart, close two different gaps. One on quality, one on speed. The frontier used to be a private garden. It is starting to look a lot more like a public library. Now the honest part. That 85% is the ceiling, not the promise. The real number swings from about 57% upward and it depends on batch size, sequence length, and how loaded your server is. Under heavy traffic the wind shrinks and it is not free magic. You need a draft checkpoint train for your exact model or the acceptance rate collapses and you gain nothing. Speculative decoding rewards a good guesser. A bad one just piles on overhead. Then there is the elephant. It is still a 700 billion parameter model. The mixture of experts means only 40 billion fire at once, which helps, but you still need serious memory to hold all the weights. Free to download is not free to run. Four numbers to keep. 744 billion parameters, 40 billion active. One point behind Opus on Frontier Civ E. One sixth of the price and up to 85% faster for bite identical output. The takeaway is simple. The best models are no longer only the closed ones and the fastest tricks no longer live only inside the biggest labs. GLM 5.2 proved open can compete. DeSpark proved open can be quick. Together they proved you can have both. So here is the real question. If a free model can match the best and a free trick can make it fly, what exactly are you still paying for? That is the one to sit with.