---
video_title: "How to Distill Claude Fable 5 Before It Goes Offline Again"
video_id: qWhSFjDS3LA
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qWhSFjDS3LA
video_date: 2026-07-05T17:15:22+00:00
video_description: |
  Anthropic's Claude Fable 5 was the most powerful AI model on earth—until the US Government forced it offline 72 hours after launch. Before it disappeared, developers began using AI distillation to secretly copy its reasoning capabilities into small, local models.
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design behind AI Model Distillation, and how developers turned 2.3 million Claude reasoning traces into "Qwable" (a 4-billion parameter Qwen 3 model running locally via Ollama). We explore the critical difference between "Off-Policy" imitation and "On-Policy Distillation," why shrinking a frontier model often causes it to lose its intelligence, and the exact 6-step playbook (Capture, Clean, Format, Train, Quantize, Run) you need to distill an AI model yourself. Finally, we look at the geopolitical fallout of the US Commerce Department banning Anthropic models, and why local open-source AI is the ultimate insurance policy.
  
  If this helped you understand the frontier of local AI and machine learning architecture, subscribe to Cloud Codes for a new infrastructure breakdown every single week! Build, solve, deploy.
  
  ⏱️ Video Chapters (Crucial for Google Search Rich Snippets):
  00:00 - Fable 5 shutdown & the rescue plan
  01:32 - The dataset drops on Hugging Face
  02:15 - Video outline (Resources, Theory, Guide)
  03:35 - Compressing 2.3M examples into a smaller model
  04:08 - Distillation explained (Teacher vs. Student)
  04:40 - The trap of naive distillation
  04:58 - The fix: On-Policy Distillation
  06:16 - Benchmark testing the cloned model
  07:25 - The 6-step distillation playbook
  07:40 - Step 1: Capture traces
  07:56 - Step 2: Clean the noise
  08:13 - Step 3: Format to ChatML
  08:31 - Step 4: Pick your base model
  08:46 - Step 5: Train the model
  09:19 - Step 6: Quantize and ship
  09:37 - Running the final model offline
  10:37 - The whole story in four numbers
  10:50 - Final thoughts & conclusion
  
  🔗 Concepts & Sources Covered:
  Anthropic Claude Fable 5 & Mythos 5
  Model Distillation & Reasoning Traces (Hugging Face): https://huggingface.co/AliesTaha/fable-traces
  On-Policy Distillation (Thinking Machines Lab Paper)
  Local Inference (Ollama, vLLM, Qwen 3)
  US Commerce Dept Export Controls & AI Safety
  #ClaudeFable5 #AIDistillation #Anthropic #LocalLLM #Ollama #CloudCodes
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries: 
  claude fable 5 banned
  claude fable 5 comeback
  what happened to claude fable 5
  how to distill an ai model
  ai model distillation tutorial
  qwen 3 vs claude fable 5
  run claude locally offline
  how to capture ai reasoning traces
  on policy distillation vs sft
  anthropic export controls 2026
  cloud codes ai architecture
---
Three days. That is how long the most powerful AI model on Earth stayed online before the United States government reached in and switched it off. Claude Fabel-5. Here on a Tuesday, dark by Friday, and the people who saw it coming did something clever. They started quietly copying its brain andthropic shipped Fabel-5 on June 9th. Its first public mythos class model, a full tier above Opus, the sharpest thing they had ever released. 72 hours later, it was gone. The order came straight from the Commerce Department, National Security, Export Controls. Researchers had found a jailbreak that stripped the model's safety rails and turned it into an open cyber weapon. So Washington pulled the plug for every user outside the country overnight. Then, three weeks later, it came back. The controls were lifted and Fabel-5 returned to Claude and Claude code. But read the title again, before it goes offline again. Because a model the government switched off once can be switched off twice. So here is the plan. While Fabel-5 is live, you capture what it does. It's reasoning. It's every move, and you pour that into a small model that runs on your own laptop. A model nobody can take offline. This is distillation, and today we walk it end to end. It starts with a trace. When Fabel-5 solves a task, it thinks out loud and then acts. Runs a command, edits a file, reads the result, capture that whole thought and action log, and you have one trace. Thousands of them become a training set, and thousands is exactly what appeared on Hugging Face. One post drops a data set called Fabel-traces. Another Fabel-5 traces. 4,600 agent sessions packaged and ready, while the model was still warm. The target is a tiny open model, QN3, 4 billion parameters. Small enough to run on a single gaming graphics card. Fine-tune it on Fabel-5's traces, and you get something people already nicknamed Qibble. Claude's brain, Qyn's body, one question hangs over all of it. When you crush a frontier model into something 400 times smaller, does the intelligence actually survive the shrink? Hold that thought. The answer is not the one the height promised. So here's the plan for the next 12 minutes. First, the resources that make this possible. Then the research paper that explains why it really works. And finally, the exact steps to do it yourself. It began with a single post. A developer publishes the Fabel-traces drop, tags the base model, and within hours the repost climb. The comments are all one question. Is this really Claude running locally for free? The screenshots said yes. Open the model card and it is refreshingly plain. Base model, QN3, 4 billion instruct. Precision, 16-bit. Format, chat ML. License, Apache 2. Completely open. One line spins it up. VLLM serve. And it answers like a shrunk down Fabel-5. The dataset behind it is small but dense. 4,600 sessions distilled from just 60 real Claude runs inside 188 megabytes, smaller than a phone photo album. Each row keeps the context, the hidden reasoning, and the exact action the model took. And look at what those actions are. 81% of the rows are tool calls. Not chit chat. The single most common move. Running a bash command shows up 1,500 times. This is not a chatbot dataset. It is a recording of an engineer at work. One team went much bigger. They pulled 2.3 million reasoning traces out of Fabel-5 and compressed all of it into that same 4 billion model. 2.3 million worked examples, like handing a student every solved problem in an entire library and saying, learn the pattern. And it was never just one person. Half a doesn't account race to capture the model before it could vanish again. Raw traces, agent logs, full coding sessions, all mirrored onto hugging face, a frontier model, quietly backed up by strangers. So what is distillation really? Picture a teacher and a student. The teacher is Fabel-5. Enormous, expensive, brilliant. The student is the little model. The teacher solves problems out loud. And the student copies not just the answers, but the way it reached them. And here is the first thing to hold on to. Distillation transfers how to reason. The shape of the thinking, not new facts. You are teaching a style of solving, not stuffing in a library. That one distinction decides everything that comes next. Now the naive way, the way most of these datasets use. You take the teacher's traces and train the student to imitate them, line by line. It sounds obvious, but there is a trap hiding in it. The student only ever sees the teacher's perfect path and never its own mistakes. Which is exactly the problem a team at thinking machines set out to fix. In a paper simply titled, on policy distillation. It is the missing piece in almost every Fabel-5 clone shipping right now. Their fix flips the whole direction. Instead of feeding the student the teacher's answers, you let the student attempt the task itself. And the teacher grades every single token it produces. Right move, high score, wrong move, low score. The student learns from its own walk, not a stranger's. And the payoff is real. On a brutal math benchmark, on policy distillation hit 70% at one tenth the cost of full reinforcement learning, up to 30 times cheaper than the naive method, and 7 to 10 times faster to train. Cheaper and better. Why does grading the student's own attempts matter so much? Because when the little model drifts off course, and it will, it needs to have seen that mistake and been corrected. Copping a flawless transcript never teaches recovery. Only practice does. So keep these two words apart. Off policy imitate the teacher's transcript, cheap and fragile. On policy, practice under the teacher's eye, a little pricier and far stronger. Same traces, completely different result. But you did not come here for theory, so let us check the receipts. One engineer took the distilled cueble, dropped it on a single graphics card, and ran it head to head against the plain base model it started from. Same hardware, same settings, a fair fight. The result stings. On a live tool calling test, the untouched base scored 99. Add opus reasoning on top, and it slipped to 98. Add the fabled five traces as well. It dropped again to 96. Every distillation step made the model a little worse. The coding test was harsher still. The base model fixed 19 real bugs out of 30. The fabled distilled version, 11, and it flat out gave up on 16 of them. The clone did not gain fabled five's power. It lost its own, and now the reason lands. A 4 billion model simply does not have the room to hold a frontier brain, so naive imitation copies the voice, the confident tone, the shape of the answer, while the real capability leaks straight out. Style transfers. Genius does not. And that is exactly the gap on policy was built to close. Which brings us to the part you actually clicked for. How to do this yourself and do it properly. Six steps. Capture, clean, format, train, quantize, run. The first five on a rented GPU. The last one on the laptop right in front of you. Step one, capture, and it is a race against the clock. While fabled five is online, point cloud code at your own tasks and log every session. The prompt, the reasoning, the tool calls, the outputs. Every real problem you solve quietly becomes a training example for free. Step two, clean. Raw logs are filthy. Rate limit warnings, slash command menus, color codes bleeding out of the terminal. Strip all of it. The teams that did this well filtered the junk first, because a model will happily learn your noise as if it were signal. Step three, format. Every trace becomes one clean example in chat ML. The context going in, the reasoning, and the action coming out. This is the exact shape the student trains on. Thousands of little context to action pairs. Each one a lesson in how fabled five thinks. Step four, pick your base. QN3, 4 billion instruct is the popular choice. Small, sharp, and Apache licensed so you can share whatever you build. A bigger base has more room to absorb. A smaller base is cheaper to run. Your call. Step five, train. The cheap route is a Laura fine tune. You freeze the base and nudge a thin new layer on top. So the whole job fits on one rented GPU for about the price of a coffee. A few hours later you have a first cue feeble and it will sound exactly like fabled five. But if you wanted to be good, not just sound good, this is where you spend the extra hour on policy distillation. Let your student attempt real tasks, have a stronger model grade each token, and train on that. This one step is the whole difference between a costume and a brain. Step six, quantize and ship. Squeeze the weights down into a four bit GGUF file, just a couple of gigabytes, and hand it to Olamma. One command, Olamma run, and the model pulls up on your own machine. No API key, no account, no off switch in Washington. And there it is, answering in your terminal, fully offline, on hardware you own, a shadow of fabled five, sure. But a shadow that is yours forever, that boots on an airplane, and that no government directive can ever suspend again. Step back, and the point is bigger than one model. This is an insurance policy. When frontier AI can be switched off by an export order or a pricing change overnight, a local copy, however rough, is the one version nobody can revoke. Just stay honest about what you are holding. You are not getting fabled five on a laptop. You are getting its accent, the phrasing, the format, a thin sliver of its skill. For simple, repetitive work, that is genuinely enough. For the hard problems, it is not. And the gap is closing fast. Every month, the method sharpened, the base models get stronger. An on-policy distillation packs more real ability into less space. Today it is a souvenir. A year from now, it could be a serious tool. So here is the whole story in four numbers, three days online. 4,600 traces captured, 2.3 million examples distilled, and one tenth the cost. If you do it the right way, the lesson underneath all of it is simple. You cannot download a frontier model, but you can download the way it thinks. And once you have that, no one can ever fully take it away. So if the model on your screen could vanish tomorrow, would you copy its brain tonight? Tell me where you land in the comments, and I will see you in the next one.