---
video_title: "Cloud is a Trap (Why Basecamp Left AWS)"
video_id: kR7-KlxdR1E
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kR7-KlxdR1E
video_date: 2026-07-21T09:00:28+00:00
video_description: |
  Is AWS quietly bankrupting your SaaS business? Discover why 37signals (the creators of Basecamp and HEY) abandoned the cloud and moved back to bare-metal servers—slashing their massive $3.2 Million annual AWS bill and saving over $10 Million in just five years.
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design reality of "Cloud Repatriation." We explore why managed Kubernetes clusters and Amazon S3 storage become massive financial traps for steady, predictable web workloads. We look at the exact hardware 37signals purchased (Dell servers and 18 Petabytes of Pure Storage), and how they bypassed cloud vendor lock-in using Kamal, their open-source Docker deployment tool.
  
  We also dive into the terrifying logistics of migrating 5 billion customer files off AWS in under 10 days. Finally, we deliver the honest truth about the Cloud vs. On-Prem debate: when elastic, pay-as-you-go cloud architecture is genuinely worth the premium, and why the "Cloud-by-default" era is officially over.
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The $3.2M Cloud Bill (Basecamp's Exit)
  1:00 - Why the Bill Was So High (Compute & Storage)
  2:34 - How They Left AWS (Owning Bare Metal Servers)
  4:32 - The Hard Part: Moving 18PB off Amazon S3
  6:19 - The Honest Catch: When the Cloud Still Wins
  7:45 - Summary: The Real Lesson on Cloud Infrastructure
  
  #aws #cloudcomputing #basecamp #devops #systemdesign #softwareengineering #cloudcodes #kubernetes #baremetal #techstartup
  
  User Queries:
  why basecamp left aws cloud
  cloud repatriation basecamp dhh
  aws vs bare metal servers cost comparison
  kamal deployment tool tutorial docker
  how to migrate from aws to bare metal
  aws s3 egress fees explained
  why companies are leaving the cloud 2026
  managed kubernetes vs own servers
  system design bare metal vs cloud architecture
  is cloud computing a trap
---
This is one company's yearly bill for Amazon's cloud, $3.2 million. The company is 37 signals, the team behind Basecamp and the email app HeyE. In 2022, they stared at that number and did the thing most teams only joke about. They left. No threat, no blog post-done. They pulled seven apps out of the cloud and never went back, and the receipts are finally in. Over $10 million saved across five years. Here's why this is worth your 10 minutes. It wasn't magic and it definitely wasn't free. Year 1, that $3.2 million bill dropped straight to $1.3. The hardware to replace all that rented cloud compute cost about $700,000. It paid for itself inside the first year. Then the savings just kept stacking up. One piece stayed stuck in the cloud though. 10 petabytes of customer files sitting in Amazon S3. That storage, all by itself, was costing them $1.5 million a year. This is the full story of how a real software company walked out of the cloud and what it actually cost to do it. So where does $3 million a year actually go? To their credit, 37 signals published the entire itemized invoice. Compute was the heavyweight. Their EC2 machines and their Kubernetes cluster ran about $760,000 a year just to rent servers that sat busy nearly all the time. And that is the real tell. These were not spiky, unpredictable workloads. This was a steady, profitable business running the same load day after day, month after month. And remember that number repeats every month. $267,000 leaves the bank month after month. Whether the servers are working hard or barely breaking a sweat. Storage was the other monster. 8 plus petabytes of customer files in S3 cost them over 900,000 a year. The CDN piled on another 67,000. Then add the databases, the load balancers, the endless data transfer fees, and the 100 tiny line items you skim right past. And the meter reads 3.2 million. And this is the part that really stings. DHH, the founder, the guy who created Ruby on Rails, said they had already optimized this bill to death. Reserved instances, committed use discounts, a full-time cost inspection team hunting waste. 3.2 million was the number they landed on after all of that. This was the optimized version, which drops you on one very awkward question. If you are paying premium on-demand cloud prices for machines you run 24 hours a day, seven days a week, at full tilt, machines that stay pinned near full load around the clock. Then what exactly are you paying that flexibility premium for? Their answer in 2023 was refreshingly blunt. They bought their own machines. Two pallets of Dell servers showed up at the data center. Each box packed 288 virtual CPUs over a terabyte of RAM and 15 terabytes of fast NVMe storage. The price, around $1,200 a month, amortized over three years of hardware life, renting one single machine like that in the cloud, costs many times more, every month, with nothing to own at the end. And no, they did not go build a data center. The servers live in existing facilities run by a managed hosting partner that handles the power, the cooling, and the physical racks. 37 signals, owns the machines and the software. Someone else owns the building. That split is the whole trick. The whole fleet came to roughly $700,000 up front, and it paid for itself that same year as the old cloud commitments expired one by one. And the part that surprises people, they did not add a single new hire to run it. The same ops team that managed the cloud now manages the metal. Because the hard part was rarely the hardware. It was deployment. The cloud's real lock-in isn't the servers you rent, it's the glue wrapped around them. Managed Kubernetes, proprietary load balancers, control planes, and access rules you cannot pack up and take with you. Rip all of that out, and most teams suddenly have no idea how to ship code at all. So 37 signals built their own deploy tool and gave it away for free. It is called Kamal. You hand it your app inside a Docker container, and it deploys onto any raw server, a cloud instance, a bare metal box, even a machine in your own closet, with a single command in zero downtime. That is the move that made the whole exit possible. Kamal does a job in expensive managed Kubernetes contract used to do. No million dollar enterprise licenses, no vendor lock-in, no consultants on retainer. Just your containers, running on servers you actually own, same tooling whether the box lives at Amazon or in your basement, which left one final boss standing, the data itself. Moving compute is one thing. Moving 10 petabytes of live customer files out of Amazon S3 is a genuinely different kind of scary. That is roughly 5 billion individual objects, averaging about a megabyte each scattered across hundreds of buckets. Try to open that as one folder on your laptop, and it would simply freeze and give up. For years, this exact thing was Amazon's ace in the hole. The data was the mode. Putting files into S3 is cheap and effortless. Pulling them back out, those egress fees, is where the cloud holds you hostage. On paper, dragging petabytes back across the internet, could cost a small fortune in transfer charges alone. So 37 signals bought a box. 18 petabytes of peer storage flash split across two separate data centers for full redundancy. The upfront cost was about 1.5 million dollars, roughly one single year of that old S3 bill. But after that one time spend, under $200,000 a year to power, cool, and keep it running. Sit with that math for just a second. A million and a half dollars a year in rent forever, versus 200 grand a year for gear you own outright. That one swap alone saves $1.3 million every single year indefinitely. The hardware becomes an asset instead of a subscription. And the migration itself was almost anticlimactic. They ran a 100 gigabit line to the data center, rode a small rails app to coordinate the whole copy, and leaned on plain open source tools, R-Clone and DuckDB to move it all. Amazon handed them a 90 day transfer window. They finished the entire thing in under 10 days. Then Amazon changed its own rules. As of this year, leaving S3 is free. They waived a quarter of a million dollars in exit fees to let the data simply walk out the door. The moat that trapped companies for a decade suddenly grew a drop ridge. Now, before you go rage cancel your AWS account, stop. This worked for 37 signals for very specific reasons. And if you ignore them, you will get burned. Reason one is the big one. Their load is steady and predictable. A mature product, millions of users doing roughly the same thing every day. That is the near perfect case for owning your own hardware. If your traffic is spiky instead, a launch, a viral moment, a holiday rush, seasonal peaks, the clouds pay as you go elasticity, genuinely earns its premium. You cannot rack a new server in 10 minutes at three in the morning, just because you hit the front page of the internet. Reason two, they had the competence, a real ops team that understands networking, storage, failover, and redundancy. If you are a three person startup sprinting toward product market fit, your time is worth far more than the cloud bill. Rent the servers and keep moving. The smart version of this isn't all or nothing. It's hybrid. Keep the steady, predictable core, your databases and background workers and app servers under constant load on cheap hardware you own. Then burst into the cloud for the spiky, unpredictable edges. Use each tool for the job it is actually good at. And to be crystal clear, this is not a mass exodus. Global public cloud spending is still climbing more than 20% a year toward $700 billion. But surveys now show the vast majority of CIO's plan to pull at least some workloads back on-prem. The mood shifted from cloud everything to cloud only where it fits. So what is the real takeaway here? The point was never that the cloud is bad or that Amazon is ripping anyone off. It is that the cloud got sold as the default. The only serious grown-up way to run software. And for a huge slice of steady, boring, predictable workloads that was simply never true. DHH said it about as plainly as you can. The industry pulled a fast one, convincing the whole field, the cloud was the only way. For a startup finding its feet, it is a genuine gift. For a predictable business at scale, it can be a tax you just forgot to question. Line the numbers up. A $3.2 million cloud bill in 2022 cut to $1.3 million by 2024, landing well under a million once the storage move is finished. And over $10 million kept across five years. So the homework here isn't to leave. It's to look. Pull up your own bill tonight and hunt for the workloads that run flat all day, every day. The ones you are paying elastic, on-demand prices for, and never once flexing. That is exactly where your money is hiding. Basecamp ran the whole experiment out loud so you don't have to guess. $3.2 million turned into over $10 million saved. The cloud is a tool, not your destiny. The only real mistake is never once checking the bill. Cloud Codes. Read your bill before the cloud reads it for you.