---
video_title: "7 Open Source Tools You Need Right Now!"
video_id: -XNZn6kgeYc
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-XNZn6kgeYc
video_date: 2026-06-23T13:30:12+00:00
video_description: |
  Two years ago, running frontier-class models locally was functionally impossible. Today, you can self-host your entire AI stack—from running and serving models to building coding agents, routing APIs, and training custom adapters—completely offline on hardware you own for $0 per token. 
  
  In this video, we break down the definitive open-source AI toolkit, exploring how seven foundational projects snap together like Legos to build a private, sovereign stack.
  
  We explore the operational specifics of each: how Ollama runs quantized 4-bit weights over local REST APIs on port 11434, how Open WebUI manages fully offline local RAG file ingestions, how OpenCode operates as an MIT-licensed terminal coding assistant, how vLLM uses OS-style PagedAttention to eliminate KV cache fragmentation, how LiteLLM acts as a unified OpenAI-compatible routing proxy, how ComfyUI structures node-based visual pipelines for image and video creation, and how Unsloth achieves 2x faster fine-tuning on a single GPU.
  
  📌 Timestamps:
  0:00 - Introduction: The Local AI Stack Revolution
  0:39 - Tool 1: Ollama (Run Any Open Model Locally with One Command)
  1:00 - The Ollama REST API Port 11434 and Quantization Math
  1:37 - Tool 2: Open WebUI (Your Fully Offline ChatGPT and Local RAG)
  2:16 - Tool 3: OpenCode (The MIT-Licensed Terminal Coding Agent)
  3:00 - Tool 4: vLLM (Production Scale High-Throughput Serving Engine)
  3:20 - PagedAttention, Continuous Batching, and CUDA Optimization
  3:43 - Tool 5: LiteLLM (The Unified AI Gateway and Cost Router)
  4:27 - Tool 6: ComfyUI (Modular Node-Based Image and Video Generation)
  5:30 - Tool 7: Unsloth (2x Faster Fine-Tuning and 70% Less Memory)
  6:28 - Global Momentum: Star Counts and Unified API Legos
  7:08 - The Three Core Pillars: Privacy, Cost Parity, and No Vendor Lock-in
  7:49 - The Full Architectural Stack & Where to Begin Tonight
  8:29 - Summary and Outro (Cloud Codes)
  
  🔗 Resources & References:
  - Ollama Local Model Engine (github.com/ollama/ollama)
  - UC Berkeley Sky Computing Lab - vLLM Serving (github.com/vllm-project/vllm)
  - Unsloth AI Fine-Tuning Optimization (github.com/unslothai/unsloth)
  
  If you found this database and networking comparison useful, subscribe to Cloud Codes. We take apart one systems design, network protocol, or backend framework like this every week. Build, solve, deploy.
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE & WATCH NEXT
  Subscribe for a new systems deep-dive every week: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH US
  Twitter/X:  x.com/cloud_codes
  Join our developer community: discord.gg/HVnH9SY48 
  
  User Queries :
  open source ai tools
  how to build a completely local ai stack
  ollama open webui local rag tutorial
  opencode ai terminal agent
  pagedattention vllm continuous batching
  litellm api gateway proxy setup
  unsloth lora fine tuning guide
  comfyui node based workflow basics
  open source self hosted generative ai
  how to run deepseek locally on a laptop
---
Watch this, a real language model, answering a real question, and none of it is touching the cloud. No API key, no account, no per token bill. It is running right here on this machine, completely offline. The tool doing that is open source and free, and so are six more I'm about to show you. Two years ago, this was impossible. You rented intelligence from somebody else's server, behind a paywall, watching a meter tick up with every request. That has quietly flipped. The entire AI stack, running models, serving them, building with them, even training your own, is now open source and yours. Let me give you the seven tools that make it real. Tool one, and the foundation everything else sits on, Alama, one command, allama run, and it pulls an open model and starts talking. Lama, Quinn, deep seek, Gemma, Mistral, dozens more each a single line. No setup, no Python environment to wrestle. It just downloads and runs. And the moment a model is running, Alama exposes it as a local server. An open AI style, rest API on port 11434. That one detail is the secret. Every other tool in this video can point at that endpoint, which means swapping the brain behind your whole setup is one word on the command line. And do not assume you need a monster GPU for any of this. These models ship quantized, compressed down to four bits, which shrinks them three or four times over with barely any quality lost. A model that wanted 40 gigabytes of memory now fits in 12. That is exactly how a laptop runs something that used to demand a server rack. A terminal is great, but you want the real thing. So tool two is open web UI. It is a polished, self-hosted chat GPT running entirely on your own box. A clean chat, a sidebar of conversations, a model picker that lists every model you have pulled. It looks and feels exactly like the app you pay for. It just happens to be free and private. And it does more than chat. Drag a PDF straight into the message box and it reads the document and answers from it. That is retrieval, fully local. Your files never leave the building. It speaks the open AI API. It is extensible with your own Python tools. And a whole team can share one install. Tool three is for us, the builders. Open code is an open source coding agent that lives in your terminal. You describe a bug and it reads the repo, opens the right files, makes a real multi-file edit, runs the test suite, and watches it go green. An actual agent working your code base, not just autocomplete. And it is careful about it. A read only plan mode to think first, a build mode to execute. Every change shown as a clean diff you approve before it lands. Bring your own key. Claude, GPT, Gemini, or wire it to a free local model through Alama. It is MIT licensed, written and go. And right now it is the most starred coding agent on GitHub, north of 160,000 stars. Running one model for yourself is easy. Serving it to a thousand users at once is a different sport. And that is tool four, VLLM. It is a high throughput inference engine. Watch the request fan in. Instead of handling them one at a time, VLLM packs them together and keeps the GPU saturated and the tokens per second climbs. The trick is called page of detention. It treats the model's memory like an operating system treats RAM. In small reusable pages, instead of one giant fixed block, so almost nothing is wasted. Add continuous batching where new requests slot into gaps that instant they open and you get production grade serving. They came out of UC Berkeley and it is open AI compatible out of the box. Now you have models in a dozen places, some local, some in the cloud, each with its own quirky API. Tool five, light LLM. Erases that. It is an AI gateway. You write one open AI style call and it speaks to over 100 providers behind it. Better yet, when one provider falls over, watch it automatically retry on the next. Your app never even notices. And because every call flows through one place, you finally get control. A live spend ledger across every model. Virtual keys and rate limits per team. Drop in routing, so changing models is a config line, not a rewrite. One unified front door for all of your AI, local and cloud behind a single key. Text is only half of it. Tool six, comfy UI, is how the open source world makes images and video. And instead of one magic box, it gives you a visual graph. Load a model, type a prompt, wire it into a sampler, decode to an image. You can literally watch the data flow node to node, left to right, until a picture appears at the end. Because the pipeline is a graph, it is completely modular. Swap one node and you change the style. Save the whole workflow and anyone can reproduce your exact result. Down to the seed, there is a giant ecosystem of custom nodes and the same canvas that builds a single image extends. Node by node, all the way to generating video. And people build serious things with this, consistent characters across a whole storyboard, on brand product shots by the 100, upscaling, in painting, style transfer, and increasingly short video clips. It is the quiet engine under a huge slice of the AI imagery you have already scrolled past. And every frame of it can render on your own GPU, no credits required. And the last tool closes the loop. Tool seven is unslawed. And it lets you fine tune a model on your own data. To teach it your product, your tone, your domain, feed it examples, hit go, and watch the training loss curve fall as the model gets better at exactly your task. What makes it special is the efficiency. Unslawed fine tunes up to two times faster while using up to 70% less memory, with zero loss in accuracy. That is the difference between needing a data center GPU and doing it on the single card you already own, or a free colab notebook. 500 plus models, a patchy license, no catch. The reason it is so cheap is a trick called Laura. Instead of retraining all of a model's billions of weights, you train one tiny adapter, a small patch that snaps onto the frozen original. You are nudging the model, not rebuilding it. That is why a job that sounds like a supercomputer task actually fits on a single card in an afternoon. Step back and look at the momentum, because this is not fringe software. Alama has blown past 100,000 stars on GitHub. These are not science projects. They are the default tools that millions of developers now reach for first, maintained in the open, shipping every week. And here's the part that makes it click. They are not seven islands. Alama serves the model, open web UI, open code, and your own apps all point at that same local endpoint. Light tell LM routes between them. VLLM takes it to scale. They share one interface on purpose, so they snap together like Lego. You are not buying a platform. You are assembling your own. So why actually bother when the cloud is right there? First, your data never leaves your machine. No prompt, no document, no customer record gets shipped to someone else's servers to be logged or trained on. For anything private, legal, medical, internal code that is not a nice to have, it is the whole ball game. Second, the meter is gone. Once it runs on hardware you own, every token is free. You can loop, experiment, and burn a million calls without watching a bill climb. And third, no lock in. No vendor can deprecate your model, change the price overnight or pull the rug. You own the weights, the stack, and the off switch. Put it together and you have a complete stack all open, all yours. Alama runs the model. Open web UI and open code, put it to work. VLLM serves it, lie LLM routes it, compie UI creates with it, and unsloth makes it your own. A request flows up through every layer and back, and not one piece of it is rented. And starting is genuinely a weekend, not a quarter. Install Alama, it is a single command, pull one small model, and chat with it in the terminal. Spin up open web UI and docker for the real interface. That is it. You are running private AI in about 10 minutes, and every other tool builds on that exact base. Now the honest part, open source is not magically effortless. You trade a monthly bill for running the thing yourself, and the cloud still wins when you need frontier model power on day one with zero setup. But for privacy, for cost at scale, and for never being held hostage by a vendor, owning the stack is the move, and it has genuinely never been this easy. Not sure where to begin, match it to your goal. If you just want a private chat, it is Alama plus open web UI. If you want to code, open code, shipping a real app to users, VLLM and LILM. Making images or video, comfy UI, and when you are ready to train your own, onslaught is waiting. Pick one, install it tonight. So there are your seven Alama to run, open web UI to use, open code to build, VLLM to serve, LILM to route, comfy UI to create, and onslaught to train. Seven open source tools, one stack you fully control, zero dollars a token. The intelligence everyone said you would have to rent, you can just own it. If this opened up the open source AI world for you, subscribe to Cloud Codes. We break down the tools and the systems that actually matter, one build at a time. Now go install one of these and make something. I will see you in the next one.