---
video_title: "Top 10 AI Repos You Need Right Now"
video_id: p2OZqljmGww
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p2OZqljmGww
video_date: 2026-07-22T19:30:36+00:00
video_description: |
  What are the most popular AI repositories on GitHub right now? We ranked the top 10 open-source tools that give your AI agents persistent memory, advanced context, and fully autonomous workflows.
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/4kJqEBMMf
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes counts down the 10 most-starred AI projects on GitHub in 2026. We explore exactly how to upgrade your AI coding workflows (Claude Code, Cursor, Codex) using tools like Repomix, CodeGraph, and AgentMemory to stop models from forgetting your architecture. You will discover how to build autonomous video generation teams with ViMax, how to scrape the web invisibly with CloakBrowser, and how Dify acts as the ultimate drag-and-drop backend for production LLM apps. Finally, we share the exact repositories you need to turn your AI into an expert academic researcher or marketing engineer.
  
  If this helped you discover new developer tools and AI infrastructure, subscribe to Cloud Codes for a new system design breakdown every single week! Build, solve, deploy.
  
  ⏱️ Video Chapters (Crucial for Google Search Rich Snippets):
  0:00 - The New AI Agent Nervous System
  0:53 - #10: ViMax (Autonomous AI Video Crews)
  1:32 - #9: AgentMemory (Stop AI Amnesia)
  2:24 - #8: Repomix (Compress Your Codebase for AI)
  3:11 - #7: CloakBrowser (Undetectable AI Web Scraping)
  3:54 - #6: OpenHuman (The Local Personal Super-Intelligence)
  4:41 - #5: Academic Research Skills (Claude Code)
  5:30 - #4: Marketing Skills (Agent Job Descriptions)
  6:04 - #3: Awesome Claude Code (The Index of Indexes)
  6:40 - #2: CodeGraph (The Ultimate AI Codebase Map)
  7:30 - #1: Dify (The 150k-Star AI Platform)
  8:20 - The Recommended Starter Stack & Final Verdict
  
  🔗 Repositories Mentioned:
  10. ViMax : https://github.com/HKUDS/ViMax
  9. AgentMemory : https://github.com/rohitg00/agentmemory
  8. Repomix : https://github.com/yamadashy/repomix
  7. CloakBrowser : https://github.com/CloakHQ/CloakBrowser
  6. OpenHuman : https://github.com/tinyhumansai/openhuman
  5. Academic Research Skills (Claude) : https://github.com/Imbad0202/academic-research-skills
  4. Marketing Skills (Claude) : https://github.com/coreyhaines31/marketingskills
  3. Awesome Claude Code : https://github.com/hesreallyhim/awesome-claude-code
  2. CodeGraph : https://github.com/colbymchenry/codegraph
  1. Dify : https://github.com/langgenius/dify
  
  
  #github #aiagents #opensource #softwareengineering #claudecode #cloudcodes
---
GitHub's most starred projects right now are not apps for people. There are tools that make AI agents scary good. And here's the strange part. Nine of these 10 repositories did not exist a year ago. Most were born this past January. One of them went from an empty repo to 60,000 stars in about six months. I checked that number twice because it sounds fake. The pattern clicks once you see it. These repos hand your AI for things. Memory, context, skills, and hands. If you code with Claude code or cursor, half of these are already in your feed. The other half you'll want by the end of this. For years, the model was the mode. That race is close to a tie now. The edge in 2026 is the harness you build around the model. So here's the list. 10 repositories ranked by real star count counting up to the biggest one on all of GitHub. Video generators, stealth browsers, a brain for your agent. Let's start at number 10. Number 10. ViMAX out of a Hong Kong research lab sitting at 11,000 stars. You hand it a single sentence and it spins up an entire film crew. No human ever touching the timeline. A director agent plans the shots, a screenwriter writes the script, a producer gathers the assets, and a generator renders the final clip. It scales from a one line idea all the way up to a whole novel with a web workspace and an agent loop you can interrupt. The trick worth stealing is auto cameo. Drop in a photo of a person or a pet and it keeps them looking consistent across every single scene. That is the genuinely hard part of AI video and they turned it into a check box. Number 9. Agent memory. 25,000 stars and it fixes the thing that annoys you most about coding agents. Your agent forgets everything the second you close the tab. Agent memory gives it a real memory. Every tool call gets captured automatically through 12 life cycle hooks. Then pulled back the moment it's relevant. So you stop re-explaining your own architecture five times a day. Under the hood it blends three kinds of search at once, keyword matching, vector embeddings, and a knowledge graph. Infuses the results. The author's benchmark claims it drops a year of token spend from 650,000 down to about 170,000. And it's not locked to one tool. The memory is shared across Claude code, cursor, codex, Gemini, Copilot, 20 odd agents over MCP. So they all remember the same project. It even strips your API keys before anything gets written to disk. Number 8. Repo mix. 27,000 stars and it's the one item stall first. One command packs your entire repository into a single AI ready file. It counts the tokens for every file, respects your git ignore, and even scans for leak secrets with secret lint before you paste anything into a model. The clever bit is compression. It uses tree sitter to strip a code base down to its skeleton, just the signatures and structure, and drops about 70% of the tokens. Big repo, small bill, and the model still sees how everything fits together. It also runs as an MCP server, so your agent can pull a fresh pack itself, mid task. It can grab a remote repo without cloning it, and it'll even spit out a Claude agent skill, small tool, and it shows up in more workflows than you'd expect. Number 7. Cloak browser. 29,000 stars and it's a little bit dangerous. It's a stealth build of Chromium made to walk straight past bot detection. It's a drop in replacement for playwright, so your existing automation barely changes, and the fingerprint patches live down at the source level, not as flimsy JavaScript shims that get caught in a week. Their headline claim is 30 out of 30 detection test passed, a clean sweep. That's the pitch. Your scraper looks exactly like a real person on a real browser, all the way down to the graphics fingerprint. Now the honest part. This lives in a gray zone, great for testing your own site and pulling your own dashboards. On sites you don't own, your one terms of service line away from trouble, so point it at your own stuff. Number 6. Open human. 35,000 stars, and it is the most ambitious thing on this list by a mile. It wants to be a personal super intelligence that lives on your own machine. It builds a local encrypted memory of your life, your files, your meetings, your messages into a searchable memory tree, then runs whole fleets of agents on top of it. The spec sheet is almost absurd. Over 100 OAuth integrations, 5,000 MCP servers, auto fetch that syncs your data every 20 minutes, and an agent that dials into your zoom, teams, and meet calls to take the notes for you. And the whole thing runs local first, with a privacy mode that keeps every inference on the box. It's written in Rust. Honestly, it's a lot of surface area to trust one project with. But as a statement of where this is heading, it's hard to top. Number 5. Academic research skills. 39,000 stars, and this one isn't code. It's skills. It's a pack of Claude code skills that walks an academic paper from the first literature search all the way to publication. It's built human in the loop on purpose. It does the grind, reviews, citation checks, formatting, consistency, and leaves the actual thinking to you. Open it up and it's a small army. A 13 agent research team, a 12 agent writing pipeline, a seven agent reviewer with a built in devil's advocate to attack your own argument. It'll even run a proper Prisma systematic review, the real methodology, and that human in the loop framing is the whole point. It's not here to auto generate a fake paper and get you retracted. It handles the labor so you can defend every word, which is exactly how AI and research should work. Number 4. Marketing skills. 41,000 stars from a marketer who actually ships product. Same shape, different job. It hands your AI agent real marketing chops, conversion optimization, copywriting, SEO, analytics, growth engineering, all packaged as skills it can just pick up and run with. No prompt engineering sayons required. And this is the real trend across the whole list. People aren't only building agents anymore. They're sitting them down and teaching them a profession. Research, marketing, engineering, a skills folder is a new job description. Number 3. Awesome Cloud Code. 50,000 stars. And it's basically the index for everything else on this list. It's a hand-picked directory of the best Cloud Code resources on the internet. Skills, sub agents, status lines, hooks, developer tooling, plugins, memory tricks, security, sorted into around 18 categories. When a new trick goes viral, this is where it gets cataloged. If you bookmark one repository from this whole video, make it this one. It's the map to the entire ecosystem. And unlike most awesome lists that rot in a month, this one actually stays current. Number 2. Code graph. 61,000 stars. And remember, this repo was an empty page back in January. Here's the problem it kills. Your agent normally explores your code base one file at a time, burning tokens and tool calls just to learn what connects to what. Code graph pre-builds a knowledge graph of the whole project instead before the agent ever asks. So one query hands the agent the exact code, every caller and call, and the blast radius of a change. It parses more than 20 languages with a compiled kernel, auto syncs as you type, and runs 100% local, your code never leaves the machine. That's why it detonated. It's the gap between an agent that gropes around your repo blind, and one that already has the full map before it writes a line. You are tokens, fewer tool calls, and it plugs into cloud code, codex, cursor, and Gemini out of the box. And number 1. Dify. 150,000 stars. The giant that everybody else on this list is chasing. Dify is the odd one out. It's three years old, not three months, and it's a full platform rather than a single sharp trick. You drag and drop to build agent workflows and rag pipelines, wire in hundreds of different models, and push the whole thing to production without rebuilding your stack. You get the visual builder, 50 plus built-in tools, real observability, and a back end as a service layer on top so your app gets an API for free. 23,000 forks tells you how many teams are already running this in production right now. Every newcomer we just counted is chasing the exact thing Dify already is. The place your AI apps actually live once they grow up. It's the proof that this whole category has a finish line, and somebody already crossed it. Now step back and look at the shape of the list. Next, memory, skills, hands, and a platform to hold it all. That's a full nervous system for an AI agent, and most of it was built in the open in about six months. Here's what I'd actually do tonight. Grab repomics and code graph to feed your agent, agent memory so it stops forgetting, and awesome cloud code as your map. That's a real upgrade for one afternoon of setup, and the pace is not slowing down. Half of these went from zero to famous in a single quarter. Number tops this exact list six months from now probably doesn't even exist yet. So which one are you cloning first? Tell me down in the comments, and if you want the next 10, just say the word. Star the ones you liked, and I'll see you in the next...