---
video_title: "How Chinese Labs are \"Stealing\" America's Best AI | Distillation Attack Explained"
video_id: ReI0Dtln1b8
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ReI0Dtln1b8
video_date: 2026-06-26T06:15:55+00:00
video_description: |
  Right now, Chinese AI labs like DeepSeek and MiniMax are using a technique called "model distillation" to quietly copy America's most advanced AI models. But how exactly does a distillation attack work, and is it actually stealing?
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the quiet cold war reshaping artificial intelligence in 2026. We explain the system design behind teacher-student model distillation, and how foreign labs use "hydra clusters" and proxy networks to harvest the chain-of-thought reasoning from OpenAI, Anthropic, and Google. We explore the February 2026 OpenAI memo to the US Congress, how these distillation attacks completely bypass US hardware export controls, and why this invisible theft is officially ending the "open-source" era of AI development.
  
  If this helped you understand the complex architecture and geopolitics of AI, subscribe to Cloud Codes for a new tech breakdown every single week! Build, solve, deploy.
  
  ⏱️ Video Chapters (Crucial for Google Search Rich Snippets):
  0:00 - The Cheapest Way to Build a Frontier AI Model
  1:47 - What is Model Distillation? (The Honest Version)
  2:34 - When Distillation Becomes an "Attack"
  3:28 - Hydra Clusters & Proxy Networks Explained
  4:11 - The Evidence: DeepSeek, Moonshot & MiniMax
  5:25 - Bypassing US Export Controls & Stripping AI Safety
  6:17 - The Counter Argument: Does Distillation Have a Ceiling?
  7:11 - The Final Verdict on AI Theft
  
  🔗 Concepts Covered:
  AI Model Distillation (Teacher-Student Training)
  Chain of Thought Harvesting & Reward Models
  Hydra Clusters & API Proxy Networks
  US/China Geopolitics & Hardware Export Controls
  
  #deepseek #openai #anthropic #artificialintelligence #geopolitics #cloudcodes
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE & WATCH NEXT
  Subscribe for a new systems deep-dive every week: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH US
  Twitter/X:  x.com/cloud_codes
  Join our developer community: discord.gg/HVnH9SY48 
  
  User Queries: 
  what is an ai distillation attack
  did deepseek steal from openai
  how model distillation works
  anthropic claude vs deepseek distillation
  how chinese ai bypassed export controls
  openai congress memo deepseek 2026
  what is a hydra cluster ai
  moonshot and minimax ai labs
  why is open source ai dying
  us china ai cold war explained
---
Right now, somewhere a brand new AI model is being trained, and it has never read a single book. Instead, it sits in front of someone else's model, asks it millions of questions, and quietly writes down every answer. Do that enough times, and something strange happens. The cheap copy starts to think like the expensive original. Same answers, same reasoning, at a tiny fraction of the price. Training a frontier model from scratch costs hundreds of millions of dollars. Copying its behavior this way can cost just a few million. It is quite simply the best deal in all of artificial intelligence. This technique has a name, it is called distillation, and on its own it is completely normal. Every serious lab on Earth uses it. But this past year, American labs say a handful of Chinese labs took it somewhere else. Past the rules, behind fake accounts, at industrial scale. They have stopped calling it distillation. They are calling it an attack, and it got serious fast. Open AI, Anthropic, and Google. Three rivals who agree on almost nothing actually teamed up to fight one single thing together. Their target, three of China's hottest AI labs, deep seek, moonshot, and minimax. Anthropic says these labs ran more than 16 million conversations with its model Claude through roughly 24,000 fake accounts. This was not a few curious engineers poking around. This was a campaign and looked closely at what they took. Not the code, not the weights, the behavior, the reasoning, the coding, the way it uses tools, the exact part that is hardest and most expensive to build. This is the quiet fight that is ending the open era of AI. So let us break down how a distillation attack actually works, step by step, and whether stealing is even the right word for it. Start with the honest version. Distillation is a teacher and a student. You take a big expensive teacher model and you train a small student model to copy its answers over and over. The student ends up almost as good, but cheap enough to run on a phone, and this is everywhere and completely legitimate. The fast little models in your apps are usually distilled down from a giant one. Labs do it to their own models all the time. Deep seek even shipped six smaller models openly distilled from its own R1 and nobody blinked. Here is the clever part. The student does not just copy the final answer. It copies the shape of the teacher's thinking, how confident it was, which options it weighed, how it got there. That is the real prize, and you can capture all of it from the outside just by reading the outputs. So where is the line? Distilling your own model is fine. Distilling a competitor's model, without permission, against their terms of service, by sneaking past the defenses they built to stop you, that is what these labs are now calling a distillation attack, and the mechanics are simple, which is exactly what makes them dangerous. Point a script at a Frontier Model's Public API, fire millions of carefully chosen prompts at it, harvest every answer that comes back, then train your own model on the pile, and interface built to serve customers becomes a faucet for a rival, and they got smart about it. One trick, ask the model to explain its reasoning, step by step, out loud. Now you are not just collecting answers, you are collecting the chain of thought behind them. That is the most valuable training data on the planet, and the teacher hands it over for free. Another trick, turn the teacher into a judge, ask it to grade thousands of answers against the rubric. Suddenly the world's best model is acting as your free reward model, quietly teaching your student which answers are good, and which are bad, one score at a time. But there is a problem, and Thropic does not even sell Claude in China, so how do you steal from a store you are banned from walking into? You use middlemen, proxy services, and obfuscated routers that resell access, and hide where the requests are really coming from, and you never use just one account, you use thousands. And Thropic describes hydroclusters, sprawling webs of fake accounts, ban one, another instantly takes its place. A single proxy network ran over 20,000 of them at once, hiding the theft inside ordinary looking traffic. And this is not a rumor. In February 2026, OpenAI sent a memo straight to the US Congress, accusing deepseek of writing code to pull outputs from American models, and to free ride on capabilities it had never paid a cent to develop. Then Anthropic went public with names. Deepseek, over 150,000 exchanges with Claude, to copy its reasoning, to use it as a greater, and even to rewrite politically sensitive questions into safe censorship-friendly answers for the Chinese market. Moon shot, the lab behind the Kimi models ran more than 3.4 million exchanges, chasing Claude's coding, its tool use, and even its ability to operate a computer like a human would. Mini-Max was the biggest of all. Over 13 million exchanges, aimed squarely at agentic coding, and Thropic caught this one live, and the moment Anthropic shipped a brand new model, Mini-Max swung half its traffic over to copy that one, inside a single day. So how do you actually prove any of this? Fingerprints, Anthropic matched IP addresses, request patterns, and timing, and trace some of the accounts straight back to named researchers at the labs. It never looked like real users. It looked like a machine, farming data at scale. Now here is why everyone is genuinely alarmed. A frontier model spends enormous effort learning what it must refuse, bio-weapons, cyber-attacks, abuse, a cheap clone copies the skills but skips the safety. You get all the capability with the guardrails quietly stripped out. It also scrambles the geopolitics. America bet everything on export controls, choke off the advanced chips, and China cannot keep pace. But if you can distill an American model straight through its API, you import the capability without ever needing the chips. The Miracle Chinese model may be standing on American shoulders, so the open era is closing. The very labs that once published everything are now bolting their model shut, and Anthropic now releases its most dangerous model only to a small circle of vetted partners. The default is shifting, fast, from share it with the world to guard it. But let us be fair, there is another side to this. Deepseek denies wrongdoing. Distillation is something every lab quietly does. And the irony is sharp. These same American labs train their models on the entire copyrighted internet, often without ever asking. Stealing is doing a lot of heavy lifting in that headline, and a distilled model has a ceiling. It is a shadow of its teacher, it can chase the leader, and faithfully copy its quirks and its mistakes, but it cannot leap past a model it has only ever watched from the outside. You simply cannot copy your way into first place. So here is the honest take. Distillation is a normal, useful, everyday technique. Doing it to arrival at massive scale by faking thousands of accounts and dodging every rule, that is the part that looks an awful lot like theft. And whatever a court eventually decides, it has already changed the game. So pull it all together. A teacher model, a public API, millions of harvested answers, a cheap student that slowly learns to think like the original. That is a distillation attack, and the walls now going up around AI are the clearest proof that it works. That is the quiet cold war reshaping AI right now. If this made the race make a little more sense, subscribe, this is Cloud Codes every single week.