---
video_title: "The Best Local AI Hardware (APPLE vs NVIDIA)"
video_id: eozCDUxwU8k
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eozCDUxwU8k
video_date: 2026-07-11T09:00:26+00:00
video_description: |
  Are you still trying to build a local AI rig using expensive Nvidia GPUs? Discover why Apple Silicon (M5 Max and M3 Ultra) completely dominates the RTX 5090 when it comes to running massive, frontier-grade LLMs like DeepSeek R1 locally. 
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the hardware architecture behind local AI inference. We explain the "Memory Wall" that plagues Nvidia cards: why a 32GB RTX 5090 hits a crippling PCIe bottleneck when trying to run a 70B model, and how Apple's Unified Memory architecture bypasses this problem entirely with blistering 819 GB/s bandwidth.
  
  We dive deep into the new Apple M5 chip, exploring how its dedicated Neural Accelerators (Matrix Multiplication engines) finally closed the prompt-processing gap with Nvidia. We also look at the astonishing reality of running a 671B parameter model (DeepSeek R1) entirely offline on a $9,500 Mac Studio, and give you an honest verdict on exactly when you still need Nvidia's CUDA ecosystem.
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The "Impossible" Local AI Machine 
  0:37 - The Memory Wall: Why NVIDIA Hits a Cliff
  1:22 - The Apple Lineup (M5 to M3 Ultra)
  1:58 - PCIe Bottlenecks vs. Unified Memory
  3:10 - The Apple M5 Chip & Neural Accelerators 
  4:17 - Running DeepSeek R1 (671B) on a Mac Studio 
  5:09 - How 4-Bit Quantization Makes it Fit 
  5:38 - $9K Mac vs $100K Server Rack
  6:05 - The Catch: Where NVIDIA Still Wins
  7:10 - NVIDIA's Counter: The DGX Spark
  7:38 - Buying Guide: Which Mac Do You Actually Need? 
  8:05 - The Final Verdict: Apple Won the Desk
  
  #apple #nvidia #localai #machinelearning #appleM5 #macstudio #rtx5090 #deepseek #artificialintelligence #cloudcodes #hardware
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries: 
  apple m5 max vs nvidia rtx 5090 local ai
  how to run deepseek r1 on mac studio
  apple silicon unified memory explained
  best mac for local ai machine learning
  apple mlx tutorial local llm
  nvidia dgx spark vs mac studio m3 ultra
  why does pcie bottleneck gpu memory
  can apple m5 run 70b models locally
  hardware required for local ai 2026
  ollama lm studio mac tutorial
---
Watch the screen, a real AI model thinking and answering, running entirely on this one Mac, no cloud, no API key, nothing leaving the room, for years running AI on your own machine meant one thing by an Nvidia card. In 2026, that is over. For local AI, Apple Silicon now wins, and it is not close, but not for the reason you would guess, it is not about speed, on raw compute, Nvidia still wins easily. A $2,000 RTX 5,090 does 5 times the compute of Apple's best chip, so how does the Mac win while losing on paper? One word, memory. Watch that expensive Nvidia card the moment your model gets big. The 5,090 holds 32GB, a good 70B model needs about 42. It does not fit, so it spills to the slow PCIe bus, and the speed falls off a cliff. Apple does memory differently. The whole chip shares one giant fast pool, so that same 70B model just fits. No overflow, no bus, no cliff, same model, same size, and the Mac runs it about three times faster. But 70B is just the warm up. If your Mac has the memory, there is almost no ceiling, and it gets a little ridiculous, and this memory is quick. The M3 Ultra moves data at 819GB a second, real workstation bandwidth, in a box that sits on your desk. Meet the lineup. The M5, in a MacBook, is the efficient one at 153GB a second. The M4 Max sits in the middle at 546, and then the monster, the M3 Ultra, a Max studio you can load with up to 512GB of unified memory. That number is about to matter a lot. Here is the rule of thumb that actually matters. Memory decides which models you can run at all. A base 8GB Mac handles a small 8B model. Around 48GB opens up a 70B, and only once you cross into the hundreds ofGB, can you even think about the true giant. Let me show you exactly why Nvidia hits the wall. On an Nvidia rig, the model has to live in graphics memory. The instant it overflows, the extra pieces get shuttled back and forth across the PCIe bus. That bus is the bottleneck, 30 times slower than the memory it feeds, and every token you generate has to wait in that line. Apple skips the bus entirely. The processor cores, the graphics cores, and the neural engine all read from the exact same pool. No copy, no host to device transfer, no waiting for data to move. On an Nvidia box, that copying is a constant text. On a Mac, it simply does not exist. Now, in fairness, when a model is small enough to fit comfortably on an Nvidia card, Nvidia is still the faster machine. A 7B model runs well past 100 tokens a second on a 5,090. A Mac lands near a 40. If you only ever run tiny models by the card, this whole story is about the big ones, and Apple was not always this good. Through the M4, its GPU had one real weakness for AI. No dedicated hardware for Matrix multiplication, the exact math language models spend almost all their time doing. It borrowed the graphics pipeline, so feeding it a long prompt was slow. That changed in October of 2025. Apple shipped the M5 and did the one thing everyone was waiting for. It put a dedicated neural accelerator inside every single GPU core. These are real Matrix multiply engines. Apple's answer to the tensor cores that made Nvidia's name. For the first time in Apple Silicon history, the GPU is purpose built for AI, not graphics that happen to run a model on the side. The payoff is enormous. In Apple's own tests, the M5 tears through a long prompt about four times faster than the M4 right before it. First token on a 14B model in under 10 seconds. That was Apple's last real weakness in local AI, and it just closed, and it is not only chatbots. Those same accelerators speed up image models as well. Apple clocked a flux image generator running nearly four times faster on the M5 than on the M4. Anything built on Matrix math rides the same lift. There is a quiet engineering flex hiding in here too. The newest pro and max chips are Apple's first to fuse two separate slabs of silicon into one package, and yet the software still sees a single seamless pool of memory across both. Two dies, one brain. Okay, the ridiculous part one promised you. This model, deep seek R1 has 671 billion parameters. That is not a toy. It is a genuine frontier model, the kind that trades blows with the biggest names in AI. A model this size is supposed to live in a data center. The normal way to run it is a rack of H100 GPUs, $30,000 each, several of them, pulling thousands of watts and screaming behind glass in a cold room. Now watch this. The same model, all 671 billion parameters loaded onto a single max studio. It sits silently on a desk and sips around 50 watts, less power than a couple of light bulbs, and it genuinely runs. Nearly 450 gigabytes of model held entirely in memory, generating real answers in real time on one machine sold in a normal store that you can order today. The trick that makes it fit is quantization. At full precision R1 wants around 680 gigabytes, too much even for the Mac. Squeeze to four bit weights, it drops to roughly 400 and slides into that 512 gig pool with room left to think. And it is not stuck serving one person either. Pile a stack of requests onto an M5 max at once, and Apple says it can push past 400 tokens a second in total, so a small team can share a single machine, not just one lucky developer. That maxed Mac studio runs about $9,500 real money. But then you price the H100 rack it is standing in for, easily six figures, before the power and the cooling, and suddenly the Mac is the bargain in the room. And here is the part one thing people badly underrate. Running it locally means your data never leaves the machine. No cloud, no monthly bill, no company quietly reading your prompts to train its next model, whatever you feed it stays yours. Now let me be straight with you, because half the internet will not be. Apple Silicon is not beating Nvidia at everything. If someone tells you a Mac has dethroned the H100, they are selling you something. For training a model from scratch, it is not even close. A single H100 does nearly 30 times the M5 max is compute, and Nvidia lets you wire thousands of them together to chew through the whole internet. Apple has no answer to that, and do not write off the graphics either. That same 40 core M5 max GPU benchmarks, roughly on par with a desktop RTX 5,070 packed inside a laptop you can close and carry. That is a genuinely strange sentence to be able to write in 2026. Apple is also single node, full stop. You cannot chain two max into one bigger brain, so if your model is heavier than the memory in one machine, you are out of road, there is no Apple version of just adding another card, and the software is younger. 15 years of CUDA tricks. The hand-tooned libraries every lab quietly leans on, Apple is still catching up on. A few of them, like flash attention, do not exist on a Mac at all yet. And Nvidia obviously saw this coming. Their counter is the DGX Spark, a small desktop box with the same 128 gigs of unified memory, clever. One problem, it's memory bandwidth is less than half the max, and bandwidth is the thing that sets your speed. So weigh it honestly for your work. Training giant models or serving thousands of users at once, Nvidia every time, running one large model privately on a machine that lives on your desk, that is Apple's game now. If you are shopping, keep it simple. A base M-chip Mac is plenty to learn on. The Macs is the sweet spot for 70b class models, and the 512 gig ultra only earns its price if you truly intend to run the giants, and honestly, most people never will. Step back and look at what actually happened. Running a frontier class model used to mean renting time in someone else's data center. Now it is a thing you own, quiet, offline, sitting on a desk in your house. So the title is not clickbait. For local AI, one person, one machine, one big model, kept completely private, Apple Silicon is the best hardware you can buy right now at any price. Nvidia lost this specific fight. The other thing that quietly flipped is the software. Alama, LM Studio, Lama, CPP, and Apple's own MLX all run beautifully on a Mac today. The tools finally caught up to the hardware, and nearly all of them are free and open source, and you do not need the $10,000 studio to try it. Install Alama or LM Studio on any recent Mac, type a single command, and you are chatting with a real model on your own hardware in about two minutes. Strip it all away, and it is three things. One pool of memory, fed fast, and now with the M5, real AI Silicon sitting on the GPU. That combination is why your next AI machine might just have an Apple logo on it. Nvidia still owns the data center, and it is not letting go. But the AI that runs on your desk, that race just quietly flipped. If this changed how you think about local AI, subscribe. I do one of these everywhere.