---
video_title: "xAI's Real Plan to Win Isn't Grok 4.6"
video_id: 2rIwMITAZBE
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2rIwMITAZBE
video_date: 2026-08-14T04:05:57+00:00
video_description: |
  Why did Grok 4.6 tie OpenAI's top model at 1/5th the output cost, while xAI quietly signed a $1.25 billion/month deal to rent its Colossus supercomputer to Anthropic? Meet the 3-layer infrastructure strategy combining the Cursor editor, persistent Grok Bots, and 10 gigawatts of AI power generation.
  
  
  
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/4kJqEBMMf
  
  
  
  
  In this deep dive, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design, pricing math, and corporate infrastructure behind Grok 4.6 and the Grok Bot platform. We analyze why Grok 4.6's $2/M input and $6/M output token rates undercut Claude Opus 5 and GPT-5.6 Sol by 80%, evaluate its 1753 Elo score on agentic knowledge benchmarks, and audit the Terminal-Bench v3 failure modes where long shell sessions drop from 88.4 to 26.
  
  Furthermore, we dissect the $60B Cursor acquisition, examine the security risks of shared cloud-computer filesystems for background bots, and analyze xAI's $26 billion annual compute leasing business with Anthropic and Google across its 300MW Memphis data center cluster.
  
  If this helped you understand backend architecture, system design, and how to build faster software, subscribe to Cloud Codes for a new infrastructure breakdown every single week! Build, solve, deploy.
  
  
  
  
  🔗 Repositories & Sources Mentioned:
  • Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index & Benchmarks: https://artificialanalysis.ai/
  • xAI Grok Official Platform & API: https://x.ai/
  • Terminal-Bench 3.0 Leaderboard: https://terminalbench.com/
  • Cursor Editor Platform: https://www.cursor.com/
  • Southern Environmental Law Center (SELC Memphis Lawsuit): https://www.southernenvironment.org/
  
  
  
  
  ⏱️ Video Chapters:
  0:00 - The $2 Output Rate: Grok 4.6 Benchmarks
  1:01 - DeepSWE vs Terminal-Bench v3: Reading the Real Scorecard
  3:59 - Introducing Grok Bot: Persistent Cloud Computers
  5:59 - The Security Trap: Why Bots Share One Filesystem
  6:58 - The $60B Cursor Acquisition & SpaceX Merger
  7:42 - The $1.25B/Month Compute Deal with Anthropic & Google
  9:10 - Colossus Energy Costs & Environmental Lawsuits
  10:51 - Final Verdict: Is Grok 4.6 the Real Plan?
  
  #grok #xai #elonmusk #anthropic #systemdesign #cloudcodes #ai #aiagents #softwareengineering
  
  
  
  
  User Queries:
  grok 4 6 vs gpt 5 6 sol claude opus 5 price comparison
  xai grok bot persistent cloud computer cursor integration
  terminal bench v3 grok 4 6 score collapse
  spacex xai merger cursor 60 billion acquisition
  anthropic lease xai colossus supercomputer 1 25 billion
  grok 4 6 omniscience hallucination score
  xai memphis colossus 300mw environmental lawsuit
  grok bot shared filesystem security permissions risk
  elon musk 10 gigawatts ai revenue projection
  cloud codes grok 4 6 xai strategy breakdown
---
This week a model tied Open AI's top scorer on the main public index the industry ranks them with. It runs at a fifth of the output price and it shipped inside the code editor a lot of engineers already keep open. The model is Grok 4.6 and it is the least interesting thing this company shipped this month. The day before it shipped a product that no benchmark leaderboard has a column for yet. An agent with its

own computer that signs into your tools using your logins and works while you sleep. Underneath both of those sits a third thing that neither launch post mentions and that is where the money is. Two months ago this company bought the editor outright. Three months ago it started renting its supercomputer to a rival and its founder told staff that within five years artificial intelligence will be 99% of what SpaceX is worth. So the question worth the next 10 minutes is simple. If the model is

that good, why is the model not the plan? We will read the scoreboard properly including two rows the launch post left off the chart. Then we follow the electricity because that is the layer that gets paid whichever model wins. Start with the number that made the headlines. Artificial Analysis runs a composite index built from nine separate evaluations and Grok 4.6 scores

61 on it. That is a tie with GPT 5.6 Sol, one point behind Claude Fable 5 and two behind Claude Opus 5. Five points above where Grok 4.5 sat a month ago. On

the Agentic evaluation, the one that measures paid knowledge work rather than puzzles, it posts an Elo of 1753 second only to Opus 5. And it gets there in about 53 turns and half a billion input tokens where Opus 5 takes 103 turns and four times the tokens. Then the price, $2 per million tokens in, $6 out. Opus 5 charges 5 and 25. Sol charges 5 and 30. So on output,

which is what an agent actually burns, Grok is running at a quarter of Anthropic's rate and a fifth of Open AI's. That is the launch story and it holds up, but the same announcement carries two rows that do not flatter it. On Deep Sea We, a software engineering evaluation, Grok scores 65.9 against Soul's 73. Those are xAI's own published numbers, not a critic's. The second row

is stranger, and it is the most useful thing in this video. Terminal bench measures whether a model can drive a real shell to finish a real job. On version 2.1, Grok scores 88.4, Soul scores 89.5. In practice, that is a tie.

On version three of the same benchmark, Grok scores 26, Soul scores 34.6, Opus 5 scores 43.5. Same model, same week, same benchmark name, and the gap goes from one point to nearly nine. Nothing regressed. Version three rewrote

the task to push past the ceiling version 2.1 had hit. So, those two numbers are not one measurement taken twice. They are two different exams. Any chart that puts them side by side is telling you a story the data cannot support. There is a third row, and it is

not on the launch chart at all. On the Omniscience evaluation, which tests whether a model will admit it does not know, Grok 4.6 answers correctly about 48% of the time, and avoids inventing an answer about 66% of the time, which means when it is out of its depth, it says so roughly two times in three, and makes something up the other time. In a chat window, that is survivable. In an agent you have handed your logins to, that third case is the one you plan around.

Then there is the pricing detail the headline number hides. The $2 rate applies to requests under 200,000 tokens. Cross that line, and the whole request bills at $4 in and 12 out, not the overflow. Every token in it. The window is 500,000 tokens.

So, the moment you use more than 40% of the window this model is sold on, your bill doubles. The cash discount shrank, too, from 85% off to the Good model, not decisive, which raises the question a leaderboard cannot answer. If models are converging, what are you actually buying? The answer arrived the day before the model did. On the 11th of August, xAI put Grok Bot into early beta, and the pitch on its own page reads like a job description.

AI teammates you can give real work to. They sign into your tools, use them just like you do, and come back with finished work. Every account gets a persistent cloud computer, not an API key, and not a bundle of integrations, but a machine with a browser, a file system, and a command line, which the bot drives the way a person would. Which means it works with software that has no integration to offer. And that is most software. The tool your finance

team lives in, the admin panel a vendor built years ago and stopped touching, the dashboard with no export button. A conventional agent needs a connector for each of those. A bot with a browser needs a login. Then comes the part that turns a demo into a product. You ask a bot to follow along once while you do a job. It saves that

path as a routine, and reruns it on a schedule or on demand. In the company's own words, show one a workflow today, hand off the project by Friday. In the beta, a game developer handed a bot the job of replacing placeholder art across a code base. It read the code, wrote a prompt for each asset, generated the images, cropped them into transparent files, and wired them back in. 74 finished assets in about 2 hours. It is

bundled, not sold. Grok Bot comes with Super Grok Heavy, with Cursor Ultra at $200 a month, and with Cursor Teams Premium at 120 per seat. There is no free tier and no standalone plan, which tells you who it is aimed at. The subscription buys a weekly usage allowance whose size the company does not publish. Past it, work bills at the model's own token rates, and the documentation says there is no Grok Bot specific spend cap yet. An agent that

runs while you sleep bills by the hour it runs, not by the head that hired it. Now, the detail that got past most of the coverage, and it is written in XAI's own documentation, not by a critic. All of your bots share one cloud computer, one file system, one set of browser sessions, one set of logins available across your entire bot roster. The docs put it in a sentence worth reading twice. Do not use separate bots as a security boundary. So, the recruiting

bot and the bot with production access are not two employees with two badges. They are two windows on one desk sharing one keyring. That is a design choice, documented up front with least privilege guidance beside it. Connect only what a workflow needs. Start read only. Keep

sending and purchasing and deleting behind an approval. But, an audit view of what the bots actually did is listed as coming, not shipped. So, the trust model is the product, and it is still being built, which is why the corporate structure matters more than it sounds. In February, SpaceX acquired XAI in an all-stock deal valuing SpaceX at a trillion dollars and XAI at 250 billion. XAI stopped being a separate company.

The models, the data centers, and the rockets landed on one balance sheet. In June, SpaceX went public on the Nasdaq. That same month, it agreed to buy AnySphere, the company behind the Cursor editor, for 60 billion dollars in stock. That is the largest acquisition of a venture-backed startup on record against roughly 4 billion dollars in annualized revenue. 60 billion for an editor looks absurd until you line it up with this week. Grok 4.6 is available in Cursor on

day one. Grok bot is bundled into Cursor plans. So, what do you get when you buy the place the work already happened? You get the default before anyone compares models. But, distribution is still only the second layer. The third is the one

Musk spends his time on, and it has nothing to do with models. In May, Anthropic agreed to pay this company one and a quarter billion dollars a month for compute. Take that apart. Anthropic, the maker of the model sitting above Grok on the index, rents Colossus 1, the Memphis cluster Grok was trained on, 220,000 graphics chips, 300 megawatts, running to May of 2029, worth more than 40 billion dollars. The filing calls it monetizing unused compute capacity.

Google signed as well, 920 million dollars a month for about 110,000 chips from October this year to June of 2029 as bridge capacity for its own agent platform. Those two contracts together run at roughly 26 billion dollars a year. Here is the arithmetic that makes the strategy visible. 1 and a quarter billion a month is 15 billion a year. Divide that by 300 megawatts and you get 50 dollars per watt per year.

Now, hold that number because Musk gave the same figure a different way. In the all-hands, he said the value per watt is probably going to be 30 to 50 dollars and that 10 gigawatts online by the end of next year would mean 300 to 500 billion a year in revenue. The top of his range is not a projection. It is a signed contract with a competitor and the numbers are already moving that way. The company ended the quarter at 1.4

gigawatts, expects to pass two by the end of this year, and reported 2.6 billion dollars of AI revenue for the quarter, up 213% from the quarter before. Musk told staff AI revenue will pass every other space business around September. For scale, 10 gigawatts running continuously is roughly what 8 million American homes use. That electricity has to come from somewhere and in South Avon, Mississippi, it came from 27 methane gas turbines that were running without an air permit, powering the second Colossus site. The NAACP, represented by the

Southern Environmental Law Center and Earthjustice, sued over exactly that, arguing those turbines are likely the largest industrial source of smog forming pollution in the 11-county Memphis area. That is a real cost paid by people who did not choose it, and it belongs in the same story as the revenue. Here is the strongest case against everything I have said. If Grok were the plan, you would not lease its training cluster to Anthropic for 3 years. A Moody's analyst put it plainly that the revenue does not strictly have to come from Grok. Read that way,

renting Colossus 1 looks like surrender. And it is worth adding that the comparison chart in the launch post uses competitor figures the competitors published themselves. That is not one lab running four models through one harness. It is a vendor scoreboard, and the independent index is the only third-party number in the whole comparison. So, the verdict. For most

developers, Grok 4.6 is the coding model to default to right now, and the reason is price against parity, not the top of any chart. 61 against 63 at a fifth of the output cost is the knee of the curve, and it is already inside the editor you use. The exception is narrow and real. If your work looks like Terminal Bench version 3, long shell sessions where a wrong command costs you, pay for Opus 5 instead. I would

still take Grok at twice the price for long context knowledge work, and I would not point a bot at a production admin account this month. But the model was never the plan. When one company sells you the model, the editor it runs inside, and the electricity your competitor rents by the megawatt, who is left to lose?