---
video_title: "Best Local Coding Model Right Now in 2026"
video_id: iDxrS6zpEX4
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iDxrS6zpEX4
video_date: 2026-07-08T16:30:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Are you still paying monthly subscription fees for cloud coding agents when the best local AI coder now fits on a single used RTX 3090 GPU? Discover why the new Qwen3.6 27B model combined with Multi-Token Prediction (MTP) is the ultimate free, private, and lightning-fast alternative to Claude Sonnet and GitHub Copilot.
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system architecture of the ultimate local coding stack. We explore how 4-bit GGUF quantization (via Unsloth) crushes a massive 27B parameter model down to 16.8GB, allowing it to run flawlessly on consumer hardware or Apple Silicon via MLX. 
  
  We dive deep into the real magic of this release: Multi-Token Prediction (MTP) merged into `llama.cpp`, which allows the model to verify multiple drafted tokens in a single GPU pass, nearly doubling inference speeds. Finally, we show you exactly how to wire Qwen3.6 directly into your IDE using Ollama, Continue, Aider, and Claude Code to build an air-gapped, zero-cost AI pair programmer.
  
  🔥Huggingface Card :  https://huggingface.co/unsloth/Qwen3.6-27B-MTP-GGUF
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The Free Cloud-Beating AI Model
  1:05 - The Math: $20/mo Cloud vs Used RTX 3090
  2:09 - Qwen3.6 27B SWE-Bench Performance 
  4:06 - GGUF & 4-Bit Quantization Explained
  4:58 - The Hardware: RTX 3090 & VRAM Tiers
  7:34 - What is MTP? (Multi-Token Prediction Speedup)
  9:35 - The Catch: Missing FIM (Fill-in-the-Middle)
  11:23 - How to Run It: Ollama, llama.cpp & vLLM
  12:18 - Wiring Local Models to VS Code & Aider
  13:07 - The Ultimate Local AI Stack Checklist
  14:30 - Summary: The End of Cloud-Only Coding
  
  #localai #qwen #softwareengineering #machinelearning #rtx3090 #ollama #systemdesign #cloudcodes #artificialintelligence #llm
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries: 
  how to run qwen 3.6 27b locally
  what is mtp multi token prediction ai
  best local llm for coding 2026
  qwen 3.6 vs claude 3.5 sonnet coding
  how to use aider with local models ollama
  rtx 3090 local ai setup tutorial
  claude code local model proxy vllm
  how gguf 4-bit quantization works
  swe bench verified local models
  stop paying for github copilot local alternative
---
Here is a claim worth testing. The best coding assistant you can run today, no subscription, no cloud, nothing ever leaving your laptop, now fits on a single use graphics card that costs about as much as a decent phone. And I think I can prove it to you in the next 15 minutes. The model is Quinn3, 627b, 27 billion parameters, dense and on real messy GitHub bug fixing tasks, it scores 77. That is not a demo number on a toy problem. That is the same league as the cloud assistant you are very possibly paying a monthly fee for right now. And honestly, the benchmark is the boring part. The thing that changed everything is a three letter trick, MTP, that quietly landed in the tooling a few weeks ago and nearly doubled how fast this thing runs. We will get there. Stay with me because that speed number is genuinely wild. First, why this exploded right now. Back in April, Anthropic change which tools its flat rate plans cover, and overnight a lot of people watch their agent bills jump. Reddit lit up with one question asked a thousand different ways. What actually runs locally and is it finally good enough? Do the math for a second. A coding subscription runs you $20 a month every month forever. A used graphics card is a one time 700. Inside a couple of years the local box is just cheaper, and it never once raises its price or changes its terms of service on you. So this is the real test. Can a model on your own machine replace the cloud for day-to-day coding? I ran it hard for a week, some of it genuinely surprised me, some of it did not. I want to show you exactly where the line sits, so you can decide before you spend a single dollar. Rewind to April 22nd. QN ships a 27 billion dense model and claims it beats their own previous flagship. A model roughly 14 times its size. That is a bold thing to put in a release post. My honest first reaction to reading that was just two words. Prove it. And this did not come from nowhere. QN has been grinding on code for two years. 2.5 coders set the bar, 3.5 push reasoning, and 3.6 is where it all lands. Each release, the same team, closing the gap on the cloud a little more. This is the version where the gap basically closed. So look at the one benchmark that actually matters in 2026. S-A-W-E bench verified. It hands the model a real open-source repository and a real bug report, and it only counts the win if the fixed compiles and passes the existing tests. QN 3 627b lands at 77.2 on that. Sit with that for a second. 77% of real human filed bugs closed end to end. That is right in the range Cloud Sunette posted on the exact same test. A model you download for free, matching a frontier assistant from a year ago, running on one card in your room offline. And it is not one lucky score. On live code bench, the harder contest style problems, it clears 83. On terminal bench where it has to actually use tools and drive a shell, it holds around 59. That is broad competence, not a single benchmark it was quietly polished for. And when I say coding, I do not just mean autumn complete. Agentec means the model reads your files, writes and edit, runs your tests, sees what failed, and then tries again. A real loop, not a single blind guess. That closed loop is the whole reason a local model can now do serious work on its own. Now the honest part, because I am not here to sell you a graphics card, those are QN self reported numbers. The skeptics on hacker news asked a fair question. Did it train on the test? Independent leaderboards are still catching up. So trust it, sure, but verify it on your own code. What is much harder to fake is the crowd. The week it dropped, our slash local llama pointed their editors and agent loops straight at it. The phrase that kept surfacing in thread after thread, it just vibe codes fine. If you know that crowd at all, you know that is basically a standing ovation. It is not equally good at everything though. Python and JavaScript are its home turf, clean, confident output. Rust and C++ are where the dense 27B pulls ahead of the smaller models, because the borrow checker punishes a model that only half understands what it is writing. Okay, how do you actually run this thing? You download exactly one file, a quantized GGUF. The 4-bit version is 16.8 gigabytes, and that single file is the entire model. No installer, no account, no sign-in wall, it just sits there on your SSD waiting for you to load it. Quantize is the word doing the heavy lifting there. The raw model stores every weight in 16 bits. 4-bit quantization squeezes each one down to roughly a quarter of the size with barely any quality lost. That is the compression that drags a 27B model down onto a consumer card. And you are not quantizing anything yourself. A community, unsloth, especially, publishes ready-made GGUF files on hugging face the same week a model drops, tuned so the 4-bit build barely loses any quality. That volunteer plumbing is the quiet reason all of this just works the moment you download it. And it fits on a used RTX 3,090, 24 gigs of memory, 7 to 800 dollars secondhand. That is the whole quiet revolution here. A 5-year-old gaming card, the kind people sell off after an upgrade, is now a genuinely capable, private coding workstation on your desk. People always ask about the power bill. A 3,090 under full load pulls maybe 350 watts, and it only draws that while it is actively generating. Run it a few hours a day and it is pennies. Nothing close to what a monthly subscription quietly pulls out of your account every cycle, and your code never moves. No repo uploaded, no prompt sitting in a log on someone else's server, no policy email next month telling you your workflow is no longer covered. For client work under an NDA, that is not a nice-to-have feature. Local is simply the only correct answer. Your card decides your model, so find your tier first. 8 gigs runs a small code. 16 gigs opens the door to the big mixture model. 24 gigs, a single 3,090, is where the 27b becomes your everyday driver. Know your VRAM, then pick. Everything downstream follows from that. On a 16-gig card, there is a genuinely clever option. The 35ba3b. It holds 35 billion parameters, but it only fires about 3 billion of them per token. So the bulk of the weights live out in system RAM, and only the small active slice ever needs to sit on your GPU. That split is the trick that lets a big brain breathe on a small card. Experts stream across the bus, the GPU stays fed, and you get speeds that honestly have no business coming out of a 16-gig setup. It might genuinely be the smartest $50 of system RAM you ever spend. And if you are on a Mac, you are not left out at all. Apple Silicon shares memory between the chip and the GPU, so an M-series machine with enough unified memory runs the exact same 27b through MLX. The whole local story is not just an Nvidia story anymore. That surprised a lot of people. But let me be straight about speed, because this is where the dream meets the wall. On that 3,090, plain vanilla, the 27b generates around 25 tokens a second. It is usable, it is readable as it types out, but it is not the instant snap you have gotten used to from the cloud. And here is exactly why it drags. A language model writes one token, then rereads everything to write the next one. One word at a time, strictly single file. Your expensive GPU spends most of each step just waiting on memory instead of computing. It is enormously powerful and mostly idling. This is where mtp walks in, multi token prediction. Instead of guessing one token, the model drafts the next few all at once. Then it checks that whole little draft in a single forward pass and it keeps every token it got right. Fewer passes, the same GPU, more finished words out the door. Think of it as autumn complete for the model's own output. Most of the time, the next few tokens are boringly predictable, a closing bracket, a variable it just named, the second half of a keyword. Draft 4 ahead, verify all 4 in one shot, accept the matches. Identical answer, far less waiting. There is a sweet spot to it. Draft 2 few tokens and you barely save anything. Draft 2 many and you waste the GPU checking guesses that get rejected. Tune the draft length to your card and your model and that curve peaks right where the free speed lives. A few minutes of tuning pays off. For months this trick lived only in research papers and one off forks. Then in May it got merged straight into llama.cpb, the engine that most local setups already quietly run underneath. One pull request and suddenly every 3,090 in every bedroom got the upgrade completely for free. And these are the numbers this entire video is built around. Same card, same model, mtp switched on. A single 3,090 jumped from 39 tokens a second to 59. On some rigs the community clocked well past two times faster, nearly double, from a software update you did not pay for. One honest catch as always. The gain is biggest on dense models like the 27b, precisely because those were the ones leaving the GPU idle in the first place. And you do need the mtp ready weights plus a fresh build. This is early adopter ground. Absolutely worth it, but not one click just yet. So it quietly flips the usual advice. The mixture model looks faster on paper, but mtp hands most of that lead right back to the dense 27b. And the dense model stays noticeably sharper across long multi-step tasks. For real agent work, dense is the pick I keep coming back to every time. One real gap you have to know about. The 3.6 family does not do fill in the middle. That tab complete that finishes your line as you type. For that you keep old Q and 2. 5 coder around on the side. Big model for the thinking, small coder for the odd and complete. Two tools, one smooth workflow. Now if you have serious hardware and you want the absolute ceiling, Kimi K2, 6 scores higher on the brutal SWE bench preset. But it is a giant mixture model that is server room territory, not a desk. Most people simply do not need it and frankly most people cannot even load the thing. Deepseek V4 Flash is the other name you will hear thrown around. 280 billion parameters, a million token context window, and API pricing so cheap it is almost free to test. But run it locally, it wants around 150 gigs of memory. That is a home lab, not a laptop. Google's Gemma 4 is worth a nod too. A small mixture model that punches above its size and runs shockingly fast on a modern card. The point is not that QD is the only game in town. The point is that in mid-2026, the local field is suddenly crowded with genuinely good options. Competition is good. Line the whole field up and the picture gets cleaned. Want maximum quality? You rent a giant in the cloud. Stuck on 16 gigs, you run the mixture model. But the real sweet spot, the one the community keeps circling back to, is Quinn3, 627b on a single 3,090 made genuinely fast by MTP. And fair warning, this ranking has a shelf life measured in weeks. Quinn already previewed a 3.7 behind an API with open weights expected soon after. The moment those land, this whole list reshuffles again. That churn is genuinely exhausting, and it is also exactly why local is finally winning. Setting it up is genuinely one line, a lemma pull, and the file just downloads and runs. Prefer full control, lemma, CPP gives you the MTP flags and every knob to turn, serving a whole team, reach for VLLM, same model underneath all three. You are only choosing which front door to walk through. One practical note, so you are not caught off guard. The very first load reads that 16 gig file off your disc, so give it a few seconds to wake up. After that, it stays resident in memory, warm and instant. You pay the loading cost once per session, then it answers as fast as your card allows. Then you wire it into the editor you already used. Continue. Inside VS code points both odd and complete and chat straight at your local model. Adder lives in the terminal and edits files in your Git repo directly. Both of them just talk to one endpoint running quietly on your own machine. You can even point cloud code itself at a local endpoint through a small proxy and drive Quinn underneath the exact harness you already know. People on R slash local lama reported doing precisely this the week it launched. Real agent runs no cloud, no bill ticking up quietly in the background. One setting quietly trips up half the people who try this. The sampling, QN's card asks for temperature 0.6 top P 0.95 top K20 for clean code. Ignore that and you get a dumber feeling model and then you blame the model. Just copy those three numbers over and keep an eye on your context window. The model can technically hold 260,000 tokens, but every single one of them eats into your VRAM. On a 3,090, 60,000 is comfortable. Hand it a whole module, not your entire repository, and it stays fast and stays coherent. So the whole recipe in one breath. Grab the 4-bit MTP GGUF. Load it in Lama.cpp. Set those sampling numbers, wire it into continue or aiter, keep an old codermodel for tab complete. That is it. That is the entire stack that replaces a monthly bill. Screenshot this part if you need it. So where does it actually break? The hardest cross repo refactors. The ones that span 10 files and need a genuine plan first. Still clearly favor the frontier cloud models. And it will occasionally retry a failed tool call without noticing it failed. It is very good. It is just not magic. But the 80% you actually do all day. A bug fix, a quick test, a helper function, explaining a file you inherited, a small refactor. It handles cleanly and locally. That is the honest bar here. Not every job on earth. Just the ones that quietly fill up most of your working hours. And to be crystal clear, local does not mean unsupervised. You still read the diff before you accept it. That is just as true of the frontier cloud models by the way. The model drafts you decide. Treat it like a fast, tireless junior developer. Not an oracle and you will get the best from it. And this is the part one did not expect to care about nearly as much as I ended up doing. It is free after the card. It works on a plane with no Wi-Fi. It never rate limits you at 5 in the evening. And nobody can send you an email next month saying your setup is suddenly no longer supported. So, the best local coding model right now. For a real answer on real hardware. Quinn3, 627b, 4bit, mtp switched on. Running on a single 3,090. Fast enough, smart enough, and completely yours. A year ago, that sentence would have sounded slightly insane. Today it is honestly just a Tuesday. If you take one single thing from this, take this. You no longer need anyone's permission or a monthly subscription to have a serious coding assistant at your side. The card already on your desk is enough. The models finally, quietly caught up to the hardware you have owned for years. If this saved you an afternoon of research, subscribe. I test the local stack as it moves and lately it moves every single week. Next up, wiring this exact model into a full agent loop that fixes real bugs while you sleep. It is more doable than you think. I will see you in that one.