---
video_title: "Stop Using Just One LLM | Use Mixture of Agents"
video_id: 66Z5IATB9bA
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=66Z5IATB9bA
video_date: 2026-06-30T01:00:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Are you still relying on a single LLM to solve complex problems? Discover the Mixture of Agents (MoA) architecture by Together AI—a system design that proves multiple open-source AI models working together can actually beat GPT-4o on major benchmarks. 
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down exactly how the MoA pipeline works without any expensive fine-tuning. We explore how multiple "Proposer" models (like Llama-3, Qwen, and Mixtral) generate diverse drafts in parallel, which are then passed to a single "Aggregator" model to synthesize a flawless final answer. 
  
  We also dive into the harsh reality of this architecture—massive token costs and slow Time-to-First-Token latency—and how 2025 Princeton research proved that "Self-Mixture" (using one model against itself) can sometimes beat diverse teams. Finally, we clarify the crucial difference between MoA and Mixture of Experts (MoE), and explain exactly when you should use this in production.
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The One-Model Limit
  0:21 - The "Mixture of Agents" Concept
  0:46 - How Open-Source Beat GPT-4o
  2:25 - The Architecture: Proposers & Aggregators
  4:45 - The AlpacaEval Benchmark Results
  6:51 - The Catch: Token Cost & Latency
  7:40 - The Princeton Twist: Self-Mixture
  8:32 - When to Actually Use MoA
  8:54 - Mixture of Agents (MoA) vs Mixture of Experts (MoE)
  9:34 - Summary: Architecture over Scale
  
  
  #mixtureofagents #moa #gpt4o #artificialintelligence #systemdesign #softwareengineering #machinelearning #cloudcodes #llm
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE & WATCH NEXT
  Subscribe for a new systems deep-dive every week: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH US
  Twitter/X:  x.com/cloud_codes
  Join our developer community: discord.gg/HVnH9SY48 
  
  User Queries:
  mixture of agents explained
  mixture of agents vs mixture of experts
  together ai moa tutorial
  how open source ai beat gpt 4o
  multi agent ai systems
  llm routing and aggregation
  how to build mixture of agents
  moa vs moe ai architecture
  alpacaeval benchmark gpt 4o
  self mixture princeton ai paper
---
Here is a strange fact about modern AI. Take the single best model money can buy, ask it a genuinely hard question, and you get exactly one answer back, capable but capped, one brain, one attempt, one point of view. We keep trying to fix that by training ever bigger models, but there is a completely different lever and it costs nothing to pull. So try something different. Ask five different models the exact same question all at once. Now you are holding five separate drafts, each with its own strengths, its own blind spots, its own particular way of thinking through the problem. Then hand all five of those drafts to one more model and ask it to do one thing. Merge the best of them into a single polished answer. Now watch what happens to the quality when it does. This little team of open models just beat GPT40. On a standard respected benchmark, 65% against 57.5, and here's the kicker. Not one of those models on its own was anywhere near GPT40. This is mixture of agents, MOA for short. A method published by Together AI in 2024 for making language models collaborate so that a coordinated group of them reliably outperforms any single model working alone. And here is the genuinely weird part. Even a weaker model helps the team show a strong model someone else's mediocre draft and somehow its own next answer comes out better. The researchers found this everywhere they looked. Models it turns out are better together. MOA splits the work into two simple jobs. Proposers draft answers in parallel. An aggregator then reads every draft and writes the final one, a room full of drafters, and a single editor sitting on top. That is the entire cast. Stack that pattern into layers. Draft, combine, draft again, combine again, and the quality climbs with every single pass. Each round of refinement leaves the answer a little sharper than the one before it. And notice what we never did. No fine tuning. No expensive training run. No brand new model architecture. Just ordinary. Off the shelf models you can already call today. Wired together with nothing but a clever prompt. But it is not magic and it is definitely not free. More models means more calls, more tokens, and a noticeably slower answer. That trade capability for cost is the whole story of MOA. So let us actually break it down. Start with the overall shape. A single prompt comes in at the bottom. It fans out to a row of proposer models that each answer it independently at the same time. Their drafts then flow upward to an aggregator, which reads them and writes the final response. Prompt, propose, aggregate. That is the skeleton. The proposers are your team of drafters. And the whole trick is diversity. You deliberately want different models, trained on different data that fail in different ways. Each one brings a perspective that others missed, a strength that others lack. Sameness is wasted here, difference is the point. But why would that help at all? The researchers call it collaborativeness. When a model can see other answers before committing to its own, it scores measurably higher on the same benchmark. And astonishingly, this holds even when those reference answers came from weaker models than itself. A flawed reference it seems still beats a blank page. Seeing other attempts gives the model something to react to, correct, and build on. The aggregator is the editor, and its job is subtle. It does not simply pick the single best draft and copy it out. It reads all of them together and synthesizes, pulling the strongest sentence here, the sharper reasoning there, fusing the pieces into something better than anyone input it received. And the team proved that distinction actually matters. They tested a version that only ranks the drafts and forwards the single best one. Real synthesis one, the aggregator is not a judge picking a winner. It is a writer combining many partial answers into one stronger whole. And you do not have to stop at one round. Feed the aggregated answer back in as a fresh batch of drafts, then aggregate those again. Together stacked three of these layers and the score rows after every single one, a clean monotonic line. The actual wiring is almost embarrassingly simple. You give the aggregator the original question, pasting the proposal responses underneath, and add one instruction, synthesize these into a single higher quality reply. Do not just copy them. That short prompt repeated each layer is the entire mechanism. So a single query runs like this. End to end, fan out to all the proposals in parallel, collect every draft as it comes back, hand the whole bundle up to the aggregator. It writes the final answer, many models, one conversation, one result the user ever sees. Now the numbers, because they are the reason any of this got attention, on Alpaca Eval 2.0, a benchmark where each answer is scored head to head against GPT-4 itself, together Moa reached 65.1%. GPT-4.0, the strong closed baseline everyone was chasing, scored 57.5. That is a 7.5 point leap achieved with open models alone and no access to anything behind a paywall. Here is the actual roster that pulled it off. 6 open proposers, Wizard LM, 2 sizes of QN, Lama 3, Mixed Straw, and DBRX with a QN 110 billion model sitting on top as the aggregator. 6 labs worth of models, and nothing proprietary anywhere in the stack. And this is the part to really sit with. Every single model in that group was by itself behind GPT-4.0. The strongest open one, Wizard LM, hit 51. QN alone 44. Apart, they each lose. Composed together, they win. There is also a lighter, cheaper recipe. Moa Light uses fewer layers and a smaller aggregator on top of the same proposers, and it still matches GPT-4.0 level quality at roughly GPT-4.0 level cost. The same price you are already paying, simply better answers for it. And this was not a single benchmark fluke. On MTBench, the harder multi-turn conversation test, Moa again landed right at the top of the table, ahead of GPT-4 Turbo. The pattern held no matter how they chose to measure it. A finer grain devaluation called flask showed exactly where the gains came from. Correctness, factuality, completeness, insightfulness, they all went up together. The combined answer was not merely longer or more padded. On the things that actually matter, it was genuinely more right. So how many proposers do you actually need? Moa is better, up to a point. With just one proposed answer, the score set at 48%. With six diverse proposers, it climbed to 61. More independent voices, measurably better output, until the gains flattened out. Now the catch told honestly, every layer multiplies the work. Six proposers across three layers is roughly 18 full model calls to answer one question. Many times the tokens and many times the compute that a single model would ever spend on the very same prompt. That bill is real. And it is slow precisely where slowness hurts most. The time to the very first token, the aggregator physically cannot start writing until the proposers have all finished. For an offline job fine, for a live interactive chat, that weight is the deal breaker Moa still has to beat. There are ways to soften it. Run all the proposers truly in parallel, instead of one after another. Drop to fewer layers the way Moa light does. Cash and batch aggressively. None of it makes Moa cheap. It just turns the cost into something you can plan around. Then came a plot twist worth knowing. In 2025, researchers at Princeton asked a sharp, uncomfortable question. Is mixing different models actually what wins here? Sometimes they discovered mixing is not the win at all. It can quietly make the answer worse. They're finding a self-mixture, taking the single best model and sampling it against itself. Often beat the diverse blend by around 6%. Diversity it turns out has a cost too. One genuinely weak proposer can drag the whole team down. The quality of your members matters as much as their variety. So the honest, practical rule is this. Moa shines when accuracy is everything and you can afford to wait. Offline pipelines, genuinely hard problems, generating training data. It struggles the moment you need an answer that is instant and cheap. Know which situation you are actually in. So where does it actually earn its keep? Three clear sweet spots. High stakes answers. We're being right is worth far more than being fast. Think legal, medical or financial analysis. Generating high quality synthetic data to train smaller, cheaper models that run on their own. And any batch job that can run quietly in the background. Where nobody is sitting there watching a cursor blink. One quick clarification because the names collide constantly. mixture of experts lives inside one model. A router sends each token to a few specialized parts of that single network. mixture of agents lives outside. Orchestrating whole separate models that each produce a complete answer. Different layer of the stack. Same underlying instinct divide the work. And the core idea is spreading fast. newer systems borrow the same move. Draft, critique and synthesize. But now stack it on top of reasoning models that already think step by step. Orchestration the way you arrange the models is quietly becoming a capability in its own right. Step back. And that is the real lesson hiding inside Moa. You do not always need a bigger more expensive model. Sometimes you just need a better structured conversation between the ordinary ones you already have. Architecture around the models can buy you real capability. Not only raw scale. So here is the whole thing in one breath. Proposers draft in parallel. And aggregators synthesizes their best parts. Layers refine the result. And a group of ordinary models ends up punching well above any one of them. As long as you can afford to pay in time and tokens. If that finally made mixture of agents click for you. Consider subscribing. Cloud codes takes apart one AI system exactly like this every single week. Build, solve, deploy. And I will see you in the next one.