---
video_title: "We finally got HTML-only buttons? (Goodbye JavaScript)"
video_id: owNkjuQuYWM
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=owNkjuQuYWM
video_date: 2026-07-02T17:30:09+00:00
video_description: |
  Are you still writing JavaScript event listeners just to open a modal, toggle a dropdown, or close a popover? HTML just grew up. Discover the new HTML Invoker Commands API (`command` and `commandfor`), which allows you to build fully accessible, interactive UI components with zero lines of JavaScript.
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down exactly how to shift your UI behavior down the stack from JS into pure HTML. We explore how to wire up the native `dialog` element and the Popover API using just two declarative attributes, completely eliminating the hydration delay and boilerplate code that slows down modern web apps. 
  
  We also dive into how to create Custom Commands using the `--` CSS syntax, how this supercharges Web Components, and how CSS Anchor Positioning allows your menus and tooltips to perfectly track their buttons without a single JavaScript calculation. 
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The Button That Needs No JavaScript
  1:18 - The Problem: Event Listeners & Hydration Delays
  2:30 - How it Works: The `command` & `commandfor` Attributes
  4:25 - Custom Commands (The Escape Hatch for Web Components)
  5:28 - The Bigger Picture: `dialog`, Popover API & CSS Anchors
  6:57 - The Future (Interest Invokers) & Who Built This?
  8:35 - Reality Check: What JavaScript is Still Actually For
  
  #html #javascript #webdevelopment #frontend #invokercommands #popoverapi #softwareengineering #cloudcodes #css
  👇 SUBSCRIBE & WATCH NEXT
  Subscribe for a new systems deep-dive every week: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH US
  Twitter/X:  x.com/cloud_codes
  Join our developer community: discord.gg/HVnH9SY48 
  
  User Queries: 
  html invoker commands
  command and commandfor attributes html
  html popover api tutorial
  how to use html dialog element
  build modal without javascript
  replace javascript with native html
  css anchor positioning tutorial
  web components custom commands
  htmx vs native html
  frontend web development 2026
---
Here is a button. It says delete. You click it and absolutely nothing happens because for about 20 years, a button on its own did nothing. To make it actually do anything, you needed JavaScript always find the element, add an event listener, write a handler, call the right method, every menu, every modal, every drop down, every single time. It was just the price of building anything. Well, not anymore. Watch closely because I am about to delete every line of JavaScript on this page and this button still works. Two tiny HTML attributes and this plain button opens a real dialog box all by itself. No script, no listeners, no framework. They are called command and command four. Together, they are the invoker commands API. And as of the end of 2025, they finally work in every major browser, Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and yes, even Safari, which means the thing you reach for JavaScript to do a thousand times over, HTML can now simply do all on its own. Open a dialog, close it, toggle a menu, show a pop over, all of it, declared right there in the markup. So let us pull it apart, how it works, what it quietly kills, and exactly where it stops. First, why this is genuinely a big deal? To appreciate the gift, you have to remember the chore. Think about everything it used to take just to open one little modal. You wrote your button, then you opened a separate script file. You queried the document to find the element. You attached a click listener and only then deep inside that handler, did you finally get to call show modal, four moving parts scattered across two files, all for a single button on screen that is roughly a dozen lines of pure boilerplate. A query, a listener, a call back, a method call, repeated for every interactive control you ever ship. One button is fine. A hundred of them is a real maintenance tax, and there is a cost you cannot even see. That button is completely dead until the JavaScript downloads, parses, and executes. On a slow phone, on a flaky connection, your users tap it and nothing happens for a second or two. They just quietly assume your site is broken. Now multiply that by every drop down tooltip and dialogue on the page. You are shipping kilobytes of script plus a whole hydration step just to make your buttons behave the way buttons are supposed to behave. That is a lot of machinery for a click. Here is the new way and it is almost insultingly simple. One button, two attributes, the first one command for points at the element you want to control using its ID. That is the wiring done. The second one command says what to actually do to it. Set command to show modal, aim command for at a dialogue, and now clicking that button opens the dialogue. The browser reads those two attributes and does the rest. That is the entire feature, and there is no script tag anywhere on the page. Put another button inside the dialogue with command set to close and it shuts the dialogue right back down. You now have a complete accessible modal, open and close, both handled, and you have written precisely zero lines of JavaScript. There is also request close, which politely acts the dialogue to close instead of just slamming it shut. It fires a cancel event first so you can pop a quick confirmation before someone accidentally loses unsaved work. Popovers get their own set of verbs, toggle popover, show popover, and hide popover paired with the popover attribute on whatever it is you are revealing. Menus, tooltips, little info cards, all of it native. So a drop down menu collapses down to one line. A button with command set to toggle popover, click to open, click anywhere outside to dismiss, hit escape to close, the browser handles focus, layering and dismissal, completely for free, and just look at the before and after. A dozen lines of imperative script on the left, two declarative HTML attributes on the right, exact same behavior, the whole interaction simply moved up the stack into the markup, and these pieces snapped together. A confirmation dialogue, an image light box, a settings menu, a slide out drawer, all of it can be built from a few buttons and a couple of attributes with not a single event listener in sight. But the built-in verbs are only half of the story. If the browser does not already have a command for the thing you need, you are completely free to invent your own. Prefix any command with two dashes, like dash dash rotate left, and it instantly becomes a custom command. It is the exact same syntax CSS uses for custom properties, which is a genuinely thoughtful little detail. Now when that button is clicked, the target element receives a command event. You listen for it just once, read the command name straight off the event and react however you like. Rotate an image, flip a card, anything at all. Yes, that very last piece is a sliver of JavaScript, but notice what just moved. The trigger, the target, the wiring, and all the keyboard support now live in the HTML instead of being buried inside your script. And that is the real unlock for web components. A component author can expose clean declarative buttons, so the developers using that component never have to wire up an event listener by hand ever again. The component just works straight out of the markup. Now none of this just fell out of the sky. In Voker commands, ride on top of two other platform features that quietly landed first. Number one, the dialogue element, a real native modal with a proper backdrop, automatic focus trapping and escape to close all built straight into the browser. It even renders in the top layer, always above the rest of the page. This is the thing we used to drag an entire library is just a fake. Number two, the pop over API, the pop over attribute plus pop over target, which reached every single major browser all the way back in April 2025. It handles light dismiss and the top layer for you in Vokers simply gave that same idea a cleaner, more general syntax and popovers come in flavors auto closes the very moment you click away manual stays open until you explicitly dismiss it yourself and hint is built for tool tips, the kind that vanish the instant you hover the next thing one attribute value picks the entire behavior. Here any of them with CSS anchor positioning and a pop over can pin itself directly to its own button placement flipping and collision handling all of it living in your CSS and still not one single line of JavaScript and this is not just tidier. It is measurably faster every behavior you move out of JavaScript and into HTML is bites you no longer download, parse and run. Smaller bundles a quicker time to interactive and a button that responds the very instant the markup arrives. There is even one more piece coming over the horizon interesting Vokers a new attribute interest for that reveals something the moment you simply hover or focus an element perfect for tool tips and rich link previews but do be careful with that one. It is still experimental and still essentially chrome only for now so treated as a preview of where the web is clearly heading not as something you ship to real users today a few things got deferred to commands for the details element the kind that power accordions were left for a future round of invokers. The very first release stays tightly focused on dialogues and popovers so where did all of this actually come from open UI and the what ETO EUG the groups that decide what HTML eventually becomes pushed hard by browser engineers including GitHub's own Keith circle and Google's Mason freed who champion invokers for years before they finally shipped it even survived a full blown identity crisis. These attributes were first proposed as invoked target and invoke action before everyone finally settled on the cleaner names we use today command and command for and there is a real philosophy underneath at all developers call it shifting the work left down the stack pushing behavior out of JavaScript down into HTML and CSS where the browser can simply handle it for you. If that idea feels strangely familiar it should libraries like htmx spent years arguing that plain HTML attributes ought to just do things directly no JavaScript required the platform listened and eventually it agreed and started baking those ideas right in now an honest reality check because the headline always oversells it this is absolutely not the end of JavaScript invokers do not fetch data they do not hold your state and they certainly do not run your business line. They replace one very specific shore wiring a button up to a behavior the browser already knows how to perform for that one narrow job they are perfect for absolutely everything else your data your logic your app you are still writing real code but what you get back is genuinely worth it less JavaScript to ship buttons that work before a single bite of script has run and focus management keyboard handling and accessibility rolls all wired in for you. For free so here is the whole thing in one single breath command plus command for dialogues popovers and your very own custom commands two little attributes quietly doing the job that 100 lines of script used to do HTML grew up while we were not really paying attention and a whole lot of buttons just stopped needing JavaScript if you like understanding the why beneath the what then subscribe and I will see you in the very next one.