---
video_title: "Kubernetes is a Trap: Why 85% of Devs Should Use Docker Swarm"
video_id: e80nlacPl84
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e80nlacPl84
video_date: 2026-07-12T19:30:20+00:00
video_description: |
  Are you paying the "Kubernetes Tax" for an app that only needs 3 servers? For 85% of software developers, managed Kubernetes is an expensive, overly complex trap—and the perfect alternative has been built into Docker this entire time.
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design differences between Kubernetes (K8s) and Docker Swarm. We explore the architectural bloat of the Kubernetes Control Plane (API server, etcd, scheduler, kubelet) and why basic microservices require 170+ lines of YAML to deploy. We then contrast this with Docker Swarm, explaining how the Raft consensus algorithm and a built-in Routing Mesh allow you to deploy highly-available containers across multiple VPS nodes using the exact same docker-compose file you already use locally. Finally, we look at the real economics of AWS EKS vs a $5 Hetzner VPS, and exactly when you should use Kubernetes.
  
  If this helped you understand complex infrastructure and system design, subscribe to Cloud Codes for a new tech breakdown every single week! Build, solve, deploy.
  
  ⏱️ Video Chapters:
  0:00 - The Kubernetes Complexity Trap
  1:00 - The Architecture of Kubernetes
  2:06 - The 170-Line YAML Problem
  3:11 - The Real Cost of AWS EKS (Managed K8s)
  4:06 - How Docker Swarm Actually Works (1 Command)
  4:47 - The Raft Consensus Algorithm
  5:28 - Routing Mesh & High Availability
  6:04 - The Economics: Swarm on a Cheap VPS
  7:17 - Why Did Kubernetes Win? (The Honest Catch)
  8:13 - When You Actually Need Kubernetes (k3s & Nomad)
  9:22 - Summary & Final Verdict
  
  🔗 Concepts & Sources Covered:
  Kubernetes (K8s) Control Plane Architecture
  Docker Swarm & Docker Compose
  AWS EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service) Pricing
  High Availability (HA) & Load Balancing
  Microservices & System Design
  
  #kubernetes #docker #dockerswarm #systemdesign #softwareengineering #cloudcodes
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries: 
  kubernetes vs docker swarm
  stop using kubernetes
  why kubernetes is so hard
  how to use docker swarm tutorial
  docker compose to kubernetes
  aws eks pricing explained
  is docker swarm dead 2026
  kubernetes architecture tutorial
  microservices system design
  k3s vs kubernetes vs nomad
  cloud codes devops
---
There are two ways to run containers in production. One takes a weekend to learn. The other takes one command. This is the whole setup. You type Docker Swarm in it, and you have a real cluster. That is it. Here is the same app in both worlds. Docker Swarm, 27 lines. Kubernetes, over 170. 82% of teams now run Kubernetes in production. And my honest take, most of them never needed it. Because Kubernetes is not one thing. It is six separate moving parts that you now have to operate yourself. Docker Swarm, it is already inside Docker. There is nothing extra to install, nothing, and no. Swarm is not dead. Marantus is shipping security patches for it all the way through 2030. Glaxosmith Klein runs it, MetLife runs it, the Royal Bank of Canada runs it. In production, right now. Meanwhile, managed Kubernetes charges you $72 a month per cluster before you deploy a single container. So here is the plan. The trap, the one command alternative, and the cases where Kubernetes genuinely wins. Let me be fair to Kubernetes first, because it is genuinely brilliant engineering. When people say it is complex, here's what they actually mean. The control plane alone is four programs. An API server out front, a database called etcd, holding the entire cluster state, a scheduler deciding where things run, and a controller manager running the control loops. Then every single worker node adds a qubit and a network proxy. That is six moving parts you now operate. And each one fails in its own creative way. And none of that is a mistake. It is precisely what lets Kubernetes scale to thousands of nodes across an entire company without falling over. But you pay for that ceiling on day one, even if your whole world is three servers behind a load balancer. It is buying a Boeing 747 to pick up groceries. The plane is incredible. Your trip is two miles. Then there is the vocabulary, and it never stops, pods, deployments, replica sets, services, config maps, ingress, secrets, stateful sets, daemon sets, namespaces. Before you ship a single feature, you are memorizing an entire dialect just to describe the app you already understood perfectly this morning. And here is what that abstraction actually cost you. Take a plane web service and its database. In a Docker compose file, that is about 27 readable lines that a new hire understands at a glance. The equivalent in raw Kubernetes YAML is over 170 separate deployments, services, config maps, and ingress rules. All for a task you could describe out loud in one short sentence. And writing it once is the easy part. Then comes day two forever. Someone has to upgrade the cluster every few months before the version falls out of support. Rotate the TLS certificates. Take regular ATCD backups and patch every node. That work genuinely never ends, and not one minute of it ships value to a customer. It is rent you pay just to keep the lights on. And when it breaks at the worst possible time, welcome to the rabbit hole. A pod is stuck in crash loop back off. So you describe the pod. Scroll the events, tail the logs, check the service, inspect the ingress, then question the DNS. 45 minutes later, the culprit is a single mistype label in a YAML file. If you run Kubernetes, you have lived this exact night. Now let us talk money, because this is where it stinks. On Amazon EKS, every cluster costs $72 a month just to exist. Run separate dev, staging, and production clusters like a responsible team. And you are at $219 a month, with zero containers actually running. Let a version fall behind into extended support, and that fee alone climbs past $1,300. And that is before a bite of real traffic, cross-zone data transfer, and NAT gateways quietly stack another 20% to 40% on the bill. The control plane fee is the number they put on the pricing page. The actual number is the one that ambushes you on the last day of the month. Now manage Kubernetes does help. And roughly 2 thirds of new projects sensibly start there. But it only lifts the control plane off your shoulders. You still write every line of YAML, still tune the auto scalers, still wire the networking, still get paged at 2 in the morning. The complexity does not disappear. It just quietly changes address. So now watch the other path, because the contrast is almost funny. Take any Linux box you already have, and type one line, Docker Swarm in it. That machine is instantly a manager. Copy the join command at prints, run it on a second box, and you have a real two node cluster with encrypted communication, minutes, not a weekend, and nothing new to download, because it was already there. And to deploy, you reuse the Docker Compose file you almost certainly already have. Type Docker Stack Deploy, point it at that file, and your app is live across the cluster. The exact same YAML that runs on your laptop is the YAML that runs in production. No translation layer, no second format, no rewrite. Your local setup just got a lot bigger. Under the hood, it stays refreshingly boring, and boring is a feature. Manager nodes and worker nodes agree on the cluster state using the Raff consensus algorithm. There is no external database to babysit, and no fleet of proxies to run. The whole orchestrator lives inside the Docker Daemon you already run, and already trust with everything. And crucially, you are not trading features for that simplicity. Rolling updates that roll back on failure, service discovery by name, encrypted secrets, and encrypted overlay network between nodes. Health checks and a built-in load balancer all ship inside the box. No add-ons to install. No operators to manage. No helm charts to maintain. It is included, not assembled. The routing mesh is the part one love most. Publish a service on a port, and every node in the entire cluster listens on that port. A request can hit any machine, even one not running your container, and swarm quietly forwards it to a healthy copy wherever it lives. You get cluster-wide load balancing without configuring a single thing, and it heals itself without you watching. Kill a container, and within seconds, swarm notices the count is wrong, and starts a fresh one to match what you declared. Lose an entire node, and every task it was running reschedules onto the survivors automatically. You describe the end state once. Swarm spends the rest of its life keeping reality matched to it. And here is the receipt that makes people uncomfortable. One operator runs 24 containers across two continents on two tiny VPS boxes that cost $83 a year, each, not a month, a year. Go price that same highly available setup on managed Kubernetes, and then try to keep a straight face reading the invoice. Scaling is one line two. Type DockerService scale web equals five. And a heartbeat later, you have five copies spread across your nodes. No horizontal pod autoscaler, no metric server, no custom resource definitions to install, and debug first. The command you would naively guess is, delightfully, the exact command that works. The whole mental model fits on a sticky note. Enit a cluster, deploy a stack, scale a service, three verbs. Compare that to the sprawl of Cupacetile subcommands and thousand line Helm templates you keep a browser tab open for. Fewer concepts is not a limitation here. On a small team, it is the entire point. And if you want a dashboard, retainer hands you a clean web UI over the whole cluster from a single container. Yes, the ecosystem is smaller than Kubernetes, but the specific pieces a small team actually reaches for, deploys, updates, secrets, and monitoring are all sitting right there ready. So if swarm is this pleasant, why did Kubernetes utterly win the mind share? Be honest about the history. Google open sourced it in 2014, straight out of a decade running Borg at PlanetScale. Then every cloud built a managed version, every job posting listed it, and it quietly became the safe resume choice. Nobody ever got fired for picking Kubernetes. And the other half of the honesty is that swarm stopped evolving. Mirantus keeps it patched and stable. But what you run today is essentially the same product from 2022. It is rock solid and going nowhere new, while Kubernetes shipped a new feature every quarter and pulled the whole industry along behind it. So it does have real gaps, and I will not pretend otherwise. There is no auto scaling on custom metrics like Q-Debt or RequestLadency. The ecosystem is far smaller, and most new monitoring, security, and storage tools now get built Kubernetes first, sometimes Kubernetes only. Pick swarm, and you are standing a little outside that firehose of innovation. And it was never actually a binary choice, which people forget. If you genuinely outgrow swarm, but the full Kubernetes stack still feels like swatting a fly with a car, there is a middle. K3S is a certified Kubernetes that fits in one small binary. HasheeCorp Nomad orchestrates containers and plain old binaries with a single agent. The spectrum has more than two points on it, so here's the honest line on Kubernetes itself. If you truly need custom metric auto scaling, fine-grained access control across many teams, advanced scheduling, or a compliance auditor who literally writes the word Kubernetes into the contract, then reach for it and use a managed one. That is the exact problem it was designed and priced to solve, but be brutally realistic about how many teams that describes, maybe 15%. The other 85 are running a handful of services on a handful of machines, paying a heavy ongoing complexity tax for a scale they are honestly never going to reach. And that is the whole trap right there. It was never that Kubernetes is bad. It is that we grab the tool built for Google size problems to run a blog and two APIs, wired ourselves to it, and then started calling the pain a right of passage instead of a bad fit. So carry four numbers out of this, 82% adoption. 27 lines of compose against 170 of YAML, $72 per cluster, every single month, and official support all the way through 2030. That is the case on one hand. Kubernetes is not the enemy here. It is just aimed squarely at a problem most of us simply do not have yet and might never have. Match the tool to your real scale instead of the scale on the conference stage. And for most teams, the right answer is boring, simple, and already installed on the machine. Simple scales a lot further than the internet wants you to believe. Go build something. I will see you in the next one.