---
video_title: "NVIDIA'S 748GB Desktop Makes Local AI INSANELY Powerful"
video_id: h_G4isLF1NA
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h_G4isLF1NA
video_date: 2026-06-29T12:00:28+00:00
video_description: |
  Can you run a trillion-parameter, frontier-grade AI model entirely on your own machine without a cloud API? Even with a top-tier RTX 5090, local AI developers hit the exact same "Memory Wall"—until NVIDIA built a desktop designed to smash right through it. 
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system architecture of the new NVIDIA DGX Station. We explore why VRAM and the KV Cache are the real bottlenecks of local AI, and how the GB300 Grace Blackwell Ultra superchip solves this by fusing the CPU and GPU together with NVLink-C2C to create a massive 748GB pool of "coherent memory." 
  
  We dive into what this unlocks for enterprise developers—running 671B models like DeepSeek R1 completely offline, air-gapped privacy, and zero API costs. Finally, we look at the reality of the $80,000+ price tag, the 1600W power draw, and how the $4,000 "DGX Spark" is creating a brand-new hardware ladder that brings data-center power into your home.
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  00:00 - Running frontier AI offline
  00:16 - The massive memory problem
  00:47 - Nvidia's DGX Station desktop
  01:44 - Privacy and cost benefits
  02:05 - Why RAM matters more than speed
  03:27 - Current local AI compromises
  03:42 - Inside the GB300 superchip
  04:19 - "Coherent memory" explained
  04:59 - Hitting 20 petaflops (NVFP4)
  05:37 - Software and enterprise uses
  07:00 - The $80k+ price tag
  07:14 - The $4k DGX Spark alternative
  07:30 - The data center moves to the desk
  
  
  #nvidia #localai #dgxstation #hardware #systemdesign #cloudcodes #artificialintelligence #deepseek #machinelearning
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE & WATCH NEXT
  Subscribe for a new systems deep-dive every week: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH US
  Twitter/X:  x.com/cloud_codes
  Join our developer community: discord.gg/HVnH9SY48 
  
  User Queries:
  nvidia dgx station 2026
  how to run glm 5.2 locally
  how to run deepseek v4 locally
  nvidia gb300 grace blackwell ultra
  how much vram for local ai
  nvidia dgx spark vs station
  local ai memory wall explained
  coherent memory cpu gpu nvlink
  can rtx 5090 run large language models
  cloud ai api vs local ai cost
  how to run trillion parameter model offline
---
Picture this. You want to run a serious AI model, a real frontier grade one entirely on your own machine. No cloud account, no API key, no data ever leading your desk, just you, your hardware and the model. It sounds simple. It is almost always completely impossible. Here's the part nobody tells you. The models that are actually good are enormous, not gigabytes, hundreds of gigabytes of raw weights. The open model everyone is excited about this year is over half a terabyte before you have typed a single word. Now meet your hardware. Even a brand new RTX 5,090. The fastest gaming card money can buy has just 32 gigabytes of memory. So you load the model and almost instantly you slam into a wall out of memory. It does not even come close to fitting. So Nvidia built a machine for exactly this problem. It is called the DGX station and it is not a server in some warehouse. It is a desktop. One you could in theory set right next to your monitor. And the number that makes it special is this 748 gigabytes of memory. You take that giant model, you drop it in and it just loads. The tokens start streaming like it is nothing. Let that sink in. 748 gigabytes on a desktop. That is more memory than 20 top end graphics cards stack together. All in one box that hums quietly under your desk. It is big enough to hold AI models with up to a trillion parameters running locally. Models that until now only lived inside the data centers of a handful of companies sitting on your desk. Underneath it is Nvidia's brand new GB 300 grace blackwell ultra super chip pushing up to 20 petaflops of AI compute. So it is not just that the model fits, it runs genuinely fast. And this is why people care. Your data never leaves the room. There is no per token bill ticking up in the background and it can sit there thinking all day and all night. So in this video we are going to break down exactly why this thing makes local AI insanely good. Three parts. The wall everyone hits. The desktop that smashes through it and whether it is actually for you. Let us start with that wall because to see why this desktop matters you have to understand the real reason running AI at home is so hard and it is not what most people think. It is not raw speed. It is memory. A language model is underneath all the magic just a gigantic pile of numbers called weights. And to run it every single one of those numbers has to be loaded into fast memory at the same time. Not on disk, not streamed, all of it at once. How much memory. There is a simple rule of thumb at full precision. Each parameter takes about two bytes. So a 70 billion parameter model needs roughly 140 gigabytes just to sit there before it does any actual thinking. You can shrink that drop to 8 bit or 4 bit and the model gets lighter. But the best open models are not 70 billion. They are 671 billion or a full trillion. Even heavily compressed that is still hundreds of gigabytes. And it gets worse because the model is only half the bill. Every token of context you give it adds to something called the KV cache. Ask it to read a long document or a whole code base and that cache alone can swallow another few hundred gigabytes. So now hold that against consumer hardware. A 4,090 gives you 24 gigabytes, a 5,090 32 against a model that wants 500 or more. That is a teaspoon trying to bail out an ocean. The math simply does not work. Which is why local AI enthusiasts end up improvising. They cram 4 GPUs into one case. They offload half the model to slow system RAM and watch it crawl. Or they quantize so hard the model gets noticeably dumber. Every workaround is a painful compromise. This is the wall the dgx station was built to walk straight through. So let us actually open it up and see how it pulls that off because the trick is genuinely clever. At the center is a single piece of silicon. The GB300 grace blackwell ultra desktop super chip. It fuses two things that normally sit far apart. A blackwell ultra GPU and a 72 core grace CPU onto effectively one chip. Those two are wired together by something called NVLINK C2C. A chip-to-chip bridge running at 900 gigabytes per second. That is fast enough that the GPU and the CPU can treat their memory as a single shared pool. And that pool is the whole story. 748 gigabytes of what Nvidia calls coherent memory. One giant unified space the model can stretch out across. It is actually two kinds of memory teaming up. 252 gigabytes of ultra fast hbm 3e sit right on the GPU moving at seven terabytes a second. Then 496 gigabytes of LPDDR5x back it up on the CPU side. Coherent is the keyword. On a normal PC the GPU and CPU have separate memory. And data crawls between them over a slow PCIe slot. Here they read the exact same memory. The model loads once and lives in one place. And it is not just big it is quick. Those 20 petaflops come from Blackwell's new 4bit number format. NVFP4 which lets the chip pack bigger models in and run them faster while keeping the accuracy high. So what does that unlock? Models that used to demand a rack of servers now load on a desk. Deepseek R1 at 671 billion. Lama at 405 billion. Kimi K2, a full trillion. All of them running locally. And if even that is not enough the built-in connect x8 networking can link two stations together at 800 gigabytes a second. Letting you pull the memory and run a model bigger than either box could hold alone. On the software side it chips with Nvidia's full AI stack on Ubuntu. And now on Windows 2. It can split into seven isolated instances for a team. Or port everything into one always on agent that never sleeps. Okay, but why go to all this trouble instead of just calling an API? The first reason is privacy. And it is a big one. Your prompts, your documents, your fine-tuned weights, none of it ever leaves the machine. For a hospital, a bank, or a law firm, that is the difference between yes and no. The second is cost and the way it flips. A cloud agent that runs all day is a meter that never stops spinning. Every token, every hour, build. Once you own the box that meter is gone, run it for 10 minutes or 10 hours and the inference is effectively free. Third is control. With the whole model sitting in your memory, you can fine-tune a Frontier grade model on your own private data right on your desk, shaping it into something that is genuinely yours. Not a rented endpoint you do not really control. Fourth, it works with the network cable pulled out. Full Frontier class AI, completely offline and air-gapped. No outage, no rate limit, no terms of service that quietly change on you overnight. It is just there. Put all of that together and you get the thing everyone actually wants. An always on, autonomous agent that can grind on a hard problem for hours. Running start to finish on hardware that you and only you own. Now for the honest part because this is not a fairy tale. The DGX station is expensive. Real listings put it somewhere between 80 and 100,000 dollars and it draws around 1,600 watts. This is not a gaming PC you grab on a weekend. It is Enterprise Gear, in-dat labs, startups and regulated industries that need this power on site. But if you just want a taste of the idea, Nvidia makes a little cousin called DGX Spark, 128 gigabytes of unified memory for around $4,000. And that is the part one fine, genuinely exciting. A whole new memory ladder is forming. 32 gigabytes on a top gaming card, 128 on a Spark, 748 on a station, and the data center beyond that. Each rung pulls a bigger slice of what used to be cloud-only down onto your desk. The frontier models that were locked behind someone else's API are step-by-step coming home to hardware you can actually reach out and touch. Because the real headline here is not the price tag and it is not even the raw number. It is that data center class memory now fits under a desk at all. That line between the cloud and your room just moved. So let us bring it home. Local AI had exactly one wall that truly mattered and that wall was memory. The DGX station knocks it flat with 748 gigabytes in a single coherent pool, enough to hold trillion parameter models running entirely on your own machine. Which means maybe for the first time, running a frontier model at home stops being a sad, compromised, full of trade-offs and starts being something that just quietly works. If breakdowns like this are your kind of thing, subscribe to Cloud Codes and I will see you in the next one.