---
video_title: "China's Strategy to Win the AI Race"
video_id: HlYk9AV-Uuw
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HlYk9AV-Uuw
video_date: 2026-08-17T09:00:31+00:00
video_description: |
  Why did RedNote (Xiaohongshu)—China's $70B lifestyle photo app with 400M users—build a 280B parameter multimodal agent model (dots3-note-prev) and give it away for free under Apache 2.0? Meet Joel Spolsky's "Commoditize Your Complement" strategy unfolding in open-source AI.
  
  
  
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/4kJqEBMMf
  
  
  
  
  In this deep dive, Cloud Codes breaks down the computer architecture, financial strategy, and benchmark analytics behind RedNote's 280-billion parameter MoE model (16B active per token, 512K context, 577 GB on-disk footprint). We examine the TEMPO long-horizon RL engine designed for 10-hour agent execution tasks, analyze how Chinese open-weight models captured 61% of OpenRouter traffic, and explain why 38% of top Silicon Valley AI talent originates from Chinese undergraduate universities.
  
  Furthermore, we dissect how China's open-source strategy mirrors the historical price collapses of steel, solar panels, and lithium batteries, expose why dots3-note's benchmark chart never tops its own headline panels, analyze the 4.65x harness score jump on ARC-AGI-3 (6.9 vs 32.1), and review the July 2026 Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) talks regarding potential open-weight export restrictions.
  
  If this helped you understand backend architecture, system design, and how to build faster software, subscribe to Cloud Codes for a new infrastructure breakdown every single week! Build, solve, deploy.
  
  
  
  🔗 Repositories & Sources Mentioned:
  • RedNote dots3-note Official Model Repository: https://huggingface.co/dots-studio/dots3-note-prev
  • ARC Prize Official Results & Benchmark: https://arcprize.org/results/deepseek-v4-flash-0731
  • MacroPolo Global AI Talent Tracker 3.0: https://macropolo.org/digital-projects/the-global-ai-talent-tracker/
  • USCC Report ("Two Loops: How China's Open AI Strategy Works"): https://www.uscc.gov/research/two-loops-how-chinas-open-ai-strategy-works
  • OpenRouter Public Analytics: https://openrouter.ai/docs
  
  
  
  ⏱️ Video Chapters:
  0:00 - The 577GB File: RedNote's 280B Open Model
  1:12 - The Open Weights Roster: MiMo, LongCat, Hy3, Kimi K3 & Ling
  2:30 - The Talent Map & 38% Silicon Valley Inversion
  2:53 - Following the Money: $8.2B State Funds vs ¥42B Ad Revenue
  4:22 - Commoditize Your Complement: Joel Spolsky's 2002 Strategy
  5:12 - The Commodity Playbook: Steel, Solar & Lithium Batteries
  6:32 - Benchmark Audit: Why dots3 Never Tops the Headline Charts
  7:33 - The 4.65x Harness Jump: ARC-AGI-3 Scaffolding Split
  8:38 - Final Verdict: The Model vs The Commodity Strategy
  9:38 - The MOFCOM Export Control Regulation Threat
  
  #rednote #xiaohongshu #dots3 #open-source #systemdesign #cloudcodes #machinelearning #aiagents #softwareengineering #gpus
  
  
  
  
  
  User Queries:
  rednote xiaohongshu dots3 note prev 280b model huggingface
  dots studio 280b 16b active moe tempo RL architecture
  joel spolsky commoditize your complement ai strategy
  openrouter traffic split chinese open weight models 61 percent
  macropolo global ai talent tracker 38 percent china undergrad
  rednote dots3 arc agi 3 harness 6 9 vs 32 1 score
  china ministry of commerce mofcom open weight export restrictions
  dots3 note vs deepseek v4 flash 0731 benchmark comparison
  uscc two loops report china open source ai strategy
  cloud codes rednote 280b model breakdown
---
On a Sunday last week, a folder appeared on Hugging Face with no announcement attached to it at all. 133 files, 577 gigabytes of weight just sitting there. 280 billion parameters published under Apache 2.0. Take it, fork it, sell it.

Five days later, on the Friday, the account that uploaded it finally posted. The account is called Dot Studio. Dot Studio is the AI department of Red Note at home Xiaohongshu, the app 400 million people open day. So, China's Instagram shipped a frontier class agent model, gave it away, and said nothing about it for five days. 16 billion of those 280 billion parameters switch on for any given token. The rest

stay asleep. Half a million tokens of context and four kinds of input, text, images, video, and audio all going in at once. And it is built for agents that keep going. Their own test harness allows 10 hours per task before giving up. The reflex read was easy enough.

Another Chinese model, another week, add it to the pile and move on. But a photo sharing app does not spend frontier money by accident. So, what does this one know that the rest of us have not noticed yet? Because it is not one app. On the 28th of April, Xiaomi, the phone company, released Mimo version 2.5, 310

billion parameters, MIT license, weights on the table. On the 30th of June, Meituan, which delivers food, put out Long Cat version 2. 1.6 trillion parameters, also MIT, trained on Chinese chips. A food delivery company handing out a trillion parameter model. Tencent

followed on the 6th of July with HY3. Moonshot on the 16th with Kimi K3, 2.8 trillion parameters. Ant Group on the 27th, then Red Note on the 14th of August. Phones, food, games, payments, photos, five unrelated businesses in under four months. The one obvious name

missing is ByteDance, whose seed models stayed behind an API that absence tells you the giveaway is a choice. Watch what the choice did downstream. Open router is the neutral router many developers buy tokens through, and it publishes the split. In June of last year, the American labs had about 70% of its traffic. 12 months later, they had 30.

Chinese open weight models now run about 61% of the tokens on that platform. Alibaba's Quen family passed a billion cumulative downloads and sits underneath 113,000 derivatives, forks of forks of forks. The talent map explains more than people expect. 38% of the world's top AI researchers did their undergraduate degree in China. At the leading American institutions, 38% of the talent is Chinese educated against 37% American.

Among Silicon Valley startups running open source stacks, about 80% build on a Chinese base model. So, is Beijing paying for all of this? Start by admitting the state money is real, specific, and large. In January of last year, China stood up a national AI industry investment fund worth 8.2 billion dollars, plus a venture guidance fund with a headline size of a trillion yuan.

Some inland provinces cut data center power bills by half. And last August, the State Council published the AI plus action plan, which sets adoption targets the way earlier plans set steel targets. 70% penetration of AI agents and smart terminals by 2027, over 90% by 2030. But none of that is a check with this model's name on it. No program I could find attaches to dots three, and you do not need one because Red Note's own accounts cover it comfortably.

Revenue last year came in near 42 billion yuan, up about 40%, and for the first time most of it, roughly 76% was advertising rather than commerce. Net income cleared 2 billion dollars. That is what paid for the lab. Before this year, it was about 100 people, and its first open model back in June of last year was half the size of this one. On the 30th of April, the company promoted it from a research group into a first level department reporting straight to the president. The reason its own

engineers give has nothing to do with policy. It is one sentence repeated internally. Without this capability, you cannot get a seat at the table. Fear predicts corporate behavior better than a subsidy does, but fear explains the spending, not the giving away. Why hand the finished thing to your own competitors? For that, you need a

software essay from 2002. Joel Spolsky, then running a small software company, wrote a piece called strategy letter five and its whole argument fits in one line. Demand for your product goes up when the price of the thing next to it goes down. Cheap flights fill hotels. So, smart companies work to make their complements worthless. IBM pushing open

source to sell consulting, Netscape giving away the browser to sell the servers. Red Note sells attention and commerce to 400 million people. Intelligence is the complement. If intelligence stays expensive and owned by three American labs, Red Note pays rent forever on the feed it already owns. If intelligence is free, it keeps the feed, keeps the commerce, and keeps the margin. Giving away a model in that

position is not generosity. It is the cheapest insurance a company with $2 billion of profit will ever buy. And China has run this play in physical goods for 35 years, which is why it looks familiar from outside. In 1990, Chinese mills made 8.6% of the world's steel. Last year, they made 54.5. Solar

modules cost 60 cents a watt in 2010. Top tier Chinese panels traded near 9 cents this year, an 85% collapse, while China took over 85% of world module production and its own makers posted a billion and a half in quarterly losses. Lithium battery packs cost $1,474 a kilowatt-hour in 2010 in today's money. Last year, the world average was 108, and inside China, 84. China now makes over 80% of the cells. The shape

repeats. Do not try to win the market at its current price. Remove the price, absorb the losses, and end up owning the layer underneath once the competition can no longer afford to stay in the room. Software compounds harder than steel does, because a mill costs a billion dollars and a fork costs nothing. Anyone can take those weights, tune them, break them, publish the fix, and the next release inherits every one of those experiments for free. Linux is

the version of this argument that already finished. A student project now runs all 500 of the world's 500 fastest supercomputers. Selling Linux itself is a tiny business. The money moved to everything sitting on top of it, which brings us back to the model, because a strategy argument is easy to make when the product goes unchecked. The launch post says it is competitive with much larger models. Read that twice. It is

doing careful work. The chart underneath is doing something less careful, and the chart is what traveled. Dot Studio published two comparison charts, 20 groups of bars, 12 on reasoning and agents, eight on multimodal. Their model is the first bar in every single group, and the only bar painted a different color. In all 20 of those groups, it is never the tallest bar. The appendix

behind the charts is more useful anyway. 26 benchmarks, 12 models, and their model tops exactly two rows. One is an instruction following test called IFBench at 80.4, a real win. It also loses on both of the benchmarks Dot Studio wrote itself. The second win is

ARC AGI 3 on the official harness, where the winning score is 6.9 out of 100. It wins because the two frontier models tested there scored 1.5 and 0.4. Here is

the number that should stay with you. The same model, on the same benchmark, scores 32.1 when it runs through a general harness instead of the official one. Same weights, more than four and a half times the score purely from the scaffolding around them. The headline that traveled was Arc AGI-2, 81.4

against 61.4 for DeepSeek-V4-Flash, the July checkpoint. 20 points from a model with 16 billion active parameters. An observer posting as T or Taxes flagged it just under 4 hours before the launch post because the weights had sat on Hugging Face for days. The post said it loses to the July checkpoint on {quote} mundane evaluations, then added three words carrying the sentence if real. Footnote

two tells you why that hedge was there. Their 81.4 was measured on the public evaluation set by them. The rival figure is DeepSeek's official score from the private set run by the people who own the benchmark, and that one is independently verified at exactly that number. While Dots 3 has not appeared on that leaderboard at all. So,

here is the call in two halves pointing opposite ways. As a model to actually run, this is not the one. 577 GB and eight GPU node even compressed, and 393 downloads in the week since it appeared. It sits 10 points behind Claude Opus 4.8 on SweetBench Verified, and 13 behind Kimi K3 on Terminal Bench. For nearly every

viewer here, Qwen or DeepSeek is still the correct download this week, and it is not close. As a strategy, it already won. And the model being merely good is the point rather than the flaw. A lifestyle app can now build something in this class in-house and hand it out as a defensive expense. The teams it actually serves are the ones building agents that run for hours. Credit where it is owed

because this correction only exists thanks to Dots Studio. They printed the footnotes, named the harness, marked their own runs with an asterisk, and blocked Hugging Face during testing so the models could not look up answers. The bar chart oversells. The document underneath it does not. One last thing complicates it. On the 21st of July,

China's Commerce Ministry met Alibaba, ByteDance, and the lab behind GLM to discuss restricting foreign downloads of Chinese weights, filings for weak models, security reviews for strong ones, a possible ban for the strongest. 24 days later, Red Note published the full model under Apache 2.0. At the World AI Conference in Shanghai that same month, Xi Jinping told the room to seize this rare historic opportunity to encourage open source, then called for monitoring and early warning in the same speech. So, the closing question is not whether commoditization works. It

plainly does. It is this. If the model layer is the cheap one now, which layer is the expensive one? And has anybody in this story stopped to check who already owns it?