---
video_title: "Ornith 1.0 Is INSANE with Claude Code (FREE + Local + open Source)"
video_id: aKe71FrwL1o
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aKe71FrwL1o
video_date: 2026-06-28T09:03:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Did the new open-weight Ornith 1.0 model just kill Claude Code? When DeepReinforce dropped a self-scaffolding AI that can plan its own tool calls, the internet declared it the end of AI Agent frameworks. But they made a massive category error: Ornith is a brain, and Claude Code is the hands. 
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the fake rivalry between Ornith 1.0 and Claude Code, and explains why they are actually the ultimate local AI stack. We explore how DeepReinforce trained Ornith (using Qwen 3.5 and Gemma 4) with Reinforcement Learning to discover its own agentic scaffolding, and how its 397B flagship model scores a massive 82.4 on SWE-bench Verified. 
  
  Then, we give you a step-by-step tutorial on how to wire them together. Learn how to serve Ornith locally using vLLM, drop a proxy in the middle, and point Claude Code's terminal harness at your own private, open-source model. 
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The Fake Rivalry: Ornith vs Claude Code (from hk1 at 0.11s)
  2:15 - What is Ornith 1.0? (The Brain) (from cast1 at 135.71s)
  3:20 - How Self-Scaffolding AI Actually Works (from selfscaf at 200.61s)
  4:22 - What is Claude Code? (The Hands) (from cc1 at 262.83s)
  5:34 - The Paradox: Why They Work Perfectly Together (from para1 at 334.81s)
  6:46 - Tutorial: How to Wire Ornith into Claude Code (from wire1 at 406.61s)
  7:44 - Live Demo: Fixing a Broken Test (from demo at 464.32s)
  7:57 - SWE-bench Scores & The Honest Verdict (from bench397 at 477.59s)
  8:42 - The Hybrid Approach (Local vs Frontier) (from hybrid at 522.88s)
  9:20 - Summary: Killing the Myth (from myth at 560.00s)
  
  #ornith #claudecode #aiagents #opensource #deepreinforce #machinelearning #softwareengineering #cloudcodes
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE & WATCH NEXT
  Subscribe for a new systems deep-dive every week: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH US
  Twitter/X:  x.com/cloud_codes
  Join our developer community: discord.gg/HVnH9SY48 
  
  User Queries :
  ornith vs claude code
  what is ornith 1.0 deepreinforce
  claude code 
  claude fable 5 
  how to run ornith locally vllm
  self scaffolding ai explained
  claude code open source alternative
  swe bench verified ornith score
  how to use claude code with local models
  qwen 3.7 gemma 4 ornith
  build ai agent from scratch
  open weight coding models 2026
---
Last week, the internet decided that two of the best coding tools on the planet were about to fight to the death. In one corner, a brand new Open Weight model, in the other, Claude code, and almost everyone called the matchup completely wrong. This is Ornith 1.0. It landed on June 25th, 2026, from a research lab called Deep Reinforce. Open weights, MIT license, no regional locks. You can download it tonight and run the whole thing on your own hardware. But here is the part that's short-circuited people. Ornith does not just write code. During its training, it learned to write its own scaffold, its own plan, its own tool calls, its own way of checking and repairing its work as it goes. Most models wait to be told how to behave. This one figured out the how on its own, so the hot takes basically wrote themselves. If the model can scaffold itself, then who even needs Claude code anymore? Is this not finally the thing that replaces the agent harness for good? And that right there is the category error, because Ornith is a brain, Claude code is a pair of hands, one of them thinks. The other one actually reaches out and touches your machine. They are not the same kind of thing at all, and once you see that, the whole rivalry falls apart. Here is the giveaway. When Deep Reinforce measured how good Ornith really is, one of the harnesses they ran it inside was Claude code itself. They did not compete, they composed. The fight was imaginary from the start. Ornith ships in four sizes, a 9 billion, a 31 billion, a 35 billion mixture of experts, and a flagship at 397 billion, from something that fits on a laptop to something that feels a whole data center. Same family, same training, wildly different price tags, and the flagship is no toy. 82.4 on SWE Bench verified. Matching Claude Opus 4.7 and sitting just a few points behind Opus 4.8, an open model right there in that conversation. Which sets up something genuinely new. An open brain running inside one of the best agent harnesses ever built. Private, local, MIT licensed, and zero dollars per token. That exact combination simply did not exist a year ago. So let us actually understand this properly. What Ornith really is. What Claude code really is. And then, step by step, exactly how you wire the two of them together. Start with the model. Ornith is a family of open coding models from Deep Reinforce. Post trained on top of Gemma 4 and Quinn 3.5. Two already strong open bases, then pushed much, much further with reinforcement learning. They did not build a new brain from scratch. They took good ones and taught them to be agents. Four sizes, one shared design. The 9 billion runs on a single GPU. The 31 billion is the dense workhorse. The mixture of experts version holds 35 billion, but fires only about 3 billion per token. And the flagship is Frontier scale. And these are not short context toys. Every size reads a quarter of a million tokens at once. Up to 400,000 for whole repository work. And the 9 billion fits on 180 gigabyte card. Around 19 gigs in half precision. They are also agentic right out of the box. Each response opens with a visible thinking block. Then, emits clean, well-formed tool calls. And it all speaks the same open AI style format that every harness already understands. No exotic glue required. That detail is the whole reason it can slot straight into a tool like Claude code. Now the headline trick. Most models are trained inside a fixed human written scaffold that never changes. Ornith treats that scaffold as something to be learned. Not handed to it, but discovered, refined and rewritten by the model itself. It runs in two stages. The model proposes a scaffold, then uses that scaffold to actually solve the task. The reward from how well it did flows back into both stages. So the planning and the answers learn to get better. Together. Over thousands of rounds, the model is not just learning answers. It is learning how to work. And since a model that designs its own process could learn to game it, there are three guardrails. A hard outer trust boundary. A deterministic monitor that flags for bit and moves. And a frozen judge model that can veto an entire run. The payoff is efficiency. That little 9 billion matches Quinn 3.5 at 35 billion. And beats Gemma 4 at 31, landing around 69 on SWE bench verified while being a fraction of their size. Learning a better process, it turns out, is worth a lot of raw parameters. Now the other half of the title. Claude code is not a model at all. It is a harness. The loop that takes a goal, plans a step, runs a tool, reads what happened, and then goes around again until the job is genuinely done. And that loop matters far more than it sounds. A raw model can only emit text. The harness is the thing that turns that text into action. Opening files, running commands, feeding the errors back in. Without it, even the smartest brain in the world just talks. The harness is what lets it actually do. The harness also owns everything a model should never freely hold. Your real file system. A real terminal. The permission gate that pauses and asks before it ships. Plus sub agents, hooks, and connections to outside tools through MCP. None of that lives in the weights. All of it lives in the harness. Here is the quiet superpower though. Claude code does not actually care which brain is behind it. Point a single environment variable at a different endpoint. And the exact same harness will happily drive a completely different model. So hold the whole picture in your head. At the bottom, a model, the brain. In the middle, a harness, the hands. At the very top, you, with the goal. Three layers. Ornith and Claude code simply live on two different ones. Which takes us right back to the fight that never was. If Ornith already learned to scaffold itself, then is a harness like Claude code just deadweight bolted on top? It is a genuinely sharp question. It just happens to have a clean answer. No, because those are two different scaffolds. One of them lives in training. The other lives at runtime. What Ornith learned is how to behave like a disciplined agent. What it did not learn is how to edit a file on your laptop. So think about what that training actually bought you. A model that plans before it acts. That reaches for a tool instead of guessing. That checks its own output and recovers when a step fails. That makes it a far better tenant for a harness. Not a reason to delete one. A well-trained agent and a solid harness want exactly the same things. Because at runtime, something still has to hold the real keys, the actual repository, the actual shell, the approval before a command is allowed to run. Ornith brings the judgment. Claude brings the rails. And neither one of them is optional. Put them together and you finally get the good version of both. A brain that already knows how to act wired into hands that can safely act on your real machine. That is the entire promise in the title. Not against each other, but with each other. So how do you actually build this? Step one, serve the model. A single VLLM command brings Ornith up as an open AI compatible endpoint, listening on a port on your own box. No cloud account, no waiting list, no rate limit. Step two, drop a thin translator in front of it. Claude code talks an anthropic message format while Ornith speaks to open AI style. So a small proxy maps the requests across and back again. One little adapter sitting quietly in the middle. And the two sides understand each other perfectly. Step three, point Claude code at that proxy. Set the base URL variable, name Ornith as the model, and you are done. It is the exact same command line you already know. Except now there is an open, local brain answering behind it. And now just watch the loop run. Claude code hands Ornith the goal. Ornith thinks, then plans. The harness opens the file, runs the test, shows you the diff, and waits for your yes before it touches anything that matters. Give it something real. Fix this failing test. Ornith reads the error trace, edits the broken function, Claude reruns the whole suite, and the red bar flips to green. A local model, real tools, and an actually finished job. Now let us stay honest about where this really lands. On SWE bench verified, the flagship 82 beats deep seek in minimax, and ties Opus 4.7, but it still trails Opus 4.8 at 87. Close, genuinely close, just not ahead. And on the toughest terminal benchmarks, the very best closed models are still a step in front. So when does the open brain win outright? When the code has to stay on your own hardware, when it has to run with no internet at all, when the license has to be permissive. And when you simply refuse to pay by the token. And when does the frontier still win? On the hardest, longest horizon jobs, the sprawling, many step tasks, where the very top of the benchmark is exactly the handful of points that decide whether it finishes or quietly stalls. Which is why the real answer was never one or the other. Keep Claude code as the constant. The harness never has to change, and just swap the brain to fit the job. Open and local by default. Frontier on the days it actually counts. Same hands, different brain, depending on what the task is really worth. And step back for a second, because this is the real headline. An open weight model you can run yourself is now good enough to sit inside a top tier harness and do serious work. That line between open and frontier has never been this thin. A year ago, this whole setup was a research demo. Today, it is a Tuesday afternoon, so let us finally kill the myth. An open model that learned its own scaffold does not retire the harness, no more than a better engine retires the car around it. Model and harness are different layers, and the best setups run a great one of each. That is the whole story start to finish. Ornith is an open, self-scaffleding brain. Claude code is the hands that safely touch your machine. You drop the one into the other, and the cage match everyone wanted turns out to have been a stack all along. If that finally made the layers click into place, this channel is full of breakdowns built exactly like this one. So subscribe, stick around, and I will see you in the next one.