---
video_title: "China's 478x Faster \"Nvidia Killer\" Chip: What They're Not Telling You"
video_id: iJaauZSsmy8
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iJaauZSsmy8
video_date: 2026-07-06T11:53:13+00:00
video_description: |
  Did China just build an AI chip 478 times faster than an Nvidia A100? Social media is flooded with headlines about a new "Nvidia Killer" from Peking University, but the real science tells a completely different story. 
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the Nature Electronics research paper to explain what this 478x chip actually is: an Analog RRAM Matrix-Solver, not a digital GPU. We explain the difference between analog and digital computing, why moving data causes bottlenecks in modern GPUs, and how this new Chinese chip does math directly inside its memory cells using physical electrical currents.
  
  We also expose the 7 massive caveats the viral headlines are hiding—from the fact that this chip cannot run Large Language Models (LLMs) or ChatGPT, to why it's a co-processor meant for 6G signal processing, not a replacement for Nvidia's CUDA ecosystem. Finally, we discuss why the US export controls are forcing Chinese labs to innovate outside of traditional GPU architectures.
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  00:00 - The viral "Nvidia Killer" post that started it all
  00:51 - What it actually is: An analog chip, not a GPU
  01:50 - The dual reality: A real breakthrough, but wildly overhyped
  02:17 - Digital vs. Analog: Using physics to calculate instead of code
  03:19 - How the chip does math instantly "in the wire"
  03:53 - The specific 6G test that produced the 478x speed claim
  04:59 - The 7 major things the viral headlines left out
  06:01 - The prototype reality and Nvidia's massive software moat
  06:37 - How the internet mashed three completely different chips into one story
  06:56 - Where this chip will actually be incredibly useful
  07:29 - Export bans, specialized silicon, and if Nvidia should actually be scared
  08:01 - Final takeaways: A real breakthrough wrapped in a fake headline
  
  #nvidia #semiconductors #artificialintelligence #hardware #systemdesign #cloudcodes #machinelearning #tech #analogcomputing
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries: 
  china 478x nvidia killer chip explained
  peking university analog ai chip nature
  how analog computers work system design
  nvidia h100 a100 vs chinese chip
  is the china 478x chip real
  what is rram resistive memory explained
  analog vs digital computing ai
  china semiconductor export ban impact
  why cuda makes nvidia a monopoly
  matrix multiplication hardware accelerator
---
If you have been anywhere near tech this week, you have seen the headline. China built a chip that is 478 times faster than Nvidia, and it is tearing across every feed with the same two words stamped on it. Nvidia Killer, 478 times, not 4%, not 2x, 478 times faster than an A100, the exact chip that trained the first chat GPT. If that is real, it is the biggest hardware story of the decade. So the internet did what the internet does. Nvidia is finished, the GPU is dead. China just leapfrogged the entire west overnight, millions of views, thousands of reposts, and almost none of them from anyone who read the actual paper. Here is the twist, that number is real. It was published in Nature, one of the most respected journals on Earth. But almost everything the headline makes you believe about it is wrong, and that gap is the whole story. Because the first thing they are not telling you is simple. This is not a GPU, it cannot run chat GPT, it cannot train a model, it cannot even boot a game. It is a completely different kind of chip built for a completely different job, and once you see what that job is, the whole story changes. It is an analog chip. Instead of shuffling ones and zeros like every processor in your phone and your laptop, it computes with raw electrical current inside the memory itself, and that is where the speed actually comes from, and it does essentially one thing. It solves matrix equations, grids of numbers, multiplied and inverted. That math sits under 6G signal processing, and yes, under AI2, but it is one narrow slice of everything a GPU has to do. It comes out of peaking university, a team led by Sun Jong, published in Nature Electronics in October 2025, real scientists, real peer review, a genuine breakthrough, which is exactly why the hype wrapped around it is so misleading. So hold two ideas in your head at once. This is a beautiful, legitimate piece of engineering, and it is not the Nvidia killer your feed is screaming about. Both of those are true at the exact same time, and the space between them is where almost everyone gets fooled. Let me show you why. We will go through what this chip actually is, where that 478 really comes from, the seven things the viral posts quietly leave out, and why, despite every single one of them, it still genuinely matters. Start with the core idea, because it is the thing every headline glosses over. Every mainstream chip today is digital. It represents everything as ones and zeros, and it does math by pushing those bits through billions of tiny switches, one clean, reliable step after another after another. Analog computing throws that out. It lets physics do the math directly, a voltage, a current, a resistance. The numbers are not stored as bits, they are the actual electrical signal. Add two currents on a wire, and you have just done addition instantly for free. This is not new. Analog computers are older than digital ones. We abandon them for one reason, precision. Real signals are noisy and they drift, so analog was fast but sloppy. Great for a rough estimate, useless for an exact answer. That is the century old problem. What changed is the building block. This chip is made of RRAM, resistive memory. Picture each cell as a tiny dial that remembers a number as how easily current flows through it. Set the dials, and you have stored a whole grid of numbers directly in physical hardware. Now the clever part. Arrange those cells into a grid. A crossbar. Feed your input numbers in as voltages along the rows. By the plane laws of physics, the current pouring out of each column is the answer to a matrix multiply. The entire operation happens in one shot in the wire. That handles speed. To fix precision, the team ran two circuits together. One gives a fast, rough answer. The second cleans it up again and again until it is exact. The result analog that finally matches digital accuracy 24 bits of it for the first time. That is the real headline. So where does 478 come from? They tested it on one specific problem. Matrix inversion for massive MIMO. The antenna math that lets a single 6G tower untangle hundreds of phones talking at once. A real, valuable, and very particular workload. On small grids, it roughly ties a GPU core. But as the matrices grow, the analog chip pulls away hard. At 128 by 128, the paper clocks it past a thousand times the throughput. Work that takes a GPU a full day, it finishes in about a minute. Now decode the exact numbers you keep seeing fly past. 478 is measured against the A100. A thousand times is against the newer H100, best case at the very largest size. And roughly a hundred times less energy for the same answer. Every one of them true, and every one of them on that single narrow task. And the reason it wins is honest physics, not magic. A GPU spends its life shuddling data back and forth between memory and compute. Millions of times a second. The crossbar does the math where the data already lives. No round trip. That is the whole trick. And it is a good one. Okay, the seven things the headline skips. Number one, and the big one. This chip cannot do most of what a GPU does. No running language models, no training, no graphics, no game logic, no arbitrary code. It solves linear algebra. That is the entire job description. Two, even inside a real machine, it would not replace the GPU. It would sit next to it. An accelerator that a normal processor hands one specific kind of Mac two, then takes the answer back. That is a co-processor, not a killer. The GPU still runs the show. Three, the comparison is stacked from the start. A general purpose GPU will always lose to a chip built for exactly one operation. That is true of every accelerator ever made. And the A100 launched back in 2020. Nvidia is now two generations past it already shipping. Four, 478 and a thousand are the best case numbers at the sizes that flatter the design the most, shrink the problem, and the gap narrows toward nothing. One giant number makes a great headline. It is a terrible summary of the whole curve. Five, this is a research prototype. Genuinely impressive that it runs on a commercial process, but it is small. A few thousand cells sitting in a lab. There is no product, no data center rack, nothing you can buy. Turning a paper into a shipping chip takes years, sometimes a decade. Six, analogs old ghosts have not fully left. Devices drift, cells wear out, noise creeps back in, and there is no kuda, no software stack, no ecosystem. The exact thing that makes Nvidia almost impossible to unseat. The demo is real. The mode around Nvidia is far bigger than the demo. And seven, the sneakiest one. The viral posts are mashing together three completely different chips. This analog RRAM solver, a separate optical chip called light gen about 100 times an Aon 100 using light and sing wasphotonic chip from 2023. Three labs, three stories, one fake headline. So is it nothing? Absolutely not. For its actual job, it is superb. Six G-Base stations, scientific simulation, heavy signal processing, and low power edge devices that can never afford a hot hungry GPU. In those lanes, this is a real meaningful leap forward, and it points at something much bigger. The era of one chip does everything is quietly ending. The future is a box full of specialized silicon, GPUs, custom ASICs, analog, maybe photonics. Each one crushing the single job it was built for. This chip is an early postcard from that future. There is a reason China is pushing analog and optical this hard too. Cut off from Nvidia's best hardware by export controls, going around the GPU entirely is a genuinely smart bet. Whether or not this exact chip wins, that strategy is very, very real. So should Nvidia be scared tonight? No, not even a little. Should they be watching this whole space carefully for the next 10 years? Absolutely yes. Both of those can be true at once, and the honest answer lives right there in the gap between them. Never inside a one line headline built to be reposted. So, three things to walk away with. One, the 478 is real, from a real nature paper. Two, it is a specialized analog matrix solver, not a GPU and not a killer. Three, it matters most for 6G and efficiency, not for running your favorite AI. Here is the entire video in a single sentence. It is a real breakthrough wrapped in a fake headline, and once you can see that exact shape, you will spot it in every China chip story that scrolls past you from here on out. If this helped you cut through the noise, subscribe. Cutting through the noise on every viral tech claim and actually reading the paper so you do not have to is the entire point of this channel. Drop the next chip headline you want fact checked in the comments, and I will see you in the next one.