---
video_title: "Mojo + Vulkan is INSANE: Run Local AI on ANY GPU (Goodbye CUDA)"
video_id: oZagkCkBkww
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oZagkCkBkww
video_date: 2026-07-10T17:13:51+00:00
video_description: |
  Do you really need an expensive NVIDIA GPU to run Local AI, or is the "CUDA Moat" finally collapsing? Discover how two massive software breakthroughs the Vulkan API and the Mojo programming language are allowing developers to run frontier AI models on AMD, Intel, and Apple Silicon without paying the "Nvidia Tax."
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system architecture behind the open-source Local AI revolution. We explore how `llama.cpp` uses the Vulkan backend to run GGUF models on basically any consumer hardware, and how AMD's 7900 XTX actually runs faster on open-source Vulkan than on AMD's official ROCm stack. 
  
  We also dive deep into Mojo (created by Chris Lattner), a new language that writes like Python but runs at the speed of C++. We reveal the shocking GTC benchmark where a 770-line Mojo script matched the speed of NVIDIA's elite, hand-tuned CUDA library (CUTLASS) on NVIDIA's own B200 flagship chip. Finally, we discuss why Qualcomm just paid $4 Billion for Modular, and what it means for the future of AI hardware.
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - Breaking NVIDIA's CUDA Monopoly 
  1:06 - The Problem: 15 Years of Vendor Lock-In
  3:05 - The First Escape Route: Vulkan API & llama.cpp
  4:52 - GGUF: The Only File You Need
  5:08 - The Benchmarks: AMD, Intel Arc & Apple Silicon
  7:15 - The Catch: Top-End Performance
  7:44 - The Second Escape Route: Mojo & Project MAX
  9:12 - The "Impossible" Container (AMD MI300X vs H200)
  11:24 - How Mojo Beat CUDA on NVIDIA's Own Hardware
  13:03 - Why Qualcomm Bought Modular for $4 Billion
  13:45 - The Honest Verdict: CUDA vs Mojo vs Vulkan
  14:44 - How to Run AI on Your AMD/Intel GPU Today
  
  #nvidia #mojo #vulkan #localai #systemdesign #softwareengineering #artificialintelligence #cloudcodes #machinelearning #amd
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries: 
  mojo programming language vs python
  run local ai on amd gpu without rocm
  vulkan vs cuda for machine learning
  llama.cpp vulkan backend tutorial
  run deepseek r1 on intel arc gpu
  what is mojo chris lattner modular
  qualcomm modular acquisition explained
  how to use lm studio with vulkan amd
  nvidia cutlass vs mojo benchmark
  is cuda dead mojo alternative
---
For 15 years, running AI on a GPU meant one word, kuda. Nvidia software welded to Nvidia's chips. No green card, no local AI. That was the whole rule. That rule just broke. You can now run local AI on almost any GPU, AMD, Intel, Apple, even the graphics baked into a cheap laptop. No kuda, no Nvidia tax, and on some hardware, the free path is now the faster one. Two things are draining the mode. Vulkan lets you run models today. Mojo lets you build them without kuda at all. And here's the tell that this is real. Three weeks ago, Qualcomm paid nearly $4 billion for the company behind it. On the Vulkan side, it already works. One file, any GPU, token streaming, no toolkit, no driver nightmare. On an AMD card, that open cross vendor path is often faster than AMD's own official software. Sit with that for a second. On the Mojo side, someone rewrote Nvidia's own GPU code and matched it. On Nvidia's newest chip, two roads out of the walled garden, I'll walk you down both and show you exactly where each one still hurts. Start with the villain, because kuda is the reason any of this is a story. Kuda is the language you use to talk to an Nvidia GPU, the layer that turns your ordinary code into thousands of tiny operations the chip runs in parallel. Without something like it, a GPU is just a very expensive space heater. And every serious AI framework sits on top of it. PyTorch, TensorFlow, Jax, VLLM, scratch any of them and you hit kuda underneath. It has been the literal ground floor of machine learning for over a decade, poured before most of these tools even existed. The trouble is not kuda itself. It's genuinely good software. The trouble is that kuda only runs on Nvidia. 15 years of the world's AI code got quietly welded to exactly one company's hardware, and unwelding it is expensive and painful. The industry even has a name for this, the kuda mode. It is a huge part of why Nvidia became the most valuable company on the planet. The chips are fast, sure, but the real lock is a software, and Nvidia holds the only key. For people running models at home, that mode meant a very short menu. You want local AI by Nvidia. Your AMD card, your Intel card, the perfectly capable GPU already sitting in your machine. Sorry, not invited to the party. And that is a little insane because a modern AMD or Intel GPU has plenty of raw muscle, often more memory per dollar than the Nvidia equivalent. It was never a hardware problem. It was a software wall built and maintained on purpose. And no, this isn't the first attempt to knock the wall down. 10 years ago, there was OpenCL, the great cross vendor hope, right once, run on any GPU. It fizzled. Too clunky, too half supported, and Nvidia had zero reason to make it good. A whole generation tried and gave up. But the question never died. In every local AI forum asked 1,000 different ways, why can't I just use the graphics card I already paid for? In 2026, that question finally has a real answer. Two of them. Here's the surprise. In 2026, mostly, you can. And the first answer comes from a place nobody expected. The world of video games. It's a graphics API called Vulcan. Vulcan is a low level, open standard for driving a GPU. It was designed so a game could run on any card from any vendor. Every one of them supports it. Nvidia, AMD, Intel, Apple. That universal reach is the entire trick. Because here is the thing games taught us by accident. A GPU crunching Matrix math to light up a game world is doing the exact same math a language model needs. Same silicon, same operations, just point it at tokens instead of triangles. The tool that tied it all together is Lama. CPP, the small ferocious engine that quietly runs most local AI on Earth. It just crossed 100,000 stars on GitHub, and its whole philosophy is that your GPU is something to be used, not licensed. Raspberry Pi to 8 GPU server, it runs on all of it. Lama. CPP speaks every GPU dialect there is. CUDA for Nvidia, Rock M for AMD, Metal for Apple, Cycle for Intel, five separate stacks, five separate headaches. But the back end that actually broke the thing open is the one that belongs to nobody and works on everybody. Vulcan. Quick literacy check, because I'm about to throw numbers at you. Tokens per second is just how fast the model spits out words. Roughly speaking, anything above 10 is faster than you can comfortably read. So when I say 190, picture text arriving quicker than your eyes can keep up. One Vulcan build runs on all of those GPUs. You don't install a four gigabyte vendor toolkit. You don't burn a weekend fighting driver versions in kernel modules. You download one binary, pointed at whatever card you own, and it simply starts generating. That's the whole setup. And the thing you actually download is almost comically simple. It's a single file, a GGUF, the entire model, quantized down so it squeezes into your GPU's memory. No installer, no account, no sign-in wall. One file on your drive waiting for you to load it and go. Now the part one genuinely enjoy the receipts. The community benchmarks nearly every card ever made on the same 7 billion model and post it all in the open. And the scoreboard quietly demolishes the idea that you need a green Nvidia box to play. Take AMD's 7,900 XTX. On Vulcan, it pushes about 191 tokens a second on a small model. No rock and minstall, no kuda, just the graphics driver you already have. That is faster than a lot of people's paid cloud experience coming out of a gaming card with zero Nvidia involved. And now the line that made me rerun the numbers to be sure. On that same AMD card, Vulcan generates tokens faster than rock em, AMD's own official AI stack, the one they spent years building. The open vendor neutral path beat the vendor at its own game on its own hardware. That is not supposed to happen. It's not a fluke on one card. On AMD's newest laptop chip, Strix Halo, testers clock Vulcan running about 21% faster than rock em, and steadier with less run to run wobble. Open one again. Intel's art cards, the ones everyone wrote off, running language models perfectly well on Vulcan. A budget B580 does around 70 tokens a second, on a GPU that costs a couple hundred dollars brand new. Apple Silicon walks in through a translation layer called molten VK, and M3 Ultra clears 115 tokens a second. Notice there has not been a single Nvidia card in the last four examples. It even reaches the bottom of the barrel. The little GPU baked into a risingship. The integrated graphics people ignore will run a 7 billion model at comfortable reading speed. Two years ago, that was a joke. Now it's a Tuesday. There's a sneaky bonus too. The CUDA backend keeps a whole CPU core spinning in a busy weight loop pegged at 100% just to pull the GPU. Vulcan doesn't bother, so your machine runs quieter, cooler, and leaves the CPU for actual work. And doing all of this is almost anticlimactic. Install LM Studio, or grab llama.cpp. Pick the Vulcan runtime from a drop down. Load a GGUF model file. That is the entire ceremony. No compiler, no CUDA, no permission slip. Now the honest catch, because I refuse to sell you a fantasy. At the very top end on Nvidia's best cards, raw CUDA is still faster. A 5,090 on CUDA does about 290 tokens a second. The same card on Vulcan, around 263. Nvidia still wins the drag race. But look at what the fight even is now. It went from Nvidia is the only option. Two Nvidia is a bit faster if you buy the flagship. That is a monopoly collapsing into a preference. And a preference is something you can walk away from. That's road one. Vulcan runs today's models on any GPU. Road two is more ambitious. Instead of routing around CUDA, it rebuilds the thing CUDA does, writing GPU code from scratch for every vendor at once. That road is a language called Mojo. Mojo comes from Modular, a startup founded by Chris Latner. If that name is new to you, he built Swift, the language iPhone apps are written in, and LLVM, the compiler infrastructure sitting underneath have to software you touch. He is not a tourist here. The pitch is gloriously greedy. Write code that reads like Python. Friendly, clean, familiar. But runs at the speed of hand-tunes C++, right on the GPU. The easy language and the fast language, finally the same language. And here is the part that matters for our story. One Mojo kernel compiles down to whatever GPU is in front of it. Nvidia, AMD, doesn't matter. You write the math once, and the compiler emits the right low-level machine code for each vendor at build time. No CUDA rewrite, no parallel code bases, no begging one company to support your card. And it meets you where you already live. You can call Mojo straight from Python, keep your normal Python app exactly as it is, and swap only the slow GPU hotspot for a Mojo version. It's not a rip and replace. It's a turbo button bolted onto the one part that actually hurts. Mojo ships inside a serving stack called MAX. And last year, modular pulled off the exact thing the whole industry kept insisting was basically impossible. One container, the exact same code, the exact same image, deployed on AMD data center GPUs and Nvidia data center GPUs with zero changes. No CUDA port, no rock and port. You swapped the hardware underneath and the software never notices. And it was not a demo held together with tape. On AMD's MI 300X, MAX ran up to 53% more throughput than VLLM. The server everybody uses as the gold standard on real language models like Lama and Mistral. On another AMD chip, it matched in videos H200, one of the most expensive accelerators on the market, token for token on the same real world workload, same output, cheaper silicon, no lock-in. For a company weighing a data center bill, that is the difference between one supplier who names the price and two suppliers who compete for you. And they didn't forget the GPU on your desk. Mojo now targets consumer cards too, AMD's RDNA line. And every Nvidia RTX from the old 20 series right up to the brand new 50 series, all from one shared co-base. The same portability that ran on data center monsters reaches down to the card in your gaming rig. And this isn't only about chatbots. At GTC, modular ran a full image generation model. Black Forest Labs flux through the same Mojo stack on a little desktop box, then scaled the identical code up to a data center chip. Text, images, video, one portable engine underneath all of it. Then they did the thing that really twist the knife. They open sourced it. Over 450,000 lines of production GPU kernel code, out in the open, free to read, fork, and extend. Kuda is a black box you rent. This is the same class of software handed to you with the hood up. OK, this is the moment that made me want to make this video in the first place. It happened at GTC, Nvidia's own conference, this past march. And it is a little cheeky. Nvidia has a library called Cutlass. It is the Crown Jewels, brutally hand-tuned Kuda, written by Nvidia's own experts in Nvidia's own language for Nvidia's newest blackwall chips. The received wisdom in this field is dead simple. Nobody outcodes Cutlass on Nvidia hardware. That's not a rule someone wrote down. It's just been true for years. Modular took one of those elite kernels and rewrote it in Mojo, not on AMD, where you'd expect them to show off. On Nvidia's own B200, the flagship, going head to head with Kuda on the one battlefield, Kuda is supposed to own outright. And the number that came back was 130.7 teraflops. That is dead level with Nvidia's own hand-tuned Kuda kernel, not close, level. Matched on the exact chip, Kuda was designed, built, and optimized to run. It's home field, it's home stadium, and the visiting team tied the score. And it took about 770 lines of Mojo, the Kuda version, roughly 3,000, same speed, a quarter of the code, which means it's easier to read, easier to change, and easier for a human to actually understand. That is not a moral victory or a close enough. That is walking onto someone's home court and winning cleaner than the home team does. They even published the Git history. The kernel dragging itself from a pathetic 0.16 teraflops up to 130, optimization by optimization. And the whole port was done in a single sitting with an AI agent driving most of the edits. Read that twice. Mojo hits its 1.0 release later this year. And once a language can match Kuda on Kuda's own turf, you must use Nvidia stops being a law of physics. It quietly downgrades to a habit. And habits are breakable. And this is not a research paper gathering dust. Modular just shipped its 26.4 release with state of the art serving for the big mixture of experts models. And Mojo's 1.0 beta is already in developer's hands. Its live code updated every few weeks, moving faster than most people realize, which drags us right back to that $4 billion tell from the top. In June, Qualcomm bought Modular, not a license, not a partnership, the entire company for nearly $4 billion all in stock. And think about who Qualcomm is. They don't make Nvidia GPUs. They make the chip in your phone. They just paid $4 billion for a software layer whose entire purpose is running AI on anything that isn't locked to Kuda. When a hardware giant spends that kind of money specifically to make Kuda optional, you are watching the smart money place its bet in public. Qualcomm is not buying nostalgia. They're buying the pickaxe for a world where AI runs on everyone's silicon, not just one companies. That is a very loud vote on which way this goes. Now, real talk, because hype ages badly and I want you to trust me in a year. Kuda still wins today. It has a 15 year head start, a million tutorials, and every library tuned for it first. Mojo is young, and its ecosystem is thin. Vulcan still trails raw Kuda at the very top end. If you're shipping a giant production cluster tomorrow, you're probably still on Nvidia. None of that is the point. The point is that the door is finally open. A year ago, there was one road out of local AI, and it ran straight through Nvidia's gate with Nvidia charging the toll. Now there are three roads, and two of them never stop to ask Nvidia for permission at all. Once that's true, it never goes back to one. So who should care right now? If you own an AMD card, an Intel Arc, a Mac, or a gaming laptop that's been gathering dust in a closet, you can run serious local AI tonight for free on the hardware you already have. You are not waiting on a new GPU or a spot in a queue. You already own the ticket. Nobody told you the gate was open. Here's the move, and it's genuinely this short. Download LM Studio. Switch the runtime to Vulcan in the settings. Load a small model file. 15 minutes, $0.00, no account, and you'll watch a GPU that some spec sheet swore was unsaparded, light up, and start thinking in front of you. The Kuda mode isn't gone, but for the first time in 15 years, it's just a mode, not a wall. The water is draining. You can see the far bank, and the crossing is finally open to anyone who wants it. I'd start walking. If a video like this is how you like to catch these shifts before they're obvious, you already know what to do.