---
video_title: "Go Compiler That Replaced TypeScript (tsgo) | TypeScript 7 Explained"
video_id: ZSZComYuks0
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSZComYuks0
video_date: 2026-07-04T16:30:14+00:00
video_description: |
  TypeScript is officially no longer written in TypeScript. To break past the limits of a single-threaded JavaScript runtime, Microsoft has deleted a decade of compiler code and ported the entire TypeScript 7 compiler to Go (Project Corsa / tsgo). The result? It's up to 10x faster. 
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system architecture behind the massive TypeScript 7.0 release. We explore why the original `tsc` command was so slow, how the new Go compiler achieves true multithreading, and the fascinating technical reason why Anders Hejlsberg and the Microsoft team explicitly chose Go over Rust (hint: it has to do with compiler ASTs, cyclic graphs, and the borrow checker).
  
  We also dive into the real-world benchmarks—like VS Code's type-checking dropping from 89 seconds to 8 seconds—and cover the honest caveats you need to know before upgrading, including breaking changes and why plugins like `typescript-eslint` won't work on day one.
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The Impossible Sentence
  1:34 - Why the Old TypeScript Compiler Was Slow
  2:54 - Why Microsoft Chose Go Over Rust
  4:43 - How They Ported It (Without Breaking Everything)
  6:01 - The 10x Speed Benchmarks (VS Code & Sentry)
  7:00 - How to Get TypeScript 7 Today (`tsgo`)
  7:48 - The Catch: Broken Plugins & ESLint
  8:43 - Summary: The Future of Web Tooling
  
  #typescript #golang #softwareengineering #rust #webdevelopment #javascript #cloudcodes #systemdesign #programming
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE & WATCH NEXT
  Subscribe for a new systems deep-dive every week: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH US
  Twitter/X:  x.com/cloud_codes
  Join our developer community: discord.gg/HVnH9SY48 
  
  User Queries : 
  typescript rewritten in go
  typescript 7 release date and features
  why microsoft chose go over rust
  tsgo typescript compiler tutorial
  how to make typescript compiler faster
  project corsa typescript explained
  typescript vs go vs rust
  anders hejlsberg typescript 7
  what is tsgo
  frontend web development 2026
---
Here's a sentence that really should not be possible. TypeScript is no longer written in TypeScript. Think about how strange that is. The compiler, the program that reads your code and checks every single type, was itself a TypeScript program. TypeScript, checking TypeScript, written in TypeScript, that is over now. Microsoft took its own compiler, the one it had built and polished for over a decade, and deleted it. Then it rewrote the entire thing from scratch in a completely different language, and the language they picked was Go. Not Rust, Go. And the reason they put themselves through all of that speed. The new compiler is, in Microsoft's own careful words, often about 10 times faster. Here's the proof, on a code base you already know. VS Code is roughly 1.5 million lines of TypeScript. Type checking, it used to take about 78 seconds. The new compiler does it in seven and a half, and this is not a research demo you will see someday. The release candidate shipped on June 18th, and the stable version is expected within about a month. This is landing any day now. Here's why that matters so much. TypeScript is not niche. Last year it became the single most used language on all of GitHub, 2.6 million monthly contributors, finally passing Python. So the number one language on the planet's biggest code platform is about to hand every one of those developers a 10 times faster compiler for free. And the trick behind it is almost philosophical. How do you make a language written in itself dramatically faster? You stop writing it in itself. This is Project Corsa, shipping as TypeScript 7. Let's break down exactly what Microsoft did and why they reached for go of all things. Let's start with the obvious question, because the answer explains everything that follows. Why was the old compiler slow in the first place? The honest answer is that it ran on JavaScript and remember what that means. TSE was a JavaScript program you launched with Node. Every type check booted a Node process, loaded a giant bundle, waited for the just in time compiler to warm up and only then started the real work. Worse, JavaScript is single threaded. One CPU core, no matter how many your machine has. And there is an irony worth pausing on. Most mature languages eventually get written in themselves. Go's compiler is written in Go, Rusts in Rust, C sharp in C sharp. TypeScript's compiler never crossed that line for performance. And now, to finally go fast, it is leaving its own language entirely. For years, none of this mattered, because projects were small. Then the ecosystem exploded. A serious front end today can be a million lines of types. And the checker has to hold that entire tangle graph in memory and reason over all of it at once. So you would hit save and wait. Editor startup on a big repo took nearly 10 seconds. Autocomplete would freeze mid-keystroke. And here's the trap. You cannot optimize your way out of this. You can tune the code all you like, but a single threaded garbage collected runtime is a hard wall. At some point, the language you are written in becomes the ceiling. So in March of 2025, Anders Heilsberg stepped up to announce the fix. If that name is new to you, he built C sharp. He built Turbo Pascal and Delphi. And he co-created TypeScript itself. When this man talks about compilers, the whole industry listens. His plan was blunt. Re-write the compiler in a native language, one that compiles straight to machine code, and one that can actually use every core in your processor at the same time. And this is the exact moment the internet lost its mind. Because in 2025, the reflex answer to make it fast is rust. Everybody re-writes everything in rust. It is practically a meme. So Microsoft looked at rust and said, no, they chose go instead. And the reasoning is the most interesting part of this entire story, because it has nothing to do with fashion. It is about the actual shape of the code inside a compiler. Picture what a compiler really is on the inside, a giant web of things pointing at each other. The syntax tree points down to its children and back up to its parents. Every symbol points at its declarations and those declarations point right back. Types reference other types in endless loops. Now that kind of cyclic, self-referencing graph is exactly the pattern that Rust's borrow checker is designed to forbid. You could force it, but you would spend years fighting the compiler over who owns which pointer. For a faithful port, that is a non-starter. Go handles it effortlessly. It has a garbage collector and shared memory, so cyclic graphs are basically free. It compiles to fast native code. It has real lightweight threads built in and crucially. Its structure is close enough to the original that they could translate the code almost line for line. And they did prototype in several languages, including C-sharp, Halesburg's own creation. Go simply one on the balance of raw speed, instant start-up, and portability. In his words, it was the path of least resistance to 10 times faster. And that phrase, line for line, is the real secret to why this project shipped instead of dragging on for years. Because this is a port, not a rewrite. And that distinction matters enormously. They did not sit down and reinvent how TypeScript checks types. They took the existing battle-tested logic and translated it, function by function, file by file, and to go, keeping the exact same behavior at every single step, which raises the obvious fear. How do you prove a translation this enormous did not quietly break something? You run the old test suite against the new code, 20,000 compiler tests, 6,000 of which expect very specific error messages. The Go version reproduced all but 74 of them. 74 disagreements out of 20,000 tests for a from scratch re-implementation of an entire type system. That is a genuinely stunning level of fidelity. And only once the behavior matched, did they unlock what Go gives you for free, real parallelism. The type checker can now split its work across many CPU cores at once, with new flags that let you dial in how many checkers and builders run in parallel. Stack it all together. Native machine code, no warmup cost, true multi-threading, instant startup, and roughly half the memory, and suddenly 10 times faster, stop sounding like marketing, and start sounding inevitable. Speaking of that number, let's look at the actual receipts because Microsoft published them comparing the old JavaScript compiler head-to-head with the new Go one. Century went from 133 seconds down to 16. Type ORM from nearly 16 seconds to just one. Playwright, from nine seconds to a little over one, and VS code from 89 seconds down to under nine. This is not one lucky benchmark. It is eight to 10 times faster consistently across completely different co-bases, and build time is only half of the story. Memory usage is roughly cut in half. Editor load on the VS code project drops from 9.6 seconds to 1.2, and in fuzz testing, the language server fell over more than 20 times less often than before. That last part is the one people underrate. This is not only about faster continuous integration builds. It is a faster editor, every hover, every autumn pooply, every jump to definition, every red squiggle, snappier, and more reliable. So how does all of this reach your machine through a version plan that is a little unusual? TypeScript 6 is the final version written in JavaScript. Think of it as a bridge. There is no 6.1 coming. Every bit of the team's energy now flows into 7, the go one, and you can run it right now today. Install TypeScript at the release candidate tag, and the plain old TSE command you already know is quietly the go compiler. If you would rather live on nightlies, there is a native preview package where the binary is simply called TSE Go, and this is not just hobbyist poking at a preview. Bloomberg, Figma, Google, Slack, Notion, Linear, and Versel, we're all running it and testing before the release candidate was even public. When teams with millions of lines of code trusted early, that confidence is its own kind of benchmark. Now for the honest part, because if I stopped here, I would be selling you a fantasy. First, that 10 times figure is an average, not a promise. Microsoft's careful wording is often 10 times faster. On a small project, you might see three or four. Your mileage genuinely depends on your code base. Second, and this is the big one for a lot of teams. Version 7.0 does not have a stable plug in API yet, and a huge chunk of the ecosystem is built on that API. So TypeScript, ASLONT, TS Morph, and Custom Transformers simply do not work with the new compiler yet. That support is coming in 7.1 a few months out. And third, this is a major version, so there are genuine breaking changes. Stric mode is on by default now. Ancient compile targets like ES5 are gone. A handful of TS config options were removed outright, and the JavaScript emits path is still being finished. There is a migration tool, but it is not completely effortless. But zoom all the way out, pass the flags, and the caveats, and look at what actually just happened. The most used programming language on the planet's biggest code platform just made its core tooling roughly 10 times faster without asking you to change a single line of your own code. You just get the speed. And it pulled that off, not by chasing the trendiest language on the timeline, but by soberly picking the one that actually fit the problem. It is a quiet, powerful lesson, the right tool, not the loudest one. And it makes you wonder where the rest of the performance critical web is heading next. Four numbers to walk away with, 10 times faster, ported to go over the course of about one year, serving 2.6 million monthly developers with just 74 test cases left to reconcile. So when the stable release drops, and it is close, the TSE you have typed 1,000 times will quietly become a native Go binary, exact same command, roughly 10 times the speed, TypeScript, no longer written in TypeScript. That is Project Corsa. If this rewired how you think about your tools, subscribe. The next breakdown drops soon.