---
video_title: "GGUF vs AWQ vs GPTQ: LLM Quantization Methods Explained"
video_id: 7hYSmzIZXNs
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7hYSmzIZXNs
video_date: 2026-06-21T01:30:32+00:00
video_description: |
  Quantization is often sold as "smaller = cheaper = better." But the three things people conflate—VRAM savings, inference speed, and model accuracy—do not move together. In this video, we go under the hood of GGUF, AWQ, and GPTQ to find the true quantization sweet spot.
  
  We unpack why the 4-bit tier (like GGUF Q4_K_M) successfully balances size, speed, and intelligence, while pointing out the silent trade-offs of 8-bit (zero speedup) and 2-bit formats (the edge of model collapse).
  
  Whether you are hosting open-source LLMs on a local GPU or trying to optimize server inference at scale, we break down the mathematical mechanics—from GPTQ's Hessian matrix approach to AWQ's activation-aware scaling tricks.
  
  📌 Timestamps:
  0:00 - Why Quantize? The VRAM & Accuracy Paradox
  1:10 - PTQ vs QAT: Post-Training vs Quantization-Aware Training
  2:00 - Round to Nearest (RTN): The Simplest Quantization Baseline
  2:20 - GPTQ Deep Dive: The Hessian Matrix Method
  3:30 - The 3-Bit Catch: When Sophisticated Math Fails
  4:00 - AWQ: Activation-Aware Weight Quantization (Salient Weights)
  5:20 - GGUF & K-Quants: The Format That Saved Local AI
  6:25 - Ternary Frontier: BitNet b1.58 (1.58-Bit Weights)
  7:10 - The Cliff: Why Models Collapse Below 4-Bits
  7:40 - The 8-Bit Fallacy: Half Memory, Zero Speedup
  8:15 - The Verdict: The 4-Bit Pareto Sweet Spot
  
  🔗 Resources & Papers Cited:
  - Frantar et al. (2022) - "GPTQ: Accurate Post-Training Quantization"
  - Lin et al. (2023) - "AWQ: Activation-aware Weight Quantization"
  - Georgi Gerganov (2023) - llama.cpp / GGUF Specifications
  - Ma et al. (2024) - "The Era of 1-bit LLMs: BitNet b1.58"
  
  If this technical breakdown helped clarify your deployment strategy, subscribe to Cloud Codes. We take apart one system architecture or deployment paradigm like this every week. Build, solve, deploy.
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE & WATCH NEXT
  Subscribe for a new systems deep-dive every week: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH US
  Twitter/X:  x.com/cloud_codes
  Join our developer community: discord.gg/HVnH9SY48 
  
  User Queries: 
  gguf vs awq vs gptq
  llm quantization explained
  what is the difference between awq and gptq
  how does gguf quantization work
  q4_k_m vs q8_0
  does 4 bit quantization lose accuracy
  bitnet 1.58 bit explained
  llm.int8 zero speedup
  how to fit a 70b model on one gpu
---
A 70 billion parameter model needs 140 gigabytes of VRAM. That's two a 100 GPUs just to load it. But shrink each weight from 16 bits to 4, and the same model fits in 35. Same model four times smaller. The trick is called quantization, and not all versions of it are equal. Here's what nobody tells you. Quantization promises three things at once, less memory, faster inference, and maintained accuracy. But those three don't move together. Some methods shrink the model, but don't speed it up. Some make it blazing fast and break the brain. Knowing which is which is the whole game. So what is it? A neural network is just millions of numbers, weights, stored at 16 bit floats. Quantization replaces those with lower precision numbers. 8-bit integers, 4-bit, even 2, each weight drops from 16 bits to 4. The model gets four times smaller because it's storing a quarter of the data. The math is simple. 70 billion parameters times two bytes each equals 140 gigabytes. At four bits, half a byte each, that's 35. In practice, Lama 3.170 billion quantized to Q4KM is 43 gigabytes, six and a half times smaller than the original. A model that needed a server cluster running on one GPU. There are two ways to get there. You can quantize a model that's already trained, that's post-training quantization or PTQ, or you can train the model knowing it'll be quantized, quantization aware training, QATI. One is fast and easy, the other is better, but cost you GPUs, PTQ is the practical path. You take a trained model, run a script, and out comes a smaller version. No GPUs needed for training, minutes, not days. Almost every quantized model you've used, every Lama download, every LM studio model, was quantized this way. GPTQ, EWQ, GGUF, all PTQ, QATI goes deeper. During training, the model simulates being quantized, it sees fake low precision weights and learns to compensate. The result is better accuracy at lower bit widths, but you need the training pipeline, the data, and the compute. You're not converting a model, you're raising one to be small. The simplest PTQ method is RTN, round to nearest. Each 16-bit weight gets rounded to the nearest 4-bit value. No math, no compensation, no cleverness. It's free and instant, and it works fine at 4-bits. Below that, it falls off a cliff, but we'll get to that. GPTQ was the breakthrough. Elias Frintar and team published it in October 2022. Instead of rounding weights blindly, it uses the Hessian, the matrix of second derivatives, to account for how weights interact. Round one weight, see how it affects the others, compensate, one shot, no retraining. Here's the intuition. Weight aren't independent, changing one shifts the others. RTN ignores that GPTQ processes weights column by column, using second order information to minimize the total error from each rounding step. It's the difference between rounding each number in isolation and rounding them as a system. The results are remarkable. OPT 175B, 175 billion parameters, quantized to four bit in about four GPU hours on a single A100. Perplexity went from 8.34 to 8.37, a difference of 0.03, effectively lossless. The model shrank four times and forgot nothing. At three bits, the savings get extreme. OPT 175B, at three-bit GPTQ, fits on 180GB A100. The same model in FP16 needs five. Five GPUs down to one. An inference is 3.24 times faster on the A100, 4.53 times on an A6000. Smaller, faster, cheaper, all at once. But here's the catch nobody mentioned. On small models at three bits, GPTQ sophisticated Hessean method is actually worse than dumb round teneerist. Lama 7 billion at three bits, GPTQ gets perplexity 8.81. RTN gets 7.01. The clever method lost to the dumb one. The method matters as much as the bit width. AWQ came next. G-Lean and the MIT hand lab, June 2023. Activation aware weight quantization. The insight, not all weights matter equally. A tiny fraction, about 1% carries most of the signal. Protect those and quantize the rest aggressively and you keep accuracy with almost no overhead. How do you find the important weights? Not by looking at the weights themselves, by looking at the activations. Wates with large activations flowing through them are salient. AWQ scales those channels up before quantizing and scales them back down after. So rounding errors stay small where it matters. The other 99% get squeezed hard. The numbers prove it. OPT6, 7B at three bits. Round teneerist gives perplexity 43.2. AWQ brings it to 13. On Lama 270B at three bits, AWQ beats GPTQ, perplexity 3.74 versus 3.88. Same bit width, better method, better model. And AWQ is orthogonal to GPTQ. You can combine them. It's also fast. 2.7 to 3.9 times faster than FP16 on an RTX 4,090. Fast enough to run Lama 270B, a 70 billion parameter model on a single jetson Orion with 64 gigabytes. That's consumer hardware. A model that used to need a data center running on something you can hold, then there's GGUF, the format that powered the local AI boom, built by Georgi Gurganov for Lama TCPP, starting August 2023. GGUF isn't a quantization algorithm. It's a file format that stores quantized weights plus metadata in a single file. Its job make models runnable on CPUs and consumer GPUs. No data center required. GGUF secret is the K-quant family, Q4KM, the community default, uses about 4.89 bits per weight. Q8 zero uses 8.5. Q2K small uses 2.97. Each is a different trade. Q4KM is the sweet spot most people pick. It's the just works option. And it's fast. Lama 3.18 billion in FP16 generates at 29 tokens per second, quantized to Q4KM 72. That's 2.46 times faster. Push to Q2K small and you hit 90 tokens per second, the fastest format in the table. But speed isn't the only number that matters. GGUF won the ecosystem. Lama, LM studio, GPT4 all, every major local AI tool reads GGUF. One file, drop it in, run the model, no framework, no container, no GPU server. That's why quantization went mainstream. Not because of a paper, because of a file format that made it trivial. Now the frontier, bitnet B1, 58, Microsoft, February 2024, they asked how few bits can await use? The answer 1.58. Each weight is turnery, negative 1, 0, or positive 1. Not four bits, not two, one and a half. The entire model becomes additions and subtractions, no multiplication needed, and it works. A 3 billion parameter bitnet matches the FP16 LAMA of the same size perplexity 9.91 versus 10.04. It uses 3.55 times less memory and runs 2.71 times faster. But there's a catch. You can't convert an existing model. You have to train it from scratch. Here's where it gets dangerous. Below four bits, models don't degrade gracefully. They fall off a cliff. OPT 175B at three bits with round to nearest, perplexity jumps to 7,300. Not 7.3, 7,300. The model is gone. The fastest format in the table, Q2K small at 90 tokens per second is the closest to broken. And the other extreme lies too. 8-bit quantization, llem.int8 cuts memory in half. But the runtime is identical to FP16. Zero speed up, you saved VRAM, but not time, not latency, not cost per token. 8-bit is the lie that makes you think you optimized when you just compressed. So here's the answer. The sweet spot is four bits, Q4KM, AWQ, GPTQ at four bit. All of them land in the same zone. Memory cut four to six and a half times, speed up two and a half times, accuracy within 0.03 perplexity of the original. This is where the budget is actually saved. Everything else is a compromise. The mental model is a three-way trade. Memory, speed, accuracy, pick your bit with and all three move. Four bit PTQ is the default for almost everyone. GPTQ or AWQ for server inference, GGUF for local, QAT like Bitnet, if you can afford to train, 8-bit if you only need VRAM, a low four bits if you hate your model. That's quantization from FP16 to 1.58 bits. If the trade-off just clicked for you, subscribe. Cloud codes takes apart one system like this every week. Build, solve, deploy. See you in the next one.