---
video_title: "Google OKF + MCP : Explained The New \"AI Context Stack\""
video_id: bwQ70NMd57k
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bwQ70NMd57k
video_date: 2026-06-26T01:00:05+00:00
video_description: |
  Why do frontier AI models fail at internal company tasks? Because they lack the "AI Context Stack"—a combination of Google's Open Knowledge Format (OKF) and Anthropic's Model Context Protocol (MCP).
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design of modern AI agents. We explore the two major hurdles AI faces: the Knowledge Gap and the Access Gap. You will learn how Google's OKF solves AI memory by turning durable company knowledge into standardized Markdown graphs, and how Anthropic's MCP acts as a universal "USB-C port" that allows AI to securely pull live data and trigger actions. Finally, we show you exactly how OKF and MCP work together to replace brittle API integrations and traditional RAG pipelines.
  
  If this helped you understand complex AI system design, subscribe to Cloud Codes for a new infrastructure breakdown every single week! Build, solve, deploy.
  
  ⏱️ Video Chapters 
  00:00 - The Problem: AI models are smart but lack your company's institutional knowledge.
  00:11 - The Solution: Context is two things - Knowledge and Access
  00:23 - The two open standards solving this: OKF and MCP.
  00:30 - Deep dive into OKF (Open Knowledge Format) for durable knowledge.
  03:22 - The key to OKF: The 'resource' field that links concepts to live assets.
  03:40 - How OKF files link together to form a knowledge graph.
  04:11 - Deep dive into MCP (Model Context Protocol) for live access.
  05:35 - The Handshake: How OKF (the map) and MCP (the car) work together.
  06:12 - A full example: An agent using both OKF and MCP to answer a query.
  08:02 - Summary: The complete AI Context Stack.
  
  🔗 Concepts Covered:
  Model Context Protocol (MCP - Anthropic)
  Open Knowledge Format (OKF - Google Cloud)
  AI Agents, Tool Calling & Vector Databases
  System Design & API Integrations
  #MCP #AI #SystemDesign #SoftwareEngineering #CloudCodes
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE & WATCH NEXT
  Subscribe for a new systems deep-dive every week: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH US
  Twitter/X:  x.com/cloud_codes
  Join our developer community: discord.gg/HVnH9SY48 
  
  User Queries : 
  what is model context protocol mcp
  what is open knowledge format okf
  how to use anthropic mcp
  mcp vs rag explained
  how to give ai agents memory
  how to connect ai to databases securely
  google cloud okf tutorial
  building ai agents system design
  ai context stack explained
  cloud codes ai architecture
---
Here is the strange thing about modern AI. The model is brilliant. It can write the query in its sleep. But ask it what your weekly active users were last week, and it has no idea. The problem was never intelligence. It is context. And context is really two different things. What the model knows and what it can reach. In the last year, two open standards quietly showed up to fix exactly that. One is called OKF. The other is called MCP, and each one solves a different half. OKF gives the agent durable knowledge, a plain folder of markdown files that describes your world. Your tables, your metrics, how everything actually fits together. MCP gives the agent live reach, one universal plug that lets it call your tools and pull fresh data right now on demand. Think of it this way. OKF is the agent's memory. MCP is its hands. One tells it what things mean. The other lets it go touch them. Watch them work together. The agent opens the OKF file that defines weekly active users, learns the exact tables and the join, then uses MCP to run that query live, and finally answers correctly. Stack the two, and you get what people are starting to call the AI context stack. Knowledge on the bottom, access on top. And here is the part most people get wrong. These two are not rivals. They are not fighting for the same job. They are built to click together. So in the next few minutes, let us take the whole stack apart, what each layer does, and the exact moment they hand off to each other. Start with why this is even hard. Drop a frontier model into your company, and it hits a wall almost immediately. It can write flawless SQL, but only if it knows your schema, your table names, your metric definitions, your join paths. Without that, it is just guessing. And that wall has two sides. There is a knowledge gap. The model does not understand your world, and there is an access gap. Even when it does understand, it cannot actually touch anything. Two different problems. And for years, we solve them badly. Take the knowledge gap first. The truth about your systems is scattered everywhere. A metadata catalog here, a wiki there, comments buried in code, and a few hard facts that live only inside senior engineers' heads. Every new agent has to reassemble all of it from scratch. Now the access gap. Say the model does know what to do. It still cannot do it. It has no live line to your database, your Slack, your Issue Tracker. So teams wired each one up by hand, a custom connector for every tool, in every app, and it became a brittle, exhausting mess. So here is the first standard. OKF, the Open Knowledge Format. Google Cloud published version 0.1 in June, and it is almost aggressively boring. Your knowledge written as a plain folder of markdown files. The unit is a bundle, just a directory. Each file inside is one concept, a table, a data set, a metric, a runbook, and the files path is its identity, nothing to install. If you can read a text file, you can read OKF, open one concept, and there is nothing scary inside. A small block of yaml at the top, type, title, description, a resource, some tags, then plain markdown underneath, and out of all of those fields, exactly one is required, type, everything else is optional. And there is one field we're slowing down on, because it is the secret to this whole video, the resource field. It is a URI that points at the real, live thing, the concept describes, the actual table, the actual API. The markdown explains what it means, the resource says where it lives. Hold that thought. Concepts link to each other with ordinary markdown links, and those links quietly turn a flat folder into a graph. Orders points to customers, customers points to the metric, a web of meaning far richer than any folder tree. This idea did not come from nowhere. Andre Carpathi framed it back in April. He called it an LLM Wiki, where the model rights and maintains its own knowledge base. The point is that knowledge compounds. The agent stops rediscovering your world every time. It reads it, and it keeps it current. Now the other half, MCP, the model context protocol, andthropic open-sourced it in late 2024. And in barely a year, it became the way AI connects to everything. People call it the USB-C port for AI, build one plug, and any model can use it. MCP has just three roles. The host is the app you are using, Claude, cursor, VS code. Inside it, a client holds one dedicated line to a server. And a server is just a program that exposes a tool or some data to the model. And a server only ever offers three kinds of things. Tools, actions it can take, like sending a message or running a query, resources, data it can read, like files and database rows, and prompts, reusable templates, three primitives, and that is the entire vocabulary. When the model decides to act, it calls a tool by name with arguments. The server runs it for real, hits a live API, queries a live database, and hands back a clean structured result the model can actually read, a real action with a real answer. And the adoption was almost unfair. Open AI, Google, and Microsoft all adopted it. GitHub, Slack, Stripe, and Notion all ship servers. By late 2025, there were over 10,000 public servers and 97 million downloads a month. And Anthropic handed the whole thing to the Linux Foundation, so no single company owns it. So now put them side by side, because this is where it clicks. OQI-F is the slow layer. Durable curated knowledge that changes by pull request and lives and get. MCP is the fast layer, live real-time access that changes by the second. One is the map, the other is the car. They answer completely different questions. Ask what does weekly active users actually mean, or which tables do I join? That is OQI-F, knowledge. Ask now go run that query, or file this ticket, or fetch today's number. That is MCP, action, meaning on one side, doing on the other. And here is the whole thing in one motion. You ask for last week's active users, the agent opens the OQI-F concept, reads the definition, and the exact join, and grabs the resource you or I for the table. Then it hands that off to MCP, which runs the real query against the live warehouse. And the answer comes back, correct and current. And they go even deeper than that. Remember, MCP can expose resources, readable data. So you can serve an entire OQI-F bundle through an MCP server. The agent discovers your knowledge over the exact same protocol it uses for everything else. The map and the road become one connection. And this is why the pair matters so much. On its own, a model invents what your metric means. Give it MCP alone, and it runs live queries against a schema it does not understand. You need both. OQI-F makes the answer correct. MCP makes it current. Together, you get an answer you can actually trust. Now the honest part, this does not kill the vector database. For a giant messy pile of documents that will never fit in context, semantic search still wins. The context stack shines when your knowledge is curated, and your tools are real, which for most teams is exactly the case that matters. And the economics are hard to argue with. OQI-F is just files, Git and Grap, Diffs and pull requests, basically zero infrastructure. And MCP collapses the old mess of connectors. 10 apps times 10 tools used to mean 100 fragile integrations with MCP, it is 10 plus 10. The whole stack gets cheaper and simpler at once. And you can already see where this lands. Data teams ship their tables and metrics as an OQI-F bundle, then expose it over MCP. On-call agents read the runbook from OQI-F, then take the action through MCP. The knowledge and the keys finally in one coherent stack. So that is the whole picture. OQI-F is what your agent knows, durable, curated, version-controlled knowledge as plain markdown. MCP is what your agent can reach, live, governed access to your real tools. And together, they are the AI context stack, meaning on the bottom, action on top. If this finally made the context stack click, subscribe, Cloud Codes takes apart one system like this every week, build, solve, deploy. And I will see you in the next one.