---
video_title: "O que IAs podem fazer? | Exemplos de Ferramentas"
video_id: CZSGIeRmYn8
channel_name: "Fabio Akita"
channel_id: UCib793mnUOhWymCh2VJKplQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CZSGIeRmYn8
video_date: 2023-11-29
video_description: |
  Sim, este episódio foi inteiramente gerado por ferramentas de IA, em particular HeyGen e ElevenLabs. Fiz bem curto pra não ficar cansativo demais. Mesmo sendo impressionante, no atual estágio não é possível fazer videos do tamanho que costumo fazer no canal.
  
  Primeiro, o HeyGen não consegue fazer videos maiores do que 1 minuto sem que a qualidade decaia muito. Eu tentei fazer videos de mais de 2 minutos e do nada ele começava a halucinar e me fazer falar em espanhol, por exemplo. 
  
  Segundo, o treinamento é super limitado. Ele só me deixa subir uns 5 minutos de amostra de video. É muito pouco e isso resulta em muito pouca variância nos movimentos. Muito pouca diversidade de jeito de falar. Então fica muito robótico mesmo.
  
  Terceiro, o tempo que levou pra gerar esses clipes de video não compensa o trabalho. Não é de graça, custou quase 40 dólares pra fazer menos de 14 minutos. E levou mais de 14 minutos pra gerar tudo. Eu teria levado cerca de meia hora pra gravar normalmente um video deste tamanho. Então não é possível usar esse tipo de ferramenta pra economizar tempo.
  
  A vantagem seria mais no futuro, quando esses limites melhorarem, e eu tiver algum problema físico que me impeça de gravar mais videos. Aí sim, poderia servir como meu "backup virtual". Ainda é primeira geração desse tipo de ferramenta. Eles devem melhorar bastante nos próximos anos.
  
  O que acharam?
  
  ## Links
  
  * [HeyGen - AI Spokesperson Video Creator](https://app.heygen.com/home)
  * [Text to Speech & AI Voice Generator (elevenlabs.io)](https://elevenlabs.io/)
  * [eesel.ai - ChatGPT over your knowledge](https://www.eesel.ai/)
  * [DaVinci Resolve 18.5 traz inteligência artificial para edição de vídeo (diolinux.com.br)](https://diolinux.com.br/noticias/davinci-18-5-inteligencia-artificial-para-edicao-de-video.html)
  * [Adobe Firefly – Generative AI for everyone](https://www.adobe.com/sensei/generative-ai/firefly.html)
  
  * Podcast: https://podcasters.spotify.com/pod/show/akitando/episodes/Akitando-148---O-que-IAs-podem-fazer---Exemplos-de-Ferramentas-e2chqi1
  * Transcript: https://www.akitaonrails.com/2023/11/29/akitando-148-o-que-ias-podem-fazer-exemplos-de-ferramentas
---
Hey folks, Fabio Akita here. This is going to be a short experimental episode, more of a fun one. This time I want to talk a bit about AI tools like ChatGPT that I've incorporated into my daily workflow. This won't be an extensive review of everything out there — just what I've actually tried and liked. Everyone is still pumped and hyped about ChatGPT, especially with the launch of GPT-4 and features like — quote — "make your own GPT." I'll use this as an excuse to

explain a bit about that and reiterate my opinions on AI in general. So let's go.

To kick off November, we saw one of the most pathetic episodes in the history of Silicon Valley. Okay, to be honest, there have been worse — like the story of Theranos or of WeWork. But the hype around AI is still at a very primitive stage of discussion. This pathetic episode was the OpenAI board firing CEO Sam Altman with zero explanation, creating a whole drama, only to walk it back when all the employees threatened to quit and go to Microsoft. Nobody gave an official reason for it to this day, but some speculate it has to do with the risks of being close to achieving the so-called AGI — Artificial General Intelligence, the feared Skynet. What

we call AI nowadays is Large Language Models — LLMs. And LLMs are basically like your phone's autocomplete keyboard, highly glorified. It spews things that seem to make sense, but not one millimeter of cognition was involved — much less consciousness. Probably amoebas have more consciousness than the best LLM today. I explain this in detail in my video on how ChatGPT works — go watch it afterward to understand. Models are

text embeddings — hyper- dimensional matrices of chunks of text associated with probabilistic values. In short, super summarized, that's how a GPT generates text. GPT is a text generator — yes, an ultra-sophisticated generator, but still a text generator. There's no intelligence in the human sense that involves reasoning or cognition. GPT simply continues the text from where you stopped typing. It continues

text. The whole idea of making your own GPT — I showed this in the livestream on my channel, "Is AI Dangerous," where I show how to create a character. I created John Carmack and started chatting with him. Go watch it later. It's the same thing in GPT-4: an initial prompt saying "pretend you are so-and-so with such and such behavior," and then it continues the text. Even with GPT-4's advances,

even if GPT-5 is double or triple or 10x better than GPT-4, we're still nowhere near that AGI — the true general artificial intelligence, the genuine digital consciousness that perfectly simulates a living being with emotions and ambitions, the Skynet seed. That remains science fiction. There are still discoveries and breakthroughs that haven't been made. We don't know which ones, obviously — otherwise they wouldn't be discoveries. But we know they're missing. Contrary to what people

think, we engineers and scientists don't do things blindly at random. We know the limits of what can be done with the tools we have. Imagination is exactly one of the things we know how to do very well, and that AI doesn't have the capacity for. Even so, many people considered geniuses in the field — like one of OpenAI's founders, Ilya — for some reason decided to embrace the belief that we're dangerously close to an AGI that will harm the human species. It won't. Not only is it far away, but at this

stage I wouldn't even say we're certain it's even possible to begin with. There aren't even good definitions for what actually characterizes things like intelligence or consciousness. Our definitions today are extremely primitive. It's the same kind of genius who years ago kept pestering everyone saying global warming would have already ended the world by 2023. But that's another topic. Even so, yes, the

fears that AI will replace many people's jobs are real — in particular because there are many activities that are purely copy-and-paste, very easy to automate. Not because AI got too smart, but because the jobs themselves were already very simple. It didn't take AI to start replacing checkout cashiers or order-takers at fast food. Many supermarkets already have self-service checkout. Places like McDonald's already have giant self-service order screens. Many chatbots via

WhatsApp have already replaced people who answered phones — and so on. And that's normal. It's been over a century that we've been replacing low-value-added jobs with automated systems. And for that, you don't need AI. The current generation of LLMs helps, for sure.

In our case as programmers, yes, automation exists too. Even in design: everyone who uses software like Canva already knows this. What used to require asking someone to open Photoshop, now anyone without any training can already do. Those of you who remember Photoshop — remember how to cut out a person from a background? It used to take hours, required advanced techniques dealing with color channel separation.

Now the iPhone or Pixel camera app can do it with one click. Even before AI, with services like Squarespace, many non-technical people could already make decently nice websites. The template market alone has gotten much cheaper — what used to be expensive and time-consuming work for most people is now sufficient with just that, and again, we don't need AI for this. All that said, the tools based on some form of AI today are extremely useful. ChatGPT and LLMs are just one type of AI — they're not the only types. Many tools that use

AI models are not based on LLMs because they're not content generators. Some use machine learning, some use deep learning, some use combinations of various techniques. The general public calls all of this just "AI," which is why it generates so much confusion. But AI is not a single entity — it's a collection of various different technologies working together. Many of them have decades of history. In case it wasn't clear — this video

you're watching right now was entirely generated with the help of AI. I'm using the site Heygen, which was trained on clips from old videos. This site integrates with another called ElevenLabs, which specializes in AI voices. So we just needed to write a new script, upload clips to Heygen, and generate the chunks — because it doesn't let you generate very long videos yet. At the end we threw it in DaVinci Resolve as always to join the chunks into a single video. Yes, everything you've watched

up to here was entirely generated by AI. I am an avatar of Fabio. The real Fabio was kidnapped and I'll keep him as a hostage — just kidding. Of course. If you doubt that I'm real, AI can do another thing: dub any audio into any other

language.

Not convinced? Then let's watch again, but this time

dubbed. Interesting, isn't it? That's how many TikTok videos are made today. And since I'm talking about video editing, major brands like Blackmagic and Adobe have already integrated AI features into DaVinci Resolve and Adobe Photoshop. In Resolve, for example, it can do incredible things, like relighting a scene.

Imagine a light was missing on one side — what do you do? The AI can analyze the scene, figure out the depth of the objects filmed in 3D space, and from that we can position a new light anywhere. Not impressed by that? Here's another one: this clip I recorded with background noise to simulate recording on the street or at events. DaVinci is capable of separating your voice from the rest of the noise, and the quality ends up almost as if it had been recorded in a studio. Let's repeat

it with the filter. This clip I recorded with background noise to simulate recording on the street or at events. DaVinci is capable of separating your voice from the rest of the noise, and the quality ends up almost as if it had been recorded in a studio. See? And you can do much more — generate subtitles. Before

it was manual, but now it does it automatically for me, as in this clip. If you're a video editor, you should explore these options. Two YouTube channels I recommend watching to learn are Mr. Alex Tech and Caz Feris. For color grading, the best professional is Waqas Qazi. Adobe also

isn't far behind. For starters, there's now this new product called Adobe Firefly — it's like DALL-E or Midjourney, but Adobe guarantees it was trained only on images whose copyright allows it. That way you don't risk generating an image that could later get you sued. Photoshop is also gaining several new AI features. One of the most notable is Generative Fill. Previously

it used pieces of the image itself to fill in the void when you wanted to change the image dimensions. But now it can redesign like Midjourney does, with a quality that's actually quite acceptable in many cases — needing very little adjustment afterward. The best image editing tool is still Photoshop, and there are dozens of techniques and theories you need to know to use it properly. I recommend watching the channel Pixel Imperfect, which teaches some of the best techniques. On text generation — there's no need to waste time explaining how ChatGPT is great for making summaries, writing throwaway text like a more formal email.

Same goes for GitHub Copilot. Hopefully you've already left behind the dumb idea of thinking these tools will replace all programmers. As I've said in previous videos, my answer is the same: every low-value-added activity — including low-value programming — will be replaced, yes. Good programmers? No. No text generator comes close to 10%

of a real programmer. But what it does already helps us a lot. I don't need to keep Alt-Tabbing to the docs and manually looking up the syntax of this or that function. Copilot autocompletes it perfectly. It's basically automating the copy-paste from Stack Overflow that everyone was already doing — for things like basic HTML, which always has the same structure, basic CSS, which always has the same structure, unit test boilerplate, which always has the same structure. For those

repetitive, tedious things, Copilot helps a lot. A lot of what I always found boring — a Copilot or GPT helps greatly. I recommend using the integration with VS Code — even Neovim works great now. More than that, I recommend installing GPT on the command line — like `aai`. That way from the terminal I can ask about commands I don't remember all the options for off the top of my head.

Like, how do you run a Docker container in a way that automatically removes the container when you're done so it doesn't leave trash behind? Just ask, copy the command, and paste it straight into the terminal. Done. Obviously, as always, none of this works for people who don't pay attention. If you're careless, you'll wreck your machine by pasting commands without knowing what they do. But that

was already happening when you pasted commands from Stack Overflow. If you can't discern even that, you're obviously not a professional programmer. Finally, one of ChatGPT's limitations, at least in the current version, is that it doesn't retain memory of what you talked with it about. Every new conversation starts from zero — it doesn't use prior information to keep answering. But there are dozens of tools that extend those capabilities. One such example is

isel.io. On this site you can upload documents like Word or PDF files — it'll process that information, create embeddings of the text, put it in a vector database, and use that information in the chat that's integrated with ChatGPT. That way we can ask questions in natural language about the data we just uploaded. Think: upload a hundred feedback reports from your company and ask for a summary of everything, or ask about a specific person — and things like that. I won't go listing every single

tool integrated with ChatGPT because dozens appear and dozens disappear every single day. It's better to Google the most popular tools of the moment. This is still a super volatile market. ElevenLabs, Heygen — maybe they'll still exist in a year, maybe they'll have been replaced by better alternatives. We have no way to know. As I said at the beginning, this is a

short video — it was just to drop some opinions on AI and experiment with what a full episode made with AI would look like. Who knows — while AGI is nothing more than science fiction for now, what we have today is already very good, and is sufficient to make videos like this one. I can see these tools being improved to generate more natural results. The way things are today, the least attentive people can't tell the difference between real and virtual anymore. If you liked the video, leave a thumbs up, subscribe to the channel, click the bell, and share with your friends. See

you, later!