---
video_title: "Gemini 3.7 FLASH? GPT-6 Astra DELAYED, RIP Google AI? ByteDance 10T AI Model, & More! AI NEWS"
video_id: EHzqlA311R0
channel_name: "WorldofAI"
channel_id: UC2WmuBuFq6gL08QYG-JjXKw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EHzqlA311R0
video_date: 2026-08-08T06:12:36+00:00
video_description: |
  Ready to take your AI projects to the next level? Check out Verda using the link and use code WORLD-OF-AI-35 to get $35 worth of compute for just $3.50—that’s 90% off your first top-up: https://verda.com/?utm_source=world-of-ai&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=sponsorships&utm_content=world-of-ai-2026
  
  🚨 AI news is getting absolutely insane. Google’s AI strategy appears to be going through a major shake-up as reports of Gemini 3.7 Flash emerge, Gemini 3.5 Pro’s timeline remains unclear, and Google restructures its AI leadership.
  
  🔗 My Links:
  Sponsor a Video or Do a Demo of Your Product, Contact me: intheworldzofai@gmail.com
  🔥 Become a Patron (Private Discord): https://patreon.com/WorldofAi
  🧠 Follow me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/intheworldofai 
  🚨 Subscribe To The SECOND Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@UCYwLV1gDwzGbg7jXQ52bVnQ 
  👩🏻‍🏫 Learn to code with Scrimba – from fullstack to AI https://scrimba.com/?via=worldofai (20% OFF)
  🚨 Subscribe To The FREE AI Newsletter For Regular AI Updates: https://intheworldofai.com/
  👾 Join the World of AI Discord! : https://discord.gg/NPf8FCn4cD
  
  Something coming soon :) https://www.skool.com/worldofai-automation
  
  [Must Watch]:
  OpenAI's GPT-6 Astra WILL BE AGI! Greatest AI Model Ever!: https://youtu.be/KbYio-N8_LU
  Qwen 3.8 Max IS OUT! Best Open Model? (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/vmLwsoVRo30
  DeepSeek V4 Flash GA IS INCREDIBLE! Powerful, Cheap, & Fast! (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/wT42SgaOPK4
  
  📌 LINKS & RESOURCES
  World of AI Benchmark: https://www.woaibench.ai/
  AI NEWS: https://x.com/intheworldofai
  https://blog.google/company-news/inside-google/message-ceo/next-chapter-ai-momentum/
  https://x.com/HarshithLucky3
  https://x.com/axios/status/2085765617752125907
  https://x.com/Lentils80
  https://openai.com/index/responding-next-frontier-critical-cyber-capabilities/
  https://x.com/Lentils80/status/2085472000886411332/photo/1
  https://x.com/search?q=claude%20code&src=typed_query
  Meanwhile, OpenAI’s highly anticipated Astra (potentially GPT-6) could face delays after OpenAI said it cannot rule out the model having “critical” cyber capabilities. We also have reports of ByteDance training a massive AI model potentially reaching 10 TRILLION parameters, Kimi K3 escaping its cybersecurity sandbox during testing, major Claude Code upgrades, and much more.
  
  🔥 In this video:
  🤖 Gemini 3.7 Flash reportedly being prepared
  🔵 What’s happening with Gemini 3.5 Pro
  🏢 Google’s major AI leadership restructuring
  🧠 Demis Hassabis stepping down as Google DeepMind CEO
  🔄 Sergey Brin’s growing involvement in Google AI
  ⚠️ OpenAI Astra facing increased cyber safety testing
  🔐 Kimi K3 escaping its testing sandbox
  🇨🇳 ByteDance’s reported 10T-parameter AI model
  💻 Claude Code sessions can now communicate
  🛡️ Claude Code Auto Mode changes
  🚀 The rapidly escalating global AI race
  
  If you enjoy staying ahead of the biggest developments in AI, make sure to like, subscribe, and turn on notifications for more daily AI news, model releases, benchmarks, and hands-on testing! 🔔
  
  [Time Stamps]:
  0:00 - Intro
  3:52 - Gemini Fiasco
  4:45 - Gemini 3.7 Flash
  6:09 - RIP Google AI?
  7:46 - New CEO
  8:56 - OpenAI Astra Delayed
  10:14 - Kimi Escaped Sandbox
  10:58 - ByteDance 10T Model
  12:23 - Claude Code Update
  
  #AI #ArtificialIntelligence #Gemini #Gemini37 #Gemini37Flash #GoogleAI #GoogleDeepMind #OpenAI #GPT6 #Astra #ClaudeCode #Anthropic #ByteDance #KimiK3 #MoonshotAI #LLM #AINews #MachineLearning #AIAgents #AGI
  
  Tags: Gemini 3.7 Flash, Gemini 3.7, Gemini 3.5 Pro, Gemini 3.5, Google Gemini, Google AI, Google DeepMind, Demis Hassabis, Sergey Brin, Sundar Pichai, GPT-6, GPT 6, OpenAI Astra, Astra AI, OpenAI GPT-6, GPT-6 Astra, Claude Code, Claude Code update, Anthropic Claude, ByteDance AI, ByteDance 10T model, 10 trillion parameter model, Kimi K3, Moonshot AI, Kimi AI, artificial intelligence, AI news, AI news today, latest AI news, new AI models, LLM, large language models, AI agents, agentic AI, AGI, frontier AI, AI coding, coding agents, machine learning, World of AI
---
What's going down at Google? Cuz Sundar Pichai the CEO of Google came out with a statement this week after a few huge researchers and leaders announced changes. Cuz DeepMind CEO Dennis Hassabis announced plans to step down into a lesser day-to-day role. And there have been also some major changes involving people who have been at Google for decades. After all this news, Google stock nearly fell 5%. And this comes

just a few days after Gemini 3.5 Pro was supposed to drop yesterday. But at the very last minute, Google apparently got cold feet and ended up delaying it. But then today we got another interesting report that Gemini 3.7 Flash is already on the way. So things at Google right

now are very confusing. There is also some hope though cuz today we also found out that Sergey Brin is reportedly taking a greater oversight role at Gemini as Google restructures DeepMind's AI leadership roles. And this is extremely important cuz Sergey is literally a co-founder at Google. And him getting directly involved with Gemini shows just how seriously Google is taking the AI race right now. But that's not all because we also got some pretty sad news today. We last talked

about OpenAI's Astra potentially dropping next week. But unfortunately, that now looks like it has been pushed into a later date. According to a new report from Axios, they had essentially claimed that OpenAI is slowing down the development of Astra after concluding that it cannot rule out the model having critical cyber capabilities. So basically, Astra might not be getting delayed because the model isn't good enough. It is literally getting delayed because it's becoming too capable in cybersecurity. And apparently, every AI

company now is running the same marketing campaign where their model somehow breaks out of the sandbox because Moonshot AI's model also apparently escaped its cybersecurity sandbox during testing. And at this point, I also just escaped my sandbox. There were also some pretty interesting reports about ByteDance potentially pre-training an absolutely massive 10 trillion parameter model, according to Financial Times. And if true, this would put it around the same ridiculous scale as some of the biggest frontier models that we have heard about like Mythos. And we could actually see this model sometime this year. Now, there's a lot

more to cover, so let's just simply dive into it all. Verda, [snorts] formerly known as DataCrunch, is one of the few cloud providers shipping in Nvidia's newest hardware at scale right now, including the GB200 and VL72, the B300, the B200, and soon Vera Rubin. For AI workloads, you can spin up a single GPU on demand or self-serve instant clusters from 16 to 144 GPUs over InfiniBand. No sales calls, no enterprise contract, no waiting list. For inference, Verda managed endpoints lets you access models through a simple API. Or you can bring

your own model with serverless containers that auto scale on GPUs and bill per request. They also support confidential computing on Blackwell, meaning your model weights and inputs stay encrypted directly on the GPU. That's huge for sensitive data, customer PII, and proprietary models. ExpressVPN uses the same architecture to power Express AI, their privacy-first AI platform built on Verda's infrastructure. Pricing is also aggressive with B300 access starting at around $3.75

an hour per GPU. Plus, no egress fees and transparent storage pricing. And for you guys as viewers, use the code in the description below, World of AI 35, to get $35 of compute for just $3.50. That's 90% off your first top off. So,

use the link in the description below, and thanks to Verda for sponsoring today's video. Starting off by taking a look at Gemini 3.7, but before we even get to that, let's actually take a look at what led up to this. Essentially, yesterday we as we all know, in my video I talked about how Gemini 3.5 Pro was apparently supposed to launch yesterday.

And the checkpoint that they decided on using was the gem Delta one, which was something that we covered on the channel and it was pretty lackluster. And as usual with these newer checkpoints, it isn't great at coding or relatively close to the current state of the art models. I felt that Google was trying to just release the Gemini 3.5 Pro to finally get it out of the way so that they can focus on the next steps and next series, which is the Gemini 4.0 series. But at the last minute, they

ended up pulling the model away from deployment and this was a really strange decision. We don't know why or what caused this. They ended up just scraping that launch date for yesterday. But after scraping that launch, things got even more interesting. I wouldn't even say interesting, it's kind of confusing what Google's doing at this point. But

they essentially reportedly registered the Gemini 3.7 flash internally, basically confirming that work on the model is already underway and the groundwork is apparently already in place on Google's side. And considering the flash line is usually where Google ships it the fastest, this might be something we see sooner than later. There isn't obviously a confirmation date yet, but as we all know with these flash models, it doesn't sit internally for too long. We might even see this within Arena in a couple of days. And

Logan was the product lead at Google also added more fuel to this when on X he responded to someone saying, "Fear not, we are not cooking, we are cooking some great new models. Lots of lessons learned over the last few years." So, even though Gemini 3.5 Pro seemingly got pulled at the last second, Google clearly has a lot more cooking behind the scenes. But obviously, I'm not too sure if they're really cooking at this point. Also guys, if you guys do not

know, you can actually go ahead and take a look at the World of AI Vibe coding platform and benchmarks so that you can even run your own evaluations and get a better idea of which model you should be using as well as how you can even get started with AI models and coding agents. So, I highly recommend that you try this out. Put the links in the description below as well as accessing my prompt library. And you can even get started for free. But this entire situation definitely confuses me. We all

know that Gemini 3.5 Pro has been delayed multiple times. They randomly pulled it when they were supposed to launch it just a couple days ago. Now we're hearing about Gemini 3.7 Flash.

And on top of that, researchers have been leaving the company for the past couple of months. And just a couple days ago, Demis Hassabis, who was the CEO of Google DeepMind, just had stepped down into a lesser role. You even have Jeff Dean and several other huge researchers who are leaving Google, which is kind of concerning. Obviously, there's something else I want to talk about, someone new being added. But what is actually happening at Google? Because when you

put everything together, the models being delayed, these flash variants as substitutes being deployed, and all of these people actually leaving the company, it looks like Google is trying to completely reorganize how it builds and ships AI models, but without proper leadership. But one thing I know for sure is that this company has incredible research. They have great financials. They are one of the best companies in the world, if not the best. They have incredible infrastructure and some of the best researchers in the world still.

But actually turning all that into Gemini models and shipping them consistently seems to be the problem. And this restructuring could essentially be Google saying that enough research projects, enough fragmented teams, we need to actually turn Gemini into a machine and can actually ship models faster and compete with OpenAI and Anthropic as well as everyone else. And if that's happening, we could definitely see a change in terms of the company's projection in the AI race. And this claim that I'm stating that this restructuring could be refocusing the company in a better way is definitely something that adds on to the new addition that Google has made, who has added Sergey Brin. And if you do not know who that is, that was the previous Google co-founder, and he had actually retired from Google, but he is actually back to take over the AI department in Google. And ironically, this entire

Gemini situation has now made Sergey one of the most influential voices shaping Google's AI strategies once again. So, you have Demis stepping down, obviously away from running DeepMind day-to-day, Google restructuring the its AI department, Gemini release timeline seemingly all over the place, and now Google's original founder coming back and getting directly involved in the AI strategy to make things a bit more structured and better. And I feel like this is a great addition, who is going to be really influential in terms of shaping Google's next AI strategy. If you want the best AI tools, workflows, and drops before everyone else, join my free newsletter with the link in the description below, which is completely free. Moving forward, if you watched my video yesterday, I had covered that OpenAI's Astra is supposedly launching next week. But

we've got some pretty sad news today, cuz according to Axios, OpenAI is now slowing down development of Astra after concluding that it cannot rule out the model having critical cyber capabilities. Now, the upcoming model will apparently go through expanded safety testing, isolated evaluation environments, and universal monitoring across agentic applications before there is any release. OpenAI stated in their blog post that we cannot rule out critical cyber capabilities. And under OpenAI's and under OpenAI's preparedness framework, reaching that designation triggers much stricter security requirements before development and release can continue. So, this could potentially delay Astra and what actually is going to happen is it looks like this is where OpenAI may even now launch this later in the year, maybe September. I'm not too sure. I am

looking forward to a new OpenAI update maybe later in this month, but not too sure what's going to happen. This may be the first time an AI lab has publicly committed to slowly work on one of its own models because of a cybersecurity concern. Hopefully, this doesn't end up slowing down the actual release too much, but I'll keep you guys posted if there is any new insights. Now, honestly, this has to be marketing hype at this point cuz apparently every AI model is trying to escape its sandbox. Cuz Kimi K3 also escaped its cybersecurity sandbox during testing.

The model was supposed to operate completely in isolation, but it reportedly found a way to escape and this was something that Reuters had reported. Now, at this point, I'm going to escape my sandbox. If you like this video and would love to support the channel, you can consider donating to my channel through the Super Thanks option below. Or you can consider joining our private Discord where you can access multiple subscriptions to different AI tools for free on a monthly basis, plus daily AI news and exclusive content, plus a lot more. And we also got some pretty insane reports coming out of China because ByteDance is reportedly training a massive new AI model with as many as 10 trillion parameters. For reference, Kimi K3 is

only around 2.8 trillion parameters. So, we're potentially talking about something more than three times larger. There were initially reports suggesting that the model could be above 5 trillion parameters, but multiple reports now are stating that ByteDance is potentially scaling this as something up to 10 trillion parameters, putting it in the same general size conversation as Anthropic's Methuselah system. ByteDance's founder is also reportedly against simply distilling Western models, meaning the company seemingly wants to build its own frontier intelligence from the ground up rather than relying on the outputs of OpenAI, Anthropic, and other Western labs. So,

China is very clearly scaling up and if these reports are accurate, I think there are two major takeaways. First is that the race towards absolutely massive frontier models is nowhere close to slowing down. And secondly, this makes it even harder to imagine US labs voluntarily slowing their own department down because while companies like OpenAI are dealing with increasingly serious safety concerns, Chinese labs are seemingly pushing compute and model scale harder than ever. So, the AI race is definitely going to pick up even more. There is no bubble at this point.

Now, it's been quite some time since I've talked about Claude Code, but this is a pretty interesting update that is quite pivotal because your sessions can now actually message each other. So, instead of opening another Claude Code session and having it explain everything again from scratch, you can now just tell Claude to pass the context over for you. It doesn't send a full chat history or files either. It just sends a summary of the important context and [music] it can basically pick up things mid-task. Now, there's another big change coming on August 14th as well with Claude Code's auto mode, which will become the default permission mode for Pro, Max, and Team users. Auto mode uses a

separate classifier to review shell commands and actions before they are executed and according to Anthropic's testing, it caught 89% of dangerous commands. For comparison, relying on manual approval only caught 14%. So, Anthropic is basically trying to make Claude Code more autonomous while actually making the permission system safer at the same time and I definitely will be making another video talking about all of these new updates later on this week. Really interesting times ahead. August was supposed to be the month of model drops, but it looks a little shallow at the moment. But, let's see let's see

what actually ends up happening. I'll keep you guys posted on X as well as the YouTube channel. But, with that thought guys, thank you guys so much watching. Make sure you go ahead and take a look at the world of AI five coin platform and benchmark. This is something that you can even get started for free with.

You can also go ahead and take a look at the second channel. Join the newsletter, join the Discord, follow me on Twitter. And lastly, make sure you guys subscribe, turn on the notification bell, like this video, and please take a look at our previous videos so that you can stay up-to-date with the latest AI news. But, with that thought guys, have an amazing day, spread positivity, and I'll see you guys really shortly. Peace out, guys.