---
video_title: "Claude Mythos 6 = Model 2! HUGE Leaks, DeepSeek v4 Pro, Gemini 3.7 Flash, Codex 2.0, & More! AI NEWS"
video_id: IPV90it7UYU
channel_name: "WorldofAI"
channel_id: UC2WmuBuFq6gL08QYG-JjXKw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IPV90it7UYU
video_date: 2026-08-16T06:43:05+00:00
video_description: |
  Ready to take your AI projects to the next level? Check out Verda using the link in the description, and use code WORLD-OF-AI-35 to get $35 worth of compute for just $3.50—that’s 90% off your first top-up: https://verda.com/?utm_source=world-of-ai&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=sponsorships&utm_content=world-of-ai-2026
  
  🚨 AI NEWS is absolutely packed this week. Anthropic has quietly revealed a mysterious internal “Model 2” that appears to be more capable than Mythos 5 — and could potentially be an early version of Claude Mythos 6. Its performance on Anthropic’s internal AI R&D evaluations is seriously impressive.
  
  Everything you’re about to see, I benchmarked using the tool I made. If you want to run these tests yourself or test models on whatever you actually use them for! → https://www.woaibench.ai/
  
  🔗 My Links:
  Sponsor a Video or Do a Demo of Your Product, Contact me: intheworldzofai@gmail.com
  🔥 Become a Patron (Private Discord): https://patreon.com/WorldofAi
  🧠 Follow me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/intheworldofai 
  🚨 Subscribe To The SECOND Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@UCYwLV1gDwzGbg7jXQ52bVnQ 
  👩🏻‍🏫 Learn to code with Scrimba – from fullstack to AI https://scrimba.com/?via=worldofai (20% OFF)
  🚨 Subscribe To The FREE AI Newsletter For Regular AI Updates: https://intheworldofai.com/
  👾 Join the World of AI Discord! : https://discord.gg/NPf8FCn4cD
  
  Something coming soon :) https://www.skool.com/worldofai-automation
  
  [Must Watch]:
  OpenAI's GPT-6 Astra WILL BE AGI! Greatest AI Model Ever!: https://youtu.be/KbYio-N8_LU
  Qwen 3.8 Max IS OUT! Best Open Model? (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/vmLwsoVRo30
  DeepSeek V4 Flash GA IS INCREDIBLE! Powerful, Cheap, & Fast! (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/wT42SgaOPK4
  
  📌 LINKS & RESOURCES
  World of AI Benchmark: https://www.woaibench.ai/
  AI NEWS: https://x.com/intheworldofai
  https://www-cdn.anthropic.com/f61d49fa5596956a5dec75fea0e973bf6a6a8378/Redacted%20Risk%20Report%20August%202026%20.pdf
  https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-text-watermark
  https://blog.google/innovation-and-ai/models-and-research/gemini-models/introducing-gemini-3-7-flash/?utm_source=x&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=&utm_content=
  https://x.com/HarshithLucky3/status/2088240171565412733?s=20
  https://x.com/stevibe/status/2087758275362361386
  https://x.com/NVIDIAAI/status/2087162151995629926
  https://x.com/maticrobots/status/2087962897267990915
  
  But that’s just the beginning. We’re covering Gemini 3.7 Flash, DeepSeek V4 Pro, major Codex upgrades, OpenAI’s controversial paid Codex resets, Anthropic’s new Claude watermarking system, NVIDIA Nemotron 3.5 Lightning, rising AI compute costs, Matic’s new home robot controls, and much more.
  
  🔥 In this video:
  Anthropic’s mysterious Model 2 / potential Mythos 6
  Model 2 vs Mythos 5 on CoBench v2
  Anthropic Claude watermarking controversy
  OpenAI paid Codex usage resets
  Massive Codex performance upgrade
  Gemini 3.7 Flash benchmarks & coding performance
  Gemini 3.7 Flash High in Antigravity
  DeepSeek V4 Pro release
  DeepSeek V4 Pro vs V4 Flash
  DeepSeek’s new API pricing
  Rising AI compute & GPU costs
  NVIDIA Nemotron 3.5 Lightning
  Matic voice & gesture-controlled home robot
  The latest AI model & agent news
  
  There’s been an insane amount of movement across Anthropic, OpenAI, Google DeepMind, DeepSeek, and NVIDIA, so this video condenses the biggest developments you need to know.
  
  👍 Like, subscribe, and turn on notifications
  
  [Time Stamps]:
  0:00 - Intro
  3:49 - Mythos 6 = Model 2
  4:59 - RSI Soon
  6:26 - Old Checkpoint
  7:49 - Claude Watermark
  9:47 - Paying For Codex Reset Limit
  11:00 - Codex 2.0
  11:42 - Gemini 3.7 Flash
  12:10 - Benchmarks
  12:49 - My Benchmarks
  13:20 - Web Dev
  13:33 - Really Fast
  14:08 - Minecraft Clone
  14:50 - Bugatti Engine
  15:18 - DeepSeek V4 Pro
  16:05 - Benchmarks
  16:40 - V4 Flash vs V4 Pro
  17:05 - Three.js
  17:24 - DeepSeek Pricing Update
  18:56 - GPU Price Increases
  19:42 - Nemotron 3.5 Lightning
  20:57 - Smart Robot
  
  #AI #ArtificialIntelligence #Claude #Anthropic #OpenAI #Gemini #DeepSeek #Codex #NVIDIA #AINews #AIAgents #ClaudeMythos6 #Gemini37Flash #DeepSeekV4Pro
  
  Additional Tags:
  AI news, artificial intelligence, AI news today, latest AI news, AI updates, Claude Mythos 6, Mythos 6, Claude Model 2, Anthropic Model 2, Anthropic AI, Anthropic news, Claude AI, Mythos 5, CoBench v2, recursive self improvement AI, RSI AI, Anthropic watermark, Claude watermarking, AI watermarking, OpenAI Codex, Codex 2.0, Codex update, Codex paid reset, OpenAI news, Gemini 3.7 Flash, Gemini 3.7 Flash High, Gemini 3.7 Flash coding, Google Gemini, Google DeepMind, Gemini Antigravity, DeepSeek V4 Pro, DeepSeek V4 Pro 0813, DeepSeek V4 Flash 0731, DeepSeek V4, DeepSeek news, DeepSeek API pricing, NVIDIA Nemotron 3.5 Lightning, Nemotron 3.5, Nemotron Lightning, local AI models, open source AI, open weight AI, small language models, AI coding models, AI coding agents, AI agents, agentic AI, LLM news, new AI models, best AI models 2026, GPT OSS 120B, Matic robot, home AI robot
---
It's been quite some time since I last focused on a proper AI news video. We've actually had so many new AI model drops this past week that I've been so busy covering those. But, I'm finally back with a condensed list of everything that has happened this past week. And I've got to say, things are pretty insane. Starting over at Anthropic, there's a mysterious unreleased AI they're calling model 2, which could potentially be Mythos 6. And from what Anthropic has

revealed so far, this thing is genuinely nuts. Anthropic recently tested model 2 on Co-bench version 2, a benchmark designed around historical AI R&D tasks that Anthropic researchers themselves have worked on. And model 2 scored 12.5% points higher than Mythos 5. But, what makes this especially interesting is that Anthropic estimates a model reaching around 85% on Co-bench could potentially automate a significant portion of the work done by its AI researchers. So, if these improvements

continue, we could be getting surprisingly close to AI systems meaningfully accelerating the development of the next generation of AI. And speaking of Anthropic, there's been a ton of debate around their recent watermarking fiasco. And we now have some pretty concerning updates on the situation. Meanwhile, OpenAI is slowly rolling out paid Codex usage resets. And apparently, Codex itself is getting a massive upgrade next week. And it could

completely change the platform and potentially turn it into one of the best coding agent harnesses available. Then we have Gemini 1.5 Flash, which officially dropped. I know I didn't make a full dedicated video on it, but we're going to cover it throughout today's video because it's a pretty significant improvement, especially for coding, knowledge work, and web development. And speaking of new models, DeepSeek version 4 Pro is now generally available. I've

tested it, and while it's definitely decent, I'll be honest, I expected quite a bit more considering how much time Deep Seek had to work on this release. But the model itself isn't even the biggest Deep Seek story right now because there are some major changes happening with Deep Seek's pricing and people are not happy with it. And that's only scratching the surface. There's a lot more happening across the board, so let's just simply dive into it all. Verta, formerly known as Data Crunch, is one of the few cloud providers shipping Nvidia's newest hardware at scale right now including the GB300 and VL72, the B300, the B200, and soon Vera Rubin. For

AI workloads, you can spin up a single GPU on demand or self-serve instant clusters from 16 to 144 GPUs over InfiniBand. No sales calls, no enterprise contract, no waiting list. For inference, Verta managed endpoints lets you access models through a simple API or you can bring your own model with serverless containers that auto scale on GPUs and bill per request. They also support confidential computing on Blackwell, meaning your model weights and inputs stay encrypted directly on the GPU. That's huge for sensitive data, customer PII, and proprietary models.

Express VPN uses the same architecture to power Express AI, their privacy-first AI platform built on Verta's infrastructure. Pricing is also aggressive with B300 access starting at around $3.75 an hour per GPU. Plus, no egress fees and transparent storage pricing. And for you guys as viewers, use the code in the description below, World of AI 35, to get $35 of compute for just $3.50.

That's 90% off your first top off. So, use the link in the description below and thanks to Verta for sponsoring today's video. Let's start things off with Anthropic because they may have something internally that is beyond Mythos 5, a mysterious model simply referred to as model 2, which a lot of people are speculating could eventually become the Mythos 6. This all came from Anthropic's latest risk report where they quietly revealed some details about an unreleased model. On page 16 of this report, Anthropic describes model 2 as being somewhat more capable than Mythos 5 and showing a noticeable improvement on internal tasks. Then on page 183,

they go even further and explicitly describe internal model 2 as a Mythos class model that is currently internal only and overall slightly more capable than Mythos 5. Now, I actually expected Anthropic to already have something internally that was ahead of Mythos 5 by this point, and that could still absolutely be the case. Anthropic has acknowledged that they haven't ran their full suite of pre-deployment evaluations on model 2 yet. So, I'll treat the slightly more capable description rather than some definite measurement of the model ceiling. But, here's where things get really interesting. Anthropic tested

model 2 on an internal benchmark that's designed around historical AI research and development that is going to get you a better idea of how an AI model is able to compete against what it has been actually completed by Anthropic's own researchers. Mythos 5 scored a 50.3% Mythos previously scored a 54.8%, but model 2 scored a 62.8%.

That is a 12.5 percentage point score over the Mythos 5, which is pretty significant considering we're talking about an AI R&D task rather than just coding benchmarks or general knowledge. And Anthropic estimates that a model scoring roughly 85% on the Coq Bench version 2 could potentially fully substitute for its research staff on tasks represented by this benchmark. Model 2 is already at 62.8% meaning it's only about 22% points away from that threshold. Now, I wouldn't jump right

away and say that this is RSI or that AI researchers are about to get completely replaced. This is one internal benchmark covering a particular set of historical tasks. So, let's keep the hype down. Maybe I need to keep that advice myself, but the trajectory is what makes this fascinating. Anthropic went from around 50% with Methuselah 5 to almost 63% with an internal successor. And these results

aren't even a brand new report cuz the report that they have stated for this was dated for July 15th, meaning by the time we're seeing these numbers, they're already roughly a month-old snapshot of Anthropic's internal capabilities. So, whatever Anthropic's current internal frontier looks like could potentially already be further ahead. And there may also be a very practical reason we haven't seen Model 2 released yet cuz Anthropic is already dealing with serious compute constraints. And if Model 2 requires significantly more inference compute than Methuselah 5, deploying a broadly available model like this to millions of users could simply be extremely difficult or expensive. So, I'm really not surprised that at least for now Model 2 remains internally only or potentially something Anthropic would make available to a very limited number of users. But, they did state that

they're not planning on making this public, so I don't know what's actually happening. But, regardless of whether this exact checkpoint becomes Methuselah 6, the bigger takeaway is that Anthropic clearly has another generation of models cooking internally. And on AI R&D itself, improvement over Methuselah 5 already looks substantial. If you want the best AI workflows, and drops before everyone else, join my free newsletter with the link in the description below, which is completely free. Moving forward with another pretty controversial Anthropic story. We finally have information about

this new Claude watermarking situation. Basically, Anthropic recently announced that text generated by newer Claude models would contain an invisible watermark in order to comply with transparency requirements under the EU AI Act. Anthropic has also signed the EU general purpose AI code of practice and says other major AI developers that signed the same code will have to implement a similar measure. And when people first heard watermark, there was a lot of confusion between what sounded like Anthropic might literally be inserting hidden Unicode characters, metadata, and some secret identifiers into everything Claude writes. But, that's not actually how the text watermark works. Basically, they have

made a statement that Anthropic basically says that watermark doesn't add any hidden characters, metadata, or extra tokens. Instead, it subtly influences Claude's word choice to create a statistical pattern that detectors can recognize, while supposedly having no noticeable impact on quality. And despite this being driven by the EU AI Act, Anthropic is applying it globally because they currently can't reliably restrict it by a region. They can only clarify that the watermark can't identify you, your account, or specific conversations, only that Claude was likely involved with that text. Maybe they did this globally because it's a way for them to track outputs for different sorts of model providers distilling their models that they get a clear idea of who's doing it.

I'm not too sure. That's just my two cents. But, the last part where things get controversial is because text you wrote yourself, but later edited heavily by Claude, could potentially be detected as watermarked and could be watermarked as Claude-written text rather than whatever you had inputted. So, that is where people are getting a little frizzy about this. Moving forward, OpenAI is rolling out with paid Codex usage resets. This is something I mentioned in

my last AI news video, but they're essentially trying to create this new system where people can pay for Codex usage resets and the pricing is already getting some backlash from many users cuz on top of the 200 monthly pro plan, you are being offered a full weekly reset for $80 while the plus users are reportedly seeing the same option for around $8. And the more controversial part is that redeeming the reset appears to push your next weekly reset date forward rather than just giving you an extra block of usage on top of your normal cycle. So, yeah, you're paying $80 of a single Codex reset on top of the 200 monthly subscription, which is pretty wild. But, this is kind of funny as to how OpenAI did this. The OpenAI team has definitely got us all addicted to the rate limit refreshes that they have essentially enabled over the past couple of weeks. And now that they have

stopped it, they made it so that we have to rely on these refreshes. And that way we would need to actually pay for that refresh. So, maybe it is pretty smart marketing move. And that's not all for Codex because a massive performance upgrade is apparently rolling out next week. OpenAI tested it on an absolutely ridiculous 741-turn, 231-megabyte conversation. And the average load time

dropped from 27 seconds to just 1 second. It also used 41% less overall memory, made 98% fewer requests, and loaded 99.6% fewer transcript items. So, this isn't the actual AI model suddenly becoming 94% faster. It's the Codex app handling huge long-running conversations dramatically more effectively and efficiently, which should make the massive coding sessions feel way more smoother now.

Next up is the Gemini 3.7 Flash. This is something that launched this week as Google's new fast, lower cost workhorse model for coding and agents, arriving only 3 weeks after the 3.6 Flash. Now, this was a cop out to actually take the blow for the failed Gemini 3.5 Pro

model. But, this upgraded Flash model is something that comes with some substantial gains in coding, web development, and knowledge work. This is something that jumps from a 34% to a 43% on Frontier Code, a 49% to 65.3% on Deep Seek and improves Web Dev Arena from around a 1538 Elo to a 1588 Elo. It also is much stronger at complex document reasoning, business workflows, scoring a 34% versus 22% on GDP PDF, and 30.4% versus 17% on Automation Bench.

And the craziest part is the pricing, cuz the Gemini 3.7 Flash launched at half the original 3.6 Flash price per 1 million input tokens and output tokens. On the World of AI Benchmark and Vapnik platform, we had rigorously tested out this model and we found that this model is actually much faster than the previous Gemini 3.6 Flash. Obviously

much cheaper as well, half the pricing, and it ranks quite high relatively for a Flash variant. It is currently in the top 10, which is great to see, slightly under Deep Seek version 4 Pro and Muse Spark 1.2. So, hopefully we see the Gemini 4 reclaiming the number four spot, maybe even higher. Now, the Gemini 3.7 Flash on Code Arena, on Arena's web

development benchmark, this is where it jumped from number 19 to number eight, and that is a really good substantial gain in terms of performance. On Artificial Analysis's benchmark, this is where the Gemini 3.7 Flash High scores a 56 on Artificial Intelligence Index, up 4% or 4 points from the 3.6 Flash, and just behind the Frontier models at 57. It outputs around 340 tokens per second and completes tasks roughly 40% faster than the GPT 5.6 Turbo, putting it on

the intelligence versus speed Pareto frontier, which is also great to see, though. But, in terms of hallucination and lackluster generation, this is where it can fall through in that specific domain. We previously thought that it would be a miracle for a model to actually generate a Minecraft clone, but now we have it so that the Gemini Flash models are able to output a functional Minecraft clone, which replicates the sandbox game. You have the different block breaking animations. You have different mobs. You have different

terrains, and you even have the ability to switch through different options within the menu, which is something that most models end up failing at. You see that there's even different ores, different cave systems, and for a model to code all this out, it truly shows how intelligent and how gigantic it could be in taking the steps to replicate something like a sandbox game like Minecraft. Now, I love cars, so I really like this demo, but the Gemini 3.7 Flash High also did an extremely impressive job

>> dropped the DeepSeek version 4 Pro, generally available version, bringing some pretty substantial upgrades specifically for agents in production workloads. One of the biggest additions is flexible reasoning efforts across the version 4 Pro and version 4 Flash. You can now use low reasoning for simple tasks and high for everyday agentic workflows and max reasoning for more difficult problems. Now, the DeepSeek team has also added native OpenAI response API support for optimization and this is something that will let you use it directly with within codex. But, what I want to say is that I personally thought that the DeepSeek version 4 Pro generally available model would have been a substantial gain, obviously across board of its predecessor, but across all open weight models, but it ends up being a model that is only half the quality of like Gemini 1.5 Pro

on most benchmarks. I'm not saying this is a bad model cuz version 4 Pro is definitely impressive, especially when you consider how small and efficient DeepSeek continues to make these models. But, I'm still a little underwhelmed considering how long we have been waiting for the next major DeepSeek release. I was expecting a much bigger leap. Regardless, this is still an efficient and really solid model, so huge props to the DeepSeek team. And

interestingly, some users are even reporting that the older DeepSeek version 4 Flash, as in older as in the one that just released, actually beats the new version 4 Pro at canvas coding. So, while version 4 Pro is stronger overall and more focused on agentic workloads, newer and pro don't necessarily mean better for everyday use case, especially for visual coding in this particular test. Here, the DeepSeek version 4 Pro created a 3GS simulation of a world and I can say that in 3GS this model does quite well. You can see that from my benchmark, it is one step ahead of the Gemini 3.7 flash, which is already impressive. So, that is also a

really great feat for this model. But, alongside this launch, there was a pretty important announcement that DeepSeek had made. And I really don't like that DeepSeek is officially starting to get more expensive. Obviously, they need to do this and it's a smart business decision at the end of the day, but it's really sad for us users. Uh I know I'm complaining, but it's definitely sad cuz with the version 4 lineup now fully completed and generally available, DeepSeek is introducing peak and off-peak API pricing for this pro model will cost up to $1.32 per 1 million input tokens and

$3.96 per 1 million output tokens during peak hours, with prices dropping 50% off-peak. Now, compared to the Frontier Labs, that's still relatively cheap, but DeepSeek's ridiculously low pricing was always one of the biggest advantages. Cuz the model quality was I It wasn't always the best. Most open-weight models obviously outperform the DeepSeek models, but the pricing is what got people using this model. And that was

one of the main reasons why I wanted to use it. This feels like another sign that serving these increasingly capable models at massive scale is getting harder and more compute-intensive, and those costs are starting to get passed on to the users. If you like this video and would love to support the channel, you can consider donating to my channel through the Super Thanks option below. Or you can consider joining our private Discord where you can access multiple subscriptions to different AI tools for free on a monthly basis, plus daily AI news and exclusive content, plus a lot more. And this is also a sign why these GPUs are also getting more expensive as time goes. We already know that there's a

memory shortage in the world, and that trend probably isn't stopping with API pricing and the AI demand putting pressure on different sorts of hardware like GPUs. For example, people are reporting that the Nvidia RTX 4060 has jumped by more than $5,000 at Micro Center in roughly a week reaching a freaking price of 15K USD, which is nuts. So, as demand for inference, training, and local AI hardware keeps exploding, we could see compute becoming significantly more expensive across the board with APIs, GPUs, and eventually even more consumer AI subscriptions. Moving forward, Nvidia has also just dropped the NeMo-3.5 Lightning, a new open 30 billion mixture-of-experts model with only 3 billion active parameters. This thing is

specifically built for always-on agents and high-volume workloads with Nvidia claiming up to four times faster output speeds than similar-sized models. It can truly become your default local model, and for only 3 billion active parameters, this could be a really interesting model for people who can care about running fast, efficient agents locally. And honestly, NeMo-3.5 Lightning might be one of the most impressive small models that we have seen in quite some time cuz it's already challenging models like the GPT-OSS model, a 120 billion parameter model on intelligence benchmarks despite having only 3 billion active parameters while still offering a massive 1 million token context window. And the coding tests are pretty well, too. In one example, it

used roughly 9,600 tokens to interpret three coffee stains. It was also able to transform them into different planets, add in moons and asteroid fields with lighting and animations, and packaging everything into a self-contained HTML file. And with this level of capability, it's honestly getting ridiculous. Now, lastly, as we always end off with a cool robot video. Mattel had introduced Cozmo. Now, I haven't even heard about

Mattel before, but this is actually a pretty cool concept because it uses this robot that you have in your home that is something that can understand voice as well as your gestures. You can point it at a spill and tell it to clean it, and then it can even locate it in 3D and handle the job autonomously. It kind of reminds me of my Dreamy vacuum robot, where you can simply just point at something and then it will go over to that stain to clean it up. And after 9 years and 115 million raised, this company says that the robot can follow you, navigate your home, clean different surfaces, and understand 75 different languages. Now, maybe they refined this to this sort of quality with that money, but honestly, spending that much money or raising that much money is kind of insane. But, that's about it, guys. Hope

you enjoyed today's video and got some sort of value. I'll leave all the links that I'm using in today's video in the description below. Make sure you go ahead and take a look at the world of AI Benchmark and Vibecoin platform. Make sure you also go ahead and subscribe to the second channel, join the newsletter, join our Discord, follow me on Twitter, and lastly, make sure you guys subscribe, turn on notification bell, like this video, and please take a look at our previous videos that you can stay up-to-date with the latest AI news. But, with that thought, guys, have an amazing day, spread positivity, and I'll see you guys for a little shortly. Peace out,

fellas.