---
video_title: "Qwen 3.8 27B BLOWS MY MIND! Best Local AI Model Yet! Basically Opus Locally! (Fully Tested)"
video_id: J_aqblUWj4k
channel_name: "WorldofAI"
channel_id: UC2WmuBuFq6gL08QYG-JjXKw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J_aqblUWj4k
video_date: 2026-08-15T05:42:26+00:00
video_description: |
  🚨 Everything you’re about to see, I benchmarked using the tool I made. If you want to run these tests yourself or test models on whatever you actually use them for! → https://www.woaibench.ai/
  
  Qwen 3.8 27B might be the BEST local AI model I've tested yet! 🤯 In this video, I fully test the new open-weight Qwen3.8-27B from Alibaba to see just how close a 27B model running locally can get to frontier models like Claude Opus.
  
  🔗 My Links:
  Sponsor a Video or Do a Demo of Your Product, Contact me: intheworldzofai@gmail.com
  🔥 Become a Patron (Private Discord): https://patreon.com/WorldofAi
  🧠 Follow me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/intheworldofai 
  🚨 Subscribe To The SECOND Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@UCYwLV1gDwzGbg7jXQ52bVnQ 
  👩🏻‍🏫 Learn to code with Scrimba – from fullstack to AI https://scrimba.com/?via=worldofai (20% OFF)
  🚨 Subscribe To The FREE AI Newsletter For Regular AI Updates: https://intheworldofai.com/
  👾 Join the World of AI Discord! : https://discord.gg/NPf8FCn4cD
  
  Something coming soon :) https://www.skool.com/worldofai-automation
  
  [Must Watch]:
  OpenAI's GPT-6 Astra WILL BE AGI! Greatest AI Model Ever!: https://youtu.be/KbYio-N8_LU
  Qwen 3.8 Max IS OUT! Best Open Model? (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/vmLwsoVRo30
  DeepSeek V4 Flash GA IS INCREDIBLE! Powerful, Cheap, & Fast! (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/wT42SgaOPK4
  
  📌 LINKS & RESOURCES
  World of AI Benchmark: https://www.woaibench.ai/
  AI NEWS: https://x.com/intheworldofai
  Blog: https://x.com/Alibaba_Qwen/status/2088280182356611304
  Weights: https://huggingface.co/collections/Qwen/qwen38
  Model Scope: https://www.modelscope.cn/collections/Qwen/Qwen38
  https://x.com/loktar00/status/2088305773109465458
  https://x.com/loktar00/status/2088329789434221034
  https://x.com/MaziyarPanahi/status/2088304775444013280?s=20
  https://x.com/quimedesu/status/2088373049502351731?s=20
  https://x.com/WescheNex1q/status/2088309142565831094
  
  I'm running Qwen3.8-27B completely locally on my RTX 4090 with 24GB VRAM, using an Unsloth Dynamic 4-bit quant through Open WebUI. And the results genuinely blew my mind.
  
  🔥 In this video:
  • Qwen3.8-27B real-world benchmarks
  • Agentic & long-horizon coding tests
  • One-shot GTA 6-style game generation
  • Three.js & frontend development tests
  • Vision & multimodal capabilities
  • Local inference performance
  • Unsloth Dynamic GGUF quantization
  • 4-bit versions around ~17GB
  • How you can run Qwen3.8 locally
  • Qwen3.8 vs Claude Opus-level coding
  • Whether this is the BEST local AI model yet
  
  The craziest part is just how much capability Alibaba has packed into 27 billion parameters. You can run this model on consumer hardware, keep everything local, avoid API costs, and still get seriously impressive coding and agentic performance.
  
  If you're into local AI, open-source/open-weight models, AI coding agents, or running LLMs on your own hardware, Qwen3.8-27B is absolutely one to watch.
  
  Subscribe for more AI model tests, benchmarks, local AI tutorials, and the latest AI news! 🚀
  
  [Time Stamps]:
  0:00 - Intro
  1:51 - Best Local Model
  2:00 - Benchmarks
  3:02 - Beats Opus 4.6
  3:45 - Speed
  4:10 - Local Guide
  5:46 - My Setup
  7:03 - Call of Duty Zombies Clone
  9:04 - Design Taste
  9:43 - NVIDIA Landing Page
  10:30 - Frontend Demo
  10:59 - MacOS Clone
  12:13 - Multimodal Demo
  13:26 - Web Dev
  13:44 - SVG Demos
  15:16 - 3D Product Viewer
  15:41 - Worst Gen?
  16:12 - Three.js Demo
  17:23 - GTA Clone
  17:59 - Two Cents
  
  #Qwen #Qwen38 #Qwen3827B #LocalAI #OpenSourceAI #AI #LLM #Alibaba #AICoding #CodingAI #Claude #ClaudeOpus #OpenWebUI #Unsloth #GGUF #RTX4090 #NVIDIA #AgenticAI #AIAgents #LocalLLM #MachineLearning #GenerativeAI #ArtificialIntelligence #VibeCoding
  
  Tags: Qwen 3.8 27B, Qwen3.8, Qwen3.8 27B, Qwen 3.8, Qwen 27B, Alibaba Qwen, Qwen AI, Qwen3, local AI, best local AI model, best local LLM, local LLM, open source AI, open weight AI, Claude Opus locally, Qwen vs Claude, Qwen vs Opus, Claude Opus, AI coding, coding AI, agentic coding, AI coding agent, AI agents, agentic AI, Unsloth, Unsloth Qwen, Unsloth Dynamic, GGUF, Qwen GGUF, Qwen 4 bit, 4 bit quantization, Open WebUI, Ollama, LM Studio, RTX 4090 AI, 24GB VRAM LLM, run AI locally, run Qwen locally, Qwen local setup, local AI 2026, best AI model 2026, open source LLM, multimodal AI, vision language model, VLM, GTA 6 AI, vibe coding, Three.js AI, World of AI
---
You see this right here? I'm running the Qwen 3.8 27 billion parameter model using the Unsloth dynamic 4-bit quant on my RTX 4090, and I'm genuinely mind-blown by the results. I'm practically getting Opus-level intelligence running locally for free. This might be the best local AI model that I have ever seen, and it's something that I highly, highly, highly recommend that you try out after throughout today's video. This is an

agentic coding model that has some crazy capabilities, and it's something that will help you out in so many ways. As promised by the Alibaba team, the open weights for the Qwen 3.8 series are finally here, including the 27 billion parameter model. And this is one seriously interesting model update, cuz this is a native multimodal dense model that despite being only 27 billion parameters, it claims to be outperforming Qwen 3.7 plus overall, while being especially strong for real-world coding, agentic tasks, and office workflows. And I'll be honest,

you're practically getting Opus 4.6 level locally, which is just nuts. You're also getting a 262K native context window extended up to 1 million tokens with YARN, and because it's released under the Apache 2.0 license, you can actually download it, run it locally, fine-tune it, and build on top of it. Alibaba has also released that much larger Qwen 3.8 2.4 trillion

parameter model, and that is their max-level open-weight model. So, whether you want to try something practical that you would want to use locally with the 27 billion parameter model, or if you want to build a much larger agent system around the 2.4 trillion parameter MoE model, the Qwen 3.8 open-weight lineup is officially here, and it's something that you should install if you have the capacity. In my opinion, this is definitely the best local model that most people should be able to access.

Now, in regards to the benchmark scores, this is an especially impressive model when you look at the benchmarks because this is a model that is a compact 27 billion parameter dense model that can actually outperform the Qwen 3.7 plus overall in almost every category. It's actually quite reputable in coding as well. You have strong results in real-world coding, agentic workflows, and office productivity tasks. What makes it even more interesting is that it isn't just a text model. It is

natively multimodal, meaning it is something that can understand and reason over images as well. So, you can feed it screenshots, charts, you can even have it implement UI layouts based off the visual input, and you can even work with other visual inputs alongside text. So, you can combine that with the 262K native context window, which is extendable up to a million tokens, and you're basically getting a model that can code, reason, and analyze visual information, and handle extremely long documents while still being small enough to realistically run locally. And like I mentioned at the start, this 27 billion parameter model is giving you Opus 4.6 level coding intelligence, and a lot of these tasks and a lot of these tasks locally for free. In one identical 3GS Atlantis

prompt, Qwen actually produced the stronger scene overall, a better temporal generation, you have stronger focal points, and more detail that provides more visual depth. While Opus costs money through their API, and it is a bit slower as well. So, you can clearly see that this is something that is giving you practically even better results. It is something that is providing you open weights, local inference, and frontier level coding performance without paying per prompts. But, what's interesting is that this model can reportedly hit around 206 tokens per second on a single RTX 5090 using the NVFP4 and D Spark system and even around 38 tokens per second on the DGX Spark. So, we're getting a

relatively small model that not only is extremely capable at agentic planning and long horizon tasks, but it can run locally at genuinely impressive speeds. Now, if you actually want to run the Qwen 3.8 27 billion parameter model yourself, it's surprisingly accessible. For most people, I'd recommend going with the 4-bit version, which brings the model down to around 17 GB. And if you want to know how you can actually run this or what you can actually do to run this, you should actually take a look at the World of AI benchmark tool and Bob Corn platform. This is where you can

specify your hardware, all of the different specs that your computer has, like the system RAM, the CPU cores, as well as the target context. And then once you have specified that, you will be able to see which model is best for you. And in this case, I have it so that the Qwen 3.8 27 billion parameter model is best suited for requirements. And the reason why is because it is something that packs in obviously the quality, but also in terms of speed and how efficient it is. Now,

if I'm to search up the Qwen 3.8 over here, let me just showcase which quant size you should be using. In my case, the best is using the Q5, but you can love obviously lower it down to Q4 and you'll still get similar results as to what you would get with Q8. There may be somewhat of a disparity in those two cases, but most of the times you're going to be getting great results. But, overall, this means that you can run it with a good gaming GPU and even on some laptops or Apple silicon Macs with enough unified memory. If you have less memory,

there are even smaller versions that you can go down to. And I believe on Hugging Face, there are other versions where it goes down to 9 GB, although you'll sacrifice some quality with that. So, just keep that in mind. Now, for the sake of this video, I'm running the 4-bit version of the Guanaco 3.8 27B locally at the moment on the RTX 4090 with 24 GB of VRAM. So, the entire model

fits comfortably on my GPU. I'm using the Onslaught Dynamic 4-bit quant and running everything locally through Open Web UI. So, there's no API involved and I'm not paying anything per prompt. All of this is being done for free. And if you guys want to actually run your own benchmarks and see how well this model is, you can actually connect it with your own endpoint using the World of AI Benchmark and coding tool. So, I'll

leave a link to that in the description below. This is also pretty good harness, so you'll be able to get some good results. And you can use a lot of these cool features that will get you a lot out of it. If you want the best AI tools, workflows, and drops before everyone else, join my free newsletter with the link in the description below, which is completely free. Now, if you take a look at this, this is how fast the model actually is on my computer. If

you have multiple applications open, obviously it's going to be a bit slower. It truly depends on the free memory that you have. So, in this case, it's quite slow still cuz I have a lot of applications and tabs open, but despite all of that, it is doing pretty decent. Now, I've tested it across multiple different benchmarks, so let's just simply dive into it all. Now, to start things off, I want to actually do something that I did previously with the GLM 5.3 yesterday, which was to create a

Call of Duty Zombies game in 3GS. That is the simple prompt I had provided. And let me just show what it outputted. This is what I have gotten and it is actually incredible what it was able to output. You have obviously the functional components, but the fact that it was able to output this sort of quality is just nuts, guys. You have different

weapons. You have all of these different waves of zombies coming after you. I believe you can even open up different places. So, you see that? There was like a small little animation that was outputted in 3GS.

Uh I believe this is where zombies are supposed to be coming out of, but you can unlock different areas and I believe you can get different special power-ups like Juggernaut, which is a feature I think they have in the game. I actually never played zombies, but I used to play Warzone a lot. Okay. I think I just transitioned to round two, but yeah, this is pretty decent, guys. And the fact that a 27 billion parameter model was able to output this sort of quality, you have ambience, you have different sorts of mechanics. I believe you can even

purchase different sorts of weapons. Uh, this is where you can pick up different supplies, where you can pick up ammo, and that is just pretty cool that it was able to add in this much depth even though that this is a 27 billion parameter model. I know I'll be saying that a lot, but I'm just really shocked to see that this is something that is being outputted from this model. But, this is actually where you can even purchase a mystery box, which I believe is a feature in the actual game, and I think it just gave me a new gun, which is pretty cool. It looks like it's a shotgun.

Uh, let me go ahead and purchase another one cuz I don't like this. Where did this guy come from? But, you have even power-ups like instant kill. So, you saw all those zombies disappearing. So, this is the type of quality that you can expect from this model. So, this is actually pretty

cool. It's the MP5. Now, when we had taken a look at the Quant 3.8 max, we saw how incredible and how big of a leap that the model had actually taken in its visual depth in terms of providing some pretty nice front-end designs, and that has actually transitioned over to the Quant 3.8 27B, and you can see that with a couple of these different front-ends that the model is capable of generating. I'll

even showcase a couple of the ones that I had generated, but you can see that it has gotten substantially better from the previous 27 billion parameter model from the Quant 3.6, and it's able to output some pretty nice looking front ends despite its model size. And I really like the creativity it also provides cuz you know one of my famous prompts I use with all my different model tests is the Nvidia GPU landing page and this is where it did actually pretty decent in terms of outputting this landing page where it tried to actually get that 3D design. Obviously you see that quirk of the shine being displayed throughout the whole landing page which is something that it shouldn't be doing. It should only be displayed on the GPU. So you'll notice

some of those small quirks but regardless it is able to output some decent generations, different scroll triggers, different animations, different sources of typographies and the fact that it's able to output this sort of scaffold is a great start obviously so that you can definitely build on top of it with your own input. Here is another landing page that I had generated. You can clearly tell that there is one big error, the actual blank spot in the middle of the page but regardless everything else seems to be pretty nice in terms of how well it has been structured. I even generated another one that is supposed to be actually showcasing the visual progress as you scroll down which does not seem to be actually fixed but regardless it did do a decent job with the output. Here is a macOS clone that I had requested it to generate and despite only having such a relatively small context window in this case it is able to have a 32K context window with the quantizers I have. Despite that I'm able

to get these decent generations even with front ends. This is where it replicated the new Tahoe iOS and you can see that there's slight animations even on the weather widget. You even have the clock, you have the actual schedule that has been attributed within this widget, and there's even small little animations that are being highlighted as a hover through. Now, not everything is functional. A lot of the cool things like the mini bar seems to be, but certain things like the little music player, the battery, the top bar, none of these things seem to be functioning as it's supposed to be. I can't actually open through

anything in the finder, which I guess is due to the context window, but regardless, it did code out a lot of the different individual apps, which is nice, and it did try to create the SVG icons for each of the applications. Oh, and you can even change the background, which is obviously nice, and I believe dark mode even works well. That's also great. Now, since this model is also multimodal, where it's able to actually work with visual inputs, what we're going to be doing is requesting it to clone this Airbnb website, and we're going to go ahead and send in this request to actually code out everything. Had a slight error cuz I had it to change the formatting, but now it looks like it has started coding it out, and you can now see how fast it is in terms of outputting that code.

And this is the output. Let me just showcase how it looks. So, there is a couple of things that could have been better. It should have actually coded out the SVG, but obviously, the context I think is restricting, so I would need to work on another iteration to improve it. But regardless, it got the main structure down, which is nice, and it got the main top bar, as well as the logo down. So, overall, it did do a

decent job, but let's see if I can tweak it with my prompting. Okay, this is the second iteration. This is the first one. This is the second one. It logo went away, and the top bar went away. I don't

know why, but I guess it coded out these individual icons, and then it coded out the images in SVG. This may be the worst generation so far, but maybe it's cuz of my prompting. But regardless, I guess you could say that it did a decent job with the SVGs. Now, like we know, the Quint 3.8 Max had done a great job with web development and that has portrayed over to this new 27 billion parameter model cuz you can see that with a couple of these mini games that it was able to output. They all

seem to be able to output some high qualitative results and you can see that in this case over here. And surprisingly, it's actually pretty decent at SVG. This is where I requested it to create a painting in SVG and obviously, everything looks quite well textured. But the only thing I can see that should have a bit more improvements is in actually displaying certain objects in the right area. The house should be maybe on the shoreline and then the bridge, I don't know what this is. I

believe it's a bridge, should have been uh placed somewhere better. So, there are small little things, but overall, the visual depth in this particular generation is definitely outstanding. Then we have New York City that has been simulated and this is all done in SVG. And right away, you'll notice one thing. You have a damn ship flying. That

shouldn't be happening. It should have been in the water, obviously, but aside from that, everything else seems to be quite nice in terms of what it was able to output. Even the cars have headlights, which is a visual detail that most models don't actually end up generating. Even the Sky Towers, all of these towers have the red light for uh airplane safety and obviously, the transitioning from day and night is perfect. So, that is obviously a great generation on its own.

If you like this video and would love to support the channel, you can consider donating to my channel through the Super Thanks option below. Or you can consider joining our private Discord where you can access multiple subscriptions to different AI tools for free on a monthly basis, plus daily AI news and exclusive content, plus a lot more. Next, we had requested it to create 3D model of a product and in this case, I guess it did get most of it right. But in certain views, it doesn't actually show all of the elements, which is probably the only downside, but aside from that, it tried to create a shoe. And you can see that there are a lot of little bugs that could be refined, but everything else seems to be functional, and the display for it is pretty decent. Now, here is

also another bad generation. This is probably one of the outliers, and this is where I told it to generate an F1 continuous drift on it. It's a simulation that depicts how well the model is in terms of outputting SVG. In certain angles, the car obviously looks nice, and the back uh smoke of the car that's emitting as it's drifting drifting is definitely great, but aside from that, the 3D environment scene is not on par with what we have seen from other models, so I would probably give this a 2 out of 10. However, we bounce back right away from when we take a look at this aquarium simulation that it had outputted greatly, cuz this is where all of the different entities are contained within this environment. Usually, what

happens is all of these fishes end up leaving the actual tank, which is something that we have seen with the Deep Seek version 4 Flash. Even the Gemini model failed at that prompt, but you can't really expect anything from Gemini, but regardless, this is a pretty nice-looking generation. Obviously, would have expected more textures with the individual fishes, but regardless, we have gotten some decent outputs from this. Next up, I had requested it to create this 3GS isometric room, and this is where it's kind of nice in terms of the lighting as well as the visual depth. There is one big error right here, and that is where we have this wood slab being directly uh generated within the bed. But aside from that,

everything else seems to be generated quite well. You have a nice little lamp, as well as a plant by the desk. You even have a cool little cat. I believe that's a cat that's generated on this rug. So, in 3D it did a decent job.

This is actually pretty cool. This is where this model had actually created a full-on GTA clone where you can actually shoot people, you can steal cars, and this is actually pretty cool cuz you even have sound effects where the police is actually chasing you, and you can actually get wanted stars based off the crime you're actually doing. And you can see that the car actually exploded. Now, this user had done a great job in creating the 3D environment based off the prompt that I sent in, and everything seems to be functioning as like it would with the real game. So, I actually like what it ended up doing with this specific generation.

But overall, my two cents on this model is that this might be the most impressive local model that I have ever tested so far. Not might, it is cuz this is something that is giving me near Opus 4.6 level intelligence. Many cases even providing me 4.8 level intelligence.

It's obviously not trying to beat Frontier models at everything, but the fact that this model is able to run off my own hardware and provide me a level of coding, agentic reasoning, vision, and instruction following that I haven't seen with any other local model is just insane. So, if you do have the hardware, I highly recommend that you try this out. You can use the World of AI tool to help you get a better understanding as well as get access to all of my prompts that I used to test these models. But this is a great way for you to understand which model you can actually run, and I'll leave a link to this in the description below. But make sure you go ahead and take a look at that. Make

sure you also take a look at the World of AI, or sorry, Universe of AI, our second channel. Join our newsletter, join our Discord, follow me on Twitter, and lastly, make sure you guys subscribe, turn on notification bell, like this video, and please take a look at our previous videos so that you can stay up-to-date with the latest AI news. So, with that thought, guys, have an amazing day, spread positivity, and I'll see you guys really shortly. Peace out, fellas.