---
video_title: "OpenAI's GPT-6 'Doug', Qwen 4.0 WILL BE INSANE, GPT-Image-3.0?, RIP Gemini, & More! HUGE AI NEWS!"
video_id: X8K1bW-XfL8
channel_name: "WorldofAI"
channel_id: UC2WmuBuFq6gL08QYG-JjXKw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X8K1bW-XfL8
video_date: 2026-08-10T08:12:38+00:00
video_description: |
  If you're building AI agents or AI-powered apps that need web data, check out Context.dev. One API replaces multiple web intelligence tools, so you can spend less time building infrastructure and more time shipping. https://www.context.dev/
  
  🚨 HUGE AI NEWS: OpenAI’s next wave of models could be even crazier than expected. We’re breaking down the mysterious “Doug” codename and what it could mean for GPT-6/Astra, alongside a new mystery Qwen model called “Kiana” that is already producing some insane 3D coding generations. 🤯
  
  🔗 My Links:
  Sponsor a Video or Do a Demo of Your Product, Contact me: intheworldzofai@gmail.com
  🔥 Become a Patron (Private Discord): https://patreon.com/WorldofAi
  🧠 Follow me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/intheworldofai 
  🚨 Subscribe To The SECOND Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@UCYwLV1gDwzGbg7jXQ52bVnQ 
  👩🏻‍🏫 Learn to code with Scrimba – from fullstack to AI https://scrimba.com/?via=worldofai (20% OFF)
  🚨 Subscribe To The FREE AI Newsletter For Regular AI Updates: https://intheworldofai.com/
  👾 Join the World of AI Discord! : https://discord.gg/NPf8FCn4cD
  
  Something coming soon :) https://www.skool.com/worldofai-automation
  
  [Must Watch]:
  OpenAI's GPT-6 Astra WILL BE AGI! Greatest AI Model Ever!: https://youtu.be/KbYio-N8_LU
  Qwen 3.8 Max IS OUT! Best Open Model? (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/vmLwsoVRo30
  DeepSeek V4 Flash GA IS INCREDIBLE! Powerful, Cheap, & Fast! (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/wT42SgaOPK4
  
  📌 LINKS & RESOURCES
  World of AI Benchmark: https://www.woaibench.ai/
  AI NEWS: https://x.com/intheworldofai
  https://x.com/chetaslua/status/2086378533857943698
  https://x.com/HarshithLucky3/status/2086290064213217755/video/1
  https://x.com/HarshithLucky3/status/2086720512341037561
  https://x.com/AiBattle_/status/2086405404368503240
  https://x.com/TokenGremlin/status/2086349533890400690
  https://x.com/legit_api/status/2086474587806593309/photo/1
  https://x.com/NousResearch/status/2086621731851026912
  https://x.com/IlirAliu_/status/2086723241041670264/video/1
  
  We also have a potential new GPT-Image model appearing in the Arena under the codename “Mona-lisa-1,” with reports that its generations contain an OpenAI-associated watermark. 🎨🔥 On top of that, Grok Image 2.0 is making waves in image-generation rankings, the massive Gemma 4 120B has reportedly been cancelled, DeepSeek is extending its V4 Flash 0731 90% discount, and we’ve got an absolutely wild transformable flying robot from researchers at the University of Tokyo. 🤖🚁
  
  There’s a TON happening across OpenAI, Qwen, Google, xAI, DeepSeek, robotics, and the broader AI industry—so let’s dive into everything! 🚀
  
  Topics Covered:
  🔥 OpenAI GPT-6 / “Doug” mystery model
  🧠 GPT Astra, Mewthree & MewFour confusion
  🚀 Qwen “Kiana” mystery checkpoint
  💻 Kiana vs Claude Opus 5, Fable 5 & Qwen 3.8 Max
  🎨 “Mona-lisa-1” potential new GPT-Image model
  🖼️ Grok Image 2.0
  💀 Gemma 4 120B reportedly cancelled
  ⚡ DeepSeek V4 Flash 0731 discount extended
  🤖 University of Tokyo DRAGON flying robot
  📈 Latest AI models, leaks & developments
  
  Subscribe for the latest AI news, model releases, benchmarks, coding agents, open-source AI, and everything happening at the frontier of artificial intelligence! 🔔
  
  [Time Stamps]:
  0:00 - Intro
  1:26 - GPT-6 'Doug'
  5:07 - Qwen 4.0
  5:54 - How To Use
  7:03 - Kiana Demo
  8:59 - Beats Fable 5
  10:05 - Three.js
  10:36 - GPT-Image-3.0?
  12:03 - RIP Gemma 4
  13:01 - Grok Image 2.0
  13:51 - DeepSeek 90% Off
  14:32 - Dragon Robot
  
  Hashtags
  #AI #ArtificialIntelligence #OpenAI #GPT6 #GPTAstra #ChatGPT #Qwen #Qwen4 #Alibaba #GPTImage #Grok #xAI #DeepSeek #Gemma #GoogleAI #Claude #Anthropic #AINews #LLM #GenerativeAI #AIRobotics
  
  Tags
  OpenAI, GPT-6, GPT 6, GPT-6 Doug, OpenAI Doug, Doug AI model, GPT Astra, OpenAI Astra, Mewthree, MewFour, GPT-5.5, GPT-Image 3, GPT Image 3.0, GPT Image, Mona Lisa 1, Mona-lisa-1, Qwen 4, Qwen 4.0, Qwen Kiana, Kiana AI, Alibaba AI, Qwen 3.8 Max, Claude Opus 5, Claude Fable 5, Anthropic Claude, Grok Image 2.0, Grok Image, xAI, DeepSeek V4, DeepSeek V4 Flash, DeepSeek V4 Flash 0731, Gemma 4, Gemma 4 120B, Google Gemma, Google AI, Gemini, Gemini AI, AI news, latest AI news, AI news 2026, new AI models, upcoming AI models, LLM news, artificial intelligence, generative AI, AI coding, Code Arena, LMArena, AI benchmarks, Three.js AI, AI image generator, GPT image generator, OpenAI image model, AI robotics, DRAGON robot, University of Tokyo robot, flying robot, autonomous robots, World of AI
---
We've got some pretty insane reports on what could be coming right after GPT Astra, a mysterious model from OpenAI, and it's a new series called Doug. Now, quick note, Doug was previously used as an internal pre-training name for Astra. However, reports suggest that another model was being trained alongside Astra, one that is significantly larger and has undergone far more extensive pre-training, and could be even more capable. Not much is known yet, but there are some pretty credible sources that we'll be diving into. And this is a model that will be launching later this year. Meanwhile, the Alibaba team has

clearly been working nonstop because another mysterious Quen checkpoint code named Yana has appeared in the arena. And I've got to say this model looks incredible. In several 3 GS prompts, it seemingly outperformed Opus 5 in max thinking mode, as well as Fable 5. And we still don't know whether this is a part of the upcoming Quen 4 series or something else entirely. But today, we'll be breaking down on some of these cool generations. We've also got a new

mysterious GPT image model appearing in arena called Mona Lisa, and it looks substantially better than the current image 2 model. Speaking of image generation, Grok image 2.0 has officially dropped, and it currently ranks number two overall for text-to-image generation. Unfortunately, Google's massive Gemma 4 120 billion parameter model has reportedly been canceled. And plus, there's a lot more to cover, so let's just simply dive into it now. Chris, who has been a pretty

well-respected source that I actually have been following for a while, and when it comes to upcoming OpenAI models, he usually reports on them in terms of internal sources. And recently, he reported something pretty massive. According to him, GPT 5.5 won't be OpenAI's final major pre-running run. He says that GPT 6, whether that is Astra, not too sure what that is going to be yet, should already be a great model.

But the mysterious end-of-the-year model that he has alluded back in June could actually be Open AI's biggest pre-training run yet. And apparently that model was code-named Doug. He also mentioned that this new model will make Fable look primitive, which is kind of insane for this comparison. But this is where things start to get pretty confusing because the timeline doesn't completely add up. Another source that is quite credible had pushed back on the idea that Doug is definitely some brand new model coming after Astra. But

according to them, SemiAnalysis had already mentioned the Doug code-name earlier in July before the most recent reporting around Astra. So Doug could potentially be an early internal code-name for Astra itself rather than its successor. But that's not 100% confirmed yet. But overall, everything is quite confusing right now in terms of the sequence of names cuz we have a lot of code names and checkpoints floating around like Doug now, Mu 3, Mu 4, and eventually Astra. We still don't know whether this represents separate models, different checkpoints of the same training run, or simply internal code names that change throughout development. At the same time though,

the July timing doesn't actually add up based off of the source cuz if Doug was mentioned on July 9th, Astra would certainly have already been deep into development by that point. So it's still possible that multiple training runs existed simultaneously while working on Astra. So we could see two separate models. The biggest takeaway right now is that Doug appears to be some real Open AI code name. But exactly which model it is is still quite unclear. If

Doug really is a separate, much larger pre-training run targeting later this year, that would be some groundbreaking news and that would indicate that Open AI is also focusing on another model simultaneously while working on the Astra release. So this is some pretty wild news that we had uncovered over the past weekend. One of the most annoying parts of building AI agents is getting clean data from websites. Normally, you need a web scraper, a crawler, markdown converter, structured extraction, and branding APIs. Context Dev combines all of that into a single API.

I'm using Context Dev, the web intelligence API that's built for AI developers. It lets you crawl entire websites, extract structured data, generate AI-ready markdown, or brand assets like logos and colors, and even build a complete knowledge base from a single site using one provider instead of stitching together five different APIs. Let's say I want to build a website and I need to understand a company's documentation like the World of AI Benchmark tool. I can simply go ahead and paste in the website link and I can extract everything in markdown. Instead of writing my own crawler, I just point Context Dev at the website and then run it. And in one request, I'm

able to get clean markdown files and the docs that my large language model can actually understand based off of whatever I had to basically work upon. So, if you're building AI agents or AI part apps that need web data, check out Context Dev with links in the description below. And thanks to them for sponsoring today's video. Next up, we've got a mysterious new coin model that started appearing within Code Arena inside Arena, which is called Kiana. And as usual, the first thing people are throwing at it is some pretty cool tests and some comparisons. And you can see

that this is quite competent in terms of its 3D output, especially in 3GS. But it's quite comparable to models like Claude Opus 5 and GPT-5.6 Soul running the exact same prompt. And you can see that in this case, this is where the model did quite incredibly well in this specific test to generate a simulation of a ballista. And from earlier generations from myself even, which I'll showcase in a bit. This is where the

model is quite reputable in all fronts in terms of front-end and web development. Now, to access this model, you'll need to create an account with Arena, and you just need to simply head over to this drop-down menu and click on battle mode and then select code Arena. And this is where you can send in any prompt, and you have a chance of getting either of the models. So, let me just showcase how it would work. Create a website. And

essentially, once you send in your prompt, you have two different options that you can select from. And afterwards, you have the ability to vote on which model did a better job in generating that specific prompt. Once you have voted, it will tell you which model had generated which, but there is a chance that you obviously won't get the Keanu model, this new checkpoint. So, just keep that in mind. You need to keep constantly generating within Arena to get that model checkpoint.

And speaking of models, if you haven't already, I would highly recommend taking a look at the world of AI benchmark and Vibe Coding platform, cuz this is incredible tool that will help you understand which model to use, as well as how you can even get started with different AI agents and models, cuz there's different tools and different assistants that will help you in so many different ways. So, I highly recommend that you take a look at that with the link in the description below. But here, this is where I had told it to create a 360° rotational product viewer page, and this is where it did exceptional in almost every front of this generation. You can see that it created the labels, the rotating uh specialized viewer, as well as the actual 3D product in three.js, which is something that most models actually end up failing at. You can even change the

color, which is a nice add-on. And the overall UI looks pretty sleek and clean. So, this is actually a really cool generation. Now, there's obviously no confirmation of what this model is just yet, but it could potentially be the new Kwen model, maybe the 4.0 series, which is something that is projected to release in September. Maybe we might

even get a Quen 3.9 update this month. Not too sure what actually ends up happening. Here, I had requested it to create a macOS OS, and this is where it did actually quite well on almost all of the fronts. Spotlight seems to be functional in terms of like the top bar. And

remember, this is being done in uh Eleuthera so just think about it. It's not something that has the best reasoning effort set. So, the fact that it's able to do this with this reasoning level is pretty incredible. You have the launchpad which even has that small little animation. You have a finders app which seems to be functional on most fronts. Never mind. I guess you can open

up some folders which is nice. It has coded out the Safari app. You have a couple of different web pages which has been coded out. You have the mail app, the terminal, the music app which I don't think actually works which is unfortunate. But then again, we're on low reasoning. Then you have the notes

app, the calendar, you have photos which you can actually open up which is actually pretty cool. You even have uh calculator and then you have the system settings where you can change the background so But the fact that we've got this sort of generation from the playground is nice to see and it even generated an FPS shooter type of game in 3GS. So, this is really cool to see something being generated in low reasoning in Arena. Here on X which I'll leave a link to in the description below, someone had essentially tested out the Claude Opus 5 Max versus this new Keanu checkpoint from Quen versus the Claude Fable 5 in high reasoning. All given the same prompt to create a steampunk airship using 3GS. And you can

see the quality is definitely incredible for this new Keanu checkpoint in terms of creating the actual uh labels as well as the panel that describes what the ship is. And you can see that it actually has an arguably better design and structure than what we've seen from Fable 5 high and the Opus. Obviously, it adds in a bit more texture than those other models, but I would actually put the Opus model higher than anything else that we were seeing on the screen. But still, regardless, Keanu is putting up a pretty impressive fight. Despite being something that's in Arena doing this, so it's really nice to see that this model is outputting this, and I would really love to see this new coin model being released later this year. And you will

clearly see that this is not the 27 billion parameter model. Just by this head-to-head test where it was put up against the coin 3.8 max X high. On that reasoning, it was able to outcompete it, and this is where it was told to create a photorealistic 3D luxury countryside house in 3GS, and despite the coin 3.8 max outputting some great qualitative output for a 3D visualization, we can still see that the Keanu model did a substantially better job in this output. So, it really looks

like this may be the coin 4.0 series. Next up, we have gotten maybe the first look at OpenAI's next image generation model. There's a new mysterious model called Mona Lisa 1, which started appearing inside Arena, and it is really interesting cuz the output you're getting from this model is just incredible, and this may be the image 2.5 update, or maybe even image 3.0

update. This is just an early checkpoint. Maybe we might see this model released this week or later this year. Whatever it may be, this is an incredible new image model from OpenAI. These images generated by the model that by this checkpoint are reportedly being detected by OpenAI's own verification tooling as containing OpenAI's synth ID watermark. And overall, this is a really

strong clue that this model is directly from OpenAI, and judging from the generations we're seeing so far, this could potentially be a major upgrade over the current image models that OpenAI has, and especially in just terms of visual quality and prompt following. So, this is something that is definitely really exciting and just take a look at this comparison of the ChatGPT image 2.0 media mode versus this Mona Lisa 1 model as well as the image 2.0 high mode and the quality that you can see from the Mona Lisa 1 is just incredible in comparison to these other models. If you want the best AI tools, workflows, and drops before everyone else, join my free newsletter with the link in the description below, which is completely free. Next up is some sad news from

Gemini, as usual. But, remember that massive Gemma 4 120 billion parameter model that we were talking about a couple of months back? Well, apparently it has been canceled. An internal listing shows that the Gemma 4 version 120B, with the actual model ID referencing roughly 123 billion parameters alongside a 262 context window, has been canceled. So, sadly, this is where Google has ultimately decided not to actually release this, meaning that we will never get to see this massive Gemma model actually being deployed or what it's actually capable of.

Now, this could maybe highlight that they're refocusing, retooling on whatever is going to be releasing in the next couple months. Not too sure. The whole Google DeepMind company as a whole has been quite confusing over the last couple months and there's definitely a lot of things that they need to rework. Also, I forgot to mention this in my video yesterday, but the XAI team, the SpaceXAI team, as I should say now, has actually released the Grok Imagine image 2.0 model and it's something that currently ranks number two on EleutherAI's text-to-image arena model leaderboard. And this is where the model

has done exceptionally well on all fronts in terms of generating images. And this is where it's able to do quite well on most of these different prompts, and you can see that with the visual depth from this model. If you like this video and would love to support the channel, you can consider donating to my channel through the Super Thanks option below. Or you can consider joining our private Discord where you can access multiple subscriptions to different AI tools for free on a monthly basis, plus daily AI news and exclusive content, plus a lot more. Now, I'm not sponsored by News Research for holding this, but they did mention on X today that the 90% discount that they had on the new Deep Seek version 4 flash model, the generally available flash model, is now being extended for another 3 days. And

this discount is where they're providing that model off of their 90% discount on it, which is something that I would highly recommend taking advantage of. This is something that is going to get you some incredible usage for this capable model, basically for free at this rate. I know this sounds like I'm sponsored by them, but I will tell you that I'm not. It's just my two cents and my recommendations to you guys as my viewers. Now, as I always end off these videos with a cool robot video, this is where the University of Tokyo built a flying robot that's called Dragon, and unlike a normal drone, this thing actually changes its entire shape while flying and uses AI in the actual course.

This is something that has a rigid body, and you can see that it is actually kind of interesting how they actually accomplished this. This is where it's able to bend itself into different configurations and even use its own body to grasp and manipulate objects mid-air, which is kind of sci-fi-like. This is just crazy that AI is being used in today's robotics world for different sorts of mechanisms and tools, even technologies like this. So, imagine what we'll be seeing in the next 25 years. Well, with that thought, guys, thank you guys so much for watching. I hope you

enjoyed today's video and got some sort of value. I highly recommend that you take a look at the world of AI benchmarking platform. Make sure you also go ahead and take a look at the second channel, join the newsletter, join the discord, follow me on Twitter, and lastly make sure you guys subscribe, turn on the notification bell, like this video, and please take a look at our previous videos so that you can stay up to date with the latest AI news and topics that are happening on a daily basis. But with that thought guys, have an amazing day, spread positivity, and I'll see you guys really shortly. Peace out fellas.