---
video_title: "Kestra IS THE N8N KILLER! Automate Your Life With AI! (Open Source)"
video_id: 7wnjIZ70MVk
channel_name: "WorldofAI"
channel_id: UC2WmuBuFq6gL08QYG-JjXKw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wnjIZ70MVk
video_date: 2026-08-09T04:26:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Build production-ready AI agents with Kestra 100% Open Source! Try Today. Go leave a star on the Kestra repo and get started: https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra
  
  Most AI agents today are powerful... but would you actually trust them to take actions on their own? 
  
  🔗 My Links:
  Sponsor a Video or Do a Demo of Your Product, Contact me: intheworldzofai@gmail.com
  🔥 Become a Patron (Private Discord): https://patreon.com/WorldofAi
  🧠 Follow me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/intheworldofai 
  🚨 Subscribe To The SECOND Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@UCYwLV1gDwzGbg7jXQ52bVnQ 
  👩🏻‍🏫 Learn to code with Scrimba – from fullstack to AI https://scrimba.com/?via=worldofai (20% OFF)
  🚨 Subscribe To The FREE AI Newsletter For Regular AI Updates: https://intheworldofai.com/
  👾 Join the World of AI Discord! : https://discord.gg/NPf8FCn4cD
  
  Something coming soon :) https://www.skool.com/worldofai-automation
  
  [Must Watch]:
  Claude Code + Ollama = FULLY FREE AI Coding FOREVER! (Tutorial): https://youtu.be/mN2VUw5Fb3E?si=w8U-WHkeyobCIT0c
  Hermes Agentic OS is The Future: https://youtu.be/dLk2Imx-0uk
  Hermes Agent The 24/7 Self-Evolving AI Agent!: https://youtu.be/cu2fgknmemA?si=BPLsI65J2RVJ1p8I
  
  📌 LINKS & RESOURCES
  World of AI Benchmark: https://www.woaibench.ai/
  AI NEWS: https://x.com/intheworldofai
  Website: https://kestra.io/get-started
  Docker: https://www.docker.com/
  Kestra Cloud: https://kestra.io/cloud
  Kestra Github: https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra
  Docs: https://kestra.io/docs/use-cases/approval-processes
  
  In this video, I show you how to build a production-ready AI workflow using Kestra with human-in-the-loop approvals. You'll learn how to combine deterministic workflows with AI reasoning so your agents can think, pause for approval, and only take action when a human gives the green light.
  
  We'll cover:
  ✅ Installing Kestra with Docker
  ✅ Building AI workflows using YAML
  ✅ Using Kestra's AI Agent task
  ✅ Adding human approval with the Pause task
  ✅ Automatically triaging GitHub issues
  ✅ Best practices for putting AI agents into production
  
  If you enjoyed the video, make sure to Like 👍, Subscribe 🔔, and Comment 💬 what AI workflow you'd like to build next!
  
  AI Agents, Kestra, n8n, Workflow Automation, AI Automation, Human in the Loop, AI Workflows, Open Source AI, Docker, GitHub Automation, LLM Agents, Claude, Gemini, GPT-5, Agentic AI, AI Engineering, Dev Tools, YAML, Workflow Orchestration,
---
AI agents are getting ridiculously good. They can browse the web, write code, send emails, update databases, and even automate entire workflows. But, there's one major problem. Would you actually trust an AI agent to do that all completely on its own? Probably not. The reality is is that the

best AI systems today don't give agents unlimited control. Instead, they combine predictable automation with AI reasoning and require human approval before anything important happens. In this video, I'll show you exactly how you can build that using Kestra. Kestra is an open-source workflow automation platform that lets you build and run automated workflows. Think of it as a way to orchestrate multiple tasks from APIs and databases to AI models in one reliable pipeline. We'll create an AI-powered

workflow that knows when to think, when to automate, and when to stop and ask for approval before taking action. Kestra is like an operating system for AI workflows. Cuz instead of letting an AI agent run everything on its own, Kestra can manage the entire process with handling the predictable steps, calling AI only when reasoning is needed, and allowing a human to approve important actions before anything happens. So, it is super simple and you can get started completely for free with the links in the description below. And I know you may be wondering, why not just use an AI? Well, because a

drag-and-drop canvas isn't just code. In Kestra, the whole workflow is a YAML file. You version it in Git, review it in a PR, deploy it through CI/CD, and roll it back when it breaks. You can run Python, Node, Go, and Bash natively inside a task instead of just wrapping everything in a custom node. And when something fails, you can get full execution history, replays, as well as backfills, and not just the canvas that you rerun by hand.

And the thing is, Kestra is open source, and this is something that allows you to host it for free, and there's even an enterprise edition when you need SSO, RBAC, and support at company scale. Now, to get started with Kestra, you can self-host it with either Docker or Kubernetes, and everything in this video runs locally without requiring a cloud Kestra account. And that is the beauty of this. This is where you can build reliable workflows using YAML, and the workflows are declarative, which means the entire automation exists in a file that can be versioned, reviewed, and deployed like normal code. You can get started with macOS, Windows, or Linux, and I'll showcase this exact three-step process. Also, something to note is that

it includes more than 1,800 plugins for services like GitHub, Slack, databases, and cloud platforms, but more importantly, Kestra includes AI agents and human approval steps as native workflow tasks. It's also language agnostic. You can run Python, Bash, Node.js, Go, or essentially anything that can run inside your computer. If you want the best AI tools, workflows, and drops before everyone else, join my free newsletter with the link in the description below, which is completely free. Now, to install this, if you're

following through with the Windows step-by-step process, I'll leave all these links in the description below, but you'll need to have Docker Desktop installed, and just make sure you have Docker Desktop running on your computer. You can verify that by clicking on the toolbar, and to verify that that it is actually running, just hover over the icon, and it should say Docker Desktop running. Once that is fully functional on your computer, I'll leave a doc to this in the description below, and this is where it's going to give you a couple of commands for downloading it with Docker Compose, which I believe is going to be really fast since I am on Windows. I am going to copy this, open up my PowerShell. Once I have it opened up, I'm pasting this command. Afterwards, we

can launch Kestra using the Docker Compose up e command. And this is where it is going to now open it up within our localhost. Now, I already have it running and I already pulled it using Docker beforehand to save some time, but now I can open this up within my localhost. So, if I am to open up my browser, I can paste in this link to go over to my localhost and it should open up Kestra. Now, if it is your first time using Kestra, you it will prompt you to sign up with an account. I already have

an account, so I can simply go ahead and log in. And this is the main dashboard of Kestra. Now, one thing I want to show is that it has an AI copilot. Obviously, Kestra is code first for engineers, but the copilot speeds things up rather than replacing missing technical skills. That will help you turn any idea that you have into a workflow. This is more for

people who don't have the technical capabilities to get started with Kestra and they just want to simply type in a couple of words to get their workflows fully generated. But here's also a quick tour of everything. We have flows which contains every workflow that you have created. Executions is where it shows you every time a workflow has run and what happened during each individual task. The logs are going to let you inspect the outputs and troubleshoot anything that goes wrong. You even have

blueprints and this is going to contain custom blueprints, flow blueprints. These are essentially ready-made workflow examples that you can copy and customize instead of just starting from scratch. You also have plugins like we had mentioned before. You have over 1,800 plus plugins that is containing Kestra's available integrations, and this will overall enhance your workflow so much more. But, the most important area is the workflow editor. To open up

the workflow editor, head over to flows, click on create. This is where you have your workflow written in the YAML, and on the right, you even have this documentation that will give you assistance every time you're working with certain components with your YAML file. You also have topology, and essentially, this creates a visual topology showcasing every task and the order in which they will run. The top views are connected when I change the workflow code, and the topology updates autonomously. Now, this is useful because we can clearly see where the AI agent sits, and where the workflow pauses. And this is something that will

be able to allow us to get a better interaction with things like GitHub, as well as with other components. Now, let me show you what we're actually going to be building. Imagine someone submits an issue to your GitHub repository, like something like where an app crashes when uploading a CSV that is larger than 10 MB. Normally, a maintainer would need to actually read the issue, determine whether it's a bug, feature request, or question. Then it assigns the correct priority and labels, and then writes a response. It's definitely repetitive

work, and it becomes difficult to scale as more issues come in. So, what we're going to do is automate it, but carefully. The workflow has five main stages. First, we're going to have it fetch this issue that is going to be retrieved from this GitHub issue page. Next, the issue facts extract information that we care about, including the title, as well as the description, as well as the author and issue number. Then we're going to have a

triage agent that uses AI to classify the issue and draft a response after the issue has been solved. And then we also have an apply decision which publishes the labels and comment if I personally approve that AI's work. And that is the human in the loop feature that we're going to be implementing with this workflow. The order is extremely important. Every task is capable of changing something on GitHub and sits on the other side of the human approval gate.

Also guys, if you guys haven't already, go ahead and give Kestra a star on GitHub so that you can support the project. Now, I should let you guys know I have already created this YAML file using another AI and I'm not going to pretend that I hand wrote 180 lines of YAML. It is something that I had constructed with an AI agent. You can either do that directly within Kestra itself using the AI copilot, or you can just simply click on create and then handwrite it directly over here and even get AI assistance with this copilot directly. But once you have your workflow created in YAML, you can simply paste it in and then you can click on save and that is where you can essentially create your flow. But this

agent that we have created is actually pretty interesting. Let's start with the boring part cuz this will give you a better understanding of everything. And that is the fetch issue. We saw on GitHub, we have one thing that is going to be fetching different sorts of issues from GitHub within the issues page. And this is where the first task hits the GitHub API and pulls that issue. Second

is where it picks out exactly what to care about, like the title, body, author, as well as the issue number. By the way, this topology is going to be created after you have essentially created your flow and it will directly show this topology right away. But going back to this example, the reason why we have it fetch all of these critical things like the labels, the comments, who had published it, is because if I let the agent go fetch its own data, it can hallucinate many times. It is going to hallucinate a version number sometimes invent a stack trace and even make up a file path and that happens constantly. Instead, the facts get fetched deterministically, same issue in and same data out every single run and that is possible with Kestra's help. The

agent gets directed with the right instructions, clean context instead of going looking for it itself and that is why we're using Kestra in this Also, it's cuz we have this agent that we have configured with our flow that is setting a couple of different requirements to use Kestra's AI agent task and essentially we're passing it into the issue data from the previous steps and then asking for four different things like the classifying the bug approach, then the feature request from that GitHub issue or even a question and then giving it a priority and all this is being powered by an AI agent which will be delegating those different subtasks using this flow. But, it looks like everything is ready and I approve whatever we have visualized within the topology so we can go ahead and click execute. This is where it is going to work within our repository and it will track this issue number and we're going to go ahead and run this. This is where I'm passing in the issue data from the previous steps and I'm asking four different things, classify the bug as well as the feature request or a question and give it a priority. That is going to then suggest a label and you can see that it has succeeded in three of these different things and then the review gate which is the human in the loop process which I can then review afterwards and then approve which I'll be showcasing. Now, the whole point of

this video, immediately after the agent, there is a pause task, which you see over here. You can see that within the gap view, there is this thing that is running, but it shows pause. The execution stops completely in this particular step, which is the review gate. And this isn't a timer, it isn't polling anything, it just sits here indefinitely until I am going to go into review and click on resume. So, think about where we are right now. The agent

has done the work, it is now just waiting for our approval to continue forward. Now, if I have to go back and look at the flow in this case, that can actually help us get a better understanding of this whole process, cuz the task in reach GitHub are the things like outside of this gate. The agent doesn't have the GitHub token, it just has the tools, it has no path to publish anything at all until I resume it, which is the human trigger. Within the outputs, this will also give you the chance to read through the JSON to get a better idea, and then afterwards, you can obviously go back into outputs and then review it. And this is where we can go into overview, and we can actually click on resume, and this is where we can click it on true, and we can't actually leave this empty, so we can then click on resume.

And now, what is going to happen is it is going to have the form approve this. Now, the last two tasks will be approved, meaning it is going to now push in the comments into that GitHub issue after delegating the different things that we had asked for, like providing the priority, as well as providing a comment. And now, if we are to click on GitHub, if we are to see there is a new comment that has been added, which is something that was fully automated with the Kestra workflow. It even provided the label as well, and this was all done with this workflow that we have created. If you like this video and would love to support the channel, you can consider donating to my channel through the Super Thanks option below. Or you can consider joining our

private Discord, where you can access multiple subscriptions to different AI tools for free on a monthly basis, plus daily AI news and exclusive content, plus a lot more. In the overview, you can even get a good understanding of your fail and pass rate, as well as different tasks that are pending or that will need your own review, which is something that we have established with this review gate. As you all realize, Kestra was able to handle all of this reliably with all of these different repeatable steps, from fetching the issue, extracting the information from GitHub, and then applying the labels, and then publishing the response. The AI agent was able to handle the part that genuinely requires reasoning, which was understanding the unstructured issue, and then deciding how it should be classified, which you saw that it was given the bug tag. And the human approval gate protects only actions that affect the outside world.

So, the difference between building a basic AI demo and then this overall AI system that we had just crafted from that YAML file is showcasing that you can do anything and put this type of stuff, these AI agents into production. The agent isn't in control of the entire process. It's one intelligent step inside a reliable workflow that remains under human control. Everything in this video that I had run was fully completed with a Gemini API, which is on the free tier using the Gemini 2.5 flash and that is something that you can retrieve from Google AI studio and then using Kestra's open source edition to get all these tasks done while having it locally hosted.

This is the capability of Kestra and I highly recommend that you take a look at them. Thanks to them for sponsoring today's video and I would highly recommend that you star them on GitHub as well. I'll leave all these links that I use in today's video in the description below. You can even request access for the cloud version. So, if you do not have the capabilities to host this locally, you can do so through the cloud. But, with that thought guys, I

hope you enjoyed today's video and got some sort of value. I'll leave all these links that I used in the description below. Like our second channel. Be sure to go ahead and join the newsletter, the Discord, follow me on Twitter. I'll also make sure you guys subscribe, turn on the notification bell, like this video and please take a look at our previous videos so that you can stay up to date with the latest AI news. But, with that

thought guys, have an amazing day, spread positivity and I'll see you guys really shortly. Peace out, fellas.