---
video_title: "Grok 4.6 IS REALLY GOOD Beating GPT-5.6 Sol, Opus 5, & Kimi k3?! (Fully Tested)"
video_id: VQqxMITWABU
channel_name: "WorldofAI"
channel_id: UC2WmuBuFq6gL08QYG-JjXKw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VQqxMITWABU
video_date: 2026-08-13T05:24:30+00:00
video_description: |
  🚨 Everything you’re about to see, I benchmarked using the tool I made. If you want to run these tests yourself or test models on whatever you actually use them for! → https://www.woaibench.ai/
  
  Grok 4.6 is HERE, and xAI may have just released one of its biggest model upgrades yet.
  
  🔗 My Links:
  Sponsor a Video or Do a Demo of Your Product, Contact me: intheworldzofai@gmail.com
  🔥 Become a Patron (Private Discord): https://patreon.com/WorldofAi
  🧠 Follow me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/intheworldofai 
  🚨 Subscribe To The SECOND Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@UCYwLV1gDwzGbg7jXQ52bVnQ 
  👩🏻‍🏫 Learn to code with Scrimba – from fullstack to AI https://scrimba.com/?via=worldofai (20% OFF)
  🚨 Subscribe To The FREE AI Newsletter For Regular AI Updates: https://intheworldofai.com/
  👾 Join the World of AI Discord! : https://discord.gg/NPf8FCn4cD
  
  Something coming soon :) https://www.skool.com/worldofai-automation
  
  [Must Watch]:
  OpenAI's GPT-6 Astra WILL BE AGI! Greatest AI Model Ever!: https://youtu.be/KbYio-N8_LU
  Qwen 3.8 Max IS OUT! Best Open Model? (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/vmLwsoVRo30
  DeepSeek V4 Flash GA IS INCREDIBLE! Powerful, Cheap, & Fast! (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/wT42SgaOPK4
  
  📌 LINKS & RESOURCES
  World of AI Benchmark: https://www.woaibench.ai/
  AI NEWS: https://x.com/intheworldofai
  Blog: https://x.ai/news/grok-4-6
  https://x.com/aimlapi/status/2087668323999756416?s=20
  https://x.com/TokenGremlin/status/2087611670713536644?s=20
  https://x.com/TokenGremlin/status/2087589708226252905
  https://x.com/adxtyahq/status/2087593468126536118
  
  In this video, I fully test Grok 4.6 across coding, agentic workflows, visual generation, Three.js, interactive applications, and real-world tasks to see how it compares against GPT-5.6 Sol, Claude Opus 5, Kimi K3, and Grok 4.5.
  
  Grok 4.6 is already putting up some seriously impressive results — matching GPT-5.6 Sol on the Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index, taking #1 on GDPVal-AA v2, AA-Briefcase, and Harvey LAB, while showing major improvements over Grok 4.5 in long-running agentic tasks.
  
  We also look at Grok 4.6's visual coding capabilities, including complex Three.js scenes and an insane one-shot Falcon 9 booster return simulation. And when compared against Claude Opus 5 on real-world Three.js generations, the price difference gets very interesting.
  
  Is Grok 4.6 now one of the best frontier AI models available? Let's put it to the test.
  
  [Time Stamps]:
  0:00 - Intro
  1:23 - Grok 4.7 Coming Soon!
  2:06 - Ranked 4th Overall!
  2:30 - Best Reasoning Level
  2:49 - Benchmarks
  3:41 - Pricing
  3:52 - How To Use
  4:18 - Grok 4.5 High vs Grok 4.6 High
  5:36 - Impressive Design Taste
  7:14 - Flight Sim
  8:06 - F1 Sim
  8:42 - Zelda Low Poly
  9:07 - Tree Growth
  9:30 - Candle Burn
  10:04 - SVG Demos
  11:00 - Grok 4.6 vs Opus 5
  12:30 - MacOS Clone
  14:23 - Two Cents
  
  
  Topics Covered:
  Grok 4.6 testing, Grok 4.6 vs GPT-5.6 Sol, Grok 4.6 vs Claude Opus 5, Grok 4.6 vs Kimi K3, Grok 4.5 vs Grok 4.6, Grok coding, agentic AI, Three.js testing, AI benchmarks, xAI, AI agents, frontier AI models
  
  Tags:
  Grok 4.6, Grok 4.6 AI, Grok 4.6 review, Grok 4.6 test, Grok 4.6 benchmark, Grok 4.6 coding, Grok 4.6 vs GPT-5.6 Sol, GPT-5.6 Sol, Grok 4.6 vs Opus 5, Claude Opus 5, Grok 4.6 vs Kimi K3, Kimi K3, Grok 4.5, xAI, Elon Musk, Grok AI, AI agents, agentic AI, AI coding, Three.js AI, ThreeJSEval, AI benchmarks, frontier AI, LLM, large language models, coding AI, best AI model, best coding AI, AI news, artificial intelligence, World of AI
---
I'm honestly astonished by what Grok 4.6 generated here. In a single attempt, it created the entire Falcon 9 booster return sequence inside one HTML file. We have the stage separation above Earth, the boostback burn, plasma reentry, grid fin guidance, and then the final burn inside the drone ship, while simultaneously running a live two-host commentary using Grok voice. This is something that I truly didn't expect from the Grok 4.6, and this is another

groundbreaking new model that we have a part of our list. SpaceX AI is back again, and this time around, they have just released another frontier intelligence model, and it's a significant improvement over the Grok 4.5 at essentially the same price. And this is something we actually talked about in our full beta test of this model a few days ago, but now it's officially here, and it's even [music] better. Allow me to introduce Grok 4.6.

Grok 4.6 builds directly on Grok 4.5 with a much bigger focus on long-running agents, coding, and more ambitious, interactive, and visual work. It's designed to stay on task across much longer workflows, whether than researching a topic, analyzing large amounts of information, working across an entire code base, or taking an idea and turning it into a polished application. But before we even get into 4.6, Elon Musk today casually dropped

something pretty wild on X. He says that Grok 4.7 is already significantly better than Grok 4.6, and it should be ready in just 3 to 4 weeks, which is nuts. So even though 4.6 literally just dropped

today, we already have another major Grok model in the pipeline coming next month. And yes, DeepSeek version 4 Pro also dropped today, and I know I got a lot of messages talking about making a video on this. There's a lot of things that I got to unpack with that model, so I'm going to be making a full dedicated video on that so I can properly keep you guys posted on it. But today we're focusing on Grok 4.6 because the benchmark results are already looking extremely impressive. After running a

rigorous test on the world of AI benchmark and vibe coding platform, this is where we have tested across multiple benchmarks and we have found that this model currently ranks number four and you can say that it is now part of the big three, which is kind of wild to even say. This is a really efficient model and does exceptionally well on X high reasoning. If you are to actually go over to our leaderboard, if you are to go over to the reasoning levels, you can see that it is actually ranked quite high, even surpassing Kimi's reasoning mode. So, you would want to use this at high thinking mode and that is where you can get the best results and in many cases it's even outcompeting the GPT-5.6 Soul and even Claude Opus 5.

What's wild is that Grok 4.6 ties GPT-5.6 Soul on overall intel- ligence while actually taking the number one spot on GDP Evo, which is kind of insane, surpassing even Fable 5 on artificial intelligence's index. It is just one point behind the Fable 5 on max thinking mode, which is actually really incredible. And that just makes it extremely close to Fable 5 across several major agentic and coding benchmarks. And obviously on the

individual Evos, you can see that it is putting up a great fight against these other state-of-the-art models like GPT-5.6 Soul as well as Fable 5. Fable 5 outcompeting it across most benchmarks, but you can still see that this is a pretty competent coding model like on Deep Sway recording a 65.9% on Cursor Bench as well as a couple of others. The model has the same context window, a 1 million token context window and it is priced at $2 per 1 million input tokens and $6 per 1 million output tokens, exactly the same as the previous Grok 4.5. To access it, you can easily

do so through Grok build or Grok bot now. You can even access it through their API, and I would highly recommend checking it out with the world of AI benchmark. You can even run your own benchmark across different models as well as your own endpoint and get a better understanding of which model you should be using in different categories. There's a lot of additional tools that will help you get started. It's a great harness as well, so I highly recommend that you check it out. But now, let's

actually get into testing this out. Now, as a side-by-side comparison with the Grok 4.5 first with up against the Grok 4.6 high. This is where you will notice a huge jump over the Grok 4.5 in all fronts, whether that is web

development, back-end, automation, tool calling, whatever it may be. The Grok 4.6 is very competent and much better than the Grok 4.5. On 3D S, it is currently topping the blind AB ranking, and the improvements is pretty obvious in the actual generations, too. You can

see that with a couple of these different scenes. You're getting much better scene detail, especially in tests like some of these generations like the sailboat comparison or like the realistic forest or even a robot arm. And this is where in many cases, you will notice that it has stronger spatial reasoning, which shows up really well in this specific test right here with the robot arm. And apparently, this is also the first model to beat Opus 5 on 3D S tasks on various sorts of benchmarks. Now, you'll notice one thing, though. It

uses up much more tokens in comparison to other models, which is, I guess, the only downside. But aside from that, you will notice that it is far more coherent and much less likely to fall apart once the scene gets complicated. One area where I found the Grok 4.6 to exceptionally excel at is in front-end, and this is where it has gotten substantially better than the previous model. This is where it is a lot better with coherent generations, obviously, with meshing everything together, implementing different packages. It's

very methodical in terms of how it codes out different functions based off of what you provide it. In this case, it was able to replicate an Airbnb website quite thoroughly, and it is something that was able to do a great job in cloning each and every function of this original Airbnb website. Even with scroll triggers, different sorts of assets, it is something that does quite well in putting everything together in most of these generations. You can see all of the scroll triggers a part of this specific landing page quite well displayed with this generation. Like, just take a look at this. It may use a

lot more tokens to get this sort of output, but it's pretty insane that we get this sort of generation in a single shot. I really love all of the different elements that it has attributed to this landing page. It even added in different placeholders. You have different scroll triggers, different typographies, and that is really great to see. Overall, this is where the model isn't probably not the best design model yet, but you have gotten a substantial gain in this specific domain, which is definitely something that isn't added benefit and makes this a more versatile model overall. And that is definitely a great

benefit to have, especially when a model is able to do almost everything. So, that is really great to see from this Grok-4.6 model. Here, I'd requested it to create a flight simulator, and if we are to actually press the controls, we can actually fly this, which is the first time we have gotten a pretty functional [music] flight simulator. Now, I know this is quite loud, so I'm really sorry about that. But, let's see if we can actually

take off out of this airport. >> [music] >> I'm playing around with this, and it is actually harder than I thought. I can see that I can change the camera angles, which is nice. I guess this is why I'm not a pilot, cuz I can't actually get off the damn tarmac. I'm trying my best, but I turned off the brakes. The brakes are on. Let

me see if I can >> [music] >> pull the throttle. That doesn't seem to work. Let's see if I can change the light. Oh, I can even turn on the lights, which is nice. But aside from that, I don't know how to go up. Maybe it's a skill issue,

I guess. Here, I requested the model to create an F1 donut simulation, and this is where I think I got the best animated car that is actually drifting, and this is something that even adds that slight tilt as it's drifting, which definitely is a lot more accurate than what we have seen from other models generating this F1 donut simulation. And this just goes to show and adds on that this model is a lot better at 3D environments. If you want the best AI tools, workflows, and drops before everyone else, join my free newsletter with the link in the description below, which is completely free. While this may be the best Zelda low-poly landscape simulation that we have ever seen from any model, this looks really competent from the ambience as well as the textures. Everything has

been generated quite well that represents the Zelda world-like environment. This clearly shows another reason why this model may be the best 3GS model that's out there working with different sorts of 3D renders and objectives. And here's another example that proves my point. Here is a 3GS prompt that showcases simulation of a growing tree, and this is something that most models tend to fail at doing. And even if it is to do it well, it's not giving the same sort of visual depth as what we see right here. This is

something that is quite exceptional in terms of simulating from a seed to a full-grown tree in 3GS. Here, I requested the model to create a melting candle simulation, and this is the first time I've seen a model actually generate the actual teardrop lids of the candle melting and then adding the splatter at the bottom. Doesn't accurately do the best job in creating a live visualization of an adult of residual adult of the candle wax, but it's still pretty decent and the fact that we've got this sort of simulation from this model is really great to see. But, one thing I also want to highlight, it took only 9 cents to get this output, which is nuts. This maybe the most realistic SVG of a butterfly as in the facial structure cuz I haven't seen any model generate this creepy little face on the butterfly. This is pretty cool in terms

of how it got the flapping animation down as well as the symmetry in terms of the visual design. It also nailed the SVG generation plus CSS in simulating a lava lamp with the different blobs as well as the actual physics of how these blobs should operate within this actual lamp. You even have it doing quite well with this SVG prompt of a painting and this is one of the better image generations of an SVG being outputted in a painting. You can see that it even animated slight functions of it, which is really cool to see. Also guys, if you want to access my prompts, you can easily do so through the World of AI Benchmark and I'll leave a link to this so that you can access all of these different prompts that I use to test models and I highly recommend that you try it out cuz you can even get started for free. Here is a head-to-head

comparison of the Grok 4.6 up against the Claude Opus 5 and it was requested to create Elon Musk's Terafab Megafactory. This is with three different 3D assets, exterior at dusk, the clean lab actual floor, the main actual floor for the manufacturing plant, and a central operation hall with the workers walking around. And you can just tell from the quality of Opus that it's drastically better, but I'm not saying Opus or sorry, Grok 4.6 is bad, but you can see that there's definitely levels to it, but it's really great to see that Grok 4.6 is making strides to

be comparable to Opus, which is definitely great. But, one area that I want to highlight is that this is where Grok 4.6 spent around 38 cents to get this output, where whereas with Opus 5, it spent around $2.06. This is making Grok 4.6's output about

five times cheaper for comparable outputs, while also giving noticeably fewer tokens per scene, which is definitely nice, obviously, but it is something where I would say that you would want to use both to get that hybrid output that you're looking for. If you like this video and would love to support the channel, you can consider donating to my channel through the Super Thanks option below, or you can consider joining our private Discord, where you can access multiple subscriptions to different AI tools for free on a monthly basis, plus daily AI news and exclusive content, plus a lot more. Now, this has to be the first macOS clone that has the latest iOS update implemented within this clone. Now, if I have to click enter, we can actually see all of these widgets a part of the new macOS iOS update. And you can see that everything seems to be functional. You

have the notification tab that's on the top right. You can even open up the menu, turn on the sound. You can even change the display brightness. And one thing I noticed right away is it tried to mimic the actual Apple or Mac OS island that you would have on your MacBook. The top bar seems to be functional, and you have all of these different elements that have been added.

You can even play sounds directly from the widgets, which is actually pretty cool. And it actually shows you the song that's being played on the island. Then you also have the Finder app, which has a slight little animation when you open it up. Everything seems to be openable, which is nice. You have the launchpad.

You can open up these different applications, like the journal, You have a clock. You also have a couple of other things like the App Store, which has been created. That is actually pretty cool. When you click get, it actually opens up whatever application that you have installed. This is where it looks like it created a full-on FPS shooter game, which is something that I had actually prompted. It seems to be

functional, and it looks pretty decent. Not the best quality, but pretty decent in general. You also have a couple of other things. You have a Maps and a Mails app. You also have Photos, Calendar, Notes, Music, Weather, and you even have System Settings. Now, I

believe you can change a lot of these elements, which is really nice. And then you can even change, I believe, Oh, never mind. Sorry. I thought you were able to change the accents. So, I guess that is the slight downside, but I really like the uniqueness of adding in these iOS updates, like the widgets, as well as the actual MacBook Island.

But, that's about it, guys, for today's video on the Grok 4.6. This is probably one of the most impressive upgrades that SpaceX AI has shipped so far, and it's not necessarily destroying every frontier model across every single benchmark. But, what stands out is the combination of its agentic performance, as well as its visual and interactive coding, as well as the pricing for this model. So, I highly recommend that you try it out. This is something that can

match GPT 4.6 solely on overall intelligence, and it can even take certain leaps over other models, like Fable, even Opus, on certain different coding tasks. But, I'll leave all the links that I'm using in today's video in the description below. Make sure you go ahead and uh take a look at all the links that I use. Also, the World of AI Bot Coding Platform and benchmarks that you can easily get started with all of these different tools. Make sure you

also take a look at the second channel. Join the newsletter. Join the Discord. Follow me on Twitter. And lastly, make sure you subscribe. Turn on the

notification bell. Like this video. And please take a look at our previous videos so that you can stay up-to-date with the latest AI news. Without further ado, guys, have an amazing day, spread positivity, and I'll see you guys fairly shortly. Peace out, folks.