---
video_title: "Hermes Agent Foundation Update: Real-Time Agents, DeepSeek V4 FREE, Native Windows Support, & More!"
video_id: uZIijUyMT20
channel_name: "WorldofAI"
channel_id: UC2WmuBuFq6gL08QYG-JjXKw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uZIijUyMT20
video_date: 2026-05-18T06:16:23+00:00
video_description: |
  Build AI-powered workflows with n8n here: https://plug.dev.plug.dev/034FqGe
  
  Hermes Agent just received one of its BIGGEST updates yet with the official v0.14.0 “Foundation Release” from Nous Research. To update, run: 'hermes update' 
  
  🔗 My Links:
  Sponsor a Video or Do a Demo of Your Product, Contact me: intheworldzofai@gmail.com
  🔥 Become a Patron (Private Discord): https://patreon.com/WorldofAi
  🧠 Follow me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/intheworldofai 
  🚨 Subscribe To The SECOND Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@UCYwLV1gDwzGbg7jXQ52bVnQ 
  👩🏻‍🏫 Learn to code with Scrimba – from fullstack to AI https://scrimba.com/?via=worldofai (20% OFF)
  🚨 Subscribe To The FREE AI Newsletter For Regular AI Updates: https://intheworldofai.com/
  👾 Join the World of AI Discord! : https://discord.gg/NPf8FCn4cD
  
  Something coming soon :) https://www.skool.com/worldofai-automation
  
  [Must Watch]:
  Claude Code + Ollama = FULLY FREE AI Coding FOREVER! (Tutorial): https://youtu.be/mN2VUw5Fb3E?si=w8U-WHkeyobCIT0c
  Hermes Agentic OS is The Future: https://youtu.be/dLk2Imx-0uk
  Hermes Agent The 24/7 Self-Evolving AI Agent!: https://youtu.be/cu2fgknmemA?si=BPLsI65J2RVJ1p8I
  
  📌 LINKS & RESOURCES
  https://x.com/intheworldofai
  https://x.com/Teknium/status/2056111292348502327
  https://x.com/gitlawb/status/2055992174358274431
  https://x.com/Saboo_Shubham_/status/2054260705365475609
  https://x.com/akshay_pachaar/status/2055929875375292485
  https://x.com/NousResearch/status/2056110234309939330
  https://x.com/NousResearch/status/2056110234309939330
  Changelog: https://github.com/NousResearch/hermes-agent/releases/tag/v2026.5.16
  Website: https://hermes-agent.nousresearch.com/
  
  This update completely levels up Hermes with:
  🔥 /handoff live session transfers
  🔥 Native Windows support beta
  🔥 Massive performance improvements
  🔥 DeepSeek V4 Flash FREE in Nous Portal
  🔥 OpenAI-compatible local OAuth proxy
  🔥 Native AI video generation
  🔥 Grok + SuperGrok integrations
  🔥 Computer Use improvements
  🔥 Multi-agent orchestration upgrades
  🔥 Hermes Kanban improvements
  🔥 Lightpanda browser backend integration
  🔥 Faster browser automation
  🔥 Persistent prompt caching
  🔥 New messaging platform support
  
  We also explore the brand new local proxy system that lets tools like:
  
  Codex CLI
  Aider
  Cline
  Continue
  
  all work using your existing Claude Pro, ChatGPT Pro, or SuperGrok subscriptions WITHOUT requiring API keys.
  
  On top of that, Hermes now supports:
  ⚡ Native background computer use
  ⚡ Live session handoffs between models
  ⚡ Native AI video generation pipelines
  ⚡ 1M context Grok workflows
  ⚡ Real-time X/Twitter search
  ⚡ Cross-session memory caching
  ⚡ Native Windows installs with pip install hermes-agent
  
  Hermes honestly feels less like a normal AI tool now and more like a true open-source Agentic AI Operating System.
  
  [Time Stamps]:
  0:00 - Introductions
  1:16 - New Local Proxy Feature
  2:01 - Using OpenAI oauth
  4:05 - xAI Support
  4:25 - Real-Time Autonomous Agents
  5:11 - How To Install/Update
  5:30 - Native Windows Support
  6:17 - WebUI
  6:48 - Performance Boost
  7:21 - Browser Automation
  8:04 - Native AI Video Generation
  8:41 - DeepSeek V4 Free
  9:02 - /handoff
  9:47 - Changelog
  
  #HermesAgent #AIAgents #OpenSourceAI #ArtificialIntelligence #AgenticAI #ClaudeCode #DeepSeek #Grok #Automation 🤖🔥
  
  Hermes Agent, Hermes Agent v0.14, Hermes Foundation Release, Nous Research, AI agents, autonomous AI, agentic AI, AI operating system, Agentic OS, DeepSeek V4 Flash, DeepSeek AI, Qwen3.6 Plus, Grok integration, SuperGrok, OpenAI proxy, Claude Pro, ChatGPT Pro, AI automation, AI workflows, AI orchestration, computer use AI, AI desktop automation, local AI agents, autonomous workflows, AI coding agents, AI browser automation, Lightpanda, Codex CLI, Cline, Continue, Aider, AI tools, open source AI, AI productivity, multimodal AI, AI infrastructure, browser use AI, Windows AI tools, AI desktop app, future of AI
---
Last week I have made several videos covering Hermes Agent, one of the most interesting open source AI agent projects right now. It's designed as a persistent autonomous system that continuously evolves over time. It's built by news research under the MIT license. And this is an agent that can run 24-7 off your own infrastructure while building long-term memory, reusable skills, and even a deeper understanding of its user itself. And it gets better as you use it more and more. But now Hermes has just received a massive official update from news research. This is with the launch of Hermes Agent version 0.14.0. Also being called as the foundation release. This is an update that is honestly huge because you have native Windows beta support, you have massive performance improvements, native video generation, codex runtime back in support for open AI models, a new handoff system, more integrations, better orchestration, and expanded autonomous workflows, and so much more. So with that thought, let's just simply dive into it all. If you want the best AI tools, workflows, and drops you for everyone else, join my free newsletter with the link in the description below, which is completely free. To start things off, probably the biggest update in Hermes Agent's recent release is the brand new local proxy feature. And honestly, this is genius because with Hermes, you can now use a single subscription like cloud, chat, GbT, or GROC and route it across basically any coding tool or autonomous agent locally without needing separate API keys for every single application. This proxy layer handles all the authentication and routing automatically, meaning it's easier for setup, less configuration headaches, you have low barriers to enter, and then you also have a simpler multi agent workflow system. And this alone is probably going to massively increase adoption because it makes entire AI tooling ecosystem feel way more unified and accessible. Also just to find if you are looking to attach the Hermes proxy to the open AI compatible local proxy for all other providers that you can use open AI models like what your codex plan, what you can do is just simply type in Hermes proxy. And from here, this will instantly get a local host of the open AI compatible API endpoint. And it's going to be powered directly by whichever subscription you're logged into, whether that is from codex or whatever tier you have. And this will work immediately using your existing subscription without requiring separate API keys. One subscription and it's going to work directly within Hermes, which is a nice quality of life update. This right here is the NAN workflow that sits behind Cloud code for cloud sends a web hook event and then NAN decides what to actually do next. This first node is just a web hook. Cloud code calls this whenever it finishes editing or generating files. Then I normalize the Cloud code event so NAN can actually get a clean payload to work with. If it is a file change, then NAN builds a structured automation payload. From here, I can summarize the change, store it, and then I can send it over to something like Slack or trigger another workflow. Once a workflow is completed, you can then publish it. And this way, web hook becomes live and Cloud code can trigger it automatically whenever it's needed. So now if Cloud code is the create a file change event, it is going to then send it into NAN through a web hook and NAN can turn that into a structured automation workflow, which you can see here. NAN turns Cloud code into a full backend automation system with any AI coding agent actually, with custom code, MCPs, multi-agent workflows, and Slack updates built in. So if you're building AI agents coding automations or technical workflows, definitely check out NAN and thanks to them for sponsoring today's video. You can start free with any in Cloud or self-host it yourself with links in the description below. But it gets crazier because now you have a new supergrock integration where Hermes is now going to fully support GROC's supergrock subscription directly inside the platform, meaning no API keys, one browser login, and no separate billing system. So this is where your Hermes agent instantly gains access to the full GROC ecosystem. Not just that, GROC 4.3 text chat also has the ability to use GROC text speech. It's a great tool for the Hermes agent for an image as well as video generation and X search for real time X Twitter research. This basically allows you to build specialized autonomous research agents that continuously monitor X as well as gathering information, summarizing trends, and feed insights back into your workflow, autonomy. And the great thing about Hermes is that it is self evolving, so it can constantly learn from Twitter to keep improving and make you get the best outputs for future generations. What's great is that the setup apparently takes around 60 seconds across all supergrock tiers with no major restrictions. And it's honestly one of the smartest integrations Hermes has added so far. I should have done this before, but if you're looking to install Hermes, you can easily install it with the curl command, and then you can configure it using Hermes setup. Now to update it to the latest release, you can simply just paste in Hermes update and click enter, and this will fetch the latest updates and install it directly onto your computer. Alongside this new update, they have officially introduced native Windows support, which is an early beta. This means Hermes can now directly run on Windows much more reliably without needing complex WSL and Linux heavy setups. This is because news research has added major fixes across many different domains like terminal and process management. You have Python and NPM environments, native, PyTy, handling, you have file path management, Windows CLI behavior, as well as gateway and tool orchestration. They've also introduced official PyPI packaging, which means setup is now much simpler with the pip install command, and it is definitely a huge step forward making autonomous AI more accessible now for Windows users. Now that Hermes agent is supported natively for Windows, you can now also use the WebUI, which is something that many people don't even know about. This is where you can easily launch it up using a simple command, which is to use the Hermes dashboard, dash dash to a command, which I'll leave in the description below. This is where you can use this WebUI to easily configure things like skills, plugins, running cron jobs, meaning you can run scheduled tasks, as well as configurations that easily set up everything to work autonomously with Hermes agent. Next up is a huge performance overhaul across the entire system. This is where Hermes now launches approximately 19 seconds faster, thanks to a major cold star optimization, deferred loading, caching improvements, and paralyzed startup checks. This is also with heavy adapters and plugins which are now only supposed to load when actually needed, model catalogs cash locally first instead of constantly kidding networks, and overall setup and startup responsiveness is going to feel dramatically snappier. But probably the craziest improvement is browser automation, because this is where Hermes now supports a persistent Chrome Dev Tools protocol connection, instead of constantly spending up new browser sessions for every single interaction. And the results equal to browser actions that previously took multiple seconds and now return almost instantly, but some workflows reportedly becoming up to 180 times faster. They also added cross session one hour prompt caching for cloud-based workflows, making first responses across these sessions both faster, as well as cheaper when you're improving memory review systems, as well as when it is focusing on different performance tasks in the background. You see this video that's playing right now? Well, that was fully generated with a new feature in Hermes, the AI Native AI video generation feature. This is where Hermes agents can now autonomous to create videos directly inside workflows through a new unified video generate system, which allows AI agents to generate multimedia content as a part of a larger autonomous pipeline. And what's great is that this means your AI agent can generate full-on videos like what you see right now, as well as creating automated clips, producing visual content, and building multi-medial workflows autonomously that function on a schedule time frame. Another nice quality of life update is where deep-seek version 4 Flash is now free inside news portal for a limited time thanks to Navita AI. This gives users to Hermes access to one of the strongest open-source agentsic models right now that is completely free for autonomous workflows, coding, reasoning, and long-context tasks. Next is the new slash handoff command, and this is where it is going to let you transfer your entire live session across models, personas, or profiles without dropping previously switching models or personalities mid-session, meant losing context, restarting workflows, or manually transferring information. But now you can have it so that you can transfer everything without dropping context like messages, tool calls, memory, active workflows, and session states. This means that you can start a new task on a faster model than seamlessly handed off to a deeper reasoning model for debugging, planning, or refinement without restarting the workflow. And it's honestly going to save you a lot of time and really good for long-running autonomous agent workflows. Lastly, apart of the change, now the change lock has so many updates, which is why they stated that this is the foundation update. But there are a couple of notable updates. Like I had mentioned, X Search is where it's going to let you have Hermes directly search X and Twitter inside workflows. You have a vision model support where it is going to be now much easier to receive actual image pixels instead of text summaries for much better visual reasoning. Discord history backup allows Hermes to instantly understand as well as have it so that it is going to be able to process through all of the different ongoing conversations. You have native button UIs for telegram and Discord to clarify different prompts. I'll ask few semantic diagnostics, which can catch coding errors immediately after file edits. You have browser automation, which you had mentioned, as well as a new line and simple X messaging integration, login face skills that also have an integrated directly inside Hermes, as well as a slash Slubgole feature, which lets you dynamically append objectives during long-running autonomous workflows. And honestly, the list just keeps on going on and on, which is why I'm going to be trying my best to keep on posting more videos, as well as keeping you updated on all of these features and as to how you can actually use it. So with that thought guys, I hope you enjoyed today's video and got some sort of value. I'll leave all these links as to whatever I use in today's video in the description below. But with that thought guys, thank you so much for watching. Make sure you go ahead and take a look at the second channel. Go in the newsletter, go in the discord, follow me on Twitter, and last time, make sure you're subscribed. Turn on notification bell, like this video, and please take a look at our previous videos so that you can stay up to date with the latest anus. But with that thought guys, having an amazing day, spread positivity, and I'll see you guys really shortly. Peace out, Fuzz.