---
video_title: "GLM 5.3 Is INSANE! The BEST Open Source Model EVER? BEATS MYTHOS? (Fully Tested)"
video_id: yMoUwyyTe3E
channel_name: "WorldofAI"
channel_id: UC2WmuBuFq6gL08QYG-JjXKw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yMoUwyyTe3E
video_date: 2026-08-14T08:53:38+00:00
video_description: |
  🚨 Everything you’re about to see, I benchmarked using the tool I made. If you want to run these tests yourself or test models on whatever you actually use them for! → https://www.woaibench.ai/
  
  GLM 5.3 Is INSANE! The BEST Open Source Model EVER? (Fully Tested) Z.ai is back with GLM-5.3, and this could be one of the most impressive open-weight AI model releases we've seen yet. What's crazy is that GLM-5.3 uses the same base model as GLM-5.2 — the massive improvements come almost entirely from scaling post-training.
  
  🔗 My Links:
  Sponsor a Video or Do a Demo of Your Product, Contact me: intheworldzofai@gmail.com
  🔥 Become a Patron (Private Discord): https://patreon.com/WorldofAi
  🧠 Follow me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/intheworldofai 
  🚨 Subscribe To The SECOND Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@UCYwLV1gDwzGbg7jXQ52bVnQ 
  👩🏻‍🏫 Learn to code with Scrimba – from fullstack to AI https://scrimba.com/?via=worldofai (20% OFF)
  🚨 Subscribe To The FREE AI Newsletter For Regular AI Updates: https://intheworldofai.com/
  👾 Join the World of AI Discord! : https://discord.gg/NPf8FCn4cD
  
  Something coming soon :) https://www.skool.com/worldofai-automation
  
  [Must Watch]:
  OpenAI's GPT-6 Astra WILL BE AGI! Greatest AI Model Ever!: https://youtu.be/KbYio-N8_LU
  Qwen 3.8 Max IS OUT! Best Open Model? (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/vmLwsoVRo30
  DeepSeek V4 Flash GA IS INCREDIBLE! Powerful, Cheap, & Fast! (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/wT42SgaOPK4
  
  📌 LINKS & RESOURCES
  World of AI Benchmark: https://www.woaibench.ai/
  AI NEWS: https://x.com/intheworldofai
  Blog: https://z.ai/blog/glm-5.3|
  GLM Coding Plan: https://z.ai/subscribe
  API Platform: https://z.ai/manage-apikey/apikey-list
  Z Code: https://zcode.z.ai/en
  https://x.com/deepanshusharmx/status/2088172099781493161
  https://x.com/filicroval/status/2088175323191910518
  https://x.com/AiBattle_/status/2088146821239415150?s=20
  
  In this video, I fully test GLM-5.3 across coding, frontend development, long-horizon agentic tasks, and real-world projects. We’ll look at its huge benchmark improvements, how it compares with Kimi K3, DeepSeek-V4, Qwen3.8-Max, GPT-5.6 Sol, Opus 4.8, Fable 5, and other frontier models, and whether GLM-5.3 deserves the title of the best open-source AI model yet.
  
  I also put GLM-5.3 through real-world coding tests, including frontend generation and an interactive 3D visualization of an LLM's internal architecture. The model’s ability to understand vague prompts, plan across long tasks, and produce polished results seriously surprised me.
  
  🔥 In this video:
  GLM-5.3 fully tested
  GLM-5.3 vs GLM-5.2
  GLM-5.3 vs Kimi K3
  Coding & frontend tests
  Long-horizon agentic coding
  Real-world 3D application test
  Terminal Bench, DeepSWE & AutomationBench results
  Why post-training matters
  GLM Coding Plan & ZCode
  Is GLM-5.3 the best open-source model?
  
  [Time Stamp]:
  0:00 - Intro
  0:32 - NEW Achivement
  1:17 - GLM 5.2 vs GLM 5.3
  1:37 - Ranked #6 
  2:22 - Benchmarks
  3:48 - SOTA Cyber Bench
  4:42 - Where Is It?
  5:19 - How To Access
  5:34 - Use ZCode
  6:29 - Pricing
  7:02 - NVIDIA Page Clone
  7:40 - Best MacOS Clone
  9:38 - Frontend Demos
  10:19 - Zelda World
  10:49 - Solar System Sim
  11:29 - R2D2 lol
  11:56 - SVG Demo
  12:14 - Three.js
  12:55 - Minecraft Clone
  13:30 - Long-horizon agentic coding
  14:37 - Call of Duty Zombies Clone
  16:45 - Two Cents
  
  
  If you enjoyed the video, like, subscribe, and turn on notifications for more AI model tests, benchmarks, tutorials, and the latest AI news! 🚀
  
  #GLM53 #GLM #ZAI #OpenSourceAI #AI #ArtificialIntelligence #AICoding #CodingAI #AIAgents #LLM #KimiK3 #DeepSeek #Qwen #Claude #GPT5 #ZCode
  
  Tags: GLM 5.3, GLM-5.3, GLM 5.3 AI, GLM 5.3 review, GLM 5.3 test, GLM 5.3 benchmark, GLM 5.3 coding, GLM 5.3 vs Kimi K3, GLM 5.3 vs GLM 5.2, GLM 5.3 vs DeepSeek V4, GLM 5.3 vs Qwen, Z.ai, ZAI GLM, ZCode, GLM Coding Plan, best open source AI, best open source model, open source LLM, open weight AI, AI coding model, agentic coding, AI agents, coding agents, Kimi K3, DeepSeek V4, Qwen3.8, Claude Code, GPT-5.6 Sol, Opus 4.8, AI benchmarks, artificial intelligence, AI news
---
This honestly is just blowing my mind. This GLM 5.3 model was able to create a full on Call of Duty Zombies clone. This is with multiple weapons. You have it all fully coded out in 3js in a single shot using their Z code harness and the output quality is just remarkable over here. They have so many different

functions and you can even see that you have all of the different elements from the original game being attributed with this clone and this is just something that proves how intelligent and competent this model is. It looks like the Z AI team is back with another potentially revolutionary model with the launch of GLM 5.3, a massive open weight model that's built specifically for coding autonomous agents and cybersecurity, interestingly. And what's really interesting here is that the Z AI team apparently didn't need to make the underlying model bigger or completely redesign the architecture. Instead, they took the existing GLM 5.2

base and pushed the post-training significantly further. And that alone seems to have produced some huge gains, especially in complex coding, long horizon agentic tasks, as well as cybersecurity. GLM 5.3 basically takes agentic coding to the next level with major improvements over GLM 5.2, while apparently generating fewer output tokens to accomplish the same task. So,

we're potentially looking at a model that's not only smarter, but also more efficient. And the cybersecurity results might be the biggest story here because Z AI is positioning this as a new standard for open models and cyber capabilities. On the world of AI benchmark and Five Code platform, we have extensively tested this out across a range of different prompts where we have evaluated across different source of complex prompts that will essentially get us a better understanding of how good this model is and you can even run your own prompts as as So, I highly recommend that you take a look at this with the links in the description below. But, based off of the benchmarks, this is where this new GLM 5.3 model ranks currently top six, which is quite impressive. It's neck and neck with the

Kimi Chat 3, and since this is a smaller model, maybe there's going to be different quant sizes that you can localize onto your computer to get the most out of this open weight model, which should be releasing in about 2 weeks. Now, the benchmark results that were displayed by the Zhipu.AI team showcase that GLM 5.3 is something that has gotten a substantial gain over the GLM 5.2. And this is across coding

agents, especially even in cybersecurity, which is actually where it's recording a state-of-the-art result, even outperforming Mixtral, which is kind of nuts. This is where on benchmarks like Terminal Bench 3.0, it jumps from a 4.6 to a 28.3 in comparison to the previous GLM 5.3. You

can also see that on Deep Seek, it goes from a 46.2 to a 66.9, and on Automation Bench, nearly doubles from 26.2 to 48.2.

And something else also note is that this is a model that is not multimodal. It doesn't have vision capabilities, so can't really put it on the same echelon as some of these other frontier models that have that capability. And obviously, it's not a model that is outcompeting the state-of-the-art models like Fable 5 as well as GPT-4.5 all outright across multiple benchmarks. But, you can still see that the GLM 5.3

as an open weight model, an open source model is something that is able to put up a fight up up against these proprietary giants, which is obviously a remarkable feat on its own. But, what I could say is a surprise story a part of this model launch is the cyber capabilities of this model. You can see that on Cyber gym, it records an 84.5 score, which is setting a full state-of-the-art result on this particular benchmark, even surpassing with those five, as well as GPT-5.1.6

Soul, which is just nuts. Now, this model goes beyond simply just finding vulnerabilities to reasoning through complete multi-step exploitation chains with huge gains, obviously, over the GLM 5.2, but also putting up gains across the board against these other proprietary giants. In real-world testing, it actually discovered 2,436 vulnerabilities across 269 open-source projects, including 1,097 critical or high severity issues, and some were hidden for decades that it was able to resolve, which is just kind of nuts. Also, side note, if you were to go ahead and try searching for this model, for example, on OpenRouter or any of these other platforms that provide this model, you may or may not see this model at the current moment. This is due to

the Zeyi team focusing on a slow rollout due to the safeguards and usage policies that they're putting in place for this model cuz it is kind of critical in the cybersecurity domain, as you saw from the benchmarks. It is something that is kind of dangerous, so they just want to make sure that everything is fully refined before putting it into other providers. And if you do want to access this model, you can do so by having the GLM coding plan. And I've actually just purchased one today just for the sake of this video, as well as to give you guys some insights on this model. They essentially rolled out with the GLM 5.3

across all of the paid plans, and this is where you can access it through their Z code coding agent, which I would highly recommend trying out cuz this, obviously, is going to enhance the GLM 5.3 even further. You can even access it through Cloud code, as well as Open code, and obviously their coding plan. But, with even cheaper off-peak usage and strong caching benefits, cuz that is something that is being provided with this plan. But, guys, there's also a pretty cool thing that you can do with this model paired with Z code cuz it adds in a long horizon goal mode. You

also have remote control and a limited time quota boost through August 31st. This is something I'm going to be making a video on separately, cuz this is actually a pretty good hard earnest itself. But, they do have some pretty remarkable discounts, like the 20% discount, as well as the yearly discount, which gives you a lot of credits in terms of what you can actually do with this model. So, I highly recommend trying this out if it fits your needs. Now, this is a model that has the same context window, a 1 million token context window, and it is priced exactly the same as the GLM 5.2,

which is definitely remarkable in terms of keeping that crazy pricing for the capability that you're getting for this model, which is a really great add-on. It's listed at $1.40 per 1 million input tokens and $4.40 per 1 million output tokens. If you want the best AI tools, workflows, and drops before everyone else, join my free newsletter with the link in the description below, which is completely free.

Now, let's first get started with a couple of the front-end prompts. This is where I had requested it to create an Nvidia landing page for one of their graphics card, and this is where This is the first time I have seen a prompt or a model generate this specific generation for this prompt. It generate an actual graphics card in 3D with obviously shaders that highlight this, and you can clearly tell from the scroll triggers to the typography and the sleek animations that this is on another tier in terms of the front-end generation versus other open-source models. Now, this is the best Mac OS clone that I have ever seen any model actually generate. You can see that it is something that has gotten everything nailed down with the latest Tahoe iOS update. You can see that with the

widgets, you can even see that with all of these different elements. And I really love the glassmorphism UI feature that it has added to these different elements. You can see that everything is actually functional. All of these different uh application icons have been coded out. You have notifications. You

have the top bar that also works, which is really sleek. And you can even see that Spotlight works. You have the top mini bar where you can change the display. You can also tweak things like the sound. You can play things directly as well. We're even coded out different

soundtracks, and that is also really cool. The top bar is something that also functions. You can see that where you can prompt open a couple of things. You can minimize it, and you have that sleek load animation. You can open up the Finder app, which showcases all of the different applications. You have Safari.

You also have the Mail app. You also have Messages. The calendar. You have a couple of other things like photos, music, the calculator, the terminal. You even have system settings where you can change the light or dark mode. You even have different

appearances that you can even tweak. So, overall, it is gotten drastically better with its front-end capabilities. And what you're getting in terms of the quality of output to the price ratio is just nuts cuz you're paying the fraction of whatever you're getting from other state-of-the-art models. Also even faster in many cases. You can also see that it created a 3D shooter game in 3GS, and this is actually pretty cool.

You can see that the elements, you even have uh different sorts of functions of this game that have been generated. So, this is something that it did in less than 30 minutes, and that just shows how capable this model actually is. The GLM 5.3 has definitely gotten better at front end and I would put it basically on par or even in many cases surpassing Kimi K3. It is faster than Kimi K3 and that is what I really like from this model. Everything about it is

really incredible in terms of the layout structure when it is to output different sorts of front end as well as providing its own front end taste. But my tip is that you use this model directly within their harness and that is how you're going to be able to get the best results and this is where I had generated another landing page based off of the detailed prompt I sent in and you're going to be able to get some pretty exceptional results from it. This is just nuts. This is where in 3GS I'd requested it to create a low poly world that depicts what the Zelda world would look like obviously with with low poly 3D assets and this is where it did a remarkable job obviously with the ambience and the atmosphere. You can have cherry blossoms, you have a different environment, you can have the temple that you would actually see within the Zelda games. So this is

actually a pretty cool generation from the GLM 5.3. Here I had requested it to create a solar system and this has to be one of the better end of generations as well where it did this in 3GS. You have a nice menu bar that is going to let you control obviously all of the components of the simulation. But you have the labels, you have all the different planets that have been coded out and each of them have different attributes.

I really love the generations for each of the planets and how the actual lighting is being affected realistically. You have the asteroid belt, you have Jupiter, you have Saturn and all of the different planets having all of their qualities being depicted in this particular generation. And here is a clear head-to-head battle of the JLM 5.3 on max thinking mode versus the JLM 5.2 also on max thinking to create the R2D2 robot and you can see how incredible and how it well it was able to provide that texture to the robot. Whereas with JLM 5.2 it obviously

didn't provide the same sort of depth and quality versus what we see with the JLM 5.3 right now. Even with SVG, this is a model that does quite well within this specific domain. With said code, you're able to get some pretty great outputs obviously in SVG where you can see that it has done a great job with this butterfly as well making it symmetrical and adding in all the elements that you would want. I've also realized that this is a model that does quite well with 3D assets in terms of dealing with different sorts of 3D environments and working with 3 GS. This

is where I had created a 3D rotational product viewer of a headphone set and this is something that has generated the full-on 3D product which is where most models actually fail at this prompt. But in this case this open weight model did this exceptionally well. You can even pause the rotational viewer and even has shadows, different sorts of lighting functions. You can even click on these different feature sets of that set that gives you a description of our headset. But overall this is a really nice generation that it was able to output. But just take a look at the

gains from this model in comparison to the previous JLM 5.2 where it was actually requested to create a Minecraft clone and this is one of the better ended generations of a Minecraft clone. I just can't believe that an open weight model is able to output this sort of quality and this is just nuts that it was able to fully clone this environment of a sandbox game like of Minecraft and this adds in different features, different physics like you would see from the original game as well as even providing different sorts of textures to it. Now, in this benchmark, it is testing how well this model is at long horizon adjacents coding, but you will notice how incredible this model is in this specific domain cuz it is where it was given a vague real-world prompt to build out an interactive 3D visualization of a large language models internal workings, and it understood the intent and one shot at this entire foundation, which is kind of nuts. And from there, you can ask questions for specific details, as well as a new color scheme, and it would produce a fully polished interactive app showing how input tokens progress through attention and feed-forward layers. And this is something that is

nuts in terms of how you can actually do this with this open-weight model. If you like this video and would love to support the channel, you can consider donating to my channel through the Super Thanks option below, or you can consider joining our private Discord, where you can access multiple subscriptions to different AI tools for free on a monthly basis, plus daily AI news and exclusive content, plus a lot more. Now, let's take a look at our beautiful Call of Duty clone that I had generated with the Zeno code uh harness. This is where I full on created a Zombies clone, and it's something that has a point system where you can progress through different levels. You have different weapons. You

can even upgrade those weapons and then even rebuild the barriers by holding F, and it shows that slight little animation, which is just nuts. And this is the sort of capability that you're going to be expecting to see from this model. This is something that is highly intelligent, super cheap in terms of getting various tasks done, and especially if you are to pair it with their coding plan, you're going to be able to get a lot out of this model, which is something that I would highly, highly recommend, guys.

But, you can notice they added in a feature like Insta Kill, which is something that the actual game has. Now, I haven't actually played Call of Duty before, but that's just that's if it's able to do these sorts of things, even buying in these different sorts of uh features like double tap, as well as a speed cola. These are cool little things that the game had actually ended up adding.

>> [music] >> Overall, this is a model that truly shocked me, and I really love what the GLM team did with the GLM 5.3. This is something that shows how impressive this model is, and especially the fact that they were able to scale post training to another level based off of their base 5.2 model and get these sorts of results is just really and really insane that they were able to do this. This is something that excels on on many categories, and it's something that I would highly recommend trying out, especially through their coding plan, cuz that is something that gets you the best usage as well as just simply getting access to the model right now.

But, I hope you enjoyed today's video and got some sort of value. I'll leave all the links that I used in today's video in the description below. Make sure you go ahead and take a look at the world of AI benchmark tool. Also, go ahead and take a look at the second channel. Join us on the newsletter, the Discord, follow me on Twitter, and lastly, make sure you guys subscribe, turn on the notification bell, like this video, and please take a look at our previous videos so that you can stay up-to-date with the latest AI news. But,

with that thought, guys, have an amazing day. Spread positivity, and I'll see you guys really shortly. Peace out, folks.