---
video_title: "DeepSeek V4 Pro Is INSANE! Best Open Source AI Model? (Fully Tested)"
video_id: jVM_JrGOfgM
channel_name: "WorldofAI"
channel_id: UC2WmuBuFq6gL08QYG-JjXKw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jVM_JrGOfgM
video_date: 2026-08-17T05:13:50+00:00
video_description: |
  Give your AI agents the full context with Miro AI Workflows and MCP. Try it Today: https://miro.pxf.io/6bNJZq #ad #MiroPartner @MiroHQ
  
  🐋 DeepSeek V4 Pro is finally here — and the whale is BACK! In this video, I fully test DeepSeek V4 Pro (0813) to see if it’s actually the best open-source AI model available right now. We put it through frontend development, agentic coding, 3D/Three.js, one-shot generation, and real-world coding workflows. 💻🔥
  
  🚨 Everything you’re about to see, I benchmarked using the tool I made. If you want to run these tests yourself or test models on whatever you actually use them for! → https://www.woaibench.ai/
  
  🔗 My Links:
  Sponsor a Video or Do a Demo of Your Product, Contact me: intheworldzofai@gmail.com
  🔥 Become a Patron (Private Discord): https://patreon.com/WorldofAi
  🧠 Follow me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/intheworldofai 
  🚨 Subscribe To The SECOND Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@UCYwLV1gDwzGbg7jXQ52bVnQ 
  👩🏻‍🏫 Learn to code with Scrimba – from fullstack to AI https://scrimba.com/?via=worldofai (20% OFF)
  🚨 Subscribe To The FREE AI Newsletter For Regular AI Updates: https://intheworldofai.com/
  👾 Join the World of AI Discord! : https://discord.gg/NPf8FCn4cD
  
  Something coming soon :) https://www.skool.com/worldofai-automation
  
  [Must Watch]:
  OpenAI's GPT-6 Astra WILL BE AGI! Greatest AI Model Ever!: https://youtu.be/KbYio-N8_LU
  Qwen 3.8 Max IS OUT! Best Open Model? (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/vmLwsoVRo30
  DeepSeek V4 Flash GA IS INCREDIBLE! Powerful, Cheap, & Fast! (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/wT42SgaOPK4
  
  📌 LINKS & RESOURCES
  World of AI Benchmark: https://www.woaibench.ai/
  AI NEWS: https://x.com/intheworldofai
  Blog: https://x.com/deepseek_ai/status/2087864589895798968
  Chatbot: https://chat.deepseek.com/
  https://x.com/thegenioo/status/2087608105114935501?s=20
  https://x.com/CommandCodeAI/status/2087631884406939727?s=20
  https://x.com/stevibe/status/2087758275362361386?s=20
  https://x.com/NFT_Chen/status/2088371308296130926?s=20
  
  I also compare it against Gemini 3.7 Flash, Grok 4.6, Kimi K3, GLM 5.2, Qwen3.8-27B, and DeepSeek V4 Flash to see where V4 Pro wins — and where it still falls behind.
  
  One of the biggest highlights is its price-to-performance. DeepSeek remains incredibly cheap for the level of coding and agentic capability you’re getting, especially when combined with a powerful agent harness.
  
  🐋 DeepSeek V4 Pro (0813) full testing
  💻 Agentic coding & frontend tests
  🎮 One-shot coding tests
  🌐 Three.js & 3D generation
  ⚡ V4 Pro vs V4 Flash
  🆚 Gemini, Grok, Kimi, GLM & Qwen comparisons
  🤖 DeepSeek Harness + V4 Pro
  💰 Cost, speed & quality comparisons
  📊 Final verdict: Is V4 Pro the best open-source AI model?
  
  [Time Stamps]:
  0:00 - Intro
  0:33 - Agentic Coding
  1:02 - Benchmarks
  1:22 - WoAI Bench
  2:10 - 148x Cheaper
  4:22 - DeepSeek Pricing Update
  4:59 - DeepSeek Harness
  5:15 - New Reasoning Level
  5:51 - How To Use
  6:43 - Negatives
  7:26 - V4 Pro vs V4 Flash
  7:58 - Unique Design Taste
  8:28 - MacOS Clone
  10:27 - Engine Sim
  11:16 - Catapult Demo
  11:48 - Flight Simulator
  12:48 - 3D Room
  13:12 - Physics
  12:27 - SVG Demos
  14:00 - Call of Duty Zombies Clone
  15:11 - Two Cents
  
  Tags:
  DeepSeek V4 Pro, DeepSeek V4, DeepSeek V4 Pro 0813, DeepSeek AI, DeepSeek V4 review, DeepSeek V4 test, DeepSeek coding, DeepSeek coder, DeepSeek Harness, DSH, DeepSeek V4 Flash, DeepSeek V4 Flash 0731, open source AI, open source LLM, best open source AI, best AI coding model, AI coding, agentic coding, AI coding agents, coding agents, local AI, LLM, AI models, Kimi K3, Qwen3.8 27B, Qwen 3.8, GLM 5.2, Gemini 3.7 Flash, Grok 4.6, Three.js AI, vibe coding, AI agent, coding benchmark, DeepSeek benchmark, World of AI
  
  #DeepSeek #DeepSeekV4 #OpenSourceAI #AICoding #AI #LLM #CodingAgents #AgenticAI #VibeCoding #WorldofAI
---
As promised, I am back with a full test of the Deep Seek version 4 Pro and the model is now generally available. And yes, the whale is finally back. Overall, this is a pretty serious model. It is solid all around. Web development is one area where I think it fell a bit short, but compared to some of the other open- source models, it does do quite well overall in terms of its agentic coding capabilities like using tools, working on real repositories, solving terminal tasks, and even completing longer workflows. Deepseek version 4 Pro is

definitely incredible in that front, which is exactly why I wanted to make this video. Deepseek officially released the generally available version of the version 4 pro this week and it's their flagship version 4 pro model. It is something that is focused heavily on aentic reasoning and production coding workflows. The new version significantly improves its ability to autonomously use tools, navigate code bases, and complete complex multi-step tasks. And the numbers already give us a pretty good idea of what we're dealing with. It is

something that scores an 87.9 percentage on the terminal bench 2.1 benchmark, a 62.7 on deep sway, a 74.1 on toolon verified, as well as a 31.8 on

automation bench. Now on the world of AI benchmark, which is something that I would highly recommend trying out if you haven't already, this is where we have ran a deep comprehensive test to evaluate how proficient this model is. And what we have found is that this is something that ranks currently number ninth, which is really incredible. This is something that is extremely cheap. Now, I'll get to that in a second, but it is something right now is currently really cheap and it is packing a lot of performance. And if you are to take a

look at the reasoning levels, this is something that does actually quite well when you are to put it on high thinking. Obviously, it's not surpassing Kimi or any of the other openw weight models like GLM, but it is still getting you a lot of power despite it being such a small compact model. And what makes this model even crazier is the price to performance. Cuz this is where this model up against the Kimmy K3 and GLM 5.2 two using the exact same prompt is where the Deep Seek scored an 8 out of 10 compared to the 9.5 out of 10 for

Kimmy K3 as well as 9 out of 10 for GLM 5.2. So yes, Kimmy and GLM did produce a better visual generation of the Flappy Bird game. However, Deep Seek costed just 0.05 05 which is just incredible versus what we see with Kimmy which is about 7 cents and with GLM which is about 5 cents.

That's roughly 148 times cheaper than Kimmy and 96 times cheaper than GLM while delivering about 84% of Kim's score. And you can see that it's not even bad in comparison to these other models. You can obviously just scaffold with the Deep Seek version 4 Pro. Quick one. This part's sponsored by Miro, and it fixed something that bugged me for months. Every AI agent I use is single

player. Zero idea what my team actually decided, only what I paced in. This is a board, notes. This is where the planning actually happened. The architecture, the sprint calls, the trade-offs we argued over, the workspace the team already lives in. First, I run a flow. That's

Miro's AI workflow. On the output from that session, watch a wall of stickies become a structured sharable spec. In seconds, that's an hour of cleanup I used to do by hand. Now, the good part, I connect Claude straight to the board with Merill's MCP server. It reads the whole canvas, not just the spec. the

reasoning behind it, why we scoped it this way, what we killed. So when it writes code, it builds on what we decided, not what it gets. That's the unlock. Miro becomes the shared context layer for your whole AI stack. So I highly recommend trying it out and using it with the links in the description below. Trust me, go try it out. And

thanks to them for sponsoring today's video. However, there's always a however, but just take a look at this announcement that DeepSseek had released alongside this model launch cuz this is where they're essentially increasing its API pricing with new peak and off- peak rates. So, these exact cost differences won't necessarily remain the same going forward. But even under the new pricing structure, the version 4 Pro remains extremely competitive. It is something that prices relatively to other frontier level models, but still it is really sad to see that they are finally increasing their prices because we were basically getting these incredible models for free. Lastly, this is something that not

a lot of people actually know about and this is where Deepseek had officially previewed their harness. It's not officially released, it is a preview, so keep that in mind, but it is something that I'm making a full video on in a couple of days. But a couple of other major upgrades with this release is that with this model, there's a flexible reasoning effort across the version 4 Pro as well as the version 4 flash. You have low for simpler tasks, high for everyday Asian workflows, and max when you want the model to spend more compute on difficult problems. Deepseek also has added native OpenAI response API support and specifically is optimized for codecs. It is something that also has a

one-click configuration option. So, they're just essentially making it super easy for you to use these DeepSeek models. And now, when you are to pair this version 4 Pro with their harness, you're going to be able to get a lot more out of it. Now, to access this model, you can easily do so by accessing the weights. Obviously, most people won't be able to run this model because it's a 1.7 trillion parameter model, but

there are smaller versions of it, but I would just not use that. I would just simply use the Quen 3.8 a uh 27 billion parameter model which is the best local model that is available right now but you can access it through open router you can even access it through their API as well as their deepseeek web app but what I would recommend is try using it directly within the world of AI coding platform and benchmark and this way you'll get better outputs and you'll be able to make the most out of this model and this is something that also is going to be allowing you to get a better idea of how you can utilize this model, what you can get the most out of it, and a lot of other things like our prompt library. So, this is something that I would recommend, and I'll leave a link to this in the description below. Now, let's talk about the negatives first, cuz this is something I want to clear out of the way. When it comes to front

end, this is something that doesn't have the best visual taste. And you can see that with a couple of these separate examples. It definitely is underperforming based off of some of the inputs that are given. It may do a decent job when you are to use X high thinking, but that just takes so long to get that output, which is why it's just better to just use something like Coen or even GLM 5.3 or even the new Deep Seek version for Flash over the Pro cuz it also does a pretty decent job with outputs. But when you're looking to get

some sort of front-end scaffold, I would just simply use the version for Flash. But that overall leads me to this next comparison where the Deep Seek version 4 Flash was put up against the new Deepseek version 4 Pro. These are both the generally available versions. And you can see that the Flash did a better job in terms of outputting some web development uh demos. And I'm not too sure why this is happening. A lot of

people are also telling me that the Flash is getting them better outputs than the Pro. I'm not saying it is better 100%. This is just for web development. I'm not talking about anything else. And what I've really liked about this version 4 Pro, demoing some frontends, it has its own specific visual design taste, it is something that does quite well with the typography, the different sorts of layouts as well as scroll triggers that it attributes to its front ends. It's

able to use tools to generate these beautiful landing pages. So that is obviously a benefit and it is something that's just different from other models cuz it adds in its own visual design taste and that is due to the post training that they have done on this model. But then again guys when I andu provided a detailed prompt to the version 4 pro on xigh it may take a long time but the outputs that you're going to get is definitely remarkable. It added in the login screen that you would see on Mac OS. You have functional components. You can create folders.

Can't actually drag anything which is definitely a downside. But the top bar seems to be functional as well. You can change certain things like the brightness as well as uh the volume. You can even change it to light or dark mode. But that actually just shades in the background. Uh you have the lock

screen that you can go to right away. I click on that and the top bar actually seems to be functioning. So that is definitely a great add-on. But you can see that the visual taste when it's on X high is definitely there and it's able to output decent things based off of whatever you are describing. You have all the different apps coded out.

Launchpad seems to be functional. The SG icons for each individual application is there as well. And what I really like is that when you are to provide it a detailed prompt, it does get the job done. And everything else seems to be functioning as it's supposed to be. You even have a music app. And I don't think

the music app actually works, which is also another downside. But regardless, it did get the base structure of everything down. It even created an FPS shooter game which it coded out in 3GS. So, this is something that it was able to do. And I really like the quality of this specific output. The calculator has

been coded out. The system settings as well. I don't think Oh, you can change dark mode, which is nice. can also probably change the different backgrounds that they have. So overall, this is a pretty good and solid generation. And remember guys, this is

with their pricing. So you're getting some insane output with a really great pricing structure. If you want the best AI tools, workflows, and drops before everyone else, join my free newsletter with the link in the description below, which is completely free. And like I had mentioned before, Deep Seek gets significantly better when you pair it with a proper agent harness. And which is why I believe they had officially released their harness. Someone tested

the Deep Seek harness with the version 4 Pro. And this is on high reasoning. And it autonomously built a complete interactive fourcylinder engine simulation in 3GS in around an hour. It generated the pistons, the crankshaft, the valves as well as the fuel and cooling systems. This is something that also gives us a nice animation, the procedural animations as well as the interactive part labels. And all of this

was done without Blender or any external 3D software. So you can see that Deep Seek does have that intelligence. It's just using the proper harness to make the most out of the model. Here, the Deep Seek version 4 Pro was requested to create a catapult in 3GS. And you can see that the visual quality with this specific generation is incredible. This

is where you have functional components that you can operate like this catapult and it actually shoots out an output which is nuts. The lighting, the shaders, everything seems to be generated quite accurately. Even have a sound effect attributed to this catapult and then you can shoot it based off of wherever you have uh targeted and you can see them actually launching the arrows which is a really cool feature. Now this is a solid generation and this is also another reason why this model excels at 3JS as well as 3D models. This is where we had created a flight simulator and we can actually take a look at the flight controls. You can

change the or use the rudder the flaps and this is where we're going to now take off and I need more speed. But you can see that there's a couple of things you can track the air speed the altitude as well as a couple of other components that you would on a real airplane. can change obviously the direction you're going in and it looks like we have taken off now. But it's just really cool that it was able to create this functional flight simulator and you have this help bar which is going to let you control a lot of these things. You can obviously take off the landing gear and you can use a lot of these components. So this

is actually pretty cool. Oh, I am falling. I think it also attempted to generate the airport which is also pretty cool. Now, here's a pretty detailed isometric room that I had created in 3GS. And this is where when you are to click on an object, it gives you a description on that specific item. Now, what I really

like is I can actually control the light as well. So, this is a pretty nice little hidden feature. You also have the shadows that have been attributed. It's a basic generation, but it's still pretty nice to see that it's able to output some great 3GS prompts. And you can truly see how intelligent this model is in almost all fronts. Like this

specific 3GS prompter is able to showcase how you're able to actually get a physical simulation of different blocks being dropped in one go. Next up is the SVG prompts. This is where it did quite exceptional with this generation. It animated it obviously, but you can see that it did a great job with the body structure as well as the symmetrical wings that have added in different visual designs to it. So, this is a specifically great butterfly generation that the Deep Seek version 4 Pro did. Just take a look at this. It

costed just a scent to output this code. Here is a painting that it created. It's not the best, but it did do a pretty decent job with the visual output of this painting. Lastly, I know this is going to be a bit loud, but this is where we had requested it to create a Call of Duty zombies clone, and I really love the visual quality that it was able to add. It added an ambience, but I do find that the GLM 5.3 as well as what we

saw with the other open wave models, uh, being able to up a better functional tone. But in this case, you do have functional, uh, components that have been generated. You have the zombies coming out of the walls like how it is in the real game. You even have sound effects. So if you hear in the background, you can hear the zombie sound effects that have been put out and you can actually access your inventory.

This is where you have a lot of different weapons like a knife for example that it generated. So the visual quality may not be on par with GLM as well as with other models like Quinn, but it is still a pretty decent generation. If you like this video and would love to support the channel, you can consider donating to my channel through the super thanks option below. Or you can consider joining our private Discord where you can access multiple subscriptions to different AI tools for free on a monthly basis plus daily AI news and exclusive content plus a lot more. Overall, this is a really remarkable agentic coding model. It may

be one of the best openweight models, but there are a couple of downsides as you saw. Web development may not be the best for this model, but when it comes to using actual agentic coding in real workflows, it is something that can excel. It is also something that is extremely cheap. But the downside is the new peak uh pricing that they have introduced. So that is where it's going to be raising the prices further.

Another thing is is that this is a model that takes a long time to actually generate things. Obviously, with the flash model, you can get the most out of it. But the Pro is something that I would probably use for real agentic work. And then the Flash, if you're going to be using it locally with the the DC harness, I would use the Flash as the main scaffolder to get everything structured and then use the Pro to get the execution done. But that's just my two cents. Let me know what you guys

think about this model. Overall, I really like what Deepseek did. I just was expecting a bit more if I'm being honest. But regardless, they did do a decent job with this release. I'll leave all the links. Make sure you go ahead

and take a look at the world of AI benchmark and vibe coding platform. You can even get started with this completely for free. Make sure you also take a look at the second channel, join the newsletter, join the Discord, follow me on Twitter, and lastly, make sure you guys subscribe, turn on notification bell, like this video, and please take a look at our previous videos so that you can stay up to date with the latest AI news. But with that thought, guys, have an amazing day, spread positivity, and I'll see you guys fairly shortly. He suffers.