---
video_title: "Grok 4.6 HUGE LEAKS, OpenAI 'mewfour', GLM 5.3, Codex 2.0, SSI Model, Flux 3, & More! AI NEWS"
video_id: JJvSODvTCes
channel_name: "WorldofAI"
channel_id: UC2WmuBuFq6gL08QYG-JjXKw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JJvSODvTCes
video_date: 2026-08-05T06:09:28+00:00
video_description: |
  Check out the PLAUD Note Pro using the links in the description or scan the QR code on screen. Use my creator code WORLDOFAI to get 10% off on the official PLAUD website or Amazon. Plus, there's a 30-day free return policy, so you can try it risk-free.
  
  Official Website: https://bit.ly/45rWyFw
  Amazon: https://amzn.to/4xvx7iz
  
  🚨 The AI race is moving faster than ever. In today's AI News, we cover the biggest developments across the industry, including massive Grok 4.6 leaks, OpenAI's mysterious new "mewfour" checkpoint, GLM 5.3 appearing in backend commits, promising hints about the future of Codex, Flux.3 Video, Ilya Sutskever's SSI, and much more.
  
  🔗 My Links:
  Sponsor a Video or Do a Demo of Your Product, Contact me: intheworldzofai@gmail.com
  🔥 Become a Patron (Private Discord): https://patreon.com/WorldofAi
  🧠 Follow me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/intheworldofai 
  🚨 Subscribe To The SECOND Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@UCYwLV1gDwzGbg7jXQ52bVnQ 
  👩🏻‍🏫 Learn to code with Scrimba – from fullstack to AI https://scrimba.com/?via=worldofai (20% OFF)
  🚨 Subscribe To The FREE AI Newsletter For Regular AI Updates: https://intheworldofai.com/
  👾 Join the World of AI Discord! : https://discord.gg/NPf8FCn4cD
  
  Something coming soon :) https://www.skool.com/worldofai-automation
  
  [Must Watch]:
  OpenAI's GPT-6 Astra WILL BE AGI! Greatest AI Model Ever!: https://youtu.be/KbYio-N8_LU
  Qwen 3.8 Max IS OUT! Best Open Model? (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/vmLwsoVRo30
  DeepSeek V4 Flash GA IS INCREDIBLE! Powerful, Cheap, & Fast! (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/wT42SgaOPK4
  
  📌 LINKS & RESOURCES
  World of AI Benchmark: https://www.woaibench.ai/
  AI NEWS: https://x.com/intheworldofai
  https://x.com/intheworldofai/status/2084712486436036876
  Minecraft clone by grok 4.6: https://019fcdd6-08e3-7b69-8218-41776ff60951.arena.site/
  arena: https://arena.ai/code
  https://x.com/M1Astra/status/2084799818262573564
  https://x.com/OpenAI/status/2084352161404920316
  https://x.com/thsottiaux/status/2084483765158719542
  https://x.com/patrick_oshag/status/2084610308279288141
  https://x.com/AiBattle_/status/2084214160418627604
  https://x.com/AntLingAGI/status/2084656533489754475
  https://x.com/bfl_ai/status/2084693191484469305
  https://x.com/Yurash1104/status/2083979463381995991
  https://x.com/TimJayas
  
  🔥 In this video:
  Grok 4.6 enters beta testing with impressive early results
  OpenAI's "mewfour" checkpoint reportedly begins internal testing
  New Codex hints suggest another major evolution is coming
  Ilya Sutskever's SSI could launch its first AI model soon
  GLM 5.3 appears in commits ahead of release
  Flux.3 Video officially launches
  Ling-3.0 Flash open weights released
  Plus all the latest AI news you need to know.
  
  👇 Let me know in the comments:
  Which upcoming model are you most excited for—Grok 4.6, OpenAI's next model, SSI, or GLM 5.3?
  
  If you enjoyed the video, don't forget to Like 👍, Subscribe 🔔, and share to stay up to date with the latest breakthroughs in artificial intelligence.
  
  [Time Stamps]:
  0:00 - Intro
  3:08 - Grok 4.6 Beta
  3:45 - Checkpoint: Colossus
  4:11 - How To Use
  4:33 - Minecraft Clone /w Shaders
  5:21 - CD Player Sim
  6:21 - Three.js
  7:20 - OpenAI 'mewfour'
  8:21 - OpenAI GPT-6 Astra
  9:01 - Codex Update
  9:38 - Ilya Sutskever's SSI Model
  11:47 - GLM 5.3 Coming Soon
  12:57 - Downside
  13:35 - Ling-3.0-Flash
  14:20 - Flux 3 Video
  15:16 - 67 Robot
  
  #AI #OpenAI #Grok #xAI #GPT6 #Codex #GLM53 #Flux3 #SSI #IlyaSutskever #LLM #artificialintelligence 
  
  Tags: AI News, Grok 4.6, Grok 4.6 leaks, xAI, Elon Musk, OpenAI, mewfour, mewthree, GPT-6, Codex, Codex update, GLM 5.3, Zhipu AI, Flux 3 Video, FLUX.3, Ling 3.0 Flash, Ilya Sutskever, SSI, Safe Superintelligence, LLM, AI models, artificial intelligence, frontier AI, AI agents, coding AI, AI video generation, multimodal AI, machine learning, World of AI
---
Nothing too crazy, but a pretty interesting day in the AI space nonetheless because Elon Musk's promised Grock 4.6 is expected to arrive very soon. And according to him, it should be a substantial leap over Grock 4.5. But early reports are suggesting that it could even compete with models like Kim K3. And right now, the model is

reportedly in beta testing and has even appeared on Elamarina under the code name Colossus. Now, from the early results that we have seen so far, its capabilities look pretty insane, although we'll have to wait for a full release to see how it really performs. OpenAI has also been on an absolute roll recently. After what many people felt as a disappointing start to the year, they have completely shifted the momentum and now seem to be leading the industry again. On top of that, a brand new internal checkpoint called MU4 has surfaced, which many believe could eventually become GBT 5.7, while another

highly anticipated project, Astra from OpenAI, continues to generate excitement and could potentially be the foundation for GPT6. Very little is officially known right now, but the speculation is definitely heating up. OpenAI's Tibbo has drastically been working on improving codecs and he recently came out with an announcement stating that there will be major improvements expected over the next couple of months redefining codecs as an overall AI coding platform. And remember Ilia Saskcover, the OpenAI co-founder who left to start his own company focused entirely on building safe intelligence? Well, his company Safe Super Intelligence, SSI, is reportedly preparing to launch its very first model this month. This could end up being one

of the most important AI releases of the year. Considering SSI was created around a single mission, developing safe super intelligence. On top of all this, JLM 5.3 is right around the corner. Groc 4.6

is closing in on a release, and there's so much more to talk about. So, let's just simply dive into it all. I used to record important calls and ideas off my phone. But those recordings would just end up sitting there without me doing anything cuz finding one useful detail took forever. That's why I started using something from Plot called the Note Pro.

It's about the size of a credit card and it fits inside my wallet, attaches magnetically to the back of my phone, and it's something that I can take everywhere. Whenever I'm on a call, planning a video, or discussing something with my team, I just simply press record. [music] Afterwards, Plot generates the transcript, identifies the speaker, creates a structured summary, and pulls out the key insights and action items. I can even ask plot to instantly find a specific decision without replaying the entire conversation. It lets me stay focused instead of constantly taking notes, and I'm far less likely to miss something important. So, check out Plaude Note Pro

using the link in the description below and use my code for a promotion. And there's also a 30-day free return policy. But thanks to Plaude for sponsoring today's video. Let's start things off with Grock 4.6, which is currently in beta testing. And for what

feels like for the first time in a while, it actually looks like Elon is on track to deliver within the timeline he had promised cuz back on July 24th, Elon said that Grock 4.6 would arrive in about 2 weeks and Grock 4.7 in about 4 weeks, which puts the expected timeline for this Gro 4.6 release at August 7th, just a couple of days from now. That prediction is lining up surprisingly well as we've already started seeing the Colossus model appear on LaMarina and in backend logs. This is strongly

suggesting that the beta testing is now underway. And what's even more exciting is that the early results look extremely impressive so far. They seem to support Elon's claim that Grock 4.6 will be substantially better than Grock 4.5. And

based on everything that we have seen so far, I personally think it could end up landing just behind Kim K3, which would be a major comeback for SpaceX AI after Grock 4.5. Say if you want to try out this Colossus model, you can actually do so today. And you can easily access it through Arena. Just head over to battle mode and I'll leave a link to this in the description below and you can get a chance of accessing this model after you send in a prompt and vote on which model did a better job and you might have a chance in getting the Colossus model.

Shout out to the dev mode Discord and I'll leave a link to that in the description below. But essentially someone within the Discord had generated a Minecraft clone but I know you guys are tired of these Minecraft clones now. But the thing that is quite impressive is that even in Elm Marina, it was able to output this sort of quality. But what's even more impressive is that it was able to add in shaders. Meaning it was able to add in different shadow effects directly within this package that was created within Alamarina. And

you already know most of the Alamarina generations are usually with low reasoning effort. So the fact that this Gro 4.6 six model was able to create this sort of quality is actually really great to see and it is quite promising that we are going to get a really incredible model based off of some of these generations. Now this is pretty cool. This is another case where these Grock models seem to excel at where it is able to actually generate some pretty cool simulations in 3GS. This is a

simulation of a CD player and you can play a disc. Let me just turn on the volume. But just take a look at the quality, guys. You have functional components that have been added to this, and that is just really nice to see. You can eject the disc and you even have that animation. It puts the disc away.

You can even select different discs as well, which is actually pretty cool. Let's actually play this. The Shadow Emperor. Let's see if this is a banging record. It's kind of good. But just take a look

at this, guys. This is just kind of unique. And this is something that I didn't really expect from the Grock 4.6. And if we are going to get this sort of result on low effort or low reasoning on Lamarina, just imagine what we will be able to do when they officially launch the API and that we can change the actual reasoning effort. Here is another

case where it does exceptionally well in 3GS. It was requested to create a cozy room and of a house. And it was also requested to even generate sound and simulation of a storm that is actually occurring. And you can actually take a look at the outside atmosphere. You can see that it's raining. You can see that

it's also easing into the house in certain areas. But the quality is just insane. Just take a listen to the actual ambience of what it actually did.

I'm not even going to lie. I had this fully blasted and when it tried to mimic the thunder sound kind of shook me. But that is just nice to see. It added sound effects. It even added the sound effect for the thunder. Moving forward, M1, the

original leaker who previously revealed Enthropic Mythos launch, is back with another major leak. And this time, it's involving a new OpenAI model checkpoint called MU4. And according to what M1 has heard, MU4 entered testing sometime this week, and it's reportedly a newer checkpoint of OpenAI's next major model. But what makes this even more interesting is that OpenAI may have been already accidentally teasing this previous checkpoint. In a deleted video that we had covered in my last AI news video, the company had reportedly left out a roughly six-second clip showing a model labeled MU3 with Medium beside it.

At that time, MU3 appeared to be the newest known checkpoint of this upcoming OpenAI model. But now we have MU4, which is reportedly entering testing. So, it looks like development has progressed quite well, and it's already in another stage for this checkpoint. If you want the best AI tools, workflows, and drops before everyone else, join my free newsletter with the link in the description below, which is completely free. And remember, this is different from the internal version of OpenAI's next major model series, which is Astra.

And they have been hyping this up quite a bit cuz OpenAI posted this video where they talked about how the model produced 10 new results on long-standing open problems in mathematics and theoretical computer science. Now, I did make a full video explaining this model, so I highly recommend taking a look at it with the links in the description below. But this is going to be quite exciting. We are getting to a point where OpenAI is scaling quite hard. We'll see Astra as well as this new checkpoint. Maybe

they're going to be merged together. Not too sure yet, but we have some pretty incredible models coming from OpenAI. But that's not all because Tibbo, the main product lead at OpenAI, stated that within two to three months, we're about to see a whole new redefined version of Codeex. And this is a pretty promising hint for the future of Codex. Cuz if Tibbo's comments are anything to go by, OpenAI is definitely preparing a major leap in AI part software engineering over the next couple of months. And we

will definitely see that insane leap in 2 to 3 months. He is someone that you shouldn't take lightly because his promises definitely have some backbone to it and I am interested to see how much more capable coding agents will be especially within codeex. Ilia Sutsker, a co-founder of OpenAI that you might or may not know of, is someone who had opened or start up safe super intelligence with the mission to actually create safe super intelligence. But now it looks like he is about to reveal his first model this month. And naturally, the idea that Ilia could already be preparing to unveil the company's first model is something that is generating a lot of hype on X right now. I am personally excited to see it

as well because just imagine if they release something that is even close to what that vision is. It would definitely be really interesting to actually delve into. That speculation comes after Gavin Baker who is one of the most well-connected investors in the AI industry and he had said that SSI is something that is going to be coming out with their nextgen model within August and it is something that he has stated on Patrick's invest like the best podcast. However, there is one major issue that I particularly find where SSI itself has never publicly announced an August model launch. It obviously is going to leave us with two possibilities. Either Gavin accidentally

revealed something he heard during a private meeting or he simply misspoke and unintentionally got the wrong timeline. The second possibility may be that is where SSI only recently said that it had discovered a new research paradigm. It believes skin scale and the company has now recently given additional computing resources by Nvidia. And because of that, it would be surprising for them to already have a public model or a product ready to launch this month. But regardless, Gavin Baker is extremely plugged into the AI industry, so I wouldn't take his words too lightly, and I definitely think that SSI may be coming out with a new model this month. If you like this video and

would love to support the channel, you can consider donating to my channel through the super thanks option below. Or you can consider joining our private Discord where you can access multiple subscriptions to different AI tools for free on a monthly basis, plus daily AI news and exclusive content, plus a lot more. It also looks like GLM 5.3 is coming fairly soon. I actually talked to one of the representatives and they're not keeping it hidden or anything and they did tell me that we will be working on a video together soon for the GLM 5.3

which should come out within the next few weeks. There isn't a confirmed timeline yet, but the recent commit included GLM 5.3's model slug and it's suggesting that the model is already being prepared for and it is also being tested behind the scenes and will be coming to Arena fairly soon. And according to CLSA, GLM 5.3 is expected to launch in the short term and will heavily focus on improving real world coding performance through higher quality training data as well as stronger post- training and faster infrastructure. And even more

interestingly, CLSA has claimed that the model coming after GLM 5.3 will be using an entirely new architecture with the goal of delivering a complete fable level realworld experience. So GLM 5.3 may be an important upgrade on its own, but it could also serve as the final step before ZAI introduces a much larger architectural shift with the next generation of its models. And something I also want to note is that ZAI has confirmed that their new model won't be multimodal, which is really unfortunate.

We have many models from ZAI that don't even have any sort of multimodal capability, which is very unfortunate. And now that we're seeing other open-source models like from DeepSeek as well as from uh Quen, they all inhibit a multimodal function whereas the ZAI models do not. And makes you wonder why the company is not focusing on this domain. Maybe they introduce it with GLM 5.5 because that is a pretty big substantial gap with these other openweight models when you're comparing it to GLM. There's also a new open-

source model called Ling 3.0 0 flash and I believe it's from the Ant group and they have officially released both EF-16 and F8 quantized versions of this model and it is obviously going to give you more flexibility into using this model with whatever hardware you actually have. The BF uh 16 version should be a better option for users who want a maximum model quality that have a more capable hardware to actually run upon. And then obviously the FP8 version is is a lighter based model that you can deploy locally. Now I may actually make a video on this. I don't know if I'm

going to yet, but I may actually make a full dedicated video showcasing this model further in detail. It's kind of crazy how we already have three new AI video generation models. We got Miniax H3 as well as the new seed dance 2.5 and now we have Flux 3 video. This is a new model that supports text to video, image to video, and it uses multiple reference frames to get you what you want. But the

only thing is it's kind of expensive. It's 17 cents for 1 second for a video generated. It is something that is definitely nice, but it is something that could be quite expensive. It can generate up to 20 seconds long at native 1080p resolution, and it is something that is available through the API, as well as a couple of other third party tools. And this is only the beginning though because it is sooner or later going to evolve into 2K to 4K generation outputs which should be coming within the next few months. And alongside this

release, there's going to be open weights for it as well, which is also nice to see. Did I just see this robot do a 67? God damn Gen Z. I am Gen Z. But this is a new robot demo video from Tesla's Optimus showcase. And this is a

pretty cool robot that Tesla has been developing over the last couple of years. Optimus should be releasing within I believe the next 2-year time frame. But it's just crazy to see that they have evolved this robot incredibly well with all of geometrical as well as physical capabilities of this model. And it is something that has been progressing quite well over the last few months. and we should see a new developed release or showcase probably by the end of this year. That's about it

guys for today's video on whatever is happening in the AI space. That's incredible that just in one day we got this many stories. So, it's just crazy to see how the AI space has been running over the last couple of months. AI summer is truly a thing. But thank you guys so much for watching. I really

appreciate it guys. Make sure you go ahead and take a look at the world of AI VIP coding platform and benchmark. This is a great way for you to understand which model to actually run and use. You can even get started for free. Make sure you also take a look at the second channel where we're posting a lot of other types of videos over here. Also,

join our newsletter, join the Discord, follow me on Twitter, and lastly, make sure you guys subscribe, turn on notification bell, like this video, and please take a look at our previous videos so that you can stay uptoate with the latest AI news. But with that thought, guys, have an amazing day, spread positivity, and I'll see you guys fairly shortly. Peace out, fell.