---
video_title: "OpenAI's Astra Coming NEXT WEEK! DeepSeek Getting $$$, HUGE ChatGPT Update, & Terafab IS INSANE..."
video_id: E2T_jZC1QC8
channel_name: "WorldofAI"
channel_id: UC2WmuBuFq6gL08QYG-JjXKw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E2T_jZC1QC8
video_date: 2026-08-07T05:45:30+00:00
video_description: |
  🚀 Check out the Google AI Professional Certificate on Coursera here: https://imp.i384100.net/5kxzq1
  
  Explore more Google Career Certificates on Coursera here: https://imp.i384100.net/bk09nv 
  
  OpenAI’s Astra could be coming as early as NEXT WEEK, and things are starting to heat up fast. In this video, we break down the latest reports surrounding Astra and its “mewfour” release candidate, alongside some massive new changes coming to ChatGPT and Codex.
  
  🔗 My Links:
  Sponsor a Video or Do a Demo of Your Product, Contact me: intheworldzofai@gmail.com
  🔥 Become a Patron (Private Discord): https://patreon.com/WorldofAi
  🧠 Follow me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/intheworldofai 
  🚨 Subscribe To The SECOND Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@UCYwLV1gDwzGbg7jXQ52bVnQ 
  👩🏻‍🏫 Learn to code with Scrimba – from fullstack to AI https://scrimba.com/?via=worldofai (20% OFF)
  🚨 Subscribe To The FREE AI Newsletter For Regular AI Updates: https://intheworldofai.com/
  👾 Join the World of AI Discord! : https://discord.gg/NPf8FCn4cD
  
  Something coming soon :) https://www.skool.com/worldofai-automation
  
  [Must Watch]:
  OpenAI's GPT-6 Astra WILL BE AGI! Greatest AI Model Ever!: https://youtu.be/KbYio-N8_LU
  Qwen 3.8 Max IS OUT! Best Open Model? (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/vmLwsoVRo30
  DeepSeek V4 Flash GA IS INCREDIBLE! Powerful, Cheap, & Fast! (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/wT42SgaOPK4
  
  📌 LINKS & RESOURCES
  World of AI Benchmark: https://www.woaibench.ai/
  AI NEWS: https://x.com/intheworldofai
  https://x.com/synthwavedd/status/2085365276640702915
  https://openai.com/index/ten-advances-in-mathematics/
  https://openai.com/index/improving-gpt-5-6-sol-in-chatgpt/
  https://x.com/btibor91/status/2085352903339102715
  https://x.com/synthwavedd/status/2085421187211923553/photo/1
  https://x.com/chetaslua
  https://x.com/zephyr_z9/status/2085292239115391113
  https://x.com/zephyr_z9/status/2085385421211766916/photo/1
  https://x.com/Alibaba_Qwen/status/2084957103366791321
  https://x.com/SpaceX/status/2085366782269817116
  https://www.spacex.com/updates#terafab
  https://x.com/github/status/2085418319545356351
  
  We also take a look at the delayed Gemini 3.5 Pro and why early testing is raising serious concerns, DeepSeek announcing a “significant” API price increase, Qwen confirming its new 3.8 27B Dense model for next week, and SpaceX and Tesla’s absolutely insane Terafab semiconductor project in Texas.
  
  The AI race is quickly expanding beyond just better models — compute, chips, pricing, local AI, and infrastructure are becoming just as important.
  
  🤖 Topics Covered:
  OpenAI Astra & Mewfour
  GPT-5.6 Sol & Luna ChatGPT Updates
  Codex Rate Limit Resets
  Gemini 3.5 Pro Delay
  Gemini 3.5 Pro vs Grok 4.6
  DeepSeek API Price Increase
  DeepSeek V4 Flash
  Qwen 3.8 27B Dense
  SpaceX & Tesla Terafab
  Future of AI Compute
  
  👍 Like, subscribe, and turn on notifications for the latest AI news, models, tools, and releases!
  
  [Time Stamps]:
  0:00 - Intro
  1:14 - OpenAI's Astra Next Week
  3:43 - Huge ChatGPT Updates
  5:38 - Codex Rate Limits
  6:36 - Gemini 3.5 Pro Delayed... AGAIN
  7:59 - GemDelta Checkpoint
  9:50 - GLM 5.3
  10:06 - DeepSeek Pricing Update
  11:45 - Qwen 3.8 27B Next Week
  13:00 - Kimi K3 x Github Copilot
  13:10 - SpaceX Terafab Update
  
  
  Tags:
  OpenAI Astra, Astra AI, OpenAI Astra release, Astra model, mewfour, mewthree, GPT 5.6, GPT 5.6 Sol, GPT 5.6 Luna, ChatGPT update, ChatGPT news, OpenAI news, Codex, OpenAI Codex, Gemini 3.5 Pro, Gemini 3.5, Google Gemini, Grok 4.6, Grok AI, DeepSeek, DeepSeek V4, DeepSeek V4 Flash, DeepSeek API, DeepSeek pricing, Qwen 3.8, Qwen 3.8 27B, Qwen 27B, Qwen AI, local AI, open source AI, open weight models, SpaceX Terafab, Tesla Terafab, Terafab Texas, xAI, SpaceX AI, Tesla AI, AI chips, AI compute, semiconductor fab, artificial intelligence, AI news, AI models, LLM, World of AI
  
  Hashtags:
  #OpenAI #Astra #ChatGPT #GPT56 #DeepSeek #Gemini #Qwen #Grok #Terafab #AI #AINews
---
It looks like OpenAI's next flagship model Astra is about to launch very soon with a target as early as next week and some new insights are starting to surface. On the topic of OpenAI, ChatGPT has gotten some several new updates today, like making GPT 5.6 Luna free for all users in chat and a couple of new updates. OpenAI also seems to be working on a feature that lets you purchase a rate limit reset within Codex, which is kind of interesting. Gemini 1.5 Pro was

supposed to launch today, but sadly got delayed again as usual now. And the new checkpoints are kind of horrible, looking even worse than the Muse Spark 1.2 that just launched from Meta. But this model that Gemini is going to be launching is basically going to be dead on arrival unless things change drastically. Picks API pricing is going up significantly. Find 3.8 27B dense is on

its way next week. SpaceX AI and Tesla also seems to be working on some pretty cool new progress on their Terafab massive vertically integrated semiconductor manufacturing complex. And this is something that could drastically affect the AI space. Now, there's a lot more to cover, so let's just simply dive into it all. Let's start off with the biggest news, and that is OpenAI's next major model Astra, which now looks like it will be launching imminently with reports targeting a release as early as next week. This is from Leo, and Leo is

a pretty trustworthy leaker. He was the one who initially released the leaks on Fable 5. But according to this new information that was released, Astra is a completely new pre-trained model from OpenAI, and it is reportedly their largest model that they have ever trained since GPT 4.5. The most recent internal dog food checkpoint is apparently called Mu 4, and this one is reportedly the release candidate for Astra. But what makes this

even more interesting is that the last checkpoint we saw was Mew 3, which was appeared in a video from an OpenAI employee before the video was taken down that was re-uploaded afterwards taking out the code name. So, going from Mew 3 to Mew 4 could mean that OpenAI has now moved on to what potentially will be the final version of this release. And remember, OpenAI has already been showing Astra to policy makers in Washington D.C. Alongside publicly discussing some of the research that it produced by an internal version of Astra. So, it definitely seems like

we're getting closer to actually releasing this thing. And this is something that is really exciting cuz we will now have a new OpenAI model that is going to be on par or even surpassing Fable 5. AI is changing how nearly every job gets done. But, knowing a few prompts is no longer enough. The Google AI Professional Certificate on Coursera Coursera is designed to help you build practical AI skills through seven hands-on courses. You'll work with tools

like Gemini notebook, as well as Google AI Studio to improve research, automate everyday tasks, as well as creating content, and building out your own AI part solution. This is a program that also includes more than 20 hands-on labs, a capstone project that you can show employers, as well as a 3-month Google AI Pro subscription at no additional cost, which is kind of mind-boggling. So, you can take a look at this with the links in the description below that you can get access and get your Google AI Professional Certificate using my link in the description below. And also, thanks to Coursera for sponsoring today's video. And with that thought, let's dive back into today's upload.

Also, the projection that Astra is coming next week has technically been confirmed after Sam Altman and OpenAI have been introducing many new updates which are stabilizing the GPT 5.6 models within ChatGPT. Basically, OpenAI is simplifying ChatGPT so the model lineup feels much more consistent. And this is obviously to maybe introduce a newer model to make things easier for users. But basically, for plus and pro users, GPT 5.6 sole now powers both regular

instant chats and deeper reasoning chats. So essentially, you're getting a stronger model across almost everything in ChatGPT. OpenAI also says that the updated sole is much more reliable cuz it is something that produces 68% fewer factual errors than GPT 5.5 instant in its finance, medicine, and law evaluations. Paid and pro users are also going to get a new reasoning effort slider, which is going to let you control how much time and compute ChatGPT puts into thinking through a response.

For free and go users, you have it so that this new big update is going to allow you to use GPT 5.6 Luna, which is going to become available for unlimited text chats. And they can also use the think button when they want more reasoning on harder questions. So, free users are basically getting much stronger intelligence without constantly running into model limits. But one important detail is that the updated GPT 5.6 sole only applies to normal ChatGPT

conversations. Work and Codex is not changing as a part of this update. Also guys, I've launched the world of AI vibe coding platform and benchmark. And this is a great way for you to actually get a better idea which model you should be using and how you should be using this model across my benchmarks as well as my prompt library. So, I highly recommend that you try it out completely for free in the description below.

One interesting update from Codex I want to mention is that OpenAI appears to be working on a feature that would let you purchase a rate limit reset after running out of usages. This was spotted in OpenAI's public checkpoint pricing configuration and ChatGPT's web app assets. Now, the configuration shows that different potential reset prices depends on your plan and usage tier with amounts ranging from $5 to $8 for plus, $25 to $40 for pro light, and $50 to $80 for pro. So, essentially, instead of having you wait for your Codex rate limits to reset naturally, OpenAI could let you pay to instantly refresh your usage and keep coding. This hasn't officially launched yet, but the pricing configuration suggests that OpenAI is at least actively working on it. But, this

is definitely sad cuz I really loved when it would just reset things. And I know a lot of people are definitely disagreeing with this update. I don't know what's happening, but it feels like the Gemini team is trying to be on my good side cuz I keep posting them on the X, and now they're telling me to stay positive cuz they are telling me that this new Gemini model is going to be insane, but I'm not too sure about that. Initially, what happened was Gemini 3.5 was apparently supposed to be deployed today cuz it was already prepared for an imminent release for Thursday, which is today. And the internal model ID that

they had selected for that checkpoint, which was Google's Gem Delta, and that was a checkpoint that wasn't exactly really promising. Apparently, it's not that good at coding compared to current state-of-the-art models, and it can be quite lazy in most cases like all of the Gemini models, which led to the speculation that Google might just release 3.5 Pro just to finally get it out of the way so that they can primarily focus on the Gemini 4 model. And then, right before the expected launch today, another report came out saying that Gemini 3.5 Pro has been delayed. And this is especially

interesting because Google apparently tends to deploy these models roughly a day before releasing them. And that deployment had already happened this time. But according to the latest message, they apparently messed up the deployment. And while the source had previously told multiple people that the release was happening today, they haven't heard anything new. So now next week is looking like a potential target, although nothing is confirmed just yet.

Like just take a look at this checkpoint. Also, if you want to access this somewhat great checkpoint, you can actually do so through Ele Marina as well as anti-gravity. And you can actually access this new checkpoint that they're going to be releasing, I guess, next week now. But just take a look at where had actually requested this new Gemini 3.5 Pro model to make a photorealistic black hole visualization in 3GS. And even after multiple

iterations, the Gemini 3.5 Pro apparently still couldn't produce a convincing black hole, which you can see right here. It kept wasting tokens building things that weren't actually asked for, like the HUDs, the audio, and a bunch of filler features, rather than actually focusing on improving the core visualization. And that is another case why these Gemini models still inhibit that laziness or that lackluster capability where it doesn't actually work on building out what you're asking for. It just tries to get the generation out and try to just finish off the task without actually completing what it's asked to do. Next is where had compared

the Gemini 3.5 Pro up against the Grok 4.6, which is actually available in Arena. And I made a video on that a couple of days ago, so I highly recommend taking a look at it cuz it's an incredible model. But you can see that with this comparison, the Grok 4.6

does a better job, in my opinion, in terms of adding in qualitative depth. I can definitely tell you that it looks a lot better than what the Gemini 3.5 Pro does, cuz the Pro model in this case is just adding things that weren't asked for. That is what had stated. It even has a worse UI. And the lighting and

shaders doesn't actually feel as competent as what the Grok 4.6 had outputted. If you want the best AI tools, workflows, and drops before everyone else, join my free newsletter with the link in the description below, which is completely free. Now, we already knew this that GLM 5.3 is going to be coming soon, but we actually got official confirmation from the ZAECO, where he did state soon after someone had asked when is GLM 5.3 is coming, and

we should see this model probably within the next 2 weeks. Now, I got a sad email from the whale today, and this is something that you probably have gotten to if you've used the DeepSeek API or have an account with DeepSeek. And this is where DeepSeek officially announced that its API pricing is going up significantly. That is really sad to hear. Right now, DeepSeek is basically one of the cheapest frontier models on the market.

As you all saw with DeepSeek version 4 Flash, it is roughly 3 cents per task, and the current rates are around 14 cents per 1 million input tokens and 28 cents per 1 million output tokens, which makes it dramatically cheaper than models like Claude Fable 5. The timing is interesting because this comes just right after DeepSeek version 4 Flash had officially launched as in the generally available version. It currently ranks near the very top of open weight models, behind only Moonshots Kimiko 3, and the demand for this model has definitely exploded. The checkpoint reportedly became one of the fastest growing models by token usage on Ollama, which forced them to add more capacity across the US and Europe. And at some point, serving that much traffic at prices designed to be insanely aggressive just stops making sense for them, and that's why the DeepSeek team is now working on significantly increasing their prices.

Now, the problem for DeepSeek is that the price increase comes at a pretty bad time because models like Meta Muse Spark, as well as the ChatGPT uh 5.6 Luna, are now competing much more closely on both capability and price. So, I'm not too sure if this is a smart decision by them, but we don't even know their financials, so maybe it is. Moving forward, the Coin team basically confirmed today on X that the Coin 3.8 27B dense model is coming next week, and this could be quite interesting for local AI users. This will most likely be

the best local model that anyone can access if you have competent AI hardware. Obviously, if you have something above a 3090, you should be able to access one of the lower-grade versions of this model, but that is going to be huge cuz this model is actually pretty insane in terms of its capabilities. The 27B dense model is something that sits in a really good sweet spot, large enough to actually reason well, but still small enough to run on hardware that a lot of people actually own, especially around the 24 GB VRAM range. And Coin says that this new version brings new capabilities while staying at the same size, which is exactly what people want from local models, better intelligence without suddenly needing way more hardware. But, it's just insane to me that we're getting these insane models for free, basically.

If you like this video and would love to support the channel, you can consider donating to my channel through the Super Thanks option below, or you can consider joining our private Discord, where you can access multiple subscriptions to different AI tools for free on a monthly basis, plus daily AI news and exclusive content, plus a lot more. It looks like the Kimi K3 is now going to be available within GitHub Copilot. This is something that you can access starting today, so this is just a small update. I really wanted to mention it. Lastly, we got a pretty massive infrastructure story.

This is where SpaceX AI and Tesla have officially announced that Terafactory will be built in Grimes County in Texas, with the first phase expected to require around 16.8 billion in investment. Now, the whole point of Terafactory is something to solve what they see as a massive feature chip shortage. SpaceX AI and Tesla say that their combined demand could eventually exceed 1 terawatt of compute, which they argue is far beyond current global supply. Terafab is planned as a vertically integrated semiconductor complex with more than 100 million square feet of manufacturing space. And this is something that brings

in advanced logic, memory, packaging, and testing together under one roof. This thing just looks it's whole incredible. I know a lot of you guys hate Elon as well as his company, but this dude is just a revolutionary. And as much as you hate him, you can't really blame the thoughts this guy has. It's just this dude is insanely intelligent and the stuff that he's trying to achieve is just nuts. I truly

look up to him. And this is where it just becomes extremely relevant to AI in terms of what he's doing with Terafab, cuz this facility is supposed to produce chips for things like Tesla's Optimus robot, their self-driving cyber cabs, edge AI inference, and even high-power chips for SpaceX AI's planned space-based data centers. So, instead of relying entirely on outside chip suppliers, Tesla and SpaceX AI are basically trying to build their own enormous domestic semiconductor pipeline from manufacturing all the way through packaging and deployment. If they can actually execute at this particular scale, which I am kind of a little doubtful, but if they do end up achieving this, Terafab could become one of the most important compute infrastructure projects in the AI industry because the AI race increasingly isn't just about who is going to have the best model, it's about who can secure and manufacture enough compute to run these. And this is kind of funny. We've all

seen this meme, and it looks like it is something that is going to come to fruition now in a couple of years. Really interesting day. So, I hope you enjoyed today's video and got some sort of value. I'll leave all the links that I used in today's video in the description below. Make sure you go ahead and take a look at the Vibe coding platform and Benchmark. Make sure you go

ahead and take a look at the second channel. Join the newsletter, join the Discord, follow me on Twitter, and lastly, make sure you guys subscribe, turn on the notification bell, like this video, and please take a look at our previous videos so that you can stay up-to-date with the latest AI news. But, with that thought, guys, have an amazing day, spread positivity, and I'll see you guys really shortly. Peace out, fellas.