---
video_title: "MYSTERIOUS New Claude Model, Grok 4.6 TODAY, Muse Glimmer 30B, New OpenAI Model, & More! AI News"
video_id: RqPrJ4WxBzA
channel_name: "WorldofAI"
channel_id: UC2WmuBuFq6gL08QYG-JjXKw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RqPrJ4WxBzA
video_date: 2026-08-11T07:16:47+00:00
video_description: |
  Build it in the morning, have it running by lunch. Try it now, at https://attio.com/worldofai
  
  MYSTERIOUS New Claude Model, Grok 4.6 TODAY, Muse Glimmer 30B, a brand-new OpenAI cybersecurity model, and even more massive AI updates! Anthropic just revealed that an unreleased research version of Claude made surprising progress on a problem related to the legendary Riemann Hypothesis—pushing a longstanding lower bound from 41.6% to 67.2%. We also cover Anthropic’s controversial invisible watermarking plans for Claude-generated text and permanent Claude Sonnet 5 pricing.
  
  🔗 My Links:
  Sponsor a Video or Do a Demo of Your Product, Contact me: intheworldzofai@gmail.com
  🔥 Become a Patron (Private Discord): https://patreon.com/WorldofAi
  🧠 Follow me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/intheworldofai 
  🚨 Subscribe To The SECOND Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@UCYwLV1gDwzGbg7jXQ52bVnQ 
  👩🏻‍🏫 Learn to code with Scrimba – from fullstack to AI https://scrimba.com/?via=worldofai (20% OFF)
  🚨 Subscribe To The FREE AI Newsletter For Regular AI Updates: https://intheworldofai.com/
  👾 Join the World of AI Discord! : https://discord.gg/NPf8FCn4cD
  
  Something coming soon :) https://www.skool.com/worldofai-automation
  
  [Must Watch]:
  OpenAI's GPT-6 Astra WILL BE AGI! Greatest AI Model Ever!: https://youtu.be/KbYio-N8_LU
  Qwen 3.8 Max IS OUT! Best Open Model? (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/vmLwsoVRo30
  DeepSeek V4 Flash GA IS INCREDIBLE! Powerful, Cheap, & Fast! (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/wT42SgaOPK4
  
  📌 LINKS & RESOURCES
  World of AI Benchmark: https://www.woaibench.ai/
  AI NEWS: https://x.com/intheworldofai
  https://www.anthropic.com/research/riemann-zeta
  https://support.claude.com/en/articles/16266773-how-claude-marks-ai-generated-content
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W80bz--VcZI
  https://research.meta.ai/blog/introducing-muse-glimmer-open-agentic-model
  https://x.com/WescheNex1q/status/2086880327088144441
  https://x.com/HarshithLucky3/status/2085363429288857663
  https://openai.com/business/solutions/cybersecurity/
  https://x.com/Zai_org/status/2087040814677725262
  https://x.com/CyberRobooo/status/2085728692031090739
  https://x.com/MicrosoftAI/status/2034661558492557386/video/1
  https://x.com/MichaelDunwort1/status/2087012320467923070/video/1
  
  🦙 Meta is returning to open weights with Muse Glimmer, a 30B agentic model that can run locally on 24GB of VRAM. We’ll look at its impressive token efficiency and how it compares with Qwen 3.6 27B.
  
  🔥 Plus, Grok 4.6 is beginning to roll out in Cursor, Microsoft’s MAI-Image 2.6 debuted at #2 on the text-to-image Arena leaderboard, OpenAI introduced GPT-5.6-Cyber and expanded Daybreak, and we have new updates from GLM/Zhipu AI and the humanoid robotics space.
  
  There is seriously NEVER a boring day in AI. Let’s dive into everything!
  
  ⏱️ Topics:
  • Mysterious unreleased Claude research model
  • Claude & the Riemann Hypothesis
  • Claude invisible text watermarks
  • Claude Sonnet 5 pricing
  • Meta Muse Glimmer 30B
  • Muse Glimmer vs Qwen 3.6 27B
  • Grok 4.6 rollout
  • Microsoft MAI-Image 2.6
  • OpenAI GPT-5.6-Cyber & Daybreak
  • GLM / Zhipu AI updates
  • ROBOTIS AI Sapiens humanoid robot
  
  [Time Stamps]:
  0:00 - Intro
  3:40 - New Mysterious Claude Model
  4:12 - Riemann Hypothesis
  6:27 - 31 Million Tokens
  8:32 - Claude Watermarks
  9:34 - Sonnet 5 Pricing Discount
  10:08 - Muse Glimmer 30B
  11:03 - WoAI Bench
  12:03 - Benchmarks
  12:45 - Bright Spot
  13:47 - Qwen 3.6 27B vs Muse Glimmer 30B
  14:33 - MAI Image 2.6
  15:04 - Grok 4.6 TODAY!
  16:03 - ZAI Huge Discount
  16:48 - GPT-5.6-Cyber
  17:52 - Robot Running A Marathon
  
  #AI #ArtificialIntelligence #Claude #Anthropic #Grok46 #Grok #xAI #MuseGlimmer #MetaAI #OpenAI #GPT56 #MicrosoftAI #AIAgents #OpenSourceAI #AINews
  
  Tags:
  Claude, Claude AI, new Claude model, mysterious Claude model, Anthropic Claude, Anthropic AI, Claude research model, Claude Riemann Hypothesis, Riemann Hypothesis AI, Claude Sonnet 5, Grok 4.6, Grok 4.6 release, Grok 4.6 Cursor, xAI Grok, xAI, Muse Glimmer, Muse Glimmer 30B, Meta Muse Glimmer, Meta AI, open source AI, open weights AI, local AI, local LLM, agentic AI, AI agents, Qwen 3.6 27B, Qwen AI, MAI Image 2.6, Microsoft MAI Image, Microsoft AI, GPT-5.6-Cyber, GPT 5.6 Cyber, GPT-5.6, OpenAI Daybreak, OpenAI new model, cybersecurity AI, Zhipu AI, GLM AI, ZCode, humanoid robot, ROBOTIS AI Sapiens, artificial intelligence, AI models, new AI models, AI news, AI news today, latest AI news, AI updates, machine learning, LLM, generative AI
---
Ask a mathematician what they think the greatest unsolved problem in maths is, and the chances are they'll say the Riemann hypothesis. >> And this is true, but there's now an AI model that actually makes strides towards solving one of the most famous unsolved problems in mathematics. And it's honestly never a boring day in the AI space because today Anthropic revealed that one of its unreleased research versions of Claude is capable of doing this. It gave this internal Claude model a shot at the legendary Riemann hypothesis. And if you don't know what this is, it's basically a 160-year-old mathematical problem about the hidden patterns behind prime numbers. The numbers that can only be

divided by themselves and by one. And mathematicians believe that the Riemann hypothesis describes where certain special zeros of the Riemann zeta function must actually lie, and proving that would give us a much deeper understanding of how prime numbers are distributed. It's quite the big deal, and this is one of the seven millennium prize problems with a $1 million prize for the correct solution. Now, Claude didn't actually solve the Riemann hypothesis, but it reportedly made progress on the related problem, increasing the lower bound of the fraction of zeros of the Riemann zeta function which is satisfying the hypothesis from 41.6% all the way to 67.2%.

And somehow this news gets even crazier. Anthropic is also making a pretty controversial move saying that the new Claude models will embed an invisible watermark into generated text across Claude, and people are definitely not taking this lightly. Meanwhile, Meta AI is back to fulfill its promise with Music LM, a new open agentic model that can run locally. And I've got to say something, it's quite decent overall, but unfortunately it still falls behind the Qwen 3.6 27B. But regardless, it's

definitely impressive for what it is, and I personally believe that Meta is just trying to get this model out before the Alibaba team ends up releasing the Qwen 3.8 27 billion parameter model. Moving forward, Microsoft is also making moves with the MAI image 2.6 model, now reportedly ranking second overall in image generation, which is pretty remarkable. And on top of that, Grok 4.6

is supposed to be releasing today, which is definitely great, and there's also a lot more that we will be covering throughout today's video, so let's just simply dive into it all. Something strange is happening. There's a team closing deals twice as fast as everyone else, but they never seem to be slowing down. They're prepping for calls in minutes. They're spinning up handoff meetings that used to take hours.

They're getting pipeline intelligence without building a single dashboard. They just know everything. How though? They're actually asking Atthio. Atthio is an AI Gen 6 CRM, which is also today's video sponsor, that keeps teams ahead of the pack. No wonder people are

talking about it. It runs your revenue work exactly as you want, and you will get agents and automations working on every account, building pipelines, and handing out work that used to take your team days. While others are waiting through multiple tools to find information, teams are simply asking Atthio to surface insights and get answers on their customers data instantly. It's like having your best rep on every deal 24/7 of the day, but only better. So, I highly recommend trying it out with the links in the description below, and thanks to them for sponsoring today's video. So, let's

actually talk about this new mysterious Claude model, because it honestly looks like Anthropic might be playing the same playbook as OpenAI's Astra, showing us what an unreleased research model can do before telling us what the model is, as well as what it's actually capable of. But regardless, Anthropic came out today with a pretty wild statement. One of their staff members gave an unreleased version of Claude what they themselves called an unreasonable challenge to take a real stab at solving the Riemann hypothesis. Now, if you have no idea, like I mentioned at the start of the video, this is a pretty famous unsolved problem in mathematics, and it dates all the way back to 1859. And at the very simplified level, it deals with hidden mathematical patterns behind prime numbers. Now, there's something called

the Riemann zeta function, and this function has special points called the zeros. And the Riemann hypothesis essentially predicts that all of the important zeros fall perfectly along one specific vertical line. Now, if mathematicians could actually prove that, it would give us a much deeper understanding of how prime numbers are distributed. And after more than 160 years, nobody has managed to prove or disprove it. And there's literally a $1 million prize waiting for whoever can solve it. So, Anthropic basically told

Claude, "Take a real stab at it." And obviously, Claude didn't suddenly solve the Riemann hypothesis, but this is where things got really interesting. And this is something that came from this research model while it was actually trying to solve it. Claude accidentally found a way to make progress on a related mathematical problem. Mathematicians already know that at least a certain percentage of these zeros actually do lie on a predicted line. And over decades of research,

mathematicians had managed to push that proven lower bound to around 41.6%. But this unreleased Claude model apparently found a way to increase that from 41.6% all the way to a 67.2%.

And that is a massive jump. Now, to be clear, Anthropic itself says that this technique probably will not lead to a proof of the Riemann hypothesis, but what makes this really interesting is how a Claude model had actually discovered it. Model initially generated around 650 different ideas. None of them actually worked, so they basically told Claude to keep going. Claude then spent about a day and a half con- coordinating roughly 60 Claude sub-agents. Together, they ran around

2,400 shell commands, wrote hundreds of Python scripts, performed thousands of numerical checks against known zeta scores, and even reviewed every other mathematical work. And get this, across just two Claude code sessions, the models generated around 31 million output tokens, which is just nuts. Now, the humans weren't actually even a mathematician as well, and according to Anthropic, most of his involvement eventually came down to the messages like, "Keep going. Believe in yourself." And that is the funniest thing about this. But after Claude found the

results, it didn't just stop there. It had different sub-agents try finding different sorts of counter-examples independently. It re-proved the results from scratch. It downloaded 54 mathematical papers from archive to actually check whether somebody had actually discovered this. Claude after all then actually suggested that a human number theorist should validate its work. Anthropic then had two of its

mathematicians examine the results and said that the proof checked out, and they also had outside experts actually look at the paper, and Claude produced a formally verifiable lean proof of the results. So, this isn't Anthropic claiming that Claude just solved one of mathematics' biggest mysteries, cuz it actually didn't. But what's impressive is that they gave an unreleased model essentially impossible objectives, let it explore autonomously, and it appears to have produced a new mathematical result as a byproduct of failing at the original task. And that is probably the bigger story here because if these models are starting to take existing human research connecting ideas across different papers running thousands of experiments critiquing its own work and occasionally pushing the boundary forward, then we're starting to see AI move beyond simply answering questions about existing sciences towards potentially even contributing to science itself. And considering this isn't even a released Claude model yet, I'm very curious to see what Anthropic is cooking here. And they're definitely playing the

same exact playbook as what OpenAI had done with Astra. If you want the best AI tools, workflows, and drops before everyone else, join my free newsletter with the link in the description below, which is completely free. Moving forward, a couple of people had actually noticed something off of the Claude support forum. And essentially, they had made an announcement here, which is quite controversial and a lot of people don't actually abide by this cuz this is where new Claude models will embed invisible watermarks directly into the generated text. And this is not something that will be associated with the metadata.

So, if you copy and paste the text somewhere, it is where the watermark will actually travel with it and may even survive something like editing. This is something that starts with model launches on and after August 2nd of 2026 as a part of Anthropic's new EU AI Act commitments. And the rollout is actually something that will be going towards a worldwide release. So, Anthropic is also working on bringing it to current Claude models at the moment as well. And a lot of us are actually not liking this news at all cuz it's just making whatever we're working on have all of Claude's footprint attached to it. But, we have

some better news from Anthropic now. It's Claude Sonnet 5 is keeping its launch price permanent, and Anthropic originally launched it at $2 per 1 million input tokens and $10 per 1 million output tokens, roughly on August 31st, I believe. And they've now confirmed that that pricing isn't going anywhere. So, Sonnet 5 will stay at those rates permanently. But, regardless, this model is pretty trash, and I wouldn't recommend you using it cuz there's so many other models that are better, especially at that price point, and also providing better quality, as well. Next up, Mark

Zuckerberg is keeping his promise to bring Meta back towards the open-source community. Meta is officially opening the weights for a new model, Music Glimmer. This is a 30 billion parameter dense model that can run locally. And this is just the start because Zuckerberg also confirmed that Music Spark 1.2's weights are coming soon, as well. So, after all that talk about Meta

pulling back from open-source, this is a pretty important move and a strong signal that they are making a strong presence back in the open model ecosystem. Music Glimmer is a 30 billion agentic model with open weights under the Apache 2.0 license, and it can run on just 24 GB of VRAM without sacrificing its agentic reliability. So, even though it's a much smaller model, this is a model that can still plan, use tools, check its own work, and recover from failures like a proper autonomous agent. Now, on the world of AI benchmark and Vibe coding platform, this is where this new Music Glimmer model is actually ranked number 23rd, which is obviously not that high up in the rankings, but it's still a pretty decent model that you can actually run locally. But, I

guess the best added benefit from this model, obviously, isn't going to be its web development skills. Something that is going to be a local driver that can help you be token efficient, and that is something that I will emphasize in a bit. It's pretty decent. It's not the best model. It's not something that is going to be obviously beating all of these other Frontier models outright, but it can get the job done when you are to prompt it properly. And despite it

being a little lackluster in most areas, it is something that can actually do quite well when you are to thoroughly give it a proper prompt and describe what you actually want. And it is something that is capable of getting that job done. Despite some of these generations that you see right now. In Meta's own benchmarks, they report that it outright beats the Gemma 431B across all of these different benchmark scores, which is kind of incredible. Obviously not all of them like HLE as well as GPQA, but in many areas it is outcompeting it and even beating the Qwen 3.6 27B. But from my testing, I

will tell you that the 27 billion parameter Qwen model is still better in many cases despite these benchmarks. And it's something that even outcompetes the Muse Glamour in many areas like coding as well as front-end web development. Whatever it may be, even with tool calling, this is where the Qwen model even surpasses it in most of these domains. Now, the area that I would say that you would want to use this model is obviously due to its token efficiency per task cuz the Muse Glamour sits right on the efficient frontier between intelligence and token usage, meaning that it can get a lot of useful agentic work done without burning through a ridiculous amount of tokens. And for local agents, that matters a lot because efficiency directly affects the speed, the cost, and how practical the model actually is to run locally, which is why this could be a model that most people could use locally. And Most people don't

realize this, but local models don't always need to be super glamorous where it needs to be insane with all these 3D animations like what I always actually end up showing. But, it needs to be able to actually get the gen sick work that it's actually meant to do properly without burning through a ridiculous amount of tokens. Obviously, doing this with the best ratio in terms of speed to cost, as well as how practical the model is overall to run locally. And you can see this exactly in an efficiency test, as well as a visual test, where it was requested to create something in voxel art. And both of these two generations were done on the Mac Studio, where the Qwen 3.6

27B used about 12, or sorry, 11.5 K tokens and took around 600 seconds to complete, whereas the Muse Glimmer used about 5,000 tokens and finished in 300 seconds. Basically, two times faster and less than half the tokens. Now, Qwen's visual output is obviously in another league compared to what we see with the Muse Glimmer, but Glimmer isn't necessarily winning on raw output quality here, but on efficiency, and that is obviously impressive on its own. Next up, Microsoft just got a pretty huge jump in image generation, cuz their new MAI image 2.6 model

debuted on Arena and immediately landed at the number two spot on text to image. And this is actually pretty wild, because just yesterday we had Grok Imagine Image 2.0 in this particular spot, ranked number two, but now we have the MAI model actually surpassing it. And this is actually pretty incredible in terms of what you're capable of doing, and I would highly recommend taking a look at it. And finally, Grok 4.6 is finally

starting to roll out in Cursor, and it looks like a full release could be happening today. I actually made a full early preview video on the Grok 4.6 last week, and from my testing, it is an incredible model. And now, with it appearing in Cursor and several cursor employees seemingly hinting at something coming today, we could finally be seeing the Grok 4.6 officially dropping. So,

definitely stay tuned for that. I'm going to be making a full video on that as well, where I uncover all of the capabilities of the model as well as test it through a rigorous prompt sheet. So, just stay tuned for that video. If you like this video and would love to support the channel, you can consider donating to my channel through the super thanks option below. Or you can consider joining our private Discord, where you can access multiple subscriptions to different AI tools for free on a monthly basis, plus daily AI news and exclusive content, plus a lot more. Now, I don't

know if you saw this, but the Z AI team has made it so that GLM's top model has all of its prices slashed by 95%. Yep, 95%, which is just insane. And this is a post reduction price that is following the 6 version 4 flash success. So, it looks like they are definitely trying to recreate that. And on top of that, they are also resetting the rates for their Z code coding plan, which is something that they had just done today cuz they had reportedly crossed 1 million users.

So, that is also a pretty aggressive price uh reset, as well as having it so that they reduced the price for the GLM 5.2 by a 95% margin. And lastly, OpenAI is pushing deeper into the cybersecurity space with daybreak and a new model that's called GPT 5.6 cyber. And there's basically two tiers here. You have

daybreak, which is going to give you defenders access to the frontier model like GPT 5.6. So, for things like vulnerabilities, discoveries, secure code review, malware analysis, and incident response. But then you have daybreak red. I think I read this wrong.

Daybreak blue, sorry. But daybreak red gives approved security research and access to the GPT-4.6 Cyber, and that is the new model that they ended up releasing, which is purpose-built for the most advanced work like exploit validation and authorized security testing. And OpenAI says that they've already used GPT-4.6 Cyber in real-world vulnerability research, including finding previously unknown issues in major open-source software. And because

of how powerful it is, it is restricted to approved defenders with additional monitoring and safeguards, which is actually pretty interesting. And over in robotics, Korea's robotics AI Sapient was spotted running along the Han River in a brutal 38° C heat. And basically, a Korean take on something like the Unitree G1 from China. And despite the heat apparently making the joints feel like they were on fire, the motors still moved and held up quite well across this uh session. And it's just insane that we are getting to a point where we're starting to see humanoid testings in actual public, which is actually really great to see.

And soon we will have something like this even running human marathons, cuz I believe they have something set up to bring this robot to Beijing next year for the humanoid robot marathon. That's all I got for today's video on whatever's happening in the world of AI. Definitely stay tuned for the Grok 4.6 video. I'll leave all the links that I used in today's video in the description below. Make sure you go ahead and take a

look at the World of AI 5 coin platform and benchmark. This is where you would get a lot of features and different ideas, as well as running your own benchmarks. And it just it actually helps you get started with the best AI models and how you can actually use them and maximize the output. Make sure you also take a look at the second channel. Make sure you also join the newsletter, join the Discord, follow me on Twitter, and lastly, make sure you guys subscribe, turn on notification bell, like this video, and please take a look at our previous videos so that you can stay up-to-date with the latest AI news.

But, with that thought, guys, have an amazing day, spread positivity, and I'll see you guys fairly shortly. Peace out, fellas.