---
video_title: "Muse Glimmer 30B: BEST LOCAL AI Model? Meta AI Beats Qwen 3.6 27B? (Fully Tested)"
video_id: qBoQZ3Sf3h4
channel_name: "WorldofAI"
channel_id: UC2WmuBuFq6gL08QYG-JjXKw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qBoQZ3Sf3h4
video_date: 2026-08-12T07:17:13+00:00
video_description: |
  🚨 Everything you’re about to see, I benchmarked using the tool I made. If you want to run these tests yourself or test models on whatever you actually use them for! → https://www.woaibench.ai/
  
  Meta AI is officially back with open-weight models. In this video, I fully test Muse Glimmer 30B, Meta’s new open agentic model designed to run locally on consumer hardware.
  
  🔗 My Links:
  Sponsor a Video or Do a Demo of Your Product, Contact me: intheworldzofai@gmail.com
  🔥 Become a Patron (Private Discord): https://patreon.com/WorldofAi
  🧠 Follow me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/intheworldofai 
  🚨 Subscribe To The SECOND Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@UCYwLV1gDwzGbg7jXQ52bVnQ 
  👩🏻‍🏫 Learn to code with Scrimba – from fullstack to AI https://scrimba.com/?via=worldofai (20% OFF)
  🚨 Subscribe To The FREE AI Newsletter For Regular AI Updates: https://intheworldofai.com/
  👾 Join the World of AI Discord! : https://discord.gg/NPf8FCn4cD
  
  Something coming soon :) https://www.skool.com/worldofai-automation
  
  [Must Watch]:
  OpenAI's GPT-6 Astra WILL BE AGI! Greatest AI Model Ever!: https://youtu.be/KbYio-N8_LU
  Qwen 3.8 Max IS OUT! Best Open Model? (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/vmLwsoVRo30
  DeepSeek V4 Flash GA IS INCREDIBLE! Powerful, Cheap, & Fast! (Fully Tested): https://youtu.be/wT42SgaOPK4
  
  📌 LINKS & RESOURCES
  World of AI Benchmark: https://www.woaibench.ai/
  AI NEWS: https://x.com/intheworldofai
  Blog: https://research.meta.ai/blog/introducing-muse-glimmer-open-agentic-model
  Model Card: https://huggingface.co/meta-models/Muse-Glimmer-30B|
  https://x.com/tomgreenwald/status/2086967581085405527
  https://x.com/aimlapi/status/2087109782570230146
  https://x.com/atomic_chat_hq/status/2086969743559344581?s=20
  https://x.com/AstraiaAI/status/2087168028093895075?s=20
  
  We take a look at Muse Glimmer’s performance, benchmarks, agentic capabilities, tool use, coding, efficiency, DFlash speculative decoding, and local hardware requirements. I also compare it directly against Qwen 3.6 27B to see which model is actually better for local AI.
  
  Can Muse Glimmer beat Qwen for agentic workflows? And is this the new best local AI model you can run on your own hardware? Let’s find out.
  
  [Time Stamps]:
  0:00 - Intro
  0:31 - Muse Glimmer 30B vs Qwen 3.6 27B
  1:42 - Benchmarks
  2:46 - Agentic/Tool Use
  4:00 - Local Guide: How To Run
  5:37 - Getting Started
  6:27 - Frontend Demos
  8:10 - Head-To-Head Test
  8:45 - MacOS Clone
  10:05 - NYC Svg
  10:31 - Painting SVG
  10:45 - BEST Output?
  11:17 - AI Agent Automation
  13:39 - Efficient
  14:14 - Three.js Demo
  14:55 - Local Intelligence
  15:28 - Two Cents
  
  Topics Covered:
  Muse Glimmer 30B, Meta AI, Qwen 3.6 27B, local AI models, open-weight AI, AI agents, agentic AI, local LLMs, DFlash, speculative decoding, RTX 3090, RTX 4090, RTX 5090, MacBook M5 Max, AI benchmarks, tool use, MCP, coding benchmarks, autonomous agents
  
  #MetaAI #MuseGlimmer #LocalAI #AI #LLM #OpenSourceAI
  
  Additional tags: Muse Glimmer 30B, Muse Glimmer, Meta Muse Glimmer, Meta AI, Meta AI Muse, Qwen 3.6 27B, Qwen3.6, Qwen 27B, Muse Glimmer vs Qwen, best local AI model, best local LLM, local AI, local LLM, open source AI, open weight AI, AI agents, agentic AI, local AI agent, Meta open source AI, Meta open weights, Llama 4, DFlash, speculative decoding, RTX 3090 AI, RTX 4090 AI, RTX 5090 AI, M5 Max AI, 24GB VRAM LLM, AI benchmarks, MCP agents, tool use AI, autonomous AI agents, run AI locally, self hosted AI, best AI model 2026, AI news
---
As promised by Mark Zuckerberg, Meta is back in the open-source AI game, and this is their first major open model release since Llama 4, which is kind of hot. But, I would like to introduce Muse Glimmer 30B parameter model, an open agentic model that's designed to run directly on your own device. This is separate from the open weights Meta is expected to release later for Muse Spark 1.2, but I've seen a lot of chatter online, and people have been asking me which local model is actually the best right now. And the answer is, it's complicated. Muse Glimmer 30B parameter

model is arguably the better choice if you care about agents. It performs extremely well with tool use, MCPs, deep search style workflows, banking agents, long horizon tasks, and even recovering when an agent makes a mistake. It also fits nicely on around 24 GB of VRAM, and has strong multimodal capabilities, also coming under the Apache 2.0 license. The downside is that it falls behind some competitors when it comes to pure coding and computer use benchmarks like Sweep Bench, Criminal Bench, and OS World.

That's where CodeLlama 3.6 27B comes in. CodeLlama is generally the stronger option for coding, terminal work, OS-level tasks, as well as reasoning, while still being very efficient to run locally. But, when you start building complex multi-step agents that need to coordinate tools and plan over longer tasks, Muse Glimmer appears to have the edge. So, basically, you would want to use CodeLlama for coding and Muse Glimmer for agents, and the combination of two locally is going to get you a lot of doors unlocked. On the world of AI

benchmark, this is where the new Muse Glimmer model is currently ranked number 23rd overall on this benchmark sheet, and it is actually a pretty remarkable model when it comes to certain benchmarks, and this is something that we will be exploring as we go further into the video. And according to Meta's own benchmarks, Muse Glimmer performs very well for the model in this particular model size up against other similar models as well. Meta tested it across a broad set of benchmarks focused on capabilities that you actually need for autonomous agents. And this is where you can see that it actually outcompetes the Gemma 4 on most benchmarks and obviously surpassing the Qwen 3.6 27B on many benchmarks itself. But like I had

mentioned before, the Muse Glimmer is something that excels more on agentic benchmarks, whereas the Qwen model excels more on coding benchmarks. But that doesn't mean the Muse Glimmer is really bad at coding. It's still pretty decent and you get a good combination of both. And the fact that you can locally host this model is the best thing about it. Artificial Analysis also gives the Muse Glimmer 30B an intelligent index score of 35, which is a massive jump over Llama 4 Maverick. And for its size,

it's extremely competitive, beating Gemma 4 31B at 30 and nearly matching the 1 trillion parameter Kimiko 2.5 at 36. Although Qwen 3.6 27B on their leaderboard still leads at 38 in terms of the score. Now, one of Glimmer's biggest strengths that they have reported is obviously the agentic use case, scoring of 24 percentage on the Tao 3 banking compared to Qwen 17%.

While its biggest weakness is knowledge work and hallucination with a 953 Elo on GDP Eval AA version 2 and an 82 percentage hallucination rate. It's also very practical locally, requiring around 18 GB at 4-bit with a 128K context window. And Meta released it obviously under this Apache 2.0 license, which which gives you a lot of free will. But another thing I also noticed is that this is a model that is much more token efficient than the quant 3.6 27-bit and

many other models in its range. Now, if you go to the world of AI benchmark tool and head over to get a run it. I'll leave a link to this in the description below, but it will tell you how you can actually run the music glimmer. This is something that is best ran on a dedicated Nvidia GPU and RTX 3090 can even fit this with a 4-bit quant and it delivers around 40 tokens per second, which is pretty decent. Once you specify which system requirements you have like your RAM as well as your core and even the target context. Once you have

specified these different elements, you will then get a better idea of which model or which hardware can actually run this model locally. But this overall makes it arguably the best value option. While the RTX 5090 reaches roughly 75 tokens a second and can handle 4-bit or 6-bit quants, the RTX 4090 is only slightly faster than the 3090 despite costing much more and on Apple's hardware on the M5 Pro for example, you get around 22 tokens per second and the M5 is around 27 tokens a second with higher memory configurations which supports better quants. The DGX Spark can also run it, but its memory bandwidth limits generations to roughly 15 tokens per second. E-flash can increase these speeds by roughly 1.5 to three times

more especially on GPUs and since music glimmer is a dense model, dedicated GPU support is benefited heavily and systems with about 16 GB of memory or less generally aren't worth using unless you accept lower quality quants. Now, I've ran an extensive test on the world of AI benchmark and you can even do so yourself. You can even tag in your local model through the endpoints and that way you can even test out your own models or in this case this new Muse uh Glimmer model. And that way you can get a better understanding of which model you can actually use. This case obviously get a better understanding of how you can use the Glimmer model. But this is an

exceptional tool that I highly recommend that you try out. I will leave a link to this in the description below and you can even get started for free. If you want the best AI tools, workflows, and drops before everyone else, join my free newsletter with the link in the description below, which is completely free. Now to get started with this model, the open weights are available on Hugging Face. So if you want to locally install this, you can easily do so with different quant sizes. And obviously if

you want to run the benchmark, you can do so through the World of AI benchmarking vibe coding platform. I have started off with the front-end demos and just want to make things clear again. Like I had mentioned at the start of the video, this is not a coding purpose model, meaning it's not something that you would use for web development, back-end logic, any of that sort as your main focus model. Maybe you would want to use something like the Quinn in that case as a local driver that you would want to use. In this case, you would want to use this only if you want to control agents and create better automations. And obviously it can

do coding tasks. Like you can see that it did create a pretty competent front-end, even added certain scroll triggers, which is actually something that it did quite well. So it's not horrible, but this is what the model is also capable of doing in certain cases, but that's not the main capability of this model. It's more of an agentic model that you want to use this for. Here we had requested it to create an elite editorial SaaS landing page and this is where it did pretty decent in terms of the output. Obviously not the

best, but the fact that a local model is doing this is really nice. The scroll triggers are actually competent with this specific generation. You have different GSAP uh packages, different libraries that have been attributed to this generation. And obviously it's not something that's extraordinary but the fact that you can scaffold with this model at this sort of capability locally is definitely nice to have. Really really basic generation for a landing page SAS landing page but it did actually work with us to add in the different packages that we had specified. So, it did I guess do that

and it was competent in this generation in terms of outputting what we had requested. We can see that the Music Llama 30B had generated this tower defense game and obviously the functionality is definitely there but when you are to compare it to something like the Qwen's output for this specific prompt, you can see that the visual quality is definitely substantially better in comparison to this. And here is the tower defense game that the Qwen model had generated. There's more depth especially visual depth and you can see that it's even practical and functional. And from this example it just clearly shows how much better the Qwen 3.6 27B

is at web development. Now, honestly I'm quite surprised by this. This is where it did create a macOS clone. Obviously it's not the best but the fact that a 30 billion parameter model had done this is pretty great. Now, I will tell you right away I don't think the top part is going to work perfectly. Obviously some things

might but you can see that there is notifications which is great. Nothing on the top right seems to be working other than the uh top right menu bar. Uh I think you can open up Spotlight search which is nice. You have a Finder's app. The bottom toolbar is interactive but doesn't work as fluidly.

One constraint that you'll notice right away is that when I am opening up a bunch of these different applications, you'll see that it hasn't actually been coded out and this is because of the context window I believe. It only has a 121K context window and that is pretty small, and that definitely restricts some of the capabilities of the model. But, regardless, it did do a decent job, and I would need multiple iterations to get what I want. You can see that some apps are coded out, like the Safari, the Photos app, but the other ones don't seem to be working as functionally. The appearance and the settings don't actually work, even changing the wallpaper. So, that is actually

unfortunate. But, still surprised to see that 30 billion parameter model had outputted this. Now, an SVG, I'd requested it to create a New York City skyline, and this is where it kind of starts going a bit downhill. You can clearly tell that it didn't actually generate what we were looking for. I did request it to create a simulation of the New York City skyline, and I guess it did attempt to create the different towers of the city. You can see the main

highway, as well as the Brooklyn Bridge that I tried to create. Here, we had requested it to create a painting in SVG, and it did do quite well in terms of outputting a valid SVG design. Obviously, a painting. It's not animated, but it's still a painting that it did output. Now, this is where I needed to actually send in quite a detailed prompt to get this output. But, the fact that this 30

billion parameter model was able to output this is really remarkable. It even added ambience. You can see that it got the symmetry down for this SVG of a butterfly. The antennas are moving, as well as the main body structure of the butterfly seems to be quite accurate to a real one. Obviously, it's not going to be perfect, but you can still see that the fact that it did this in SVG is really remarkable for a 30 billion parameter model. Now, one of the biggest

advantages of this Muse Glimmer 30 billion parameter model is the agency capabilities, which is something I did mention at the start. And, compared to a lot of the other local models in this size range, Glimmer is something that specifically is optimized around tool use, as well as the planning, few multi-step planning, long horizon task, as well as recovering that something went wrong. And instead of just testing another coding prompt, I wanted to build something that actually plays with Glimmer's strengths. This is where I had requested it to create a local calendar and meeting agent. And the idea is pretty simple. Instead of manually

telling the model every single action to perform, I gave it one broad objective and Glimmer has to figure out and how to complete it locally. And this is where I can send in something like, "Have it organize my meetings tomorrow, avoid conflicts, add travel time, and give me a short prep note for the client demo." And this is where it's actually accessing my local files in an MD, and it is going to then organize all of these different components. So, this is where Glimmer takes that single request and turns it into an entire workflow. I can approve the proposed changes, and this is where it can even check the attendees' availability based off of what I have within the MD, and it does it quite well. And you can see that on

the right-hand panel, it was able to validate my calendar after actually shifting, as well as analyzing what are some of the blockers in my schedule. And that is something where it was able to do based off the relevant files that I had attributed. It even created this front-end for it as well. This is something that not a lot of people are talking about for the new Glimmer model. It's also multimodal, so you have a lot of additional benefits for this model, and especially having it locally available. So, that is something I

really wanted to highlight. This is something that can obviously plan quite well, use tools synthetically, plan and work with different agents autonomously. If you like this video and would love to support the channel, you can consider donating to my channel through the Super Thanks option below. Or you can consider joining our private Discord where you can access multiple subscriptions to different AI tools for free on a monthly basis plus daily AI news and exclusive content plus a lot more. Overall, based off some of the things that I stated, it is something that is a bit versatile in all of the domains and something that I had also mentioned before is that it is more computer efficient despite having more parameters in comparison to the Quen 3 .6 27B. But in 3JS obviously and

a lot of the other coding web development tasks, this is where it can obviously fall slightly short in comparison to other models in this range. I'm not saying it's horrible, but it does fall short. Here in 3JS, we had requested it to create an aquarium and this is where it kind of did pretty decent. I'm not saying it's the best cuz you can clearly see a lot of these different potatoes. I'm not sorry, not potatoes, these fishes exiting the tank. Like look at

the school of fish at the bottom. They are just escaping and doing their own thing. You can add random fishes. You can even remove fishes. So, that is pretty cool. You can even change the

water clarity. That is also really nice. And what I like is that it did add a couple of visually appealing objects like the seaweed as well as the rocks at the bottom of the seabed. So, this is definitely a decent generation. I wouldn't say it's the best, but I do love the creativity in this.

Honestly, it feels like I'm using an early version of OpenAI's GPT models. Not like the GPT-3 or anything, but something like the four or even 4.5 in certain cases. But that just goes to show how AI has progressed. We have these models that we can actually run locally now and that is the beauty of what we have accomplished. Obviously not

what I or you have accomplished. Maybe you, but it's just incredible that these companies have now found a way to provide that intelligence locally. Overall, I'm really excited for what Meta has done for the open source community, and I am definitely looking forward to what will end up dropping in terms of the open weights for the Muse 1.2 Spark or Muse Spark 1.2. So, I'm really excited

for that model release. I'll leave all the links that I'm using in today's video, especially the open weights so that you can get started. But, one thing I do want to also mention is that it feels like they may have rushed to push this out cuz they know that Quen is dropping their 3.8 27 billion parameter model, which will definitely blow this model and all of the other models. And I believe they ended up releasing the Muse Glimmer to get it out of the way so that they can focus on the next open weight model that could maybe even compete with the Quen 3.8. Regardless, all of us open

source community members are eating well, especially with these amazing model drops. And huge props to the Meta AI team for releasing such a great remarkable model. I'll leave all these links in the description below. Make sure you go ahead and take a look at the world of AI Vibe Quen platform, as well as Benchmark. This is exceptional tool that you can even get started for free.

Join our second channel by subscribing, join our newsletter, join the Discord, follow me on Twitter, and lastly, make sure you guys subscribe, turn on notification bell, like this video, and please take a look at our previous videos so that you can stay up-to-date with the latest AI news. So, with that talk, guys, have an amazing day. Spread positivity, and I'll see you guys really shortly. Peace out, fellas.