---
video_title: "Omar Mohammed arriscou a vida para expor o Estado Islâmico e fala sobre tensão no Oriente Médio"
video_id: zMHWyQlbyFM
channel_name: "VEJA+"
channel_id: UCV6Ue4o5UIeKQ3IEkjnXRlg
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zMHWyQlbyFM
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Omar Mohammed é um historiador iraquiano e fundador do Mosul Eye, um blog de notícias clandestino que documentou as ações do Estado Islâmico em Mosul, no Iraque, cidade que foi capturada pelo grupo terrorista em 2014. Em entrevista a VEJA, ele conta como foi atuar na reportagem sob constante risco de ser descoberto, aborda a influência do ISIS no Brasil e analisa as atuais tensões no Oriente Médio.
  
  —————————————————————————
  
  Assine VEJA: https://abr.ai/2VZw8dN
  
  Confira as últimas notícias sobre o Brasil e o mundo: https://veja.abril.com.br/
  
  SIGA VEJA NAS REDES SOCIAIS:
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/vejamais/
  Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/Veja/
  Twitter: http://twitter.com/VEJA
  Telegram: http://t.me/vejaoficial
  Linkedin: http://www.linkedin.com/company/veja-com/
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@revista_veja
---
Oh,ch.

Washington. Mr. Muhammad, thank you so much for being here. So, you spent a year and a half particularly documenting the actions of ISIS in your hometown after it was captured in 2014. How were you able to gather information without raising suspicion? And what security

measures did you take to stay safe? >> Being in that situation during that time uh required something very important which is for someone like me who was never trained to hide himself, never trained to disguise an identity or a character or a personality. First thing I had to learn everything by myself. But it really brought me back to my education which is I was train as a I was a trained historian and I read a history and part of the history I read I read history of societies. So it all came back to how do you understand the society around you?

How do you understand the pulse of people around you? And based on that uh I would act. It required me to for example understand also the personality of the enemy back then which is the so-called Islamic state. As you know many of them were not strangers. >> Yeah. There there were many who came

from other parts of the world but there were also many of them who were from our hometown from our country uh Iraq uh from Mosul people we knew in the neighborhood in the school in the university. So they were not strangers to to the life we lived and that meant that I need to understand how do I adapt to a new situation because those people are no longer the ordinary ones but they are the one who holds the guns. >> Okay. And based on that it required me to of course uh the most important part was because I was active online to hide my identity online. But for me was the most important one is how do I do it offline? How do I do it on the ground?

Which is why creating multiple personalities was one of the best ways to do it. Um walking around the streets of the city was another way just as an observer. But of course you know driving a car sitting in a in the barber shop as you know people talk a lot in such spaces but you you know really like as I'm talking about it now and probably smiling while I talk about it back then it meant that one tiny mistake would mean the end of it like the end of my life the end of everything. So it was a very um hypertension type of uh of activity. You have to always be on alert. You have to always be able to

disguise your identity but also to choose the exact words because one wrong word would mean the end of my life because they were also some of them some of them were uh and also it's against the notion that many of them were actually uneducated. Not not not correct not accurate. There were many of them who were educated particularly the foreigners who joined the Islamic state uh but they were living in I think that what what was the most dangerous one and I've never understood how and when and why they were always living in a sense of what we call it um a paranoid state >> of mind. They were always suspicious of everything. They were always suspicious of everyone and anyone would be because they divided the society and the community into multiple categories. For

example, it starts with those who are part of the organization itself and then you have those who are relatives to the organization and then those who are supporters without having to be part of it. And then everyone else, myself, my family and everyone in the city, we are what they call us the commoners. And we are the people who don't count when we die. >> Mhm. >> Uh but it's also we are suspected of everything.

>> Mhm. >> They look at us as a potential uh risk to their existence. So I had to deal with all of this. But overall, I had to keep my secret to myself. >> Mhm. That was that was my only survival

mechanism to be honest is that and I established my own rule I I still I still live by it but only in dangerous situation >> which is uh trust no one document everything. >> I do still document everything. I'm glad I can trust people now but my my survival mechanism was trust no document everything. That was the only way that I survived because I've seen also examples for example in Syria uh people who were also resisting the Islamic State but they were groups and when you are a group it really gets the word out >> and this is how many of them were actually unfortunately caught and killed executed in a very bad terrible way. >> Yes. So um my next question is was there

specific moment when you realized that someone needed to tell the story of what was happening in Mosul under ISIS rule? >> Many times I got very very very close to do that. Many times I got very close to to tell someone my mother included >> because I lived in a house where my mother and my siblings never knew what I was doing. I I had to because it was also a very tiring situation psychologically speaking. You know, you have to you have to smile when your heart is uh broken. You have to

smile when your soul is being crushed but you are you are sad but you have to pretend that you are okay. You you you are in danger but you have to pretend that you are safe. and everything was like the the the kind of like upside down and that in out type of uh mechanism was created created a huge pressure on me. >> Mhm. >> And I even even not telling someone but I got very close to the point where I would have given up. Mhm.

>> I would have I would have chosen to and I I actually came very close to do that and I I almost did it when I decided that it was in March 2015 that this is going to be the last day of my life and I'm going to fight it over. I'm going to fight uh till death and I'm not going to leave this life without making a difference which is [snorts] something back then was it happened because of the pressure the the pressure of it's very because human human emotions are really very simple the pressure of not being able to tell someone or someone asking me how are you feeling and I would just say I'm not fine. I I I did not have I did not have that luxury back then. >> Mhm. >> I could not I could not answer I am not fine. So you can imagine emotionally etc

under high risk under alert uh being monitored being observed but being chased it made me it also it also in many ways I would have made mistakes meaning uh because of the need to get more information would have meant that I might speak or I might tell someone in order to get more information. So I always I created also to myself back then um a system where I would disappear for three four days and I don't do anything I don't report anything I am just one person no more no more the multiple personalities and this is created kind of like a way of refreshing and then I restore my peace again and continue the mission. There were many there were many breakdown moments but I always I always come back. >> Yeah. So um you had to operate in secret. You had to gather information

and you had to avoid detection by ISIS. Did you ever see yourself in something closer to a secret agent than a reporter? I am not I am not I and and this is the first thing I said from the very beginning back then in 2014 2015 because people back then we're speaking is like what what we see is not on ordinary that's what the people say not ordinary level of reporting. >> Mhm. This is a deep infiltration, a deep uh level of understanding of what the information is, how it's categorized, how it's organized, how it's classified, and then how it's all put together. So

people u would think oh this is a professional trained spy. The simple answer, no. This is what historians do. If [snorts] people have not read the work of historians, >> the works of historians, then they don't know what history is. In fact, the the greatest spies were were historians because I think I think there is one uh one time this tweet of the CIA because people started complaining like there are spies everywhere. But people think

that a spy cannot be a historian or a historian cannot be a spy. However, I am not myself. I uh I acted from the uh notion that my job as a trend historian, as someone who dedicated himself to documentation, required me to be precise, required me to be uh truthful, required me also to be honest in the way I report. So for example, there were moments when I would read in the news false information about what's happening in Mosul and some might see it as a this is this is uh good for the reputition of ISIS itself. I don't care if it's good or bad for them. What I care is that we

have a battle over preserving truth. If I fall for the trap of saying false information about ISIS, then I am no longer telling the truth. I'm telling propaganda and that is a completely different set of work. >> It's not I am not into that business. My work uh and and the proof to tell you that why that mattered back then. The

proof is that we are today in this mood talking about that period of history. If I was engaged in a propaganda, none of you, the journalist, the would be interested to hear the story of Mosul because I would have already fallen for that propaganda operation. And mind you, ISIS would have also felt happier if I uh reported false information because they would immediately find a way to destroy the because back then it was them or us, ISIS or Mosul. And Mosul had no one but Omar myself. And I had to because I I got to the I think I felt that power back then and the power of holding information.

So ISIS would back then use really very professional Hollywood grade type of video production >> showing how happy the people are. >> Yeah. >> Or showing how satisfied the people are which is completely false. It's just you know the eye can easily be fooled and then they put it online and then what I do because of the of the layers of protection of truth that people have now managed to whatever Mosai is saying is the truth. So I got to this kind of like level of credibility that my word against their well produced video and this is this is why I insisted on uh resisting the temptation because I I I have to be also honest the it was tempting to give false information. It was

tempting to put uh information that is not truthful. it could get lost in all the news. No one is going to believe it or or no no one is going to care because whatever you're going to say from a conflict zone anyone would take as long as you don't have access to that space. But I I thought about what what about tomorrow? How are we going to judge our history? So back also to your to your

question is that people often get confused between the profession of a historian, the profession of uh espionage, the profession of uh uh uh uh uh spies, the profession of intelligence an analyst. There are intelligence analysts. They are not spies but they are trained scholars trained because they have understanding. So, in my opinion, I'm uh if I were an agent, I would have said it. But I'm proud I'm a proud historian, as [laughter] they say. Yeah.

>> 10 years ago, Brazil's intelligence agency confirmed a nicest threat against the country. Since then, the federal police have arrested individuals who became radicalized and even prevented a Brazilian from traveling abroad to join the group. M >> how can Brazil effectively prevent the spread of Islamist extremism? >> Absolutely. Um in Brazil, but also mostly in Latin America, the risk and the threat of terrorism is still uh uh visible and it's still very likely unfortunately.

There are multiple reasons. for example, the way it it has to do with the way terrorist groups see Latin America. uh because of the connection between the criminal the organized crime uh cartels, mafia and the drug trafficking, human trafficking and also the ability of those terrorists to exploit that situation which allows them to access what they call gun for hire. they can easily buy it with money and when you buy it with money it becomes a task that you really pursue. I do remember couple of years ago I did actually uh have a a conversation with someone from the counterterrorism uh in Brazil. uh and I

do remember that the threat for them was one of one of the I still recall one of the issues back then was actually the language in the language that in the sense that um it's a a spoken language for example Arabic has been uh used by uh ISIS in Brazil to evade detection in many ways in in a way to create a kind of uh communication that is undetected but It's also the risk particularly to be honest in Brazil is because Brazil is a country that is open. It's a country that is always welcoming. It might have created um an a perception among terrorist organizations that they can easily arrive there and can easily radicalize. However, this is no longer the case of just physical presence of terrorists. It is actually due to the um change and evolution of digital communication it has become now uh easier to radicalize. So the online

radicalization is actually one of the main factors that is making uh the situation worse. But also don't forget they are now using the conflicts around the world in the for example in the Middle East and how all of that kind of I don't I don't want to name it this way but this level of some political streams uh alliances with the radical ideas of some Islamist Islamist not to forget also the presence of Hezbollah in Latin America They are also in Brazil. The way Hamas itself has operated in uh in in Latin America in general. Uh it all creates a ground uh a fertile ground for this type of uh infiltration. uh don't forget that the efforts of uh uh uh uh media that is directed at Latin America also or or the for example the uh Spanish speaking world or the Portuguese speaking world or also in general that notion of colonialism decolonalization etc. It's

all being mixed up with the notion of um the call for decolonalization through what you can imagine that ISIS would fight for decolonalization. It's like it's the way how they are infiltrating the minds and hearts of of youth. U the situation in my opinion uh is also no longer just limited to to to to Brazil but you can we can see it also in Europe and there is this kind of like a trend of after the Islamic state have lost its uh territory in Iraq and Syria. They have always tried to seek new venues in new areas. So Latin America as well as Africa are on the priority list of of of terrorism. But to to to to go more into

the counterterrorism efforts and what is needed I think the online space is one of the most dangerous one. It requires uh also development of the mechanisms and the tools of the uh Brazilian counterterrorism forces. I know I know they are doing a lot. I know they are evolving and uh uh continuously evaluating their efforts. But it's also very important equally important the cooperation not just with the United States or with Europe but the cooperation with uh uh Arab countries in the Middle East because they also have the experience of dealing with uh terrorism at home. Uh a type of

homegrown terrorism. uh the the the the risk of radicalization today is very high online. Uh if you if you have followed uh the uh attacks here and there in the United States, in Europe, you would see like how did that person commit that attack? But you go they always have something in common. It has the the chain of of interaction online.

They communicate with with with the groups. Equally uh recently the guy who was arrested in uh Turkey I think back then who was an opera an operative of uh uhah which is an Iranbacked uh uh uh militia in Iraq and he was responsible for multiple attacks against Jewish targets in Europe and he was plotting one in New York. You can imagine that also a country like Iran has [clears throat] always been facilitating that. So uh Iranians and uh uh uh uh the Islamic State said they their interest is aligned when it comes to cooperating outside their territories. So they would cooperate here in in in Brazil or in other countries. So Iran is also

something to to to watch for uh because they have always built their networks in uh in such countries and it is it is one of the most u uh violent one because it has the mix of guns, drugs and organized crime. So um the three-phase peace plan for Gaza calls for the the territories dradicalization and dem demucularization of Hamas which has controlled Gaza since 2007. How realistic is that? >> Well, I mean it depends. It depends on how all of this uh situation will unfold because uh don't forget that Gaza also requires reconstruction and that reconstruction requires the people to be uh engaged and for that to happen the Palestinians in Gaza deserve to have a governing body that allows them to function as a society again. Uh I don't

think there should be I think I think the Palestinians themselves equally agree. I don't think there should be a future for Hamas in the Palestinian life. I think the people in Gazar and also in the West Bank I think they deserve a better representation. I think they deserve a better governance. I'm sure they are very more than capable of making these choices themselves. But uh

Hamas is once again is is a terrorist organization and uh the Palestinians uh have been saying that they want a Hamas free uh uh future. Uh it is one of the most delicate situations in the history of the conflict in the region and I I do hope to see u the reconstruction efforts. I know in postconlict areas uh one of the key uh rules and one of the key and the fundamental steps that needs to be taken is to immediately start reconstruction because reconstruction re-engages people uh on the ground and it allows them. We have seen in multiple areas where um destroyed cities really uh could uh revitalize uh uh reconstruct quickly when the uh reconstruction efforts stop. I think that is that that is important.

Uh dradicalization is uh uh going to be also very important for them uh equally to ensure that a better life uh is a way ahead. So uh beyond its paramilitary role, Hezbollah is also an elected political party that has participated in Lebanese elections since 1992. Israel has made Hezbollah's dismantlement a key condition for a peace agreement. Is it possible to dismantle Hezbollah's military wing without triggering an even deeper political crisis in Lebanon? >> I mean I mean this is the dilemma of the Libanese state now. Uh it is their it is

their current dilemma. I I wouldn't I wouldn't know. I I mean they are themselves unable to answer this question. The Libanese government has been struggling with an Iranian wing living inside the body of the Lebanese state and Hezbollah has multiple times on many occasions declared itself and its loyalty to Iran. They don't they don't even they don't even uh try to show the Lebanese people that they are uh for the for Lebanon for the for the people of Lebanon. Uh back then the um

late I think Hassan he made it clear in one of the statements he say we are being paid by Iran. Iran pays for our water. Iran pays for our guns. Iran pays for everything. So we are loyal to Iran.

I think that is a very I don't think anyone is accusing them. They are making the they themselves making the uh uh uh case for themsel. So not just for Lebanon but also for the region. You see you see the region is on fire today. The Middle East is on on a volcano that if it erupts it's going to destroy everything. It's a it's

a it's a it's a conflict that will be in the benefit of no one. It will be in the interest of no one. But uh as a proxy proxy for Iran as well as you have the Houthis in Yemen, you have the Iranbacked militias in Iraq. They are the last resort that Iran is using. They are the fortress that they are using against what Iran thinks is the inevitable change in the Middle East.

And this is a very dangerous moment in the region in the history of the region. We have seen today Saudi Arabia has just signed uh a historic defense agreement for the first time. Saudi Arabia comes into such trilateral agreement with Pakistan the nuclear power and Turkey the NATO power. So you can imagine the you can you can get the of the anxiety in the region that you go manage to get such a deal. So I think there is no way for Lebanon but to move toward disarming.

Everyone is welcome in politics, but guns have to stay with the state. And as I told you, this is one of the riskiest moments in the history of Lebanon. >> Iran has long provided funding and weapons to both Hamas and Hezbollah. >> Following the recent conflict between Iran and the United States, how is the regional balance likely to change for these two groups? >> [snorts] >> So um they know themselves Hamas uh Hezbollah and the other militias that are funded and proxies funded by Iran.

They know that their survival survival depends on Iran. And Iran knows that it can keep fighting if they stay in power. And don't forget, it's also very important for anyone who wants the context is that we are not just talking about small groups. We are talking about groups that are de facto in control of states. So the militias in Iraq are in fact holding the state hostage.

Uh in Lebanon, Hezbollah is holding the state hostage. The Houthis in Yemen are in control of the country and Iran has access to all of them. Iran in fact gives them uh orders to act on behalf of Iran. So they know their survival is dependent on uh Iran. I don't see in in my in my in my in my informed uh assessment and opinion I don't see there is a space in the future for such groups. I think the change is

inevitable. Uh people are tired in the region. People are tired of this conflict. I think also very important which is which adds to the equation. I think the shock that the Gulf countries have uh seen or lived after the Iranian missiles, the militian missiles were arriving in countries like United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, uh Oman, Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait, uh attacking airports, attacking infrastructure, uh uh threatening civilian facilities, but threatening the regional peace.

I don't think even Iran itself, this current region that is already fractured, I don't believe there is a way out. But for the region to collapse, it might it might be as a result of a direct confrontation between Iran and the United States, but it's not always the case. It might be the moment for the people to the Iranian people to take things in into their own hands. How will that look like? Nobody knows.

It might end up good for everyone. It might end up bad for everyone. No, it's a very it's a very risky gamble. So, yeah. >> Okay. Um, since returning to the White

House, President Donald Trump has threatened to take control of several countries and territories from Gaza to Greenland. Do you believe this kind of rhetoric contributes to the normalization of political extremism? >> Well, I I don't I mean I cannot I cannot comment um on the US politics in that sense because it's not my area of expertise. [snorts] Uh but I do believe in general not related to President Trump but also in general not also just the United States in general the extremism is rising. Unfortunately, we have seen uh uh radical uh uh uh movements uh evolving.

Uh the radical thinking is unfortunately evolving. We can see in Germany uh radicalism or or political extremism is rising in the United States. It it's at at a concerning level. extremism at a concerning level. Uh matched with anti-semitism.

Uh it is also uh there is a confusion on what is called justifiable grievances and not justifiable grievances. Is it enough for someone because of a statement from President Trump to become radical? It's like I don't think so. The presidents of the United States have always made the statements probably similar similar to what President Trump has been has been saying. The question is that the world is being radicalized.

It's not related to Trump himself. It's related to to how the world is shaping up. Unfortunately with that extreme exposure to social media with that level of clarity uh and very uncertain level of an anxiety about future. There is there is extreme anxiety about future. People have become really prone to to what they call the shortcut. Meaning

like you get extre extreme extreme you easily get ideological answers to your questions and it it is the easier is the easier path. That's how extremism extremism works through finding what they call shortcuts instead of thinking spending one month in a library to understand how the world functions. No, you just go hold a gun and shoot everyone. That's that's how extremism unfortunately works. It makes it easier for people which is very dangerous.

>> Looking at cases such as Iraq and Venezuela, how do external attempts to bring regime change can affect political stability and do they tend to create lasting solutions or new sources of instability? It's as I mentioned earlier this this all depends on how the situation will unfold whether the regime change in Iran will happen internally whether that will be a transitional period where some factions because there is a conflict over power in Iran happens now it's happening it's happening right now there are factions who are They call themselves the cons the conservatives, the reformers and so and so on. But it's very early to expect anything or to assume anything. Everyone in the region except Iran is for stability and peace. Every country in the Middle East is against uh this type of [snorts] escalation. And that's why you can see

that many of the countries in the region have been involved in facilitating the negotiations between Iran and the United States except Iran. Iran believes that one of the conditions of its existence in the region and continuity of that Islamist radical region the so-called uh Iranian Islamist revolution the Islamic revolution is by destabilizing everything around them that is the Iranian mentality that has been uh ideology that has been Kumi's ideology for a long time and whether his son currently Mushaba is alive or dead he's in Iran or not the mentality of IRGC also is you've got to destabilize the region to be to remain stable because to to have the grip on the control and the control over the Iranian situation you need to keep everyone outside bus the is the moment that Iran does not want to happen that when we spoke about the militias why Iran considered them the last fortress for its survival the moment these militias are no longer functional Iran will have now to answer to the Iranian people and the Iranian people will now look at why did you why did you do all of this so so that is that is the inevitable situation um there's No, no regime change happens and comes clean. There are there are always problems. Is the region better off this region? Yes.

Is it uh is it uh is it going to be uh free from any problems? Who knows? We don't know. But is the current situation better? Absolutely not. As I told you, the

entire region is on fire. Everyone is being threatened. The countries are unable to I mean, you can imagine when when the straits of Heras uh being closed by Iran, this is this is international water. No one has the right to to to close them and Iran keeps threatening the ships, keep threatening the international supply chain. And this is a rogue state. It's not it's not it's

not a state that you can sit with on a table. So that's I think the anxiety within the uh uh regional powers is really high and I think uh unless Iran finds solutions for its own problems I think no one can help Iran. Some countries have including Russia have moved toward closer relations with the Taliban government despolation of women and human rights. Um what does this reproachment mean for the global fight against extremism? >> It makes it difficult. It makes it

harder. It makes it uh it makes it uh challenging to the world of combating and countering extremism because you can see the polarization for example China as well not not just uh not just uh Russia have reapproached uh uh Taliban uh Taliban is still uh host uh uh members of al-Qaeda. Taliban still has presence within its ranks. Members of the Islamic State, other terrorist organizations have presence in Afghanistan. Uh terrorism is very much active in in in the in the territory where Taliban is in control which is simply all of Afghanistan now. And you

can imagine that Taliban is finding these opportunities of selling the minerals and rare earth to China and uh to Russia means that uh uh terrorists will find find it easier to regroup to finance to and so on. It is and this is this is this this is to be honest one of the biggest challenges when all of these conflicts happen because terrorists always seek the weak link in all of that. So they will always find a way uh to regroup. Not to mention you spoke of of of Afghanistan and Taliban as we speak the uh presence of the Islamic State in Africa and some African countries is still very high. They have uh uh committed terrible attacks multiple times in the past few months.

uh they are still they have actually territorial uh control over multiple uh small cities and villages in this uh in this area and there is something that have been according also to the UN what they called it that terrorism now is no longer interested in just reclaiming the caliphate so on but they are more interested in which is the example of Taliban They are more interested in seeking fragile states taking control over it over it and then seeking recognition by countries like China and uh and Russia and Iran as well. >> Neo-Nazi movements have expanded different parts of the world including Brazil. Based on your experience with extremist groups, what explains the resurgence of farright radicalization and how serious of a threat does it pose today? It is very is the the rise the rise of neo-Nazis and the radical right but also the radical left and and the radical on all the extreme levels is very concerning. It's because it's combined with a level of anti-semitism that is uh unseen since the second world war since the holocaust.

uh the way it's being uh the way the way it's being uh theorized, the way it's being uh justified, the way it's being also romanticized is very dangerous and it's finding uh it's finding ears uh uh uh and it's finding people who uh listen. I think it's going to be very challenging particularly in the United States in the way ahead of upcoming election. It's going is going to be a very big challenge in the United States, but it's also already a big challenge in Europe. As I told you, the rise of of neonatism is almost everywhere [clears throat] in Europe and in the United States. It might the United States for example is currently thinking about finding a definition of because this is this this gets to a level of what might be called domestic terrorism.

They must do Domestic terrorism requires tools, requires definitions, ETA because these people particularly some of them who have been engaged in um not lone wolf actors but they are more increasingly moving toward this type of attacks is unfortunately going to become more common and that is the risk because it's a decentralized movement. It's not it's not a centralized one. Decentralized movement that has uh ability to manufacture an enemy and function based on that image of the enemy they have constructed. Uh a very it's very it's highly amplified online. You can see it on multiple platforms on uh Tik Tok on uh ex formerally Twitter on Facebook on even Instagram and even even YouTube. Uh I've I've myself

conducted a study for 3 years on uh on YouTube content in multiple languages. Uh it's scary. It is scary how uh deep it can go in the way it's becoming really a mystery. These are all my questions. Thank you so much for talking with me. Uh it was really a pleasure.

>> Thank you.