---
video_title: "Claude Code sem VS Code: Como Usar Direto no Aplicativo Claude"
video_id: uWPTrtdFnWg
channel_name: "Xperiun | Data Analytics"
channel_id: UCOcjS2ppQSqIsbMgWGCfLew
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uWPTrtdFnWg
video_date: 2026-07-28T12:51:13+00:00
video_description: |
  É possível usar Claude Code sem abrir o VS Code?
  
  Nesta live, vamos mostrar como utilizar o Claude Code diretamente no aplicativo Claude, iniciar projetos, acompanhar tarefas e revisar o que está sendo construído.
  
  👉 Para quem deseja avançar do uso superficial para a aplicação real, as inscrições para a Formação AI Champion estão abertas. Na formação, serão quatro sábados e 16 horas ao vivo para aprender fundamentos de IA generativa, Claude Cowork, conectores, MCP, plugins, Claude Code e orquestração de agentes.
  
  👉 Garanta sua vaga: https://xperiun.com/ed/aichampion?utm_source=youtube&utm_campaign=ia_champion_organico&utm_content=uWPTrtdFnWg
  
  Você também vai entender as diferenças entre usar Claude Code no aplicativo, na web, no terminal e integrado ao VS Code — e descobrir qual caminho faz mais sentido para cada tipo de projeto.
  
  Além da explicação, vamos construir uma aplicação ao vivo para mostrar como o Claude Code pode ser usado em problemas reais de negócio.
  
  Durante a live, você verá:
  
  ✅ Como acessar o Claude Code no aplicativo Claude
  ✅ Quando usar o aplicativo, a web ou o VS Code
  ✅ Como entregar contexto para o Claude
  ✅ Como acompanhar e revisar um projeto
  ✅ Uma aplicação sendo construída ao vivo
  ✅ Como transformar Claude Code em uma ferramenta de trabalho
  
  #claude #claudecode #inteligenciaartificial
---
Leo Timber Pan Joe Quem replacing Shawn Joel Obiber Apple Thor i What is that? How are you guys? Today I'm out of my environment, that's it, José, who was already eating the first two tours there, is on the third time I've been wanting to see more here. But guys, just there that today the class will be sensational, I'll see the comments here. So first point of all is, I'm not here at a very good time, I'm in a hotel alone, so I'm very happy here in the chat, if you can't see, if you can understand, please tell me in the chat that we're going to take each one. Okay? I already have a lesson that usually these tours I give this live, so we went to night, even until this end of the day, at the moment I use the CloudSchool, what do we do? Because we had the practices within the studio visual studio when we showed you for the past week, and now I want to show you what it does inside the application, what is the difference, but if we answer some of these questions, we said, man, let's take the last one, I'll comment on free live live in the third floor, let's go to the general overview guys, but especially to bring a little bit of CloudCode, but inside the application, not there, inside the code or anywhere else, we can put CloudCodeCode, okay? So come there, you're listening well, you're listening well, you're in the chat, I did, I did, send you a message for me in the chat, just to make this here in conjunction, okay? Or at night, I'm also seeing the ad in the evening, okay? Guys, let's go there then, first point of all, just the video that is being broadcast on the internet here on the hotel, Mateus, you can give me the overview there, to do something, but the audio is going out, okay? Do you imagine sharing here, okay? Or not? Relax, calm down, I'm talking to you guys, I'm not exactly here, just to see if everything is right, okay? Let me see here, Mateus, anything, I'm also going to see there, okay? Oh, let's go there, I'll explain to you, come to the practice section, we identify if it's going to be better or if it's not going to be there, okay? Okay? So come there, but if you have a lot, a lot of internet, unfortunately, the hotel internet that I'm here today, we did a test, it worked, but then you tell me, okay? I'll explain here, if you talk about the water, it's not giving, we mark, we'll zoom, but we have another way to test the class, the class will roll in any way, okay? Show, guys, let's go there then. Basically when we talk about Clouds. We already talked about CloudChat CloudCode, because now we will talk about CloudCode, but now within the application. Just to remember, for CloudChat, we can do some research on the market, we can enable the web research, we can do a brainstorm there for our projects, our prompts, through Chat we can have them in the best quality. When we go to CloudCode, what we need to think, man, it will build a zero project for me. And this two zero project for me, what we're going to do. I need to go through some instructions, not necessarily are codes, but I need to clarify what I'm going to ask for it, okay? And then, guys, once again, I'm talking to you here, we're 42 people here. I'm not the internet, it's not good, it's to dedicate a lot to you, we're going to talk to you, because we're going to talk to you in another moment, to preserve quality, but if you're trying to understand this review in a time of code, you can do it together, let's do it together, to talk to you. Otherwise, we think of another way, okay? I'm curious. So let's go, guys, what is the goal of the class today? First, how do we ask for them, exactly the good-made commands, the good-for-nothing, to create a zero project, so we'll find out some terms like PRD, how do we make a nice request, how do we structure a request for them, and we can do everything we want, build the language through the natural language, and for this we have some regrets, okay? So, at the end of this class, I'm trying to get you out of here, to do all this research part, of exchange of ideas to structure a good PRD, which I'll basically explain here a little bit, it's a briefing project that executes everything for us, okay? So, first point here of all, how many ideas do you have to ask for, not to know in the program? And before the guys say, but the program, no, guys, here I'm talking about your life, to a MVP, to a initial project, which many times you can't go through the code, today you can create this MVP, you can create this concept test for you to see if it makes sense or not. It's clear that here, we'll need to validate, to see the security, we'll need to know this in the program, maybe we'll do some of that, to guarantee that the creditors, to guarantee that all this security part will be okay. But we'll do the first version, we'll take the paper, we'll see, it works, we don't need it anymore, we can do this all through the code application, okay? What is the code code at the end of the accounts? It's a specialised agent there, in code art, in doing the code, from the moment you send the command to him, he'll start building it. But why not everyone has success in this? Because we, few people know, it's a good project, right? And when I talk a little about people, I'm taking the technical part, few people can put it with clarity, any objective of that project, who will use that project, how do you want it to be conceived? So that's what we're going to learn today, okay? How I created the projects, the best way possible, to be able to do it in fact, that our project comes out of the paper through the code code. And I'll use the application this time, because it's much easier, it's much more intuitive and the objective of the project inside the code code is exactly the facility for people who are not able to use it. Even if it's okay, calm down, send it to the chat, just to see if it's okay. Close. Perfect, I have some ideas, and I want to start preparing it for the fact that it's out of the paper. What do we need to do then, guys? While the chat responds, the code will execute. So it will still continue to be a conversation that you will have with Cloud. It's a conversation, but now it will have a paper, it will have a agent that will transform that conversation into a code. Okay? So the difference here is between asking for an opinion and hire someone. Basically, he will do this MVP going out of the paper, okay? And here, and the chat, guys. The MVP, you can do without any help. What you will need is to have the very defined rules of this you want to build. I believe that the great difficulty is to establish these rules. Welcome, friend, I want to show you. There are three places that we can use for Cloud Code. In the past week, it is the overview of the studio. Today I will show you the application. There are people who open the CMD computer, that little press, with those white lighters, and can also program there. So, for more than a different place, the object is the same. You will be using the same brain, the same motor, the door there, to build your applications. But what is the difference? In the application, we have a simple city. It is much more friendly for people not technical to be able to make and evolve their projects. So instead of you opening a VSCode, you open a computer terminal, you can do this all within the application that is what we are going to do today. So you will have a map within the Cloud Cloud. We will enter the Cloud Code, we will select a computer pass and from here, through the conversation, it will structure this project for us. You can use the terminal, basically the guys who have more experience, more development, the more senior, who are already used to the program there. They do everything there, by the terminal, and we have a VSCode that is normally already a code editor. You have a variety of facilities, you have a facility by the way of the guide available there for you to use. It is a tool that is already a code editing. It is already used for this end. We have already taken the people inside it, so we don't get out of that environment of development. But I realize that the three of them execute the same thing with the same engine of intelligence that is the Cloud behind. The only difference is, as much as it is more friendly, another is already in the environment of development that is the VSCode, the other, the more elevated people there, who already know how to use the terminals, can program the terminal directly, without needing a interface like the VSCode, without needing the application, the same thing is what it will do. It is the same thing. This will depend much more on what you feel comfortable to execute. Okay? Show more, until you are here. So first thing, is, what is the difference to use the Cloud Code in the VSCode, in the terminal, or any other place? Your preference. There is no difference. But in the app, it is much more friendly to people not technical, because there is no customer of programming, or using the VSCode or terminal. Basically, that's it. But it is the same tool. It is the same brain. It will deliver you the same results. The difference here. The encapsulation of this can be that the application is more friendly, it can be that the VSCode is already in the form of interface and development that people use more. So, it just added the Cloud Code to the VSCode, the same thing is already used, the Mateus, and we use it, because it is already our support to use that code editor. Okay, guys? Until you're calm. Thinking about that, okay? Thinking about the Cloud Code. It is the same. Both the app and the terminal, the VSCode. And the fact that we use the app is simply because it is more intuitive, it is easier. But the answer will be the same. What else do we need to think? In the app, you will only install the Cloud in the computer, you will not install anything. You will find the buttons there and we will use it for everything, the same way that it will have in the VSCode. You will see the files appearing, from the moment it will be created, these files are for everyone in the beginning, should start. But it is clear that everything we do in the app, the terminal, it will be a little more, but the idea is that it is equal to a chat, you will put it directly in the files, you already have to have a experience to use the Linux commands to navigate between the computer spaces. It is faster for those who have this practice, because you do not have all that interface, showing that it is generating the questions, the answers for you. It will be faster, but in the question of all, it will spend the same amount. It is much more this interface question, one, you will have at all the time of the app, it is talking to you what it is doing, and here in the terminal, it will appear there that it is programming, and then you will not have that visually, but the person already has experience here in the terminal, to look at the steps, a computer, and then you will have a text, to all the time, it delivers a text, and all the time, it delivers a task, and all the time, it delivers a task, and we have a code, what is the code? It is an interface of development, it is normally used for people who want to take care of it. So, when you go to a press area, when you go to a press area, you will probably, the domain, you already use it a lot, when you take the cloud to there, you are in your same environment now, with us helping you there, in what needed, for example, your project. But in the end of the accounts, it is perceived that the same thing is happening, it is very much fun for you to preface, for those who like it. I will use the app, precisely because it was a lot of you who asked for it in the live chat, but it is perceived that the same engine has been changed. This is clear, guys, I am with the chat here, everything is okay, just to see if you are understood at this point. Okay? It's clear, understood? It's a joke. And I'm thinking about that. What do we need to do? First thing, guys. Programming, right? When we talk about the MVP of taking this project from the paper, for you to have a first version, if you are not a programmer, it will start with the application. If you already have a customer, if you already programmed, if you already understand these other platforms, be it terminal, be a VSCode, use them, for example, today we are talking about it, already used the graph, already used a VSCode, guys, you will use what is better in the routine of you. The result is the same, the Cloud Code is the same, what you are going to do is just change the interface from the end to the mask there that you are using. Okay? You do not use the ad-app or ad-app or ad-app or the application. It's the same ad-app, right? But the different visual interfaces are different. Cloud Code is the same thing. You have a Cloud in the terminal, VSCode in the app itself. The interface is the change. But what is behind there is the same thing. Doing the analogy with ad-app or ad-app or the application. Okay? And then, guys, thinking about that. First thing we need to do to execute a project. Remember that I talked about you last week. We have, maybe we lost time in the long run, this, in short, we have to insist on starting to put on the paper and the stage to determine the processes. Within our company, we carry a large part of our routine in the processes that we execute. But if we go through the paper, it's a challenge. Is it the same thing? And the project is the same thing. The first thing is, how to get this idea. You can go through the paper with clarity. So the first step is, what project you want to develop there? We're going to create a screen today. I'm going to create a screen copy here with you. You can follow this same structure that we're going to see here. To do a project with you there, to get a Gavita project, maybe you already have some idea. You can use this same direction. But here, just to understand what project I'm going to create with you. We're going to show you how I develop it together with you. We're going to code here from there. I'm going to put the code to work. I'm going to show you the options that you give there. But the first point is to have clarity of what we want to do. Okay. After this clarity step, what will we do? First, I need to define this problem. I need to create a empty folder in my computer. Because in the same way that we did with the work, the Cloud Code I'm going to connect to it. It's a folder in my computer. It's going to create all this project. It will create all the files. And here, if we don't have a good management, it can create unnecessary things. Mainly for those who are not technical. That's why I'm going to bring you today from this R&D file called R&D. Basically, it's for you to guarantee that, I want a MVP, I don't want that he creates anything else. But when this went to the market, when you were there with more users, it's important to have a person there, a person there, a person technical, who will do the revision, will guarantee that those who believe that you are not used with the application, have a security, just for you to go to the market and not have the empty data there inside your application. Okay? So, I opened the Cloud Code, I'll link it inside my computer, linking it inside a computer folder, which is the next step. I'll start there, to put it to go to what I want, that it develops. It creates an application. And we saw that the Cloud already has several integrations. So, I could integrate, for example, with GitHub, what is GitHub? It's a repository, it's a drive, it's a pasta online, it's a cloud that you're using in your project. And then the versions of this project you can change and update these versions. So, we need to set up the computer, it's not an objective here. The objective here is to create this screen as simple as possible for you to understand the step by step. So, first point of all. To clarify, define the problem I want to solve, create a empty space inside my computer, I'll open the Cloud, you select the Cloud Code, and connect it inside this folder. Okay? Be quiet, even here. First step of all. Let's do it, as I'm explaining, part by part. So, let's go, guys. Inside my computer, let me take my phone here. Inside my computer, let me see the next one. Let me cancel this one. Inside my computer, when I open the Cloud, I see the Cloud, I'll give you a command. Just give a zoom here to see. Everyone sees together. So, inside my computer, totally the left, I'll have the beginning, and I'll have the Code here. So, from the start, I'll have the Code here, the Cloud Code. Okay? This one here, the Cloud Code. What will we do, guys? First step, besides having clarity, it's important that we put a computer folder to connect this folder. So, this is what I'll do. So, I'll get inside this folder, you select the folder here, from the local side, you select a folder, from the document, inside the document folder, I've already left the Cloud Code here. You see? Cloud Code here, I'll open exactly this. It asks if I trust in this workspace, use, and water, text, folder, document, Cloud Code. I created a folder, exactly from the Code Code. I said, it will display. Ok? You're evolving your project. The goal is to I was able to do it together, who wants to develop with me. Chou, chou, chou. Oh, beauty, open, I left it there in the pass, then I left it in the pass, I have a empty it already appears here, more show. What do we have to think, guys? There are some ways to do the same thing, okay? No, I don't know, they learn that the way I'm going to teach, there are other ways. But the way I usually do it is a way that I fulfilled years of lessons as a teacher, which I see with the guys has been there more easily of accepting a bread, breaking this paradigm and getting used to create your own applications. And it's not surprising that you just have to create an application if you have an idea, Mirabolante. The own advice, the advice that we did in the past, the friend of Kowork, could be something that you create a interface, you solve two plans and he already delivers you the advice. Imagine, instead of doing all that pass, automatize, you can create a platform, a page where the person will upload two files, he will process and deliver that same answer, without needing to configure all those passes in the computer, okay? So the first step is this thing that we just did. What is the second step, guys? Before we get to it, normally when we will create our project, we ask ourselves, things of other things, without having a structure, it usually devolve some responses that do not make sense to what we want. This is very common, or sometimes you send a prompt, you send a command, it will develop a very strong response to what you asked. And this, normally, is the lack of us to structure our thoughts better. For us to pass through it with much more effectiveness than that response. So come with me here. What is the second step? Once I have already touched the step inside my computer, we will talk about the PRD. This PRD, guys, this is the sign. The product requirements develop. Basically, the requirements of development of projects, it can be said that it is a translation like this. It is the requirements that you want to pass through the code to be able to deliver exactly this application, this solution. What is the PRD in fact? So it is a document that we will be able to do, that we want in a organized way that I brought you to show you. But what are the three rules here of the PRD? What is the PRD? This document will have all the rules to execute what you desire. First, this document is yours. So you will write on the paper exactly what you believe for your solution to be built. I'm not talking about technical language, I'm not talking about what technology I'm going to use. I'm talking about the step there in the sense of what the author is going to resolve, what he does. I will show you here the PRD together. You need the same way you want, what you don't want. In our example here, as I'm not at home, I'm not at my computer from Rotina, I don't want him to be there, I'm not at the computer, because it may be that the error there will be a good life. So I want him to manage for me a paper from the GTM, which is just a simple paper with the effect of the trailer to see it working without needing to install anything in my computer. But notice, I don't want to install anything in my computer I also need to be in this project's requirement. And finally, what is very important for us here, if in your requirement you delete a line, and don't change anything in your project, probably that line will be more in this document than you just created. So the PRD is a simple document, it is a summary document that will have everything we need to know, from what you want to develop to pass through the plot. Okay? How will this work? So, all of you will understand the meaning and the objective of a PRD, send it to me in the chat just to see if it's okay. What are we going to do here? So, if I want to copy the trailer, how do I do this PRD? Come here with me, I put the material here just to see it. Let's first here, guys. What is the PRD? So, my PRD is my document of the project's requirement, my document of the development of the project's development, and the objective of it is the field square. So, first thing, when we are creating a PRD, you need to have your project, it may be a multi-signal, there is no problem, but we need to get out of this inertia, we need to move. So, the first thing is PRD, which is a name of the application you want to build. The first thing is that, and I'm going to show you more, let me give you a zoom here to be clear for everyone to see it together with me. Once I have my application, I already have my solution, I'm going to say my solution. The first thing is, what is the problem that solves me? Remember what I said I want to do a trailer copy, I want to use a trailer, I don't want to pay more for it for a month, let's say the trailer was if you didn't have the free version, you want to have a campaign platform, the first thing I'm going to say is the following. I have tasks from the team that are spread in the elite, the disaster and the head. Nobody knows what's going on, or what's going on and what's already over. It loses time asking, and that's it. So, the first thing is, what is the problem of your solution? Do you realize that I'm not talking about the solution? I'm talking about the problem. Why are you creating that? So, I brought you here that is the bug of information. It's clear here, what is the problem of your solution? What is the problem? And that's why you created the solution. It's not talking about the solution itself. It's the problem of it to give context at the time of the A. It's there, it's there to spread, and it's integrated to what you're needing to develop. Show? Okay, I'm going to follow you here, you're going to talk to me in the chat, let's go together, and we're going to go. Second, what is the second theme of the PRD? Let's go. So, it's the problem of my solution. What is the reason? Second, what is the objective? Here is the solution. A simple visual square where the pen comes in a screen just the status of all the tasks. You could go there. I want people to get these cards but there is something else we're going to do while we're coding. Okay? And then, my PRD, my document of project requirement, it needs to be the name, then the problem or what happens and then what is the objective of creating that? So, the problem is that you're going to talk about the Ador, not the solution, and the objective, as you're going to solve that Ador on top. After the problem of the objective, guys, now comes to a challenge probably in the market for you. Maybe you didn't think about the time you started to realize that solution. What is it? Who will use it? Who will use your solution? Here, I was already very straight in the trail program. A small team of 3 to 10 people, of office, operation, people without familiarity with only one digestion. It needs to be obvious in the first use, without training. I need a clear, objective tool, straight. So, notice that who will use it will change it completely, maybe the interpretation that the code will have of development of that. Think about it with me here. If I say that the public is much more person, it's a very technical public, that has a lot of familiarity, that likes the minimum details, probably will limit the solution with several options, with many balloons, with several editions that the person could put. I want something simple. So, who will use it? It's important, both the problem and the problem. The one that is for you, the objective that you have to use your solution and later on, who will use it? Is it clear or you have a doubt? And can send it to the chat, because we are 130 people here, I can answer along with all the questions there. Okay? It's okay, it's up to here. It's clear. It's just a little bit of a misunderstanding, and I'll play it in the cloud. Okay? It's closed. Now, we'll get to the part that, probably, you already have a pull. So, once I have the problem, the objective, and who will use it, now I'll get to the important part. What is your project? What is your MVP? Let's talk about the concept. Any of this test of the minimum possible product that you are developing. Remember that I said you are important to talk about what I want and what I don't want. So, in my case, here, it's a single file that opens in the browser with two clicks. So, okay, I've already started to direct it. I don't want it to be installed in my computer. And it may be that you want. Okay? There's no problem. I'm talking wrong. I'm talking that today, I don't want to install anything, just to understand the stage. Okay? So, let's go. First thing, what are the restrictions? What I want is an archive that opens two clicks. What do I want? What I don't want? Open directly on the browser, without servers, without internet. Nothing is there, without packages, without installation of NPM packages, without firmware, and without build stage, everything is an archive, just to be sent to the middle. It works in Chrome, in Edge, in computer. The technology is easier to see these restrictions here. Important points, guys, I've already worked with Python. You can ask for Python's use as the main engine of your solution. When we talk about choosing the stack that we want to use, basically, what is a stack? It's a set of languages there that you want to use for the development of your application, your solution. When I'm developing Python, many times I say, I want you to follow the stack of Python, together with these other tools, these other languages here. It's an option, because everything he's going to do is in his domain's field. That's if he's going to program Python, I know, if he's going to program, for example, next, I already have not so much experience. But how is the idea? Through these restrictions, I blocked him, and he's going to do exactly, choose what you want. Tell you you're not installed, so where do I say I'm not installed? Here, without packages, he probably will use HTML, CSS, which we'll see now. So what is and what are the restrictions? Even here, this fourth here, it's one of the most important, combined, how would it be the authentication of the other collaborators? So, Nelson, then you can pass to him what you want to be in the functionalities here. Good question. I'll put everything I want to happen in my application. So, okay, three columns, here I'm putting in the screen. I want him to have a login screen, a login screen without it. I want to have a level hierarchy within the application, where the administrator can be able to release the access to the others. It's at this moment here that you will put everything that is your desire for your application to be born. But a personal tip. You want to test before you think about the login screen and everything, remember what I said? If you take this application line, it won't work. The solution will only be in the same way. So, leave the login screen for later. Leave the validation of the hierarchy within the application for later. Because first, we have to validate the use case. If the use case is to behave, for example, as a star, let's say that your use case is to make a bank conciliation through a platform, everything I will put in security, like login without it, and that goes into the second plan. Now I need to validate this concept test, which is, I believe that the screen that I upload two files to make a conciliation, it will increase productivity without the person needing to configure all that is in the computer, the same we did. Got it? I believe? Good. Good. And in this case, the actualization of the machine of one will not be reflected in the machine of the other. Right? It will not be. Here I asked an only HTML file. So it will be static. Everything that the person will do will be there. But if she closes and everything will not save. I am wanting to validate what the screen will be able to do if I select MVP. Later I want to save the files. So I will put the database bank. So within the code, from the moment I already have the credentials of this database bank, I will pass it to him. Now, click a database bank where these files will be stored, and always open my application, if I have created it. Okay? You go evolving. Think about your project, how is it possible to see it working? In fact, it is app working. The database bank is necessary. If I could create a folder to drag, even if it is not saved, I already validated that I could do that template. Later, now I want to save this in the memory. I want the need of a database bank for this. So it is possible that we go evolving, pass by pass, within this scale of the roadmap of development. Basically, the roadmap is what? It is a time line, where you have an MVP application and you have the advanced project. You want the database bank, to get these hooks and validate with your client's potential. And then yes, we will improve it to the people. Okay? Show. And water, okay. What are the functionalities of this training copy? Three columns fixed, to make a file, create a map with title and description. Then, you can see that the title here I put as a browser. To drag the carton between columns with a mouse, look how interesting. I want to drag the column of one of the status to the other. Edit the content of a carton, exclude the carton with the carton of cartons on the top of each column, save the automatic automatic automatic on the browser without the button to save. You can see that, guys, what are we doing here? The functionalities of your application. Many people want to do that. I want to create an application to cancel the bank. But what do you want it to do? To cancel the bank? Well, it's very wide. How do you want it to do that? I want it to have an ABA there, I'll go up a plan and go up the other. I want it to be able to see these two files separated. I want the client to tell me what are the columns that it will select that need no common two tables. Do you realize that from the moment you write, we can start from the end, I change the table, how do you do that? My goal is to build a platform to cancel the bank. In my case, my goal is to build a trailer. What is the final goal? How do I want it to be? For the trailer to happen, I have to have three columns to make the effect. For a bank to be able to do that, I need to have a place to go up. How much the plan is, how much the plan is, I want it to be able to cancel. But the same way, just go up, it's not the main thing. The main thing is, I can give the user's ability to tell what fields are in common in these two plan. I need to make the Mac to generate the bank's connection. Do you understand what the idea is that we will go up to the steps of our application difficulty. And there, guys, outside the functionality, what I have outside the scope here. Look how interesting these items are, they won't enter this version. No one without the separate users, I don't want anyone to enter this version. Share it with the computer, I didn't deploy it, I didn't upload it, I didn't get the whole thing, so I don't want this to be thought of now. Connect the documentary images, data, and color labels for the category, notification for the middle and the graphics editor, use the cell phone, create, rename or reorder in the columns. This is not my goal now. I liked it a lot. Step by step, step by step, exactly. What is my validation? I want to have a trailer, I want to drag the columns, I want to create the columns, I want to see if this is a migab, I want to be intuitive, it is easy, and I can have an MVP to say, it's cool, it's in this line. Later, I will develop everything here. I want to have a clear idea, it's not clear, but it's in the same page in the whole world. So, let's go. Before we get to the rules here, I have the problem, I have the goal, I have who will use the project, which are the restrictions, which are the functionalities where you will probably spend more time idealizing the project, and I want to include now, I don't want to include now, and what are the rules? Look, the rules here are important. I want to have a feeling of being not created, as I will create a empty card. In a sense. So, the title is important, it is mandatory, it is always in the column of the phase, the order of the columns inside the column is maintained, so, I will put the third card in place, I will have 10 cards there, no one is paid without the user confirmation, and I want to be all important in Brazil, because here we are in Brazil, I want him to keep everything there in Portuguese. These are the rules, the rules that do not have the functionality, it is much more the resource than I put it there for restrictions. Because restrictions, I also told you that the card is the title of the card. Outside this, what are the assets criteria? Guys, I will send this document to you, but it will be taken, why all this means? The project will be ready when the file opens with two clicks without installing anything, it is possible to create a card in less than 10 seconds, without instruction, the arrest card to do to do, and the open is 5, the card continues to do, this here, guys, there is no doubt, but it saves in the memory cache, the memory there, from that navigation that you are. At the closed, the browser says, and open the next day, the quad is as it was left, so it continues there in the cache. The counter of each column, the new dimensions, imagine, I have a column doing what has 10 cards. I want you to have a total number of cards in that column. A person who has never seen the quad understands what to do, always need to ask. I want it to be simple, intuitive, I want to validate this concept. And then finally, the appearance. You have some color, you have some mark identity, you can put it in the colors. In my case, I want it clean, clean, the lock is not broken, the columns are well separated, the text is large enough to read from the language, nothing is written, nothing moves, everything will depend on me. And then I leave this source big enough because you are there, you need to check this solution very well. This is our R&D archive. I will copy it, I will copy it. Then I will kill you if you can. What I will do here? I will share with the guys in the chat. This is the result. I will copy it. I will copy it. Then I will kill you. I will share with the guys in the chat. I will copy it. I will copy it. You can do it. I will share with the guys in the chat. If you can send it to them, this document for me, let me take this one here. I will share with you. I want to access it here together. I will only send it to the Mateus by the tool. Where is the fact being made of this oven here. Are you ready? I will copy it. I will copy it. Now press the tension here. What I will do with this? I will open the code. Then I will link it in the folder. I will send my rd to him. Yes, but before, there are two ways. You can leave an rd.md file in the folder of your project. Or you can write to him the following. Here. I will copy it. I will copy it. I will write to him the following. Based on the file. Based on the rd.md file. Under. Click. For me. Click. The application. I left it. Descrito.md. I will put two points and I will paste the rd here. Then, you can see the following. There are two ways. In my folder, I could have rd.md and I will ask you to read the rd file in the folder of the project. And I will execute what is there. In my case, for not to need to create the rd.md file, but it could be a way. I will talk to him about all my rd. Look how interesting. Press the tension here. I have some options in this screen. Manual. He will ask you everything. You will have to try to accept the conditions. He will ask you the most priority. If you allow and you accept these main options in the file. Automatically, he does not ask you anything. He will only execute all the permissions to build this here. And ignore the permissions. Basically, he can access the folder of your computer. And then, you can see the plan. The plan is cool. What is the plan? He will talk to you to see if everything he understood is the fact that you want to develop. So, the plan is how if it was a brainstorm between you, the developer, the cloud. To find out everything you said about it. And you can try that plan. Look how interesting. I played my rd here. Right? I played my rd here. What am I going to do now? I can enter. Basically, he can enter. Let me take the zoom here a little bit. I have my rd here. Everything is here. He is planning. And then we can ask him to send. He is not giving in to send. Let me cut this here. Let me see if he will execute the git here. If I open the new folder. Here is the phrang. Note here. Without the pc. The git is necessary. Let me see if I can make the plan. Let me send it here. He is not releasing it here in my computer. What am I going to do? I will open the cloud in my desk. In my site. I opened the cloud here. He also has the code here. On the side. He was not released. He also has a cloud here. He asks for the repositor. For example. I will choose the mba. The folder I already have. You can follow the same way. Because there is not released. I will ask him to execute. In my case, he blocked it. It is blocked. But it is the same file. He wants the file to be activated. I will allow. I will allow. I will allow. I understand. It is possible that the difference is that he did not leave. The more I put it here. Ignore the permission. Let me see if he will allow. He already says that I have to release. Just so we do not work with this. He asks to download the GIT from any way. Do you see? I do not want to install anything. I want to execute without it. I went there to the browser to see what he will deliver to me. It will work the same way. It will work the same way. Any difference. In the browser, when you use it in the site. You will not get the pass of your computer to create this. You already have to link it with your GIT Hub. The GIT Hub is already set here. It is already linked to my GIT Hub. Where you will do this in the connections. You will go there in connections. Remember that. You will come here in Personalize. You will come here in the Connector chain. Inside the Connectors. You can add the GIT Hub in the Connector chain. You will search for the GIT Hub. There is no account in the GIT Hub. The GIT Hub is like a cloud. The GIT Hub is like a cloud. To install these projects. To get your projects. There is no secret. My GIT Hub is already here. It seems that I have integration with GIT Hub. He will already push these steps. In your computer, you will have access to these steps. In your computer. Here in the web, I will have access to what. Exactly what is there in my GIT Hub. Of the available steps. There. In this way, you will not need to use the Antigraph. You will have code, for example. This is not necessary. But there are people who prefer. Why? Because you have more... ...tut to use. So, in the beginning, I said that both the Antigraph and the Antigraph. And any other place. The engine is the same. What will change in the end of the photos? What will change? What will change? Fechado Ophilip. Look, he is executing here. JavaScript has passed the Synthex verification. Now I will commit push. That is, what does this mean? It will go up to me. Within my GIT Hub project. The push is returning to 400 and 300. It will be the status. And now, let it roll there. And develop this here to me. Okay? Good luck, Leo. Go there, my dear. Let him execute here, execute here, execute. And then he leaves work, guys. He leaves work. But, he is giving it here. Look, read the fourth HTML code. Fechado. What I will ask him after doing this is all the following. Man, I bring HTML to download this computer. Basically, that's what I will ask for. Here, he is not able to use GIT Hub. He leaves work, he will tell me all the difficulties he had there. And then, basically, where I spent more time, it was what? So, he already created a structure for me. If you come here from the left side, it will create a normal project. If I show you here, see these three points, totally right. There are artifacts, the tarefas in the second plan, the internal open, you have some options. You also have the option to share with me. And you see what he is changing in the code line that he just generated for you. So, this is difficult. Exactly, what he is taking. So, he already showed me here. All the HTML code that he chose to do, based on those premises that I passed for him. And then, guys, here is the way to work. So, if you want to see anything fast, it depends on your project. So, here it has been four minutes. He will execute it and he will execute it. Let's wait for him for five minutes to see if he delivers me or not. Look, here I can see, executing. Let me open this Cambank code. It's the code he is generating. So, wait for him to finish doing it. But I will ask him. He brings me the HTML here to visualize. What he brought to this project. And when he is working, we could be doing other things here in the code. I could be programming other things and then, by the way, push file, is trying to hit the GitHub, it's not working. So, let him solve this for us. And how much is this? What is important? You know, the fact that within this PRD, we are going to do a beta project. Why my desktop is not working? Because I am in the computer. It's a MacBook. It's all worked. So, I probably need to install. In Windows, I don't need to install the GitHub. But here, he talks to me to install the GitHub. I can't continue without this installation. You can do that. If I take this from here, I realize that he doesn't let me send anything. Nothing, nothing, nothing. And here in the web, I already have this permission. He already started doing this for me. And he's trying to create a brand. It was stolen. I'll try to update the file directly. Now he's working. He's basically doing what? The technical language has been added to the GitHub file. What are we going to do here? If he doesn't have the tools he has done, I'm going to ask him to stop here. I'm going to ask him to test my HTML. I'll talk to him. Stop. I'll talk to him about the following. I'll talk to him about the file. Before going up to Git. I'll talk to him. I don't want you to go up to Git Hub. It's not my goal. I want you to send me here. He sent me. I'll download it and open it. Basically, he changed the file here. Very arcade. The idea is to validate the concept. So I'll create the title here. Live. Description. Sign. Perdi. Basically. Add to do. He added here. I can edit. I want to save. I want to erase it. I'm going to help. He's good at training. Check out the concept. He's validated or not. He's still asking for the next. If I close it here. I want him to continue here. So he saved the file. I'm going to find it. He's still here. If I come here to do. I'll close it. Basically, he will keep the same place. Why? We're saving it in the cache. Perfect. They understood the concept of GitHubSet. It will work on the application. If I had with my other computer, I would have it. But. It will also work on Cloud Web. The only difference here. Cloud Web, if you don't have the computer's password, you need to access a GitHub. You can create a GitHub account. Basically, it's a cloud to ask for projects. You can free your account. You can do your account. It's good. You can just link it here in the connectors. It will ask for the authorization. Click on the same email as you have your Cloud. It will work in the best way possible. It's interesting here. I can continue talking to him. There are some personalizations. For example, I want you to bring the colors to the XPRES. I want a simple animation that doesn't need to leave the file. I don't need to install anything. I don't need to install anything. When I moved the card it appears to the user. Use it. And it brings here to test before taking the GitHub. What's important is to know that a very written PRD is what will do with your MVP project. The concept test works. So, I'm in the hotel. The internet is not good. We can take an MVP of a screen of the paper but it's more difficult to get it. It's clear on top of what you want to develop. There's an application idea that will make this X-Zipsonon Z. What's the concept test? Who will use it? If I talk about the most technical public that will use it, he would probably put several options of the type. And anything here. It's a more familiar one. How to ask him to do something simple and clean? He thought it was easier to use to download or use it anywhere else. There are some important things here. He said he will use the X-Prions colors. He's doing a bunch of colors and he's pushing the web app and now, I can't see the X-Prions. I blocked the access to 403. I'm going to say I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that we're going to see what he's going to do for us. And then I go back to show you a second part that's important for us to have this project so I've already said that it's the colors. And here it's very good with what? All these features that we left here. Alright? Do you doubt that? Look, Marc, I'm doing this card for R&D. It's practically a skill. The idea of it is an idea that can be similar, but why is it not a skill? Because the skill is the process exactly part by part. Here it is much more a concept, a briefing, a alignment before the execution of the project. The idea, in fact, is clear, but in the skill you have the step by step of execution. Here you do not have the step by step of execution. You have your, your, your, your will on top of that development. So you don't have the steps here. You only have the rules that you want that follows. I made it. I think it's like that. Guys, we have doubts here. It's clear. Let me leave this talking. I don't know if it's internet or not. So let's talk about the chat. Look, it's running, it's running. Let's see what it will develop with animation. Okay? Someone managed to execute this project on the paper. Now, I'm changing this idea with 160 people, able to execute the different screen, while it's running. Here I want to show you the result. Let me wait five minutes. If not, five minutes. I'll stop it here and ask for something simpler. Look at that cool thing here. What is he doing here? Guys, he's changing the code. He's running. So if you come here, what he updated. Everything that is red came out. Everything that is green was what he put in place. So all these reds here, he replaced. Because of these here below, which are green. So these differences are exactly the changes he is doing now in the code. And then he put it to me. He put the new frame. He put the camber here. The other one didn't have this animation. Let's see here. This one is more. You see? Let me see if it's new here. Just to see if I'm not traveling. The animation was very simple. It was just an effect here. Let's see how it will be. That's it. Everything we put here is evolving. For a trailer, I want to edit the column name. I could be my next step. The trailer can be put in a log in without it. I can ask for it. Look. As a test, create a log in where admin and the scene 1, 2, 3, 4, I can access. I don't want to create credentials, but validate the screen and experience. And then, we will go up to the degrees. There is no more gray. There is more, it's annoying to see on the screen. We don't need to see the screen. I'm doing several stages to improve the MVP. If you have clarity of what you want, you can do. Step 1, turn the file down. Step 2, you will add x and x11. Step 3. But I want to show you how we develop. I have two development projects. It's to perform tributary and another sport application. Details. I don't know how to program. It's the basics. But maybe you have the negrosso-hops rule. Here, programing is not... In this MVP, it is not necessary. The MVP, you need the negrosso-hops rule and the concept of your idea. For you to scale this, we need to program. We need to call, be it a technical source, to guarantee that many people use that. That will not be enough. But you need to evaluate the concept. You can test with your loved ones, your loved ones. Potentials, users that will use that group of smaller. Validating the idea is to put the screen down and see the increase. Is it done? Let's see what he generated for me. He asked me to generate a screen here. I asked him to put the screen down. The screen will be... Addmin. Addmin. And the screen is 1, 2, 3, 4. Let's see here. Addmin. 1, 2, 3, 4. Did you get it? Did you get it? Any idea? All of those you talked about, but now I want to do this. Let's go to the screens. And then we create this. Now what I do for this and for the market. And then we will evolve the level of the technical for once to get this. Of course. It's done. And then you can ask him several and several other things. Are you ready? Here I don't have the screen out. I could ask him, I want to go out. How do I do it? You need a button out there. I need to have a button out. And then he goes generating this here for us. Is it closed? And then guys, let's go. I want to do it again. That's it. It's worth it. What's important here? So, our task is to create a MVP of you. You need a Distinguished. What you want in that MVP. Of the fact that you will leave it for later. Now I want to create the task. In the column, save the space. What I will leave for later? The sentence. When the card is stopped in the same place. What will be the client's body without access? Is that all? It's not important. How do you actually do this? You will decide what will do. The whole project will work. The whole project will be managed by the bank. And the bank will be managed. So I need to allow, in this first test, that I use here, I make a simple consideration. Then I can use the plan. The plan is that it is from the Met. I want to pass this in the first stage. Everything that will do with that consideration, it executes, it exists. So that's it. You will put it in the RKVPRD. Outside that, what else do we have? Inside the RKVPRD. What problem will you solve? Who will use what he needs to do? What he will not do now? And how do I know it was the same? You can ask him a project. He starts without it going down the computer. Only one HTMLHTML is the same. I made it for you to validate the concept. And look how interesting. Once you have a HTMLHTML, you know it's not the project, but it's just the interface of it. How does it work? Everything? You already have it as far as possible. To validate with the users. Look, I'm thinking about this idea. Look how it will work. You will enter here, you will do this filter. You will click and it will generate you. The idea is to consider the same thing. Even for you validate the idea, it's much easier when you have these screens to show the user experience of the login and everything. It makes sense, guys. It's clear? I already sent the PRD to you. And later, I will ask for the HTMLHTML. The sub in a folder. It's better, okay? I will leave a link to a drive in this document here. You can download this presentation. But the presentation is only a guide for me. I have a screen just to show you not only seeing my face and explaining. Okay? Look, I put the login in the top. Let's see here. Look, I will download this one here. Look, I will put here admin. I will put one, two, three, four. Get out. It has logic, guys. You understand? You understand any capacity of the business? Oh, but what I will create? There is no problem, guys. And you have to have what you want. The tool is there. Now that you will concept the mind of you, it's actually understood what is there. What are the opportunities there? That's why I said, everything will be part of the press of the clarity that you have in what you want to develop. Any idea? I will make an RP for the inside of my login. I will do a system there, that it creates, you know, presentations. I will do it again if I pass through the order with all the context and all the things of the company. There is the serial limit. Literally the serial limit. What we need to have is this well defined. And this well defined will spend time. To write this here, of course I got the trailer. It's something much simpler. But if I want to do an application and such, how long will I spend? I will spend time. I will think, I will kill. I will change the idea with the login. If you notice, I will create a new project here. Just for you to see. So, basically, I did not want to leave this one yet. I will not show you here. So I can even show you now. Basically here, when I click here on the plane, I say, with the watch. I want to help me evolve this project. Where do we start? You know that this plane, he will not execute anything. But he will ask you for the fact that with you, he will get this PRD. These questions he will ask you and you will answer to him and get the idea of what you want to know to the end of it. He used Cloud Code to refold the Xperial platform. I used Cloud Code there to get the fact that you want to use it. I will put more speed, some development, everything will be part of the document of the alignment. And later, step by step, step by step, we will evolve to concepts more technical. So, what is the step I want to work on? Any security that I want to apply? How will it work? Then, in this plane, what does he say? Where do you take this project now? Can mark more of one? So, he will help you to evolve these questions in the best way possible. That's what he is doing now. Be careful. And then, guys, that's it. In this point, exactly this is the important thing we have. In this machine, what we created? We created the Cloud Code of Tarefs of 0. But, if everything happens, you saw how the program mainly this part here is of Diff, when you ask for a change, everything that is in the middle, what he took, everything that is in the middle, I wanted to update it in his code. If you understand now, guys, I'm going to answer and understand now the difference in the Cloud Code. Here in the application, in the web, in the code, in the terminal, then you said, understood. But then I say, but there is no difference, then you say, no, there is no difference. Is this clear? Are you calm? Okay. Which is the best? Cloud Code or Codex? Codex is having a very good result, now with 5.6. So it will depend very much on the case of the use you want. Now the fact is that the Cloud is loved, it is what the guys had the best results, and it has this simplicity, easily, that maybe the Codex has no now, the Codex is there, it is very good, it is delivering much more, the Codex is always very good, but when we talk about friendly, more friendly, the Cloud you see here, guys, it's a little bit of a click, and we can do things cool with the idea. Okay. Then guys, the main question is clear for you, there are doubts sending the chat, this material has already answered, these lives stay in the platform, someone has some doubts, it was clear, and then, to close, with a gold key, guys. Which are the 4 moments we have? The question that, in fact, you want it to do, so, okay, look, it asks before doing everything that I send in the Rd, I realize that it was already executed. When I put it in the plan, it will be asking you, exactly for it to have, you know, you know, you know, login, and share it, you need it. The project must continue to be in Aronic, keep the file, Unicortline, I'll put offline. So, I'm sending it to him, what he will do with the plan, he will generate a plan of action, and he will ask me, you say that I execute, if you click and execute, he will execute everything here, so you will evolve in the project, share it, but any advantage of you has an HTML file, the use of the file, before you spend money, execute it in that gigantesque project, without a payment, or without a person saying, it makes sense, it changes that and that. Here, you change that much faster. Okay? And then, guys, you will do the adjustments, you will ask, you will ask, and he will create these adjustments for you. Ask Rosanna, I'm from Logistica, the Rd series created by the analysis of the company project or by the analysis of supply chain. Today, Rosanna will depend on the company's policy, but you could create, thinking about your process and everything, a proper application that would solve a doubt. What are the most relevant discussions? We were even talking with people, oh, how is it going? And the guy is like, how do we do the hunt between TIT, the company, between governance and between the business team, you are the business team, Rosanna. It would be interesting, any conception, because the business team will develop, if the company has to go up and down, in order to be official for everyone using the company. But the companies are still learning to go up, with all this news, and the business team can develop their own solutions. So there is no response. It may be that the company has already released the company, there are several projects that I'm going to do some committee and I will say, so, it will depend a lot on the company's time when it wants to invest in this governance and of course, we have to generate the value there to see what makes sense to someone in the area, develop a automation, and then have to go there and put the conforms inside the policy. But first, we have the chance to show what it is possible to do, later, we think about this governance since it is not developed by sensitive people there, your tests are very clear. Use what you have been in the process of creating solution, could or would need to be added in the file, perid, at some point, you can ask him to re-write the perid in the way he is today. But it is not necessary, it is necessary. The perid is the popular family in the beginning. After you did the perid, you finalized, then you will only interact on the project. You realize that here in my he did what? He went to save the GitHub because I am in the web page. There in the GitHub is probably in the readme, readme, the document, what project is it? Let me see if I can open the readme here. No, it's not here. Maybe I will not be able to show it. Let me see. Here, readme. Look, readme is what he says. I learned using the files. This is the readme he had found in my folder. You can ask him to write a project. I will go through the process to identify everything that is happening. After you continue the program, what the code will start to read, readme is the code of my D, it is the perid, it is not the most things you are asking. It works. I am going to write. There, there are important points. And your idea, when you take the paper, you already have three hours a week passed, but this is the time, because I did not get the live in the 13.5, but to not lose the cost, all the third hours have a live with me. This is very important. Take this idea, try to make a RD and test. The price of testing is a 100 reais of the cloud. This is important. You have to have the pay of the cloud and you will spend more projects. But once you have the screens and can validate this, for me, the best of the world, who knows, you can invest in the sector, with you to pay, because you are in the cloud, you can format all this and a specific project. And then, we will finish with the audio, this third-year villager knows, you are learning how to do research, very straight with photography, but sweeping out of the building of Business by Professor Prノausvoice editing people do login in fact with link with everything, be with us, right, the open to send to the chat for you, our website formation, it has all the classes that you will have, the class of the Saturday will be with me the first Saturday, the day 8 of 8, the day 8, the Cloud Core, which is in the second Saturday, the connector, so we will do project already installed in this, in the third, the Cloud Core will be in practice with Leo, so Leo will create that platform that he showed with you, just step by step, you do it by creating platform that is imaginary of the company of you and finally the CES will come with the extraction of agents, what would that be, you will have a agent there while he is using it, he logged and the agent is doing there the manual consideration and another agent will be looking for it there about the adult reform, he is having news of the last hour, anyway, it's like you order and order several agents to work together to deliver you the same thing, so for example, Cloud Code, it is the extraction of agents, you are here programming, he is already writing in the GitHub, he has several papers inside, that's why we say he is an orchestration tool, both Cloud Code and the Open Cloud, he connects with several systems in the web and then delivers you this communication with people when he is coding, the other one is already connecting in GitHub, the other one is writing the reading, there are several agents there behind the main for Cloud Code, so we will show you how to do it for the agents that you want to create, okay, show more guys, I also have more coffee, it's a nice service coffee, guys, we have doubts, be it rd, be here from our immersion, it's the champion, be it the class of the past week, we have five minutes to take the doubts, someone wants to ask something and I already created a financial system of people to go up, it's in the course of the course, it's in Google, and who wants to give a look, and something you send here, you show it in front of people to see how it is great, you can send it, or if you can send it here on the stream, I open it, let's see, in the Alas Alviva, the speed will be this, Paulo, in the Alas Alvis we have four hours, even it will be in the zoom, so you can ask, I didn't understand, we will go from the complete there, zero, but what I hope is that, well, there's the doubt of the question that we repeat, here, all of us, I thought we were going to ask, so if you have any doubt, if you want to ask, but I think that we have one hour to talk about the subject, because it's still going out with the project with the login and everything, in the Alas we will always have more and more things to build, here is more to give the concept for you as it works, okay, my dear, show show, where is the page there, guys, we have doubts, send it there, take advantage of the fact that I am here, animated to see what I can help you, without sensational assignments, we are together, thank you very much, my dear, well, 117 people, we don't have doubts, no one, until the day when the writing is open, my dear, I will be honest with you, the class starts in the week that comes, but we have the limit of your name, I'm not calling 300 people because it's the limit of the ZOO, so I can talk that you stay open until today to reinforce, I don't know, but if you can, if you have a condition and want to guarantee, let's start the change, I see what I can do, precisely to not lose the first class here on the day 8, okay, but I say with you that I don't have an idea precisely because of the people's volume, I'm closed, look what I would do here, I don't receive anything here, so I haven't arrived here for me yet, okay, I have four dashboards, I can interlink all of them by the code of your system, or more or less, the dashboards are for the B.I, if it was for the B.I, interlink it, but if you have four dashboards, just like I did this week last week, you can interlink everything in your internal system, that's it, it's a show, okay, there's access to the platform here, if you do this immersion, my criticism will have access to the A3, which will have even content from Cloud Chat, CloudCode, CloudCode, immersion is rich because it's a four-professor bringing projects, if you have the option there, guys, Viagra, I don't understand that, I'll go to the class, I'll let you explain, share it to her, let me hear, so it's all condensed, there are three classes and one hour there, just to learn to get the idea of, in fact, taking the doubts, but the goal is that you go out with everything working there, the final of the four classes and of course, with the ability to do project, do RDS, the employees, the projects, create the GitHub, to get all of your data, guarantee the security of these information, save the credit cards and so on, okay, and maybe you don't know at this moment too, okay, everything is fine, but who believes that you need to, in fact, be able to create your projects, see an opportunity there for this year, for the one who comes, to learn how to build your solutions, man, come with us, I'm sure you'll like it a lot, closed, or I don't receive this link here, my dear, where is the link? I didn't receive, if you find the link there, do you want to send me? No, I can't send the link there, I want to chat there, unfortunately, I can't send the link, I'll see you in this video, my dear, but guys, there are several applications, there are already developed videos, I know it's cool, it can be very good, guys, look, let's be running, so believe it, there's no more, there's no more doubts, if you enter here on the site, you'll see that you will have access to all the solutions, including the tools of the A-trile, which is the main thing that we're updating, bringing the sub-a-bays and so on, so you have access to all the Trilias, so here are all the Trilias will have access, but what is this? The main thing is the four sub-s there is a fight, a fight experience, think about it, with me, the girl is going to explain everything to you, the sister was a parent of the GDP, the PipeFi, so she already carries this bug in the data, I've been working on the machine, it's not easy, but not only that, I'm a creator and I already gave the student a lot of the Mbays as a gradation post, specializations for other market schools, very famous that you should already know, we're exactly in the technical body there and of the type, to deliver the best for you, you have the chance to say, come on, don't understand, we stop, after the explanation, to help you specifically take that doubt there, maybe what we can't help is if I thought of the light and so on, there's no way, but once you have a cloud, install it, we'll see you in the past, there's already the power, the ability, everything, guys, the management of passes, let me with me, what I guarantee, I can help you, closed, good, good, good, let me go up here on the drive, guys, give me a time here, I'm going to get this, let me open a drive here, let me open a drive, let me get, let me create a drive pass, specific here for you, that we already get this for you, release this here for you, I'll get my drive, I'll get a new pass, I'll put it on live, I'll play exactly not only that, I'll play the field square and I'll play the Cloud, Cloud, Cloud, and I'll share with you there, share with Link, copy and then I'll play there in the presentation that you are already here inside, okay, it's here on the drive, and then who doesn't have this presentation, Mateus can send it to him again in the chat, then you get and disassemble it, closed, guys, put the link of the file, put the link in the file that we have doubts, we can finish with the driver, cut, I hope you know what comes, go up, no one can watch a Saturday, it will be recorded, there's no problem, the idea is that much more you can do, but with this four days there you already saw the possibilities, you see if you feel like it, it makes sense to be very happy, you have like students, who has come with me this year, the three hours live, free, bringing the codex account with 5.6, showing how code is there, but I'm sure that it's good for 8.8, there are a lot of things for you to see together, so see you, we're together more, Daiva asked which value, these four versions have the value of 997 out of the platform that you have access for a year, we have four while live 16 hours, but all these content here that you have access inside our platform, platform is located there with several challenges with examples, with which I'm not only theoretical, we always show based projects, so our methodology is always Brazilian in projects, even in this class in the past week, closed, the hour of the classes will be 9, 13 hours, guys, 9 to 3 is even my coffee, we're going to do a pause of 20 minutes, but guys, it's 4, you know, like, it's just a Saturday, some Saturday I'm not going to be able to record you recover the doubts on the other, it's just a guarantee that you will watch when you get to the other, you can have the doubts taken, but it's 4 Saturday 16 hours total, okay, let's go up, it's the link of the website of the Rappas, where is the link, guys, I can't open the link because youtube does not let you send the link, okay, and I'll have to leave it to pass, closed, good, good, good, guys, that hug for you, I'm happy to be with you, on our Thursday, on the busy day, I'm here at this wonderful, the internet helps us a lot, but it's great, thank you very much, thank you for the empathy of having understood my side, for being able to listen and hear, I hope many people have watched, either on free lives, all of Thursday, Thursday, or that is, exactly the part of the Saturday that comes on our ITml, okay, that hug for you, thank you very much, we're together for the love and stay up, say bye!