---
video_title: "Why Poland is Divided"
video_id: WQ0g8uhNhJA
channel_name: "The Present Past"
channel_id: UC5Axef4J11DIu17y2RKVqNQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WQ0g8uhNhJA
video_date: 2023-12-23
video_description: |
  Get 25% off Blinkist Annual premium! Start your 7-day free trial by clicking the link here: https://bit.ly/ThePresentPastDecember23
  
  Poland has seen a lot of divisions, why are they still visible today? 
  
  Thanks a lot to Szymon for his help. Check out his twitter: https://twitter.com/sheemawn and Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/kartografiaekstremalna
  
  Sources:  the wrong source is shown on screen at 06:15, it should be this one: https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3173648
  
  Adam Zamoyski, 'Poland: A history' (2015). 
  
  Tomasz Herodowicz et al., “Political Divisions and Socio-Economic Disparities in Poland: A Geographical Approach,” Sustainability 13, no. 24 (December 9, 2021): 13604, https://doi.org/10.3390/su132413604.
  
  Sascha O. Becker et al., “Forced Migration and Human Capital: Evidence from Post-WWII Population Transfers,” SSRN Electronic Journal, 2018, https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3173648.
  
  Housing International, “About Poland,” Cooperative Housing, n.d., https://www.housinginternational.coop/co-ops/poland/.
  
  Kazimierz J. Zaniewski, “Housing Inequalities under Socialism: The Case of Poland,” Geoforum 22, no. 1 (January 1991): 39–53, https://doi.org/10.1016/0016-7185(91)90029-p.
  
  Sebastian Stępień et al., “Chapter 2. Small Farms in Poland,” in Small Farms in the Paradigm of Sustainable Development. Case Studies of Selected Central and Eastern European Countries, ed. Sebastian Stępień and Silvia Maican (Toruń: Wydawnictwo Adam Marszałek, 2020), 30–50, https://www.marszalek.com.pl/small_farms.pdf.
  
  The Economist, “The Eastern Wall,” The Economist, July 1, 2014, https://www.economist.com/special-report/2014/07/01/the-eastern-wall.
  
  Daryl Mersom, “Story of Cities #28: How Postwar Warsaw Was Rebuilt Using 18th Century Paintings,” The Guardian, April 22, 2016, sec. Cities, https://www.theguardian.com/cities/2016/
  
  https://www.theguardian.com/cities/2016/apr/22/story-cities-warsaw-rebuilt-18th-century-paintings.
  
   Britannica, “Warsaw Summary,” www.britannica.com, n.d., https://www.britannica.com/summary/Warsaw#:~:text=Founded%20c..
  
  UNESCO World Heritage Centre, “Historic Centre of Warsaw,” UNESCO World Heritage Centre, n.d., https://whc.unesco.org/en/list/30/#:~:text=During%20the%20Warsaw%20Uprising%20in.
  
  szyy, “Unemployment Rate in Poland - 2002 v. 2022 [OC],” Reddit.com, July 1, 2022, https://www.reddit.com/r/MapPorn/comments/vop5gk/unemployment_rate_in_poland_2002_v_2022_oc/.
  
  Gardawski, Juliusz. “The Dynamics of Unemployment from 1990 to 2002 | European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions.” www.eurofound.europa.eu, October 28, 2002.
  
  Thank you to AP Archive for access to their archival footage.
  Select imagery/video supplied by Getty Images. 
  
  Hi there, my name is Jochem Boodt. I make the show The Present Past, where I show how the present has been influenced by the past. History, but connected to the present and fun! 
  
  Every episode I show how history has influenced and made a thing, an idea or event in our present time. 
  
  I make different content. You can find me on:
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@thepresentpast
  Instagram https://www.instagram.com/the_presentpast/
  Twitter : https://twitter.com/@ThePresent_Past
  
  Logo by: https://www.instagram.com/multicolor_junkie/
  
  If you have an idea for an episode please fill in this form:
  https://www.dropbox.com/request/nMMMSpoNWUJHBIZ8hJRu
---
[Paper rustling] This is a map of the most recent Polish elections. You can clearly see where the conservative government has been defeated by a progressive opposition. Wait, no, this is actually a map of all the houses that have bathrooms. This is a map of the most recent Polish elec- Oh. Houses built before 1945. This is embarrassing. Wait. This is the map of the most recent election.

Why do all these maps look the same? This is Poland in 1635. And together with Lithuania, they have a very big country. In modern times, you would have Ukraine here and Belarus. And for some reason, Sweden is hanging out in... Estonia? I hope. And by the time of Napoleon, it didn't

exist anymore. Poland was unlucky because it was surrounded by some state that decided to become superpowers. Russia, the Hapsburg Empire, and the Prussian Empire. They saw Poland as this sort of playground, and they just decided to gobble it all up. It would be 123 years before the Poles would see their country again. [Clock ticking] When they got occupied, people were making the first hot air

balloons. And by the time Poland resurged, they were making televisions. And not long after that, the podcast was invented. I listen to podcasts a lot. Like, all the time. When cooking, showering,

or listening to other podcasts. But sometimes my favorite podcast can't keep up with my listening speed. Which means I am alone, with the existential dread of my existence. To deal with this anxiety, I have recently been using Blinkist. Blinkist is this amazing app that gives the most important points of non-fiction books. Within 15 minutes, you'll be up to date with the core

ideas of a book. Sometimes you are interested in a subject, but just don't have the time to read the full book. Blinkist has over 6600 titles in their catalogue. I've been listening to De Tocqueville's Democracy in America, Putin's Links to the KGB, and the main points of Stoic philosophy. They have a new feature called Blinkist Spaces, where you can track listening habits and share them with friends and family. So if you also don't want to be alone with your thoughts, you can get 25% off

Blinkist annual premium. You can get your 7 day free trial by clicking in the link in the description. Thanks Blinkist for sponsoring this video. Check the link below to subscribe. Hey, it's 1922 and it's after the first world war and Poland is back on the map. Doesn't really look

like the Poland we know, but you know, something. It does however confuse Stalin and Hitler so much that they quickly go back to bringing Poland into its occupied state. Like so. And after they introduce their ideas of minimalist architecture in Warsaw and other places, finally we get Poland. Now this is the Poland we do know. Let's take a moment to reflect on the position of Poland

over the years. It's moved a lot. After the second world war, they moved to the west. So they lost all this land to the Soviets and they gained all this land. Land that had been in the hands of Germany for centuries. You can see that in the names of the cities. Danzig becomes Gdansk.

Breslau becomes Wroclaw. And Stettin becomes... . Poland has had their modern borders for almost 80

years now. And that feels long. When you look at history, that's just the blink of an eye. And this occupation by the Prussians, by the Russians and Austro-Hungarians, it left its mark on the people. Not only then, but still nowadays. Last October, Simon Pifcyzk tweeted this map thread. It's 2023,

109 years after World War I started, yet the pre-World War I imperial borders are still visible on the election map of Poland. This thread went viral. As someone who loves how history still influences the present, I had to go talk to him. I didn't really think too much about it, but then suddenly I saw the borders of the empires from before World War I. Simon is a Polish map nerd living in San Francisco. He has been obsessed with these borders since he found a special map.

Probably one of the first viral maps I had was a map of access to restrooms inside of someone's house. So on this map he suddenly saw the borders. And it didn't stop there. And since then, I've been doing more and more maps, and then on a lot of them, these borders actually show up. We have the map of the recent election. It's quite clear that the progressive opposition won out in

the western part of Poland. They also won out in the bigger cities. Places where people are generally more progressive. The conservative party won more in the east. This is a rural region. And it's also a region that is doing not so well as the rest of Poland. You can find some

of the poorest provinces here. But why do these maps show the former imperial borders so well? Maybe not a lot of people realize, but a lot of, many parts of western Poland were kind of like the wild west only 75 years ago. A lot of this has to do with the end of the second world war. Stalin keeps this part to the east. And Poland gained all that German land to the west. And now millions of

people are forced from their homes. Both Germans and Poles. Many Poles settle in this area. This former German lands. And these Polish people, they not only lost their houses. They also lost

their traditions, their communities. But also the social control of a place where you've been living for generations. And with less social control you can do more what you want. And this makes people, well, less traditional. Another idea is that these migrants invested more in education. The

theory is that people that are forced to migrate, they invest in things that are more easy to take with you. And this paper shows how the focus on education in these families is still there this day. You can clearly see the difference in schooling results between those that were forced and those that weren't forced to migrate. Higher education is linked to more progressive views. Another reason why these lands are more progressive could be that they just are closer to Germany. Germany is the biggest economic power on the continent. It's much easier to trade with or

work in Germany if you're close. If you zoom out and take a look at the European Union as a whole, the eastern part of Poland is literally at the edge of the EU. Further away from economic options. People that are more well-off tend to have more liberal views. And in addition, it could also be that eastern Poland is just more rural and older. Which makes people more conservative. Now,

these are some explanations. But reality is complex. And there are more differences in the past that have an effect and still influence people's lives today. To start with, it's not just on the election map that the differences are visible. People in the east and west also have different jobs. Agriculture is pretty big in the east. There are still counties

where 40% of the people work in agriculture, which is almost unheard of in other developed countries. But the west of Poland is more focused on industrial and service sectors. But remember that Poland was divided around 1800? These years are kind of crucial because that's also when the industrial revolution started. When western economies started to industrialize in the 18th century, central Europe was like, we'll stick to farming, alright? And this led to differences in,

for instance, the railway network. Take this map of the railways around 1900s. And you can see the divide. Western Poland, as part of the Prussian Empire, industrialized way more rapidly than those eastern territories under Austrian-Hungarian and Russian control. And this amount of industrialization just doesn't change in a generation or two. But it's not just that.

How people do agriculture is also different. You can see this from satellite imagery. The plots in the west are just much bigger. Farms are big companies here. They're producing for the market.

But in the east you find a lot more smaller plots. This is a super complicated thing with many explanations. But there are two things that I want to highlight here. Part of the answer is that in the west it was way more normal that the older son would get all the land. But in the east, especially in Austria-Hungary, farms could be more easily split up between the kids. So then you get

all these much smaller plots. And it's also in the west where the most parts of the land were collectivized under the Soviet government. And for some reason that really didn't go through in the east. And now to those maps that made Simon go viral for the first time. Housing. These maps show

when houses are built. In general, the west has older homes built before 1945. This is probably the case because these were German lands. And apart from the cities that got leveled, the rest of the countryside just didn't get destroyed as much in the war. But in the east, where a lot more houses were built, building bathrooms inside houses were apparently not a big priority for the communist government. Now, I have to say, this is not the definitive

explanation. Szymon told me that it was also more normal for people to build a toilet outside of their house in these parts. Because they thought it was just less unclean, which I can imagine. But if you're a Polish person and you really know why this divide is there, let us know in the comments. I actually really want to know. One map that I really liked is the next one. In Polish language,

there is not that many words that start with an A. So it means there are almost no cities that start with an A. But if you look at the former Russian area, a different picture starts to emerge. Suddenly you do find them. Dots on the map that represent cities with an A. So where does this

come from? It has to do with these guys. Three Tsars called Alexander. So I guess in these lands, if you make a new village, you know, just go for the Tsar. It's probably the best idea. So we have

all these maps showing different ways in which Poland is divided. I do have to say that there are also a lot of markers in the modern time that show that these divisions are going away. For instance, if you look at primary school results and because people are leaving the countryside for the cities, the old divide makes place for a new one. A divide between city and countryside. This divide is something you see all over the world. But apart from that, I think one thing that this story

shows is how much changed in the 20th century for Europe, but especially for Poland. I mean, just look at the modern map of Poland. None of their current neighboring countries even existed 30 years ago. But even though borders can change very fast, there are things that change a lot slower. Things that still have an impact on the people in the present. Like what kind

of infrastructure is built? Do you live close to a railway station? What is the economic situation of your region? Has your family always been into farming? In the West, we like to think of ourselves as individuals. Individuals with free will and the capacity to make choices that impact

our lives. But in so many big and small ways, we are the product of our environment. [Music]