---
video_title: "How the U.S. made pizza popular (in Italy)"
video_id: iZZfwyKa0Lc
channel_name: "The Present Past"
channel_id: UC5Axef4J11DIu17y2RKVqNQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iZZfwyKa0Lc
video_date: 2023-10-06
video_description: |
  Sign up for a 14-day free trial and enjoy All of MyHeritage's amazing features. If you decide to continue your subscription, you’ll get a 50% discount https://bit.ly/ThePresentPast 
  
  The Italians have some of the best food in the world. But how old is this tradition really? 
  
  00:00 - 01:14 - A big stir 
  01:14 - 02:54 - Paying the bills with Myheritage
  02:54 - 04:03 - why I love italy
  04:03 - 04:54 - Food is a serious serious thing 
  04:54 - 06:45 - cancelling myself forever
  06:45 - 08:25 - two myths of Italian cuisine  
  08:25 - 10:35 - unification and migration 
  10:35 - 14:45 - American influences in Italian cuisine
  14:45 - 16:24 - where does the idea of strict rules come from? 
  16:24 - 19:21 - some civil academic discourse 
  19:21 - 22:05 - the dark side of food purity
  22:05 - 23:04 - go buy some mozzarella 
  
  Many thanks to Alberto Grandi, his book will be out in English this year. 
  
  Sources: Riley, Gillian - The Oxford Companion to Italian food: https://archive.org/details/oxfordcompaniont0000rile/mode/2up Zachary 
  
  Nowak (2014) Folklore, Fakelore, History, Food, Culture & Society: An International Journal of Multidisciplinary Research, 17:1, 103-124 http://dx.doi.org/10.2752/175174414X13828682779249 
  
  Decoder Ring - The Great Parmesan Cheese Debate: https://slate.com/podcasts/decoder-ring/2023/07/parmesan-cheeses-journey-from-italy-to-wisconsin 
  
  Anthony F. Buccini - On Spaghetti alla Carbonara and Related Dishes of Cental and Southern Italy: https://books.google.si/books?hl=en&lr=&id=cfP6jHmSLnMC&oi=fnd&pg=PT36&dq=Anthony+F.+Buccini+carbonara&ots=NUAaZ899qB&sig=DIEEj6SWrE-LfH_EVEyL5ESQquk&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=Anthony%20F.%20Buccini%20carbonara&f=false
  
  Financial times: Everything I, an Italian, thought I knew about Italian food is wrong: https://www.ft.com/content/6ac009d5-dbfd-4a86-839e-28bb44b2b64c 
  
  Volkskrant: Kom aan de pizza en heel Italië valt over je heen: ‘Verrader. Door wie ben je omgekocht?’ https://www.volkskrant.nl/nieuws-achtergrond/kom-aan-de-pizza-en-heel-italie-valt-over-je-heen-verrader-door-wie-ben-je-omgekocht~bb5d57b1/ 
  
  The Guardian - If there’s one thing Italians won’t stomach, it’s dishing the dirt on their cuisine. https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2023/apr/02/one-thing-italians-wont-stomach-dishing-dirt-their-cuisine
  
  Hi there, my name is Jochem Boodt. I make the show The Present Past, where I show how the present has been influenced by the past. History, but connected to the present and fun! 
  
  Every episode I show how history has influenced and made a thing, an idea or event in our present time. 
  
  I make different content. You can find me on:
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@thepresentpast
  Instagram https://www.instagram.com/the_presentpast/
  Twitter : https://twitter.com/@ThePresent_Past
  
  Logo by: https://www.instagram.com/multicolor_junkie/
  
  If you have an idea for an episode please fill in this form:
  https://www.dropbox.com/request/nMMMSpoNWUJHBIZ8hJRu
---
Have you ever considered that the pizza you love, the one from your top Italian spot, is essentially American? On March 23rd, the Financial Times published a controversial piece. Food historian Alberto Grandi made some bold claims. The most authentic Parmesan? It comes from Wisconsin.

Pizza's widespread recognition in Italy? Only since the 70s. Grandi even stated that much of what we consider Italian cuisine has roots in America. This unsurprisingly didn't go down well in Grandi's birthplace. Italian right wing politician and food fluencer Matteo Salvini swiftly responded on Instagram.

Experts and newspapers are envious of our tastes and beauty. Grandi's argument goes deeper. He suggests that Italy's romanticized version of its food history, of ancient family traditions passed down in rustic kitchens, might have been shaped more by industrialization and immigration than many would admit. It's dangerous for my life. Intrigued by this debate, I traveled to Italy, did some culinary research, and spoke to Grandi.

To explore the history behind these culinary claims and ask, how traditional is the food we call Italian?

A big part of this story is about migration, and that's why for this video I partnered with MyHeritage. MyHeritage is the leading global service for family history research and DNA testing. As a historian, I think it's very important to know where we come from. MyHeritage is very useful if you want to build your own family tree. And honestly, I was surprised how easy it was to use.

So, I started out by just filling out details on my siblings, parents, my grandparents. I didn't know all the details of my grandparents, so I actually had to text my dad for information. But before he got back to me, my heritage had already found them. I have a great uncle that died during the invasion of the Netherlands by the Germans in World War II. The poor guy was just 22.

And this is the first time I've seen his picture. And you can even animate these pictures. I also found out that a great grandfather of mine is actually Belgian and that he worked in the foreign service. And some connections even go as far back as 1778.

When there's a match, I can just press this button to review it, find documents on the person, and I can just add it to my family tree. It's as simple as that. And there's a big chance you'll find more information on your ancestors, because MyHeritage has 19 billion historical documents. So if you want to know more about your family history, you can now sign up for a 14 day free trial that has, like, all the features of the site. If you decide to continue your subscription, you'll get 50 percent off if you use my link in the description.

So thanks MyHeritage for sponsoring this video and let's get back to it. So this video couldn't be possible without Alberto Grandi. I am a historian and teacher of food history in the University of Parma. Grandi wrote a book about Italian food origins and he has a podcast. And, to get one thing out of the way, I'm so proud.

I'm not the enemy of Italy, of course. I'm Italian too. I'm not an enemy of Italy either. I love Italy. It has the best of many things.

The best mountains, towns, roads, scandles, bunga bunga parties, and

So this is some sort of bread with, like, ham in it. So we got some espresso. We have some gelato.

Oh, that's good. I'm officially, I'm a vegetarian, but let's go for it.

Italian cuisine often tops charts as the most popular food. I mean, there's just something about Italian flags on packaging that serenades la dolce vita to you. I mean, just take a look at the lasagna I just bought. It has the Italian flag, it has the gold lettering. It's just, it screams quality, right?

And Italians, they take their food very seriously. Do you know? Tell me. If it had like...

Ham in it.

It's, it's closer. It's closer to a British carbonara. You know what I mean? If my grandmother had wheels, she would have been a bike. You know what, you know.

The internet is full of Italians reacting to food that is not made in the

There's a Twitter, uh, I mean, ex account, ItaliansMadAtFood, where you can find horrors as wrong pronunciation of gnocchi, and of course, memes about pizza Hawaii. Like, like, a lot. But what better way to show you Italian pride than with a good comment section? I found a list of things the Italians consider food crimes. So I will now commit these food crimes.

And cancel myself for your entertainment. If you're Italian, you can write down in the comments what you think I did wrong. And for the rest of you, I'll leave the list at the end of the video. So, let's get cooking. Hi, welcome to TPP Culinary.

Today we're going to make some classic Italian cuisine. A pizza margherita with a side of pasta carbonara. Start with cooking the spaghetti. This is a salty dish, so I won't be salting the pasta later. Chop up your fatty meats.

You can use any type of bacon and bake it.

Grate any hard cheese you like. I found this works best in slow motion. Mix with two eggs for your sauce. Now, get your frozen pizza and add it to a preheated oven.

The pasta is ready, so drain it and add the sauce. To make it really juicy, I add some cream. Nice.

Now get the pizza out of the oven. Doesn't that look wonderful? But wait, something's missing. Fruits! I use pineapple for this.

The savory and sweet combination just works wonders.

If you think your pasta is a bit bland, just add some ketchup. But I like living, so I will pass.

Thank you for watching TPP Cooking. But this is more than just angry Italians on the internet. The food and drink sector accounts to 25 percent of Italian GDP, so there's big business to protect here. And they are serious about protecting their food. Check out this EU website on food that have a protected origin.

It means you can't name a certain food or wine name, unless it's from a region or made in a certain way. And this is a list of all the countries in the database. Uh, for a total of 5, 487 foods. The French, the true inventors of gastronomy, they come second with 768 entries, and the Italians? A grand total of

892. An honorable mention has to go to my country, the Netherlands. We're known worldwide for delicacies such as the Frikandel and Bamihap, and the Netherlands has a total of 39. Protected food and drink regions. The current Italian government is stepping this protection up.

The agriculture minister wants to set up an international Italian food police to make sure dishes are cooked correctly. They want to ban the production of synthetic meat. With all these actions and this obsession with culinary purity, the Italians are saying two things. On the one side, our food tradition is very old. These traditions show there is a right way to prepare the food.

And the second thing they say is it is artisanal. It is handcrafted. It is not industrially made food. There is just one problem. The Italian food tradition is neither of these things.

Let's start with the origin of some very Italian foods. Coffee comes from Ethiopia, dried pasta was probably introduced by the Arabs, and the tomato is American. It entered Europe in the 1500s after Columbus brought it back, but that is like 500 years ago. I'm not saying these things are not Italian. Where it gets interesting is when the Italians say Hey, our food was always amazing.

We exported it to the whole world and they learned to love it. Happy end. When I hear the Italian people teach the rest of the world our cook, our, um, prepare the pasta. It's, it's wrong. Italian cuisine didn't exist because, well, Italy didn't exist.

I'm here at the Square of Unification in Trieste. And before 1861, Italian history was all about city states. You had places like...

Venice, like Genoa, like Florence, and all these places and regions had different dishes. And these dishes weren't really known outside of their respective regions. So when in 1861 the country does get unified, a common saying is, we've made Italy, now we have to make Italians. But the Italians, it's not made in Italy, but it's made in America.

The thing is, this unified Italy is poor, very poor. So hundreds of thousands of Italians leave the country, in search for a better life. And so, Italian history is strongly linked to migration, both in terms of food, but also something like the language. In the 1861 only two percent of Italians speak Italian and the Italian have necessity to speak together in America and so the Italian, the language, the Italian language too changed in America and then returned in Italy. It 20 and 30 million people left Italy over a century.

A lot came back again. But nowadays you still have tens of millions of people with Italian descent all over the globe. From Brazil to Argentina, and of course, the USA. You had that meal in courses. It started off with the pasta.

I didn't even eat anything else. So, uh, where did Palo come from? Uh, Italy, I think. This stuff is great, but it's like lead. So tell me, tell me, where have you been?

Leave the gun. Take the cannoli. Migrants take their culinary culture with them and this then gets transformed in these new places. Take this scene from the movie Goodfellas. In prison, dinner was always a big thing.

The amount of meat they're eating is not something they brought with them from Italy. This is really influenced by America, but there is an even better example, the pizza. Before Italian immigration, pizza was only made in Naples and surroundings. It really was food for the poor. Take this description from 1884.

It is made from a dense dough that burns, but does not cook. These slices of pizza, which freeze in the cold, turn yellow in the sun and are eaten by flies. And what are the toppings? Almost raw tomatoes, garlic, oregano, and pepper. It doesn't really sound appealing or like the pizza that you know today, right?

But in America, with better and more ingredients, Italian immigrants further develop the pizza. Pizza shops open up all over the east coast. With rich toppings, with cheese, with meat. No more almost raw tomato with some herbs. So in the second world war, when soldiers go to Italy and liberate it, They write home surprised that they can't find any pizzerias.

And that's because at this point the average Italian has no idea about pizza. It is only made in and around Naples. But when tourists keep coming and asking for pizza, they understand this is a good business opportunity. Sure, we'll open pizzerias for you, they say. And they start baking this American Italian version of the Napolitana pizza.

Fast forward to now, and you find pizzerias... Well, everywhere. It's everywhere.

They're just pizza place on top of pizza place on top of pizza place. Looks like even Vatican and San Marino, you can't even see them, so they're just absolutely covered here. This pizza story is well known in sociological circles. It's even coined as the pizza effect. Where a cultural tradition is exported somewhere, it changes, and then it's reintroduced in a place itself, masquerading as something that has always been there.

Oh, and for those people that are now angry writing comments about Naples and how Pizza Margherita was named in honor of the Queen of Italy, Yeah, that story has been debunked. It's fake lore, but pizza is not the only food. Take carbonara This is a legendary dish and Italians will tell you it needs certain ingredients. Pasta, Fresh pepper Pecorino, Guanciale No bacon, Eggs. Under no circumstance are you allowed to add another type of bacon or worse cream

Let's look at history for a second This so called age old dish was invented in World War II by an Italian chef for American soldiers. And what were the original ingredients the chef used? Well, we have a quote where he says the Americans had fabulous bacon, very good cream, some cheese, and powdered egg yolks. Yes, the original carbonara was made with bacon, cream, and powdered egg? The first recipes for this start to appear in America.

It's sometimes made with Italian bacon, but then maybe use gruyere or some mushrooms? If you think about guanciale or bacon for the carbonara, uh, just until 20 years or 30 years ago, it makes no difference. No one has this problem. The cream, the cream in the carbonara. The most important chef in Italy, Gualtiero Marchese, used to put the cream inside the carbonara.

So we have pizza not developed in Italy. We have carbonara with cream. Where does this idea about Italian food originate? Where do these strong rules come from? According to Grandi, this invention happens as follows.

When a community finds itself deprived of its sense of identity because of whatever historical shock or fracture with its past, it invents traditions to act as founding myths. And boy, there are historical fractures all around. First, these dirt poor Italian migrants left the country and they wanted a story that was a bit more glamorous than their real origins. Talking about how you starve to death is just not the best background lore, I guess. Another fracture is in Italy, after the Second World War.

The country is going through this insane period of industrialization. Suddenly, a lot of peasants are moving into the cities. to work in factories. There are mass migrations from the south to the north. And because of this, between 1950 and 1980, the Italian economy grows 380 percent.

To understand this amount of growth, you have to look at China. It's compared to China's growth of the last 30 years. We make the industrial revolution that for England, for the United States, you need 100 years. And we, we made the same thing in 15 years. So these people migrating abroad, migrating in Italy, moving into cities, they are losing their sense of community, their old ways of living.

And so a new identity is crafted. Ideas of age old traditions take root of Italians always having a rich food history. of having plenty to eat instead of being poor farmers dying of starvation. Only the industrial boom after the World War II, the people have a possibility to eat very well. This is also the birth of the artisanal way.

The idea that Italian food is handmade, without machines. Even though a lot of the food we know can only exist because of this industrial revolution. So here we have a version of tiramisu, this classic Italian dessert, right? But the first recipes only appear in like the 80s. And the biscuits that's inside, that was introduced as a supermarket snack like after the Second World War.

So, an industrial product. Doesn't matter how old it is, it still tastes great. But the biggest wave Grandi makes is about parmesan. Parmesan production is actually really old, like a thousand years old. And the modern parmigiano you can find in Italy is a hard cheese.

But it used to be a lot creamier. And there is still a place where you can find that creamy cheese. Some of these Italian migrants started to make parmesan in America. The recipe didn't really change. But at the same time, in Italy, the recipe did change.

A lot. Our is, now, is an industrial product. It's not an artisanal product. And it's good, it's good for the exportation, it's good for the quality, it's good for the safety. Okay, I have to stop the video here because the claim about Wisconsin Parmesan is not entirely true.

Decoder Ring made an episode about Wisconsin Parmesan, and they show that this American cheese did evolve away from Parmigiano, into something less expensive, more suited for the mass market, which makes it a very... American cheese. Now while we're in the business of putting caveats, there are some people that doubt the soldier carbonara theory.

Like this source by Anthony F. Buccini. He talks about the predecessor to carbonara, a sauce with eggs, molten fats, and parmesan called Cacio e Uova. So I emailed Grandi to get his take and his reply, well...

It's savage. I have to read this to you. Puccini knows nothing about the history of the recipe and its ingredients. He attributes to Americans what has often been introduced by Italian chefs. Garlic, cream, etc.

He talks about an original recipe which doesn't actually exist. Because the recipe is always changing. And this Cacio e Uovo, it's just a base recipe that people used to eat all the time. So, um, thank you. Um, I've put Bonici's source in the description, so you can check it out yourself and see what you think.

This whole drama, it does leave us with a question. Why does this all matter? Does it matter that Italians are a bit more special when it comes to their food? I mean, every country has their own national myths, it can keep what once was a patchwork of states together, it can give the country some pride. And for Italy that is necessary, because this columnist has said that Italians are in fact deeply insecure.

It's only food and football that give the Italians the opportunity to keep their heads high. But even though Italy won the European Cup of 2020. They have been absent from the last two World Cups. So food gets to be more center stage. Anyway, I think that this invented rules is necessary for our identity.

Without this rule, uh, we lost the identity. There's nothing wrong with being proud, of course. But the problems arise when the pride about food is turned into a sort of gastronationalism. Politicians, both left and right wing, are using these food myths to exclude other people. In 2019, when celebrating a local holiday, the Archbishop of Bologna suggested to include a pork free welcome tortellini, so Muslims could also enjoy the party.

And this didn't sit well with some politicians. Remember our right wing foodfluencer? He said they're trying to erase our history and our culture. But as Grandi showed, until the late 1800s tortellini wasn't even made with pork. The oldest, most traditional recipes for tortellini are made with Poultry.

And it is exactly this misguided obsession with a supposedly ancient and artisanal food tradition that Grandi is tired of. Because Italy is a modern country with a modern industry, uh, and, uh, for the future, this is our future. It's not the past. I think this story shows how interesting our national identities are shaped. The whole point of nation states is that they are very young, but they are cosplaying as really old.

And in this case, I think the idea that even though Italy might have been divided, essence of being Italian was still there in the culinary tradition. And when it comes to traditions, older always feels better, right? And even though these identities can be young, it doesn't mean they are less powerful. Identities can give us a sense of kinship, of belonging. They can literally bring a thousand small states together.

Italian food means health, means joy, and means community, because we like to eat together. They're also very easily weaponized to exclude others. They can be one dimensional and less interesting than reality. What the current story leaves out is how culture and cuisine are never static. They always evolve.

And I think that's a beautiful thing. How these millions of Italians went out for a better life and got the chance to blend their culture with other influences. Then bring it back to Italy to make something we all enjoy today. And for some of the Italians I spoke to, that is the most important. But, uh, everyone is free to do whatever they like.

So, basically, you know, I know, like, a lot of Italians are really traditional about that, but for me, just eat it and enjoy it, you know. Leaving that out can make a country stuck in the past instead of embracing the future. And if it is up to Grandi, we should look to the future. Until that moment happens, he will be showing the real history of the Italian food. But I wonder, will his focus be any less controversial in the future?

Research is about the history of cappuccino and the tourists from Germany. It's important for the spread of cappuccino in the rest of Italy. I guess not. By the way, this is the list of food crimes I committed. Did you get them all?

You can pause the video here to check them. I was actually quite surprised to see that, according to this poll, Italians are neutral about breaking the pasta. I guess you learn something every day. And, um, I hope to see you in the next one.