---
video_title: "What happened to Italy's Skyscrapers?"
video_id: ikg3-GQLg3g
channel_name: "The Present Past"
channel_id: UC5Axef4J11DIu17y2RKVqNQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ikg3-GQLg3g
video_date: 2024-05-17
video_description: |
  Check out Manta Sleep here https://tinyurl.com/4bdyubnf and make sure to use the code Presentpast for 10% off your order!
  
  Join us in New York on the 20th of June!  https://thedispatch-nyc.eventbrite.com/
  
  And check out Lorenzo's other work here! https://lancaster.academia.edu/LorenzoCaravaggi
  
  If you want to see these beautiful city models go to these museums: 
  https://www.bolognawelcome.com/en/places/museums-and-art-galleries/collezioni-comunali-darte-en
  https://www.bolognawelcome.com/en/places/museums-and-art-galleries/museo-civico-medievale-2
  
  800 years ago Italy had skyscrapers, what happened to them? 
  
  00:00 - 02:31: Intro
  02:31 - 04:15: Italy in medieval times and Bologna now
  04:15 - 07:17: Chapter I Vendetta
  07:17 - 08:41: Chapter II Rise
  08:41 - 12:19: Chapter III Fall 
  
  Thank you to AP Archive for access to their archival footage.
  Select imagery/video supplied by Getty Images. 
  
  Hi there, my name is Jochem Boodt. I make the show The Present Past, where I show how the present has been influenced by the past. History, but connected to the present and fun! 
  
  Every episode I show how history has influenced and made a thing, an idea or event in our present time. 
  
  I make different content. You can find me on:
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@thepresentpast
  Instagram https://www.instagram.com/the_presentpast/
  Twitter : https://twitter.com/@ThePresent_Past
  
  Logo by: https://www.instagram.com/multicolor_junkie/
  
  If you have an idea for an episode please fill in this form:
  https://www.dropbox.com/request/nMMMSpoNWUJHBIZ8hJRu
---
Maybe you've seen this picture before. I know I have. It's posted all over the internet. This old town with an insane amount of towers. Many around a hundred meters tall. Twice the size of

the Tower of Pisa. And it's not just this image. Cultural influencers love this town. And I get it. This medieval skyline seems out of place. It looks more like modern New York. It is impressive.

It is futuristic. It seems almost... unbelievable. There are 179 towers in this image. And it's

supposed to be of a real place. The Italian city of Bologna. But nowadays you'll find just a handful of towers there. Online no one seems to agree on how many towers there used to be. This got my historian senses tingling. Are these images actually real? I wanted to find out one thing.

What happened to these towers? To answer that question I knew I had to go there. I'm on my way to Bologna. I'm meeting Lorenzo Caravaggi. A lecturer in medieval history from Lancaster University in the UK. Who might be the Italian with the most impressive English

accent alive. Indeed. It's gonna take some time to get there. But I hope I will get some rest with the help of today's sponsor, Manta sleep. I've been using Manta sleep the past...

Jochem? Hey Jochem? Okay wait, let's see... VPN? No... Website? No... Ah! Manta sleep.

Manta sleep makes the world's best sleep mask and accessories. All Manta's masks completely block out any light and are highly adjustable. They have big cups so there is no pressure at all on your eyelids. Jochem is wearing the Manta sleep Pro. This mask has C-shaped cups which is perfect for side sleepers like Jochem. I just spent the night sleeping on the floor of this Greek ferry.

Which generally I would not recommend. But with the Manta sleep mask and some earplugs it was actually fine. I got way more sleep than I was expecting. The mask fits. I didn't really feel it when I was sleeping. And they kept the lights on the entire trip. So it was nice to have a mask

that completely blocked that out. So if you also want to use Manta sleep you can use my code 'presentpast' for a 10% discount at the link below. And we can go back to Bologna. I started with reading up on the history of Bologna's towers. Many were built 800 years ago. You

might know Italy as this unified country. Italy at the time was different. It was a mess of small states. In this area they think cities should not be ruled by popes or emperors. But ruled by its citizens. Independent city states like Venice, Florence and Bologna become the hubs of trade and

culture. By some estimates Bologna becomes one of the largest cities in Europe. It's a time of huge ambitious projects. Cities build cathedrals, town halls and public squares. And some people build towers. In Bologna I found towers in different shapes and sizes. Some are big, others are

crooked. This one is actually a bed and breakfast. You can sleep here. But of potentially hundreds, now there are just 22 left. These two are the most famous. The Asinelli tower is the largest.

It's almost 100 meters tall. But as I walked through the city I found something strange. Some towers are just a few stories tall. Nothing like this image. So what's going on? In order to

understand what's going on with all these towers, we actually need to leave the city and go to the countryside. But before we do that we need to do something really really important. We need to have breakfast. Andiamo? Perfect. Let's go. This is a croissant, yes. It's a cornetto, it's a specialty

they make here. Lemon cream. Great way to start the day. It's the hearty breakfast we all need. Indeed. Before people build towers, they build castles. Now we know Italy is a world of cities.

It is the most heavily urbanized area in Europe at this time. But Italy, like the rest of Europe, is also made of aristocracy. And the aristocracy, they build castles and they live according to the lives of knighthood and chivalry, which often translates into using violence and showing that you're good at fighting. - Noble families would often be fighting each other. When they moved to Bologna, their traditions are taken over by local elites. But the city is no place to build castles.

These noble family feuds are really like Romeo and Juliet. - And we have a story of a young woman and a young man from rival families that fell in love with each other, had a secret wedding, and their relatives got quite mad. The relatives of the young woman especially. And they stormed the houses of their enemies, killed a young man, and then strangled the young woman who had married their enemy. - With this kind of violence happening, nobles build towers for protection. Families actually don't live in them. They live in townhouses. Towers are more

like panic rooms. They're only used when they're needed. But these times are not only defined by violence. This image shows two families making peace. Families also want political stability.

And priests tell them that if they want to go to heaven, they have to stop fighting. People start describing towers. Pictures of them start to appear. But they all look different from this image. So where is it actually from? If you do a reverse image search, you land up on Wikipedia,

where it says it's made by this artist Tony Pecoraro. I found his book with beautiful artwork of these magical cityscapes and of Bologna. But this book is from 2008. So I sent the artist an email and I got a reply. (man speaking in Italian) So this is an artist interpretation.

It's exaggerated. The real height should be lower. He based himself on a real source, this Angelo Finnelli. I've heard that name before. Connected to this image. This already looks a lot older.

I found it here on eBay. These are postcards of Bologna. Postcards from the early 20th century. So not from medieval times. They are also based on a work of Angelo Finnelli. Who is this guy? Here

he is with a map of the city behind him. And this is the model of Bologna in front of him with a lot of towers. It's in a communal art museum. If this model is the basis for the pictures, I have to go and see it. And hopefully I can find out how many towers there really were. The glory of men was to

be rich in arms and horses. That of nobles was to have lofty towers. As towers become popular, they move into the mainstream. You have merchants, you have bankers, you have people who come into a lot of money who also want to start building towers. Towers become status symbols. Families

are competing to build the tallest. Not always because of defensive purposes. Imagine having to carry stones for a catapult all the way up 100 meters tower. And it's not just Bologna. In Italy, it seems like everyone is building towers. In Siena, Florence, Pisa, San Gimignano,

towers become part of cityscapes. And Bologna's story will inspire a simple shoemaker.

I found that museum that has the work of Angelo Finnelli. This is him. He's described as a shoemaker by trade, but also a strange self-taught artist scientist. He made this model of Bologna. This is the model I've seen posted online. It's actually a hundred years old. This amazing work

shows all these towers dominating the city. It's responsible for all the pictures on the internet. But in the museum, they told me it's not the original source for Bologna's towers. So what does that source tell us? And where did all these towers go? Considering as we

have the ancient disease of pride, which has daily caused innumerable homicides, we have agreed that no other house should be built higher than the tower of Stephen, son of Balduinus and Lambert. Some nobles say the length of towers matters. Others say it's what you do with it. But all towers become associated with noble violence and public disorder. City governments decide to act. We have an image from a manuscript from Genoa that shows the civic governor of the city ordering

the destruction of the tower of a nobleman who committed murder. It's absolutely forbidden to build on top of a destroyed tower. So they will leave the ruins as a perpetual memory of your shame, like your family would be shamed. But it wasn't just the demolishing of towers that ended them. So the wealthy get bored of building towers at some point. In the 14th century,

it's not as fashionable as it used to be 100, 200 years before. So instead, they're building palaces where they can hold banquets and feasts. For the rest, towers were demolished, other collapsed in earthquakes, and some were shortened. The idea of a Bologna dominated by towers faded from memory. Until one man made it his mission to remember. I found the original source that inspires the model,

which inspires the postcards, that inspires an Italian artist almost 150 years later. Count Giovanni Gozzadini, it's descended from one of the tower-owning noble families. He wrote this, the first account of the history of Bologna's towers. It's actually a really solid historical work, but he identifies 194 towers. 194. Recent research shows he might have accidentally counted

some towers twice. It's not just a mistake though. Count Gozzadini is a proud man. There is a sense of, in a way, boasting about the power and the wealth and the beauty of Bologna. But he also sees them as warning signs for a modern Italy. Because they're associated with violence, with infighting.

So in the wake of the Italian unification, in the 19th century, towers should also stand as warning signs not to have divisions again in the future. So how did Bologna actually look in the 1200s? At the museum, they told me there's actually a second model that can show us this.

You can clearly see the outer walls, with roads leading to the center, leading up to towers towering over the city. How many exactly? We will probably never know. Modern sources say 80 to 100 towers. I know this doesn't look as impressive as those other pictures, but imagine for someone coming to the city and seeing all those towers.