---
video_title: "When Dutch Marines Made a Massacre"
video_id: J7snwizsgZ0
channel_name: "The Present Past"
channel_id: UC5Axef4J11DIu17y2RKVqNQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J7snwizsgZ0
video_date: 2025-01-17
video_description: |
  To try everything Brilliant has to offer for free for a full 30 days, visit https://www.brilliant.org/presentpast or scan the QR code onscreen—or you can click on the link in the description. You’ll also get 20% off an annual premium subscription.
  
  In 1977 nine Dutch Moluccans hijacked a train. The effects are still felt today. 
  
  00:00 - 01:15: Intro
  01:15 - 03:39: Day One 
  03:39 - 04:20: 1597: Dutch in Indonesia
  04:20 - 05:51: Day Two
  05:51 - 7:10: 1945: Indonesian Independence
  7:10 - 8:13: Day Three
  8:13 - 09:41: 1952: Schattenberg 
  09:41 - 10:25: Day Four: problems at the School 
  10:25 - 11:02: A free Moluccan state
  11:02 - 12:05:: Day 5 - 13: deadlock. 
  12:05 - 14:14: 1975: Another train hijacking? 
  14:14 - 15:40: Day 13: 
  15:40 - 16:28: Day 18: Josina returns
  16:28 - 19:52: The plan to attack the train 
  19:52 - 25:25: Day 20: The attack 
  25:25 - 28:27: The coverup 
  28:27 - 33:00: What really happened in the train? 
  33:00: Conclusion 
  
  Sources I've used for this video. A full script with footnotes will be online within 72 hours. Im a bit toast and want to post the video.
  
  Bootsma, Peter. De Molukse acties. Koninklijke Boom uitgevers, 2015. 
  Zegveld, Liesbeth. Ik wil de waarheid waarom ik de Molukse treinkaping voor de rechter bracht. Atlas contact, 2022. 
  Manuhutu, Wim, Glenda Pattipeilohy, and Henry Timisela, eds. Toma terus: 70 jaar Molukkers in Nederland. Amsterdam University Press, 2021.
  van Joolen Olof, Silvan Schoonhoven en Louise Koopman: Liggen blijven! : achter de schermen bij de mariniers van De Punt en de terreuracties van 1973-1978. Nieuw Amsterdam 2019. 
  Beëindiging van de gijzeling bij De Punt in 1977, Verslag van een archiefonderzoek (Min.Def & Min.V&J, 19 november 2014)
  
  
  Hi there, my name is Jochem Boodt. I make the show The Present Past, where I show how the present has been influenced by the past. History, but connected to the present and fun! 
  
  Every episode I show how history has influenced and made a thing, an idea or event in our present time. 
  
  I make different content. You can find me on:
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@thepresentpast
  Instagram https://www.instagram.com/the_presentpast/
  Twitter : https://twitter.com/@ThePresent_Past
  
  Logo by: https://www.instagram.com/multicolor_junkie/
  
  If you have an idea for an episode please fill in this form:
  https://www.dropbox.com/request/nMMMSpoNWUJHBIZ8hJRu
---
It's the 23rd of May 1977 at seven past nine in the morning. Max Papilaya pulls on the emergency break of the train from Assen to Groningen. The train screeches to a halt. Max and eight friends tell the passengers, 'This is a hijacking.' At the same time four youths walk into an elementary school. They take 105 children and their teachers hostage. The longest hijacking in history

has begun. 482 hours later Dutch Marines set out to free the hostages. Four tanks rush towards the school and six fighter jets roar through the skies towards the train. The attempt to end the hijacking turns into the bloodiest action in the Netherlands since the second world war. 'Is this one dead?' 'Yes, now he is!' And it leads to one of the biggest government cover-ups in

Dutch history. 'It remains in execution.' How did we get here? The train has stopped on a bend in the tracks close to the village De Punt. The hijackers are of South Moluccan descent, a minority in the Netherlands. They quickly release a few hostages, mainly older people and those

that are not ethnically Dutch. In their eyes the remaining hostages are guilty of supporting the Dutch government in a big injustice. But the train is less important now. The eyes of the nation are on the school hijacking. The Dutch Secretary of Justice reflects this sentiment. 'It's horrible

that they went so far as to involve a school with children in it.' Two hostage situations on the same day is not a coincidence. These attacks have been months in the planning. The leader of the group is 25 year old Max Papilaya. In his daily life he is not in the business of taking hostages. He works as a civil servant. He is active in a Moluccan Christian youth club.

And he is frustrated with the government of the Netherlands. There is also a girl in the group, Hansina Uktolseja. This morning she left a letter to her parents. 'Daddy and mommy, if you find this letter I am no longer at home but with my friends. I am a South Moluccan and a Christian and I am not afraid to die. If I get shot that's okay because it will not have

been in vain. It will be for a purpose that is not meaningless.' Hansina has no history of political extremism either. She is a dental assistant. But she has a secret relationship with Marcus Rudi Lumalessil , another hijacker. In this way she can be close to him. The hijackers share a list

of demands. They want the release of 21 Moluccan prisoners, a bus to the airport and a flight to a destination of their choice. If the government does not accept within 48 hours they will throw a hand grenade in between the children. The deadline is set for Wednesday, 2 pm. Growing up I didn't know much about the South Moluccan minority in the Netherlands. But in the 1970s the papers

were filled with reports of attacks, hijacking and hostage situations by people from this community. I wanted to understand this story, so I spent months researching, I visited locations and I animated how this hijacking happened. 430 years ago, four Dutch ships set sail in search of spice, their destination? Indonesia. They came to trade but soon wanted control. The main post turned

into a thirst for territory. To conquer all the islands of Indonesia the Dutch needed clerks, nurses and soldiers. They found many of them in this area, the Moluccas. In a sea of Muslim subjects, here the Dutch found islands of Christianity. Many joined the Royal Dutch Indies Army. Other groups don't always like that, they are sometimes called Belanda Hitam,

Black Dutch. The relationship between the Dutch and the Moluccas would not be good forever. The Dutch government establishes a crisis center to manage the situation. Specialized police and military units, including the newly founded anti-terror unit ‘Bijzondere Bijstandseenheid’’ are deployed to the scene. By now there is a phone line to the train, so negotiators can talk to the hijackers. They demand food and supplies, a trolley is brought to the train, a journey that

will be made 51 more times. The hijackers want to show they are serious. To put pressure on the government they place two hostages outside of the train at gunpoint. One of them is 23 year old Rosemarie Oostveen. I fought back fiercely saying that I didn't want to die because they didn't stand for something I was willing to die for. In response they told me it wasn't their intention

to kill me. But this is information the outside world does not have. And the Moluccas try to put the government under pressure in other ways. At the school they ask the kids to recite some words. Words aimed at the secretary of justice. The children hang out of the windows and chant.

This almost makes worried parents break the barricades to free their kids themselves. Then there is a mismatch between communication to the outside and what actually happens inside. One hundred nine days after the death of Germany's famous failed art student Indonesia declared independence from the Netherlands. The Dutch went to war to defeat the rebels and many Moluccans fought on their side. After four years the Dutch finally let go of their colony. The peace treaty,

Indonesia's leader agreed to a united state of Indonesia with relative freedom for places like the Moluccas. But within a year the Indonesian leader betrayed the agreement and proclaims a nation state instead. The South Moluccas declare independence but Indonesia invades them. Many Moluccan soldiers of the Royal Dutch Army are in barracks across Indonesia. They want to go home and fight. But Indonesia doesn't want trained soldiers joining the resistance.

So where should the soldiers go? The Dutch want to stay friendly with the new Indonesian state. So they pressure the Moluccas and take them and their families to the Netherlands.

But temporary will not be the reality of their stay. It's the day of the ultimatum. The situation is tense. The government has decided that if two hostages are executed the BBE will storm the train in the school, without proper planning it is a big risk. The main strategy of the government is to wear the hostage takers out. To stop the ultimatum they say they are willing to talk

about the demands of giving a free passage. The children always had absolute priority so we said we are willing to discuss granting safe passage which is at least for a lawyer something different from actually offering safe passage. To keep it to talking about free passage instead of granting it the government complicates every step. They say they can give the hijackers a plane but they just need to know the destination. And if the hijackers share a destination they will contact the country to make sure it's not possible. On the side of the hijackers Max is in charge. He refuses to

share where they want to go. He has reasons not to trust the Dutch government. Max Papilay was born in a camp in the Netherlands. I'm at Schattenberg. This is one of the places where the Moluccans were housed after they were sent to the Netherlands. But it wasn't always called that. In the second

world war it was called Westerbork. And this was the place where all the Dutch Jews were allocated before they were sent to their final destination. My mother told me that there were many fairy tales about what was not in the barracks in terms of spirits. Vita Pical is of Moluccan descent. She remembers where her grandmother lived. Now they know what happened.

It's not strange. Moluccans are settled here and in barracks all over the Netherlands. They are cut off from the society. They are not allowed to work. They receive food stamps. All because

their stay was supposed to be temporary. But for Max's generation the worst thing is what happened to their fathers. The moment they set foot on Dutch soil they are fired from the army. They fought for the Dutch flag. And then they came here. They had no soldiers

left. Nothing at all. And they had to wait. And that took years. The next morning is off at the school. One of the children gets sick. She has to vomit and falls ill. The hijackers discuss with

the government and release her. But that night suddenly more and more children fade and have to throw up. The hijackers talk to a doctor who thinks it could be something very serious. During a long discussion in the middle of the night the Dutch negotiator promises the hijackers that the government will grant them free passage out of the country. They just have to release the children.

The next morning the children go free. Only the four teachers remain. But the government is not willing to keep its promise. The hijackers feel they have been played. They hope the train will now make the difference. Max sees the generation of his parents hurting. They want to go back to

the Moluccas. But they can't. The parents go on peaceful protests. They want the Dutch government to pressure the Indonesians to establish an independent Moluccan republic. But after 350 years of colonial relations, the Dutch don't want to pass critique on the new Indonesian government.

They want to keep relations positive and have big business interests in the country. They have no intention of fighting for the Moluccan ideal. Don't the Moluccans see their cause is hopeless?

At the train the negotiations aren't as still made. The government still wants to hear what their hijackers plan on going. And the hijackers don't want to share it. In the train a certain routine starts to emerge. A certain rhythm developed in the train. Some

people did morning gymnastics. There was more and more card playing. Games were played and chess boards appeared. Certain people asked to take on specific tasks. Cleaning up new waste, tidying up the place or removing the waste from under the train. You could see the instinct for survival in

people. And in my perception people also became rather selfish. When cigarettes were brought in people struggled to share them. The focus was very much on the inner world of the train. Not so much on the outside world. "...In the outside world the government is getting frustrated.

If there is no progress with the negotiations they need to think of other ways to end this. Earlier Moluccan actions have resulted in violence. In 1975 the small village of Wijster becomes world news. Moluccan youths hijack a train. Yes, there was another train hijacking.

One and a half years before De Punt. But these hijackers immediately start killing hostages. In the end three people die. How did this happen? Almost ten years before, Christiaan Soumokil, the president of the Moluccan Republic was executed by the Indonesian government. His

death makes young Moluccans in the Netherlands extremely angry. All those peaceful protests their parents had dragged them to did nothing to bring a free Moluccas closer. So to show the world this injustice they start violent actions. They even make plans to take the Dutch Queen hostage. But hijacking a train, well, that will make the headlines. The hijackers demand the release

of political prisoners and a flight to a country of their choice. They are inspired by a Japanese militant group that took the French ambassador hostage and got a flight out of the country. In the French embassy those Japanese had also been granted safe passage. We assumed that the Dutch government would never abandon the hostages to their fate and that they would give in after a few hours. But with the Japanese the government only granted free passage because a foreign ambassador was at risk. When the hijackers then start executing hostages the secretary of

justice is sure of one thing. They try to send important persons from the Moluccan community to negotiate. One of them is Josina Soumokil, the wife of the legendary resistance fighter Kristian Soumokil. She is seen as the mother of all Moluccans. Josina tells the hijackers that they are endangering people on the Moluccas with their actions. With this she convinces them

to surrender. It must mean that she wasn't just making that up. And we absolutely did not want people in the Moluccas to face problems because of our actions. This train hijacking lasted 12 days. It was ended by Josina's intervention. But her part in the next hijacking will have a

completely different effect. With the negotiations in that log Josina Soumokil is once again asked to negotiate with the hijackers. But after her role two years ago she has been criticized by the Moluccan community. Did she sell out the boys to the Dutch government? When the hijackers ask her to help them she doesn't hesitate. They tell her what they kept hidden from the government. Where

they want to go. They have three destinations they think might take them in. Vietnam, Yemen and Benin. They need her to get in contact with friends so they can contact these countries. She does not tell anyone from the government about this plan. The Moluccans learn from the first

hijacking that executing hostages will get them nowhere. They have no intention of using violence. But the Dutch government doesn't know that. They are losing faith in a peaceful solution. And they are also worried about the BBE. The well-being of the hostages was of course the priority. But

our fatigue also played a role. We were dealing with two targets simultaneously. The train and the school. And that was quite a lot. People were getting tired, had been away from home for so long and were starting to show signs of 'this is enough for us.' You need well rested individuals

to carry out such an operation. The BBE operatives couldn't simply be replaced. They had a distinctly different training compared to other marines. So on the 7th of June the government asks the marines to work on a plan to free the hijackers from the train by force. Josina Soumokil comes back to the train. She has a message for the hijackers. Hold on, Benin will receive all of you. The

21 detained boys agree. Request free exodus, an airplane and no prosecution. Burn this letter. The hijackers finally get the news they wanted. It's amazing. They have an opportunity to go

to another country. They just have to sit tight and stick to their demands. Mentally, they dig in. The reality is, Benin has no place to take them in. It is unclear where the information on leave will come from. For the Dutch government, this is totally out of the question. They have

no intention of letting the hijackers leave the country. And by now, the marines have made a plan.

The marines have gathered information by monitoring the train with infrared and heat cameras. Buggd provision creates and talking to freed hostages. Based on this information, they believe the hostages are separated into two compartments, one for men and one for women. They think hijackers are in the front, on the balconies between the compartments and in the back of the train. The aim of the plan is to storm the train and to prevent the hijackers from reaching the hostages. But the information they have will prove to be incorrect. The plan has two parts. The first

part is outside the train. Three groups of snipers will shoot at the parts of the train the hijackers need to take to reach the hostages. And crucially, they will also shoot at the place the marines think the hijackers sleep. Group Lima 1 will attack the train from the east. Kilo 2 will shoot from the north. And Lima 2 will shoot at the legs of any fleeing hijackers. During the shooting, six

fighter jets will fly over the train with their afterburners open to disorient the hijackers. At the same time, a team of frogmen will simulate the fighters dropping bombs by detonating explosives next to the train. At the last moment, four machine gunners are added to the sniper groups. The groups are armed with 9,960 rounds of ammunition. The second part of the attack is the approach by marines. Five attack groups will approach the train. They will use wooden frames

fitted with an explosive charge to blast the train doors. Some marines are armed with revolvers, others with UZIs. The marines in the front part of the train expect the most resistance. They are allowed to put their UZIs to automatic fire. The rest have to keep them to single shot. The

revolvers are loaded with hollow point ammunition. In contrast to normal rounds that pass through a body, hollow point expands in the body. This makes it way more deadly. For this reason, it has been banned in international warfare since 1899. But there is no ban for domestic use. The marines

want ammunition because they will be able to shoot hijackers without the bullets then hitting other hostages. The marines also receive instructions of what kind of violence they are allowed to use. Once inside the train, the most important guideline for the marines is that they are not allowed to fire on hijackers that surrender in a clearly observable manner. The purpose of the attack was to immediately free the hostages and arrest the hijackers Our constitutional state is still set up to arrest suspects. This said, in discussion about the attack, the government accepts that every hijacker could die. This does not mean the decision is taken lightly. Especially

the prime minister, Joop Den Uyl, is against the attack. Joop Den Uyl wanted to negotiate. Well, I sometimes said, until kingdom come. He thought the risks were too great. That was a dramatic discussion. Joop Den Uyl was in tears. He saw the possibility of terrible things. After a

long discussion, the five ministers take a vote. Two are against. Three in favour. The attack is set in motion. The attack is planned to start at 4.45. At 3am, five groups of marines start their

approach to the train. They have to cross a river. An hour later, they are in position. At this time, the code word to initiate the attack is given. Mercedes. At 4.30, six starfighter jets take off

from their base. Six minutes later, sniper group Lima reports they are ready to fire. But the radio of one sniper is not working. Three minutes later, they report they are ready. The attack is supposed to start, but ground misses, obscuring the view of the train. The attack is postponed. Five minutes

later, there is a last check if everything is normal in the train. As the fighter jets can be heard in the distance, the attack commences. It is 4.54. Six fighter jets pass over the train multiple times. Frogmen detonate explosions. In the train, all hell breaks loose. Rudi and Hansina

were sleeping in the back of the train. When the shooting starts, they move towards the hostages. Hansina is hit and she is unable to continue. Rudi tells her to pray. He continues towards the compartment where the women are. He later says he has one goal. To shoot all passengers. He reaches

the women's compartment. The plan to contain the hijackers has failed. At the same time, the marines approach the train from the north. As they come closer, they think they are fired at. I saw a weapon coming out of that window. A whole string came over my head. I immediately stuffed

the space where he was sitting. After that, there was no more shooting. Research has shown it was most likely ricocheted bullets from the snipers. No window was opened. No shell casing found inside the train. It does make the marines more tense. At 5.02, the marines are in their position. They

put the blast frames on the windows. The sign is given to ignite. For the group at position one, the blast frame does not work. The marines break the window to enter. They find no hijackers. Group

two is led by the commander Rinus. For them, the blast frame works. His group enters the train. He encounters Hansina. I stormed inside and immediately opened fire in the direction of the corner opposite me. When I entered, I didn't see Hansina lying there yet. Then I saw Hansina.

She was lying half on the floor. I recognized her. We had received pictures of all the hijackers. She was still alive at that moment. She shook her head a little. She shouted 'Mama! Mama!' She was shot.

But someone who is shot and has a weapon himself can still shoot. I then fired another burst at Hansina with my Uzi from close range. Hansina was unarmed. For the group going to balcony three, the blast frame doesn't seem to work. When a marine expects it, it goes off anyway. He is

hit by wood splinters. The other marines throw a flashbang and enter. Marine Ruud goes to the first compartment and hears hijackers. Things were being shouted that I couldn't understand. Then I stopped for a moment to think. Should I shoot them or not? Then I thought to myself 'No,

I won't do it.' One hijacker is shot, but alive and lying on another hijacker. In the next compartment they find a dead hijacker and arrest another. At balcony four the blast frame works. The marines are greeted with an unexpected sight. They see a girl that was not supposed to

be there. Contrary to received intelligence, two girls, Ansje Monsjou and Rosemarie Oostveen, were sleeping in the balcony between the men's and the women's compartment. Oostveen got hit in the leg. She crawled to the men's compartment and another hostage helped her. By that time, Monsjou was already dead. The group continues on the train. They see hijacker Rudi. He has all the time to

start a massacre. But he does not go through with his first idea. I couldn't muster the courage. When he sees the marines, he fires and hits one marine in the arm. The marines return fire. They

hit a hostage in the head. In a chaos, one of the hostages has stood up and is moving forward. He is killed by the fire of the marines. Ruud grabs a hostage and aims his weapon at her. The marines throw an attack grenade. This explosion tears a hole in the ground and three hostages get

injured. Ruud's gun goes off accidentally and he hits the hostage. The grenade makes him surrender. The marines are able to take him in. At balcony 5, the marines think they are being shot at.

They return fire. When they enter the train, they shoot through the toilet doors. They can't see in the first compartments. They fire through the doors. Two hijackers are behind this door and neither survive the attack. At the last door, one marine says he sees movement. He shoots through

the door of the final compartment and shoots the person inside. The last hijacker is shot. The operation is over. The whole operation has taken just over 10 minutes. The action of the marines, 180 seconds. After 482 hours, the train hijacking is over. At the same time, four armored personnel

carriers rush to the school. One ramps the facade. All Moluccans surrender and are arrested. The marines become heroes. They risk their lives to free the hostages. The hostages are reunited with

their family members. But it is not a happy end for everyone. Rien van Baarel was a breadwinner of his family, Ans Monsjou, who turned 20 inside the train, is killed by Dutch bullets. The Molokan community mourns six dead. When the relatives of the killed hijackers receive their bodies, there is a surprise. They receive their sons and daughter in a closed casket with only a small

window. Historical research has shown this was a standard procedure at the time. But when they hear they are not allowed to open the caskets, this raises suspicion for the families. And the action of the Dutch government after the end of the hijacking makes it seem like they have something to hide. and the action of the Dutch government after the end of the hijacking makes it seem like they have something to hide. The Moluccan families are not allowed to see the autopsy reports of how

the hijackers died. Journalists are not allowed to see the broken train. And when the surviving hijackers appear before court, they are only given light sentences. The government rushed the trial. 'To avoid awkward questions about the actions of the marines.' And then there is the way the

Secretary of Justice informs the Dutch parliament about the action. He says the shootings before the attack were not meant to kill the hijackers. 'We knew that there was a risk that the death of some of them would be the consequence.' In reality, the government had accepted the death of all hijackers. On the actions of the marines, he says, inside the train, 'No shot was fired at a hijacker who did not resist with a firearm.' This line of reasoning is repeated for more than

three decades. The problem is, it is not true. It was only hijacker Rudi that was armed and attacked the marines. In 2000, an interview with the old prime minister, recorded in 1987, is aired. In it, he accepts the responsibility for the attack, an attack he never wanted, because...

'It remains an execution of people breaking the law, but it is an execution.' An execution? Twelve years later, a Dutch journalist finds the autopsy reports that were conducted after the fact. These reports show facts that the government never shared. The amount of bullet holes in the bodies. And that two hijackers, Hansina and Max, have burn marks on their bodies. These

burn marks appear when weapons are fired on or extremely close to the skin. The journalist says the hijackers have been executed. The government starts an investigation into what happened. In a 179-page document, they put together all the information. In the end, their conclusion was that the marines did not cross any lines. The violence did not exceed the limit of what was expected and

accepted by the state, it says. But there are still many questions. With the new information, family members of the hijackers sued the Dutch government in 2014. After decades of uncertainty, they want the truth. What really happened in the train? Did the government give orders to

kill the hijackers? The main case they bring forward is the death of Hansina and Max. Point of the prosecution is that the law of war states it is forbidden to shoot wounded combatants. Did they pose a threat to the marines? Or were their deaths unnecessary? During the

trial, new information comes to light. There is a report by the British defence attache about the briefing before the attack. Marines should fire on the legs of the hijackers. But a high officer is supposed to have said... 'Remember, their legs go up to their necks.' Clearly, from all the

evidence, the marines were intended to kill all or as many of the terrorists as possible to avoid problems in the courts afterwards. The official line had been that the marines should apprehend the hijackers. And the marines in the train and the government deny any order to kill. After all, didn't many hijackers survive? But multiple witnesses state that the commander of the Tecana school found it morally reprehensible to execute the hijackers. And it was clear the

marines had different ideas about the approach. The commander had said that it would be good if they were all shot. Shot dead. This statement was made when tensions were high. Maybe it shouldn't be taken at face value. But it does influence this marine that decided not to shoot the hijackers he

found. That one will shoot in a certain situation and the other won't. I think it has to do with the difference in character. It's only my job to eliminate those people because they're dangerous. But I have nothing against those Moluccans. Not at all. I'd rather have a beer with them. This is

not the view of the marine that encountered Hansina. Eliminating the hijackers so that they can be handed over to justice, I don't do that. You can't attack like that. You can't say in advance, 'Let them try to hit them in the legs.' That's pure nonsense. It goes so fast.

It's about the action-reaction moment. If you're not satisfied with what you see in front of you, you shoot again. You can't think first. Then I stopped for a moment to think. Should I shoot them or not? Then I thought to myself, 'No, I won't do it.' You can't think first. That's not

how it works. The marines are brought in for questioning. The marine that attacked Hansina said he fired on her with his Uzi. After all, he had to do it in a split second. But someone who is shot and has a weapon himself can still shoot. I then fired another burst at Hansina with my

Uzi from close range. But the autopsy report shows it's not the Uzi fire that killed her. She has three wounds made by a revolver. They were made from very close by. One is through her head.

In the trial, the state is not able to explain where the burn signatures on her body comes from. But the prosecution has approved this is an execution. And when it comes to Max, who was shot in the front part of the train, the marine says in the trial, 'But there's a problem with that statement. Max was found lying on the floor with his feet on the bench. The fatal bullet wound entered his shoulder.' It is impossible to connect this wound to the place the marine

said he fired from. It also does not correspond to bullets fired from the outside. Not by the snipers nor the attack group. So how was he killed? Then an audio recording is brought to light. There

is a recording of the marines that were active in the front of the train. Second by second, we can follow Marine Group 5. The tapes have never been released to the public. [Distortion] 'Distortion, look. Please, remain seated. Yes. Two. There's a guy in here. Go, shoot. Shoot that guy. Okay,

nice. Is this one dead? Yes, now he is. Hey, take it easy. Stop. Boys. Weapons on safe,

huh? Weapons on safe. Weapons on safe. Weapons on your back. Totally blue. I've

shot them both to pieces. Behind. That one was still alive. I completely destroyed.'

These tapes were never meant to be released to the public. For the Moluccan community, there is extra evidence that executions took place in the train. But the defence says these tapes alone prove nothing. It's impossible to connect them to a specific place or a specific person in the train. And this is what the judge also decides. Twice, a judge ruled in the favour of the state,

saying they believed that the marines could not know if Max and Hansina were still a threat. That it was dark in the train. Chaotic. It is easy to judge the actions of the marines 50 years later. To say what they should have done in those 180 seconds. Still, taking that into account,

two things are not explained. The burn wounds of Hansina and the burn wounds of Max. They don't correspond with the official account and they don't correspond with what the marines said. In the end, this is not the individual responsibility of the marines, but of the state. It's about the violence a government is willing to use against its own citizens. It is up to you to decide

if they made the right call. Do you think the hijackers were just terrorists and could have expected this? Terrorists that threatened lethal violence and that the marines acted in stressful conditions with risks to their own lives. Or were these people that had no intention of killing anyone? That there was a scope to arrest them, like the way other hijackers were arrested.

I don't know what happened on the train, so I can't pass judgement. What I do know about is the treatment that the Moluccan people received when they came to the Netherlands. The way they were housed and neglected, that they spent years protesting peacefully without being heard, that they felt betrayed by the Dutch government who didn't support their wish for an independent state, how the government tried very hard to cover up the events that happened in the train, how they kept family in the dark for decades, and that this pain lived on in the communities. Certainly the generation of my mother, they were so angry and sad. They had so many feelings for it, especially towards van Agt. So as soon as he died, it felt like a

kind of relief or a kind of justice. You can still think it doesn't excuse their actions, but maybe it helps you understand why in big parts of the Moluccan community people like Max and Hansina are seen not as terrorists, but as resistance fighters, giving their life for a free Malaccas. The six hijackers that died in the attack lie together in a grave, not far from where they were shot. On the stone it says 'Lawa Mena Hau Lala,' which I probably pronounced horribly. It means something like 'keep going forward without putting a step back.'

So that's that. I really spent months working on this video, and without sponsors that's just impossible. So I really want to thank today's sponsor Brilliant for making this video possible. If you've been on YouTube, you know about Brilliant. It's the app that teaches you math, but in a fun way. You learn by doing with thousands of interactive lessons in math,

data analysis, programming, and AI. I don't know about you, but in a new year I want to try to learn some new things. With Brilliant you can build a powerful learning habit that will develop your personal and professional growth in just a few minutes each day. With fun lessons you can learn on the go, and it's so much better than just mindlessly scrolling. So try everything Brilliant has to offer for free for a full 30 days if you go to brilliant.org/presentpast.

And if you use my link in the description you'll get 20% off an annual premium plan.