---
video_title: "When a Genocide Was Broadcast Live on TV"
video_id: Vj9hPamC04U
channel_name: "The Present Past"
channel_id: UC5Axef4J11DIu17y2RKVqNQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vj9hPamC04U
video_date: 2025-12-23T16:31:21+00:00
video_description: |
  Thanks to Odoo for sponsoring this video: https://www.odoo.com/r/OSz
  
  Check out the Nuhanovic Foundation: https://nuhanovicfoundation.org/justice-from-war-to-democracy-and-freedom/ - The Nuhanovic foundation was inspired by Hasan's story and fight for justice. Hasan is not directly affiliated with or has any day to day involvement with the running of the organisation.
  
  Sources: 
  Dragovic, Jasna. “Why Did Yugoslavia Disintegrate? An Overview of Contending Explanations.” In: Lenard J. Cohen and Jasna Dragovic-Soso (Eds), State Collapse in South-Eastern Europe, Purdue University Press, 2008
  V.P. Gagnon. The Myth of Ethnic War, Serbia and Croatia in the 1990s (2004)
  Karčić, Hamza. "Remembering by Resolution: The Case of Srebrenica." Journal of Genocide Research 17, no. 2 (2015): 201-210
  Robert Hayden - From Yugoslavia to the Western Balkans Studies of a European Disunion, 1991-2011, 2011)
  Kate Hudson. Breaking the South slav dream. The Rise and fall of yugoslavia (2003)
  Dennis P. Hupchick, The Balkans: From Constantinople to Communism, 2002
  NIOD Instituut voor Oorlogs-, Holocaust- en Genocidestudies. Srebrenica, een ‘veilig’ gebied: Reconstructie, achtergronden, gevolgen en analyses van de val van een Safe Area. Amsterdam: Boom, 2002.
  Nuhanovic, Hasan. De tolk van Srebrenica. Singel Uitgeverijen, 2020.
  Rohde, David. Endgame: The Betrayal and Fall of Srebrenica, Europe's Worst Massacre Since World War II. New York: Westview Press, 1997
  Srebrenica Memorial Center. Srebrenica Genocide Denial Report 2021. Edited by Monica Hanson-Green. Srebrenica: Srebrenica Memorial, 2021
  Tardy, Thierry. "United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR—Bosnia and Herzegovina)." In The Oxford Handbook of United Nations Peacekeeping Operations, edited by Joachim A. Koops, Thierry Tardy, Norrie MacQueen, and Paul D. Williams. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2015
  Tardy, Thierry. "United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR—Croatia)." In The Oxford Handbook of United Nations Peacekeeping Operations, edited by Joachim A. Koops, Thierry Tardy, Norrie MacQueen, and Paul D. Williams. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2015
  Westerman, Frank. De slag om Srebrenica: De aanloop. De val. De naschok. Amsterdam: Querido Fosfor, 2018
  
  https://argos.vpro.nl/artikelen/srebrenica-en-de-tanks-van-de-denen-deel-2-waarom-nam-dutchbat-geen-zware-wapens-mee
  http://thestrategybridge.org/the-bridge/2017/9/20/trigger-happy-autonomous-and-disobedient-nordbat-2-and-mission-command-in-bosnia
  https://argos.vpro.nl/artikelen/srebrenica-en-de-tanks-van-de-denen-deel-2-waarom-nam-dutchbat-geen-zware-wapens-mee
   https://www.britannica.com/biography/Ratko-Mladic
  https://www.nrc.nl/nieuws/2015/06/29/srebrenica-20-jaar-later-en-toch-zijn-wij-ook-sc-1510577-a1261380
  https://isgeschiedenis.nl/nieuws/karremans-wist-van-doden-moslimmannen-in-srebrenica
  
  
  
  Hi there, my name is Jochem Boodt. I make the show The Present Past, where I show how the present has been influenced by the past. History, but connected to the present and fun! 
  
  Every episode I show how history has influenced and made a thing, an idea or event in our present time. 
  
  I make different content. You can find me on:
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@thepresentpast
  Instagram https://www.instagram.com/the_presentpast/
  Twitter : https://twitter.com/@ThePresent_Past
  
  Logo by: https://www.instagram.com/multicolor_junkie/
  
  If you have an idea for an episode please fill in this form:
  https://www.dropbox.com/request/nMMMSpoNWUJHBIZ8hJRu
---
The man is wearing a dirty shirt. He seems underfed. The man is called Osman. Norman is his son. As Osman thinks his captor, the hand-held camera recording tells us it is 4pm on the 13th of July 1995. It is in fact not safe with the Serbs. Osman and his son Nerman will not survive the end of the week. Osman and Nerman were among 40,000 people taking refuge in a town called Srebrenica. They were under official protection from the United Nations. Over 9 days in July, the lives of these refugees changed forever. Serbs soldiers killed more than 8,000 men and boys and hundreds of women. This massacre is the first recognized genocide on European soils since the Second World War. It is also one of the biggest failures of the international community. They can't just tell us that they would move forward as possible, this is the way we... All now at the intelligence, you have a dead eye. I'm not going home today. Do you know what's going on? Don't you need a piano player? God, I love a son of a bitch! I love you, man! You're welcome. I love you, man. I love you, man. I love you, man. I love you, man. I've been fascinated by this topic for a long time. The war in the former Yugoslavia is the first war I remember seeing on the television. And growing up in the Netherlands, Sabrina was on the news every couple of years. Because those UN peacekeepers you can see on the footage, they were Dutch. Sabrina became a national trauma. 30 years later, and charges of genocide are again being levelled. I wanted to know two things. How could these nine days happen? And what is the situation now? Three decades on. Both in Bosnia and in the Netherlands. So, at an extensive research, I talked to experts, to survivors, to people living there right now. And I mapped the situation in 3D. It's a small town located in a narrow valley in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was already known in Roman times, for the silver you could find in the mountains nearby. Cebre means silver. I wanted to come here because I've heard the name of this town countless of times, from documentaries, newspapers, books, and for me the name of this has always been connected to the horrible fate of thousands of innocent people and the role that soldiers played in it. But I've never been there. With this in my head it's weird to drive up to the town and to see a tourism world welcome me. I've seen rainy footage of people in panic, over UN-based completely overrun with people trying to flee. And if you go around this town the marks that the war left are never far. But then again it's also just a town where people live, where you can get a donor, where they know that only pain can lead to gain. Hassan Duanovic survived a war in this town and he remembers growing up there. I grew up in a separate town until the second grade of primary school. I loved my childhood in the summer and I just loved it. Why we were aware of our different backgrounds we still spent together, you know, all our time. I think the feeling of being a Yugoslav was very strong. Wait, where are those different ethnicities in the country Yugoslavia has on us talking about? Let me show you. So Yugoslavia is this country on the Balkans and you have all these people that have been living here together for centuries and they all live next door to each other. You've got Orthodox Christians, you've got Catholics, you've got Muslims, mostly in this green area. But if you look at this you might think all these people are super different and that's just not true. If you put them in a lineup you wouldn't really be able to tell them a part. Most of them speak the same language and almost all of them are Slavs. There is some bad fighting in this area in the First World War and a very, very bad civil war in the Second World War. If you want to know more about that and want to know more about this country I made a whole video talking about the history of Yugoslavia. So after the Second World War the country continues as a socialist republic. You see the nice star in their flag and they have a charismatic leader, Josep Brostito. In a socialist country under a communist party religion kind of gets a backseat in this time. So there's this joke that goes around. What's the difference between a syrup, a croat and a Bosniak, a Muslim? Well the difference is the syrup doesn't touch Orthodox icons in the church. The croat doesn't go to Catholic mass and a Muslim never prays towards Mecca. But that is about to change. Every day I bite on my office. I'm reminded of something. Something that makes this video possible and something that I swear when I was writing this still had an ad outside. And that is Odu, the best all-in-one business management software on the planet. We don't need multiple monthly subscriptions but you get one subscription that fits all your needs. Odu offers over 45 apps to run your business on one single platform. Say you need a website. Well you can make one using their website app. You can make your own website in just four simple steps. There's no technical skills required. You can define the type of sites, your sector and objectives. You can choose a color palette or upload your logo. It's easy to add pages and features and you can choose a theme. It's also easy to customize your website with simply dragging and dropping blocks. You can also modify your blocks by customizing text, images, color, as well as giving them animated text. AI is even integrated and it helps you write or rewrite your text. The first Odu app is free and with unlimited hosting and support and with the website app, you can even get a free custom domain name for a whole year. So start using Odu's website app now to start building your online presence. And for us, let's get back to the video. When Tito dies and the country is hit by a bad economic crisis, the leader starts to embrace nationalism. They begin to play up the differences and divide the people based on their ethnicities. The 80s came with this sort of awareness that okay, you know, the different, the ethnic difference between me and the Serbs may not be something I should take lightly. It was scary to learn that my ethnicity may be a problem. For myself, my parents, my neighbors, my relatives, the people who lived around me. Media and all nations start highlighting the differences between the people that have been living together in peace. There was a flood of information or disinformation or propaganda or whatever. Maybe historical facts, I don't know about the atrocities of the World War II. J.W. War II, a Croatian party and some busnya muslims side with the Nazis. Creations killed more than 300,000 Serbs. When Creations decide they want to be independent, Serbs living here fear they might become minority. They themselves declare independence and then start a war. In this war, civilians are targeted and a new term starts to dominate the international media, ethnic cleansing, killing civilians and deporting people from the land they have been living in. Now, it's important to mention that all sides committed war crimes and many Serbs were the victims of ethnic cleansing. But Serbs were overall responsible for the most violence and the most horrible atrocities. The international community is seeing this happen, but at first they are not willing to do much. You have to understand that everyone is really busy with other big things that are happening in this time. The Soviet Union has just collapsed. It's the end of the Cold War. Germany has just been united again. Eventually, early in 1992, the UN sent peacekeepers to Croatia, where one conflict seems frozen, another is about to erupt. And the Bosnian Serbs, our neighbors, started wearing uniforms and getting rifles in front of us. My mother's name was Nasihah. My father's name was Ibro, which is a short version of Ibrahim. My brother's name was Mohammed, but we all, we all in our family, always called him Bratso, which means little boy. The Bosnian Serbs declared independent state. Their president, Karat Siech and General Radkomladic command Serb forces to attack villages in eastern Bosnia where Bosniaks live. They started bloody siege of the biggest city in Bosnia, Sarajevo. They built concentration camps. The papers are filled with images that remind people of the Second World War. We hid in the woods for days, and then for weeks and months, actually we moved from one village to another. As Hassan and his family are on the run from this violent, they hear about a place where Bosnian soldiers are defending a city. It was the last refuge for the people like us. The Serbs are in positions over the hills. They regularly shell the city. Bosniak men have formed a makeshift army to protect the city, but they lack munition. They don't have a theory or tanks. And this town that normally houses around 8,000 people is now growing to 40,000. There's just not enough food and supplies for all these people. Because there was no self-rising flower or yeast to be found anywhere in Slevenitsa, people started using the powder from five extinguishes as a living agent. There was no shortage of extinguishes. You could find them in every apartment building and in all the offices and factories. They were all taken away and smashed open and the extinguishing powder was removed and sold on the market. I still have no idea what chemicals were in it or what the long-term health effects of consuming it might have been. To do something, the UN starts a campaign of humanitarian assistance. This end convoy with foodstuff. But the Serbs, they control the roads. They do not let them enter the town. Food shortages become a big issue. The people are desperate, so they go on raids to these villages that are literally just over the mountain. And then accompanied by a few soldiers, up to 10,000 desperate people storm to the towns that are being defended by the Bosnian Serb army. These raids are extremely dangerous. As the convoy is concave through, the UN now starts sending planes to drop food. A man standing next to me was hit in the shoulder and screaming at me. These food droppings lead to chaos with people fighting over the parcels. In this desperate situation in March 1993, a friend's UN general, Philippe Morion, reaches the city. When he wants to leave, the people stop him. It tries to calm them and he promises the crowd. You are now under the protection of the UN forces. He actually showed up in Srebrenica. And we thought we were saved. The generals there, you know, with us. What Hassan doesn't know is that this general Molyon has acted without any permission from his bosses in New York. They don't like this at all. What does he mean, protect these people? How? They are in the middle of Serb territory. In the end, the UN improvises and they come up with this new thing, safe areas. This is not normal, UN procedure. It's actually never been done before. A total of six towns, where we put on a defence of the United Nations. UN soldiers are supposed to keep the peace. And these peacekeepers will play a pivotal role in the story. You've seen them before, you know, these soldiers with the blue helmets and the white tanks sent by the UN. But I never really understood what their mandate was. What could they do? What couldn't they do? Could they use violence? If they couldn't, why are they there? So to understand, a military historian, to explain some things to me. At one point, they need to keep two fighting armies apart. This wasn't really mediation. Also, it wasn't peace enforcement. So, they invented something new. The UN doesn't have its own army. To do all this peacekeeping and peace enforcing, they are dependent on countries to send troops. In this mission, the UN also relies on NATO to provide air support. The idea is still that the UN is strictly neutral. Now, being strictly neutral doesn't mean they are not allowed to fire weapons at all. The UN writes down what they can do. They say that its troops can use force and air power in self-defense in a couple of scenarios. For instance, if the safe areas are bombed. Or if armed enemies enter the area. Or if UN forces or humanitarian convoys are obstructed in their movement. It's not too bad of a mandate. Technically, they can do a lot. The supply needs a safe haven starts with the contingent of Canadian troops. And when their time ends, the UN is certainly for a country to do a new mission. But no one really wants this. This enclave is deep into Serpent territory. It's hard to defend. It's going to be dangerous. But the Dutch, well, the Dutch are really keen to participate. They want to put their best leg forward, as we say in an alliance. So, in go the Dutch soldiers. I'm Hank Foots, a veteran Dutch battalion. Second Dutch battalion in Bodichari, Siberenice. These soldiers are part of the UN protection force or UN pro-fore. I couldn't believe I came in such a place because it looked like the Middle Ages, unbelievable. There was nothing. People were walking on barefoot, hardly close at their body. So, we arrived at July 94 in the summer. Well, we saw many people only walking along the road. No cars, nothing at all. There was no light for the people, no gas, no water. They didn't have anything. They have their HQ in an old battery factory in Bodichari. This is just north of the town of Siberenice. They also have a base in the town. They also have men observation posts all around the enclave. This whole zone is supposed to be demilitarized. It was completely surrounded by enemies. There was only one way in and out, only one road, one entrance. In total, there will be three Dutch battalion at Bodichari, each serving a six-month posting. But they told us it could be a chance we wouldn't come back. So they advised us to write a letter. The people in the enclave believed that the Dutch are here to help them, but are they up for the job? What weapons do they actually have? When preparing for the mission, some in a Dutch army propose to take mortars. Some propose to take stinger rocket launchers. Radar, 25 millimeter cannon with heat sensor. But the politicians and the top of the military didn't really do their homework. The politicians are mostly concerned with not having any Dutch soldiers die. They think that giving them heavy weapons will upset the Serbs. They didn't really read these rules of engagement that the UN gave to them. So they don't take the mortars. They don't take the stingers. They don't take the radar and it changed the 25 millimeter cannon to a .50 machine gun. So was this normal? Well, one of the other safe areas is protected by Nordbot. This is a battalion made up of mostly Swedish and Danish troops. This Nordbot brings leopard tanks and they are not afraid to use them. They actually became known as shoot bats with how easy they are with engaging the enemy. UN doesn't always like this, but the Nordbot enclave and its civilians will survive the end of the war. Look at the guy. I want him to protect my enclave. Now, Dutchbat doesn't have any tanks. But luckily they will be able to rely on air support. The UN has instituted a no-fly zone. NATO planes can support the troops. They will need it because the Serbs are not also trying to undermine the fighting power of the battalion. One convoy got hostage for eight days. It's a pretty long time. It was a fuel convoy. It was headed to our enclave. But because the fuel didn't come, we had to shut down every generator. So the only thing what was working was the lights of the compound. We couldn't shower anymore. We didn't have heating anymore. And in November it started to get cold in Bosnia. Remember how the UN had said that force is possible if the freedom of movement of UN troops is restricted. This is such a situation. So, bringing the air force, right? But behind the scenes, the UN has grown more reluctant to use air power. To understand that, we have to zoom out and look at the bigger political picture, especially who are the leaders of this UN mission. Akashi is actually the civilian leader from the military mission. He is the special representative of the Secretary General, a diplomat, a Japanese officer. He is very busy keeping the peacekeeping ideology. Akashi is trying really hard to broker a peace. But it's a peace that does not exist on the ground. Recent history has shown them how peacekeeping can go wrong. In 1992, the UN started the humanitarian mission during the Civil War in Somalia. Peacekeeping then turned to peace and forcing. UN soldiers from America got into a fight and 19 of them died. You might have seen the film, Black Hawk Down, about this incident. A picture of an American body dragged through the streets has dominated the news. Akashi and Jan-Way want to avoid this at all costs. In this case, it's real in 1994. Two times, the UN has responded to serve aggression with air strikes. But the Serbs react furiously. They retaliate by taking UN peacekeepers hostage. Jan-Way and Akashi are pressured by all these countries sending their troops not to be too aggressive. In May 1995, Jan-Way goes to New York to report to the United Nations. He tells his superiors he is handicapped by the safe areas. They are mostly inside Serb control territory. He wants to leave the safe areas, so he doesn't need to worry about UN personnel when they use airweapons. But the UN doesn't give in to his demands. Then a third time they use the Air Force after the Serb aggression. Now Serbs capture UN personnel and use them as human shields. They chain them to military targets, to barracks, to airfields, taunting the UN. Many of these hostages are French. The Frenchmen, Jan-Way secretly meet with Lydich, the general, to negotiate their release. When hostages get released, the Serbs claim Jan-Way has made a promise. There won't be any more air strikes. The UN denies this, and it's unclear whether a deal has been made or not. But one direct result is that the UN makes a request for air strikes stricter. What happened to the other is that the UN is the fact that there is a goal to make a choice, where the air forces are, so they are actually going to be bombed, and that there is a need to be a smoking gun. And smoking gun in its sense is quite literary, visible smoke coming from a tank or a piece of artillery. Shortly after, at a staff meeting, Jan-Way says, The Serbs test the waters on a 20th of June to Serbian gala bombers getting to the air. The UN has no flight zone, so will the UN intercept the Serbs planes? Nothing happens. The Serbs By now, the third Dutch-Bet Battalion has been in the enclave for a few months. The commander of the battalion is left and internal Tom Karamans. He has been deployed before, in Lebanon, and again in Yugoslavia. Before this mission, his commanders had some doubts about his capabilities. He lacks charisma. They are not really sure about his resolve, but his loyal, and it was his turn to make a promotion and command a battalion. So they send him anyway. What Karamans doesn't know is that the Serbs are up to something. In March, a present of the Bosnian Serbs has ordered the military to create an unbearable situation of total insecurity with no hope of further survival or life for the inhabitants of Srebrenica. The issue is that Dutch-Bet is in the way. To undermine the fighting strengths of the battalion, the Serbs had been starving Dutch-Bet of supplies. No munition, diesel or petrol reached the base. The soldiers they live on biscuits, on canned foods, on vitamin pills. The men and women hadn't seen fresh fruit or vegetables in 65 days. Moral was low. Most are looking forward to the end of the mission. And then the battalion is also not on full fighting force. The Serbs allowed soldiers to go on leave but stop them from coming back. This means they are down from 600 soldiers to about 400, of which only 150 are fighting personnel. July comes. It's hot in the Bosnian mountains. In just 9 days, the fate of Srebrenica and its population will be sealed. On the 6th of July on the Thursday, it's the start of the Serb attack. At 3.50 am, the Serbs fire six rockets over the Dutch compound. At 5, they start shelling the observation post-Fox strut at the Anklave border. In the OP, Dutch soldiers mark clavra and ravifanrense cower in their bunker. They call the Dutch-Bet HQ to withdrawal but are not allowed to do so. The estimated more than 200 shells land near the OP. It is hit by two tank grenades. In Potocari at the Dutch-Bet HQ, the soldiers take shelter underground. They kill time by watching a Wilmeldin tennis match, it's melting against the gassy. The soldiers have one thing on their mind. Going home, Caramans hears about the shelling of OP Fox strut. He calls directly with the staff in Sarajevo to discuss what his options are. What kind of air support can the battalion get? On the 6th of July, there are two options. Close air support and air strikes. Close air support is directly understeuined from their troops who are in danger or who are in danger. Air strikes are a struggle to do strategic things that do nothing with the situation. You can think of the convoy on military equipment, air supply, air supply and military infrastructure. For close air support or CIS, Caramans has to have a list of targets and there has to be this smoking gun. Units have to be attacked at the exact moment that airplanes give to support. To us for CIS, Caramans send a request to regional command in Tuzla. They check if there is a target list and this smoking gun. They then send this request through to Bosnia command in Sarajevo. In Sarajevo, they check their requirements again. If they are correct, they then send it to Zagreb, where the main HQ of Yuan command is located. In Zagreb, Yanye and Akashi have to agree with the assessment and they have to check with NATO if they are able to provide the close air support. Does it sound super complicated and maybe a bit hard to follow to you? Well that's because it is. There is this huge bureaucracy surrounding this air support and we'll see how long it can take for a request to reach the top if it even does reach it. What is interesting about this chain of command is that because of some officers are in leave, the entire command chain has Dutch personnel present or in charge. The Dutch really have a big stake here. The general that explains this to Caramans is Nikolai. General Nikolai doesn't consider this as an official request, so nothing happens. Then at 10-2, the Dutch commander Caramans submit a request. He asks for presents of close air support. When it reaches Sarajevo, the request is denied. Presence of close air support doesn't exist. He should have just asked for close air support. Meanwhile at the UN HQ in Zagreb, they are slow to realize what is happening. The brief for the day is overall a quiet day military. On the next day, a layer of thick fog is obscuring sight in the valley. The Serb forces are unable to proceed with their advance, but in the town of Sabrina, there are UN military observers that have a bad feeling about this. They follow a report with a request for action to stop a potential massacre in the safe area. The fog is lifting. The Serbs are able to resume their attack. They start shelling OP Fox Strat again. At one in the afternoon, Caramans once again ask for air support. The request is denied by General Nikolai in Sarajevo. His request didn't come with a target list, and Nikolai also says that the weather still isn't good enough. Plains won't be able to find their targets, but there are also peace negotiations going on. Bombing the Serbs might upset them and interrupt the negotiations. And hour later, there are several tanks aiming at OP Fox Strat. They gave the Dutch-Bets soldiers two options, withdrawal or surrender. The Dutch decided to withdraw on their APC, as they withdraw the encounter a roadblock set up by Bosnik soldiers. They don't want the Dutch to leave their own peace. The UN is supposed to defend them. In the panic, one Bosnik throws a grenade, Ravi van Rensen is hit. They rush to the headquarters, but Ravi dies from his injuries. This will mean a Serbs end up with hostages. We were afraid of our lives, and we had to leave our observation post. And so we could go two ways, and this is the way we went. One hour after a Serbs take OP Fox Strat, two British Jaguars fly over the enclave. It's the 9th of July, and the situation in the town is deteriorating. The morning sees constant shelling. Refugees from the south of the enclave flee to the town. The 1103, the UN Military Observer's report that quote, the city is on the verge of collapsing. Comments now change this mind. He does believe in close air support anymore. This can lead to artillery fire on Sabrina, the remaining OP's and the base. He now believes the only option are air strikes that will eliminate all the weapons system of the Serbs at once. As the Serbs approach, Dutch OP's are surrendering one by one. At the UN headquarters, the officers ask themselves what is happening, is Dutch Pet made up of pacifists? The Serbs are friendly to the crews they surrender. There's beer, ice cream for dessert, and they can't even play football with the soldiers. Dutch Pet Sergian Salem has a discipline in screw. In the evening, the Serb leader Karachic gives the order to take the entire enclave. A new plan now emerges at the UN HQ in Zagreb. The Dutch should draw a line in the sand. They should take up blocking positions. If the Serbs attack these, there will be real consequences. Jambie agrees to the plan. Dutch Pet will serve as bait. Dutch Pet takes three blocking positions south and west of the town with APCs. The Serbs attack. At 8.55, Deputy Commander Major Hopfranking says he requested close air support. But the request did not reach Zagreb. It can't be found in the logbook. Karamans later says he filed a second request for custody afternoon. But this request also can't be found in the logs. Under fire, the APCs retreat from the positions and regroup to the marketplace in the center of the city. By 6 p.m., the Serbs are on a hill overlooking the town of Sabrina Nitsa. When the Serbs approach the blocked positions, the Dutch fire at them with their light machine guns. The aim above the attacking Serbs. The blocking position is being attacked again. The trip wire has worked. Karamans request close air support and this time, the request goes all the way to the top. 10 to 8 Jambie and UN commanders are in a meeting. All the officers urge Jambie to sign a request for CAS. But he hesitates. He wants more information. He wants to speak to Akashi, who isn't in Zagreb at the time. Two hours later, and Jambie is still hesitating. By now, the attack of the Serbs seems to be winding down. Jambie thinks Mlajits might have called off the attack. And well, there's no smoking gun anymore. Jambie now decides to postpone the attack. To 6 a.m. the following morning, he says that if necessary, he will call for CAS. But now happens, it's a bit weird. It could be a lack of sleep or maybe wishful thinking. But Karamans really believes that Jambie hasn't said, oh, maybe we've give close air support. But has actually ordered massive air strikes on the Serbs positions instead. At 11 p.m., he meets the Bosnian leaders. The mayor and several commanders are present. He even tells the commanders to withdraw their troops, otherwise they could be hit. This area will be a zone of death in the morning. NATO planes will destroy everything that moves. The Bosnian commanders have little faith in the UN. The situation is tense. Karamans makes a joke. At 5 a.m., Don is approaching. The men in the APCs in the center have barely slept. At one point, Serbs shells landed within 3 meters. They drove the APCs to the blocking position. They are waiting for the air strikes. Because at 6 a.m., everything will go down. It's 6 a.m. Nothing. The planes are nowhere to be seen. There is a fleet in the air over the Adriatic waiting for an attack order. But everything is silent. The Serbs don't attack. Jambie is waiting at the Dutch bed base. They go crazy. They don't know what is happening. To be sure, Karamans sends another request for air support at 8. It is rejected because he uses an incorrect form. At 9 a.m., the planes circling over the Adriatic return to base because they have to refuel. Then, at 10, a second request is made. This time with the correct form. But the planes are refueling now. Two hours later, Jambie signs her requests. He adds handwritten instructions to make sure that the air support only fires on the Serbs that are attacking the blocking positions. By now, the Serbs are advancing with about 2,000 troops and many tanks. The Dutch soldiers in Sabrina Tertown are outgunned and outmaned. At 130, they abandon their base in Sabrina Tertown. When they see their protectors leave, the Bosnia-Expanic. Chaos ensues. People throw themselves on the armored vehicles. As they drive away, some slide off and get crushed on the wheels. 25,000 people leave Sabrina Tertown and move towards Potacari. 10-15,000 men don't want to take their chance that the Dutch would base. They know what the Serbs army has done to earn our men of fighting age. They flee to the hills and try to reach Bosnia-Cteratri. Asana's already brought his family to the compound. His brother is the first person inside. Asana has been working as a translator for the UN and knows he will be protected. But he is worried for his family. Will the Dutch protect them too? At 230 pm, finally, two Dutch F-16 arrive on the scene. They drop two unguided bombs. They were not direct hits. But it is possible that they have damage as serving APC. As the Dutch but headquarters, a message from the Serbs immediately rings out. The Dutch Minister of Defence has been following the attack on the enclave. He calls with Akashi to request a stop to the CIS because of the Dutch hostages. Two incoming A-10 airplanes are told to return. At 4 pm, Lanij enters Sabrina Nitsa and triumph. He parades at town like a celebrity, shaking hands and greeting soldiers. He seems in hurry. And urges his troops to move on. In the evening, Lani summons Germans to the hotel from Tana and Bratunats. The general is in total control and is pressuring the battalion commander. A 40-minute interrogation follows. He asks again and again. Garmans looks petrified. Garmans again says he is just the piano player. He is just the messenger. In the end, Lanij proposes the toast. Garmans has strained for this exact scenario. In the preparation for the mission, there was some role play with actors playing Serbs soldiers. He was told he should never toast with a Serb general. During the role play, he folded on his Serbian pressure. As he does now. As there is no beer, Lanij asks for white wine with sparking water. Lanij makes sure the camera captures it. Images of the Dutch batt commander looking like a frightened schoolboy, toasting with the general landed, she will be seen all over the world. The night at the Dutch batt HQ has been difficult. The Dutch had led in 5,000 people. They are in a bare factory hall. This is the maximum amount they thought they could handle. This means 20,000 are outside. In the morning, there is a meeting with Lanij and Bosnian representatives. Hassan's father is also there. He offers evacuation. He only needs soldiers to give up their weapons. They will be able to get rid of their weapons. They will be able to get rid of our people. They will be able to get rid of our weapons. They will be able to get rid of our weapons. They will be able to get rid of our weapons. At the daily briefing of the UN HQ, Akashi is concerned the UN will look bad in dodge's responsibility. When the Dutch Minister of Defence asked that air actions be suspended because of threats against hit soldiers who were held captive, we had no choice. Around midday, Lanij arrives at the compound. His soldiers head out sweets. He tells the refugees that they can decide what they want to do. Everything will be alright. It's not going to be anything. Sunly buses appear, ready to deport the people at the compound. Dutch pad excords the first few buses, but stop after the served confiscated weapons and vehicles. The Dutch Minister of Defence calls caramans. Make sure you assist in no way with ethnic cleansing. But General Nikolai, who calls from Sarajevo, says to caramans, make sure to assist with evacuation, but dissipating with ethnic cleansing is better, standing by ethnic killing. Serbs start separating the menafiting age 17-60 from the women's children and elderly. So I learned what happened and I tried many times on 12 and 13 July to convince the commanding officers of the Dutch battalion to keep the man and teenage boys inside the compound, telling them very explicitly, clearly, you know what's happening, you know they're separating the man and the boys from the women and children and you know they're killing them. Hundreds of men are being held in a house across a road from the compound. The house is in full view for Dutch peacekeepers. The Serbs say they need to identify war criminals. Shots are heard inside. Rumors of executions swirl around the mass of people. In the night, mothers dirty their daughters' faces and dressed them in peasant clothes. Serbs dress as Dutch soldiers roam around the refugees and try to lure girls away from their families. Girls come back, trying to their mothers. We are not girls anymore. In the morning, the deportations continue. By noon, it's almost done. Now it's a turn of the 5,000 refugees in the compound. And they told the refugees, start leaving the compound in groups of five. Whether it was a coincidence or not, they asked me to translate these words. Dutch batt marked a route with tape. They assisted separation of the men and boys from their families. Hasan is now desperately pleading for the life of his family. Can they please stay behind in the compound with the UN employees? But the Dutch deputy commander, Frank, and doesn't budge. At the last moment, he tells Hasan's father he can stay. He was representative at the meeting after all, but he doesn't want to leave his wife and his son behind. Hasan's mother, father and brother are taking away in front of his eyes. It's the last time he will see them. The Lieutenant-Rom Ritten is taken to a house close to the UN base. There, he finds nine executed men with tied wrists. He quickly takes pictures of the bodies. This will prove that war crimes happened. He tells Caramans. When Caramans get a call from the high commander who asks what is happening, Caramans says he can't discuss anything on the phone. There are still 55 Dutch-wad-Hoszages in Serbian custody. Meanwhile, the convies are arriving and they don't see men or boys between their refugees. Akashi writes a message to New York. We believe there are about 4,000 males of draft age still in Bratunac waiting screening here by the BSA. Their fate is a obvious concern to everyone. In Bratunac's 1-2000 Bosniaks are held on the football field. They are also held in the local school. In the evening Dutch-Litana Leon from down wants a Serbian to know they are being watched. He sees a pile of passports at the house where Bosniaks are being held. He points at them. At the end of the day, the compound is cleared. Hassan sees that a French aid organization have allowed their local contractors to keep their families on the compound. And I would like just to describe the picture which I have in my mind. 30 years later, very clearly. As my family was forced to walk out to their deaths. And I was standing there. And I was the last moment. I saw them in my life. On the tallest building on the Union Dutch-Retallian compound, there were still two flags. On these flags, there were two flags. The United Nations flag and the flag of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. These two flags were still there. As the genocide was happening, under these two flags. The next day, the UN is slowly getting worried. Akashi writes a message to the UN HQ in New York. We are beginning to notice a shortage in the number of people who should have arrived in Tazla. At the same time, Serb forces go on a killing spree. They take the prisoners to different places to execute them. One of these is a warehouse in Kravitsa right next to the road. About 1300 men and boys are put in here. The Serbs throw hand grenades inside. They fire with RPGs and machine guns. They are also hunting the Column of Bosniaks that are trying to reach Bosnia and Territory. We don't develop any laws of resistance. I'm paprika! They are also scaring us. This way... Where is the gun? I don't know where the gun is. I'm not sure. Here. Here. Here. I don't know where the gun is. I'll just go. I don't know where the gun is. Go ahead, go ahead. I'll take the gun. Go ahead. Go ahead, go ahead. Go ahead, go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. 17 Dutch soldiers from the observation points that were held at a mine are sent to other Dutch hostages. While driving, they see hundreds of bodies next to the road. They also see piles of clothing on a meadow. Civilian clothing. One soldier thinks that's a bit weird. Meanwhile, international papers are filled with reports of refugees that reported atrocities. In the hake, the government faces the dilemma. If a word comes out that the Dutch were in full view of these massacres, it's a very bad look. The Dutch Undersecretary for Defence and the general of the army travel to meet and release soldiers to make sure they don't say anything. The rest of Dutch Pat is still at the compound and in range of Serbian troops. Kofia Nam, the UN Undersecretary writes an angry cable to Akashi. Why is headquarters receiving no information through its own UN channels? It is, after all, their duty to report to you what they have seen. The next day, the first survivors of the column that left Sabrina arrive in friendly territory. Thousands have been killed. After negotiations, Dutch Pat is allowed to leave the compound. Ladić has a gift for columnants. Is it from my wife? Equips. Dutch Pat soldiers are happy to have survived his hell. When they come back to Zagreb, a party is thrown for them. Cameras record drunk soldiers dancing to music, while the news of a catastrophe is getting stronger every day. It's another public relationship disaster for the Dutch. A few days later, Karamans holds a press conference. The change was from the Serbsite of proper military operation. They also deliberately did not target the battalion. Ladić is maneuvered in a remarkably clever way. It was like a game of backman. He never physically attacked us anywhere. When asked about Ladić, he is dismissive. In this war, you cannot speak of good guys or bad guys. The Muslims previously burned down 192 villages. To me, they are all the same. When a journalist asks Karamans for proof for this statement, he is unable to provide any. The fall of Sabrina means that the UN now does not have to worry about UN personnel falling into Serb hands. When Serb forces a bomb on market pays in Sarajevo on the 28th of August, it's the final straw. The UN starts a massive airstrikes campaign. Bosnian, Bosnian Krolet and Krolet forces Stardinofensiv and forces Bosnian Serb army back. As they are now losing the war, they are forced to the negotiation table. In December 1995, the Dayton Accorder signed Bosnia, a multi-ethnic nation where different ethnicities have lived together for centuries is divided. Over the summer of 1995, the question of what Dutch but Saul or dynasty has just started. In July, the Dutch army commander Kuzi says, then air photos are made. In the photos, mass graves can be seen. The Serbs attempt to cover up the crimes by burying and rebaring the remains. This makes identification of the victims extremely difficult. But one of the first individuals identified was a 17-year-old boy, whose remains were exhumed from five different masvi sites. In the media, Dutchmen are being accused of helping with ethnic cleansing. Many veterans feel they are made escape coat. Caramans becomes a national symbol of incompetence. I think in September 1995, I wrote an article to the newspaper because I was really fed up with the negative news about Dutpet 3. Because they got all the, well they got accused about letting the genocide happen, helping the Serbs and so on and so on. To really find out what happened, the Dutch government commissions a report. It takes six years. The relatives are left with their own questions. In the meantime, the UN makes their own report. The UN report is harsh on the leadership that left the Dutch out of the cold. But it doesn't spare the peacekeepers. Quote, Dutchmen never fired directly on any Serb units. Had they engaged the attacking Serbs directly, it is possible that events would have unfolded differently. When your report finally emerges, it's the second biggest study ever made in an ellipse. And I have it right here. This is it. It's over 3,300 pages. 6,000 if you count all the annexes. But there's so much information in this that people are drowning in all of it. One of the conclusions is that 155 people were lightly armed and in indefensible positions. But they also say it's hard to explain what a Dutch repersonal did not report more fully. The scenes that were unfolding around them following the enclave's fall. So what did they see? One Dutch vet officer saw a Serb executing a man. There were the nine bodies that were photographed. In the interrogation house, shots could be heard. Then there were the Dutch vet hostages who saw hundreds of dead bodies next to the road when they were being moved. They saw hundreds of men being held at gunpoint on a field in Potacari. In another place, at the football field, Dutch vet hostages heard methodical shooting. And now these hostages were on a contact with Dutch with AQ. But the Dutch Ministry of Defence told them to not say anything. Rute smuggled the photo roll with the war crimes out of the enclave. But when he handed over to the Dutch Ministry of Defence, they accidentally destroyed it when developing. They say it's a human error. Caramans has always denied that he knew what would happen to the men. Even though a surgeon later came out, we stated Caramans had said that loud. It wouldn't end well for them. In 1998, Caramans already explained why he did not report the ongoing atrocities. When the report is published, the Dutch government resigns. Just a few days before their term ends. How do you deal with an atrocity like this? In 1945, Yugoslavia was reeling from a civil war in genocide. To unite the country, leaders built a new national myth. The story for the country would be that all Yugoslav people came together in a fight against fascism. They built memorials. They did not focus on ethnic identity, but showed abstract shapes and socialist principles showcasing a shared story. How does that look today? The story of the war in the war Bratunat Setonis stayed in, has a memorial to victims of the Second World War. These victims were mostly Serbian. It's poorly maintained. Blacks are missing. It's next to the football field where thousands of bustings were held. A five-minute drive will bring you to an elementary school that served as a temporary prison. But you would never know that. The story of the war in the war Outside of the town, I also saw more recent memorials commemorating Serbian victims. So just on the side of the road, we find just a memorial for the First and Second World War, for the people from this area, and also for the Bosnian War. It's a Serbian memorial. In Sabrina itself, the first thing I saw was a memorial for the genocide of the Second World War. I want to search for that farmhouse that served as a killing spot. I think this is it actually. It looks like a new fence. And that has been completely replastered. There's nothing here to remind you that 1313 people were killed here. Actually over there is something, locals put some flowers to remember this that this happened. But the whole thing has just been completely plastered over and over. It's weird. Now don't get me wrong, anyone should be able to mourn their dead. But the silence on what happened to Bosniaks is a significance of something bigger. The only place you can learn about this is his poto cacci, the former headquarters of Dutchbats. Victims are in a grave yard close by. Without searching much, I found a victim born in the First World War and one of just 15 years old. I asked two employees of the memorial how it is to live in a place marked by such a heavy history. Can you tell us a bit about how in high school you were taught about what happened here in Slovenia? So we aren't taught about that. We don't learn about that. No, not in history class, no, right now. For the next generation and everything else, it still didn't stop yet. Nile is actually the last phase of genocide and it's still going on. So I think it's going to be a long journey to live with all of this. But everyone knows that it happened. Yeah, everybody knows. But we don't learn about that. Which is kind of weird. Like why wouldn't I learn about my place here, about what happened? The international recognition of subrenate sites at genocide was met with outrage in a third part of Bosnia. The Nile of the genocide is common and in the area it's a topic people ignore. Do we have friends that are serving? Yes. And how is it, is this ever a topic with you guys? And we don't talk about that. But for example, like everybody posts on Instagram about their days, what happened, and none of us says anything to each other. And that topic doesn't come up when we're together or something like that. We just ignore it. Well, the first time that I speak with someone about genocide was with my father. He's one of the survivors actually in here and he's arrived to Detmash. When I was 18 years old, he first time told me about one story from his. So that was actually my first overall time to hear something about what actually happened in Shabinets. So if you go to Federation of Bosnia and Estegovina, you will find that children are teached about that. So if you go to the schools of the Republic of Serbsk, the majority of people are Serbs. Bosnia Serbs actually. You will probably heard that radical maditches were hero. What makes it extra difficult is that perpetrators are still living in the area. It's very disturbing to pass next to the graveyard where there is thousands of people, you read it, and you go to the city and you see some of the people who were doing these stuff. It's almost the same. Like it didn't finish that. It looks like that. Absolutely looks like that. I'm in the hage in the Netherlands in the middle of July. It's hot. Under the trees, different generations gather. They are wearing a flower and a flag of the Republic of Bosnia and Estegovina. On the 30th of They respect our city tradition. We lost 27 different languages. They defended us through a large oak tribe... ...so we all never left that place. I wanna be happy as the搶 of a date. They asked me... ...what I wanted toé, I obeyed the journey. We didn't even need anyone to explain. Now we are about 800,000 of enchanting young nationally guys... The Netherlands does not have a memorial for what happened 30 years ago. It was this year that organizations or survivors placed a pedestal where a memorial should come in the future. And in the Netherlands there seems to be a consensus that Dutchpad had an impossible mission. Still, questions linger. Good they have done more. Where were the United Nations? Was there a conspiracy? I know General Jean-Fierre got accused and they asked him if there was a general gentleman's agreement with Dutch. And he never told, he never confirmed this question. The government asked for another report on this matter. The research has ruled this out. No proof or indications for the existence of a secret international political decision. But still, not everyone is convinced. I think it's very very obvious something was going on. I think the United Nations in New York didn't want an enclave as well. Based on these experiences, the Dutch army has changed its approach to international peacekeeping missions. They'll make sure to have their own logistics. Miladici and Colleges were sentenced to life in prison. Miladici is serving as time in a Dutch prison cell. How son saw the Dutch as complicit too. He and other groups sued the Dutch government. The truth needed to be said in the court, it had to come from the mouth of a Dutch judge. It is so difficult, so hard to live with injustice. So hard, go to any part of the world. People can endure all kind of hardships. But injustice is one of the, maybe the worst thing that people simply cannot endure. It's not possible to live with injustice. After 11 years, Hassan got his justice. The court ruled the Dutch bet should have protected his family. With time, it seems the priorities of the Dutch state shift to accommodating Dutch bad. In 2022, the Dutch government apologized to Dutch bad. Today I make my name's to the government excuses to all women and men of Dutch bet. They did this before they apologized to the relatives of victims. This happened a month later. The war may be over, but Bosnia is still under supervision of the United Nations. The Bosnia state was designed with the data and accords its fragile. For over 10 years, the president of the Seraph part of Bosnia threatened to secede. He was eventually forced to step down, but his party recently won elections. 30 years on, and Sabrina is still dividing people. For those that have been there, it doesn't go away so easily. To this day, I have never clearly discussed that with myself. To the end, whether to what extent, it was my fault that I didn't do more. To at least keep my brother on the compound, even if that had meant having a physical fight with Franco. Even if they were in there in July 1995. Well, I think I think about it every week. Some of the children of refugees that were born and grew up in the Netherlands still feel they don't really belong. I can try to be both, but there are always a lot of people who are... ...a-navings to me. That's a little bit of a mistake, but... ...or at least they accept each other very well. I'm sure that's the best way to deal with respect. I'm still optimistic. Wow, you're still here. That's quite impressive on the video this long. It was quite the right and the heavy story. Regardless, I hope you liked the video that you learned something new. And if you were touched by a sound story and his experiences, you can consider to donate to the fund, the nonprofits that set up in his name, the Nohanovic Foundation. And the Nohanovic Foundation is... ...it says the Nohanovic Foundation provides legal and non-legal support to victims of war crimes and intentional law violations seeking justice and reparation. They're now raising 20,000 euro for the Nohanovic Legal Fund, and this will help survivors to get their justice. All the information about that is in the description. If you're watching this in 2025, happy holidays. I will see you in the next year. Cheers.