---
video_title: "Why Italians Talk Like That"
video_id: h4FIS89EzLk
channel_name: "The Present Past"
channel_id: UC5Axef4J11DIu17y2RKVqNQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h4FIS89EzLk
video_date: 2025-09-05T15:11:21+00:00
video_description: |
  Sponsored by World of Warships! Register to receive Japanese Tier III cruiser Tenryū, one Port slot, a Commander and 20 days premium time when you use code XVOYAGE and click here → https://wo.ws/PresentPast. Applicable to new users only.
  
  Turns out there's a big history behind why Italians gesture. 
  
  Go check out@LuisLuis !
  
  Hi there, my name is Jochem Boodt. I make the show The Present Past, where I show how the present has been influenced by the past. History, but connected to the present and fun! 
  
  Every episode I show how history has influenced and made a thing, an idea or event in our present time. 
  
  I make different content. You can find me on:
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@thepresentpast
  Instagram https://www.instagram.com/the_presentpast/
  Twitter : https://twitter.com/@ThePresent_Past
  
  Logo by: https://www.instagram.com/multicolor_junkie/
  
  If you have an idea for an episode please fill in this form:
  https://www.dropbox.com/request/nMMMSpoNWUJHBIZ8hJRu
---
This is the most powerful Jesschrain Italy. It can be used in all kinds of ways. I can't fly! Castini if you got it. It's like that. It's so popular, it even has its own emoji. But this is just one of the many gestures it tells you use. You're framing this concept with your hands and then you're marking it. You're like skilled. It's so good. I want to show you. Humans love to use their hands to communicate. But there's not a single people so well known for Jesschrain as the Italians. If you got an Italian sense, it's gonna suffer. So much so, it has become a meme. Peter, what are you doing? Speaking Italian! Babidboopi! Babidboopi! Babidboopi! So why do Italians Jester so much? If you look online, you can find many superficial answers. But I want it to get to the bottom of this. To find out, I travel to Italy, talk to experts, and try to master Jester myself. Eh, listen to them. To immerse myself in a topic, I needed to learn how to gesture. And I was lucky because I found some books that could help with it. The first one is the Speak Italian, the fine art of the gesture. It was first released in 1958. The author of this book wants to help foreigners understand Italian gestures. Inside, there are a lot of examples. You have the Roman thumb, the gesture that could determine life or death in arena. In modern times, we find different gestures, horns to word of occurs, and movements that show boredom. The book also mentions the OK sign, which is a recent import from America. What I found really interesting is how much of the gestures used inside this book also work outside of Italy, and that kind of makes sense. There's only so many ways you can show how to smoke a cigarette. But there's something special about giving a word of honor, or showing that an event is nothing of your business, something that transcends borders. So where do gestures come from? This book actually gives us a first idea for a theory. Could gestures come all the way from the Romans? Italy was of course a center of the Roman Empire. The Roman writer Quintillian describes gestures that authors can use. He says hands can virtually speak, and that they are common language across cultures. But Italy wasn't the only place where you could find Romans. So I think we need more theories. Before we do that though, I need to learn how to gesture, and learning from books is one thing. But I think I need a teacher. Online I found a respected Italian food critic. Hi, my name is Luis and today I'm in Paris to try the top five books. And we're going to see which one is the best. That also works as a gesture instructor. So I went to Italy to help him teach me how to gesture like a true Italian, and I had to come prepared. I'm Mambolonia, a beautiful city with amazing vibes and some mysterious towers. I wonder what's up with those. I was ready to meet my teacher. And this way and then ten year away. One. Yes. Right, you're him. I think you're ready. You look ready. So let's go in the street, look at people's gestures, and ask them about hand gestures. Walking on the streets of Bologna, I realized how famous Luis the food critic was. But I wasn't here to film people taking selfies. I wanted to know why Italians think they gesture so much. I remember when I didn't know how to speak English and I was in the United States as a teenager. And I was in class and I wanted to speak to my friends, American friends. I felt powerless because I didn't have this. And I was like, and they didn't understand me. Some more... You're considered in Italian. I can say it for a true expression of what I'm actually thinking. Because you don't say it? What do you show it? I show. I don't have the pen to use the words. And it felt like a bad dream, like a fever dream, not being able to speak with my classmates. And that was a culture shock. It's a culture shock. It's a culture shock. This is something every Italian will tell you that from the outside, it seems like a unified country. It has defined borders and national language, the same culture heritage. But in reality, Italy is way more divided than you'd actually think. This leads us to the second theory. Italians needed gestures because Italy didn't exist. And Italians didn't speak Italian. Let me explain. In the Roman Empire, the shared language was Latin. But when Rome fell, Italy got fractured. There was never a state strong enough to unify the peninsula for a long time and impose a common language. Instead, you get foreign invaders with beautiful names like the Lombards. The Huns hung around. There were Arabs in Sicily. Normans came to Italy. At one point in the north, there were city states that were powerful enough to keep invaders out. But from the 1500s to the 18th century, Italian lands were ruled by the French, Spain and Austria. So what do people speak in these different areas? Latin still existed, but mostly for church and official affairs. Instead, local dialects coming from Latin started to emerge. The people spoke neopolitan, the nation, polineses, whatever area they were from. These dialects can be completely different. But if I go to, I don't know, Veneto or Campania. If I take a person from there and a person from there, they're never going to understand each other. If they speak dialect, it's like two completely different languages. In Latin, the word for Sunday is dominica from the day of the Lord. In modern Italian, it is dominica. Neopolitan, Romaneca, Venetian, Domaneca, Bolognese, Manga. So the idea is without a common language, people now developed science to communicate. Travelers from Protestant countries noticed this. They didn't like it. In a Dutch etiquette book, where Italian are in civilized because they speak with their head, arm feet and the whole body. The Englishman Thomas Coria talks about seeing a gesture which seemed to me both very unseemly and ridiculous. It describes people that waga their hands up and down very often. This was already in 1613. Now where this theory gets a bit shaky is, Italy is not unique in this. For us, it's normal that people from the same nations speak the same language. But that's really a modern thing. Take France in 1789, but 12 to 13% spoke French fairly well. But 50% didn't speak French at all. Why is not the French that are so famous for using gestures in our time? Not every Italian gesture is the same way though. Going around Bologna was a bit disappointed. I found very few people that waga their hands up and down. I'm sorry, Jörgen. The north of Italy is not the best place where we're going to find hand-justering. So I need to take you where the masters are in the south. We're in the south. Naples. Are we there? I think you can tell. Naples is in the south of Italy, a city famous for the Pesuvius, pizza, and it's devotion to its local saint. We're finally here in Naples in the epicenter of the hand gestures. Any time for you to practice and the street. Everything I taught you. Do you think I'm ready? You are ready. I taught you everything I knew. Okay. Okay, let's go. Let's go! But before we see if my training has gotten the results, it's time for a word of our sponsor. Word of Warships. The best free-to-play BC Maple Comet game that I've been making waste for the past 10 years. All hands on deck because September to the end of the year will be a big celebration. Since 2015, millions of players have dipped into the massive multiplayer online game to enjoy the content that is released every month. The graphics on more than 40 unique maps with realistic water effects and textures. You can command legendary battleships, cruisers, destroyers, aircraft carriers, and even submarines in stunning 12-E12 battles. Whether you see a solo or with friends in a division, there's always something new to experience. If you haven't played it yet, this is the best time to take the helm of your own warship. Join today with the invite code X voyage and directly unlock the Japanese cruiser Tenryu. Enjoy 20 days of premium account time and much more. But if you're not a new player, there's no man overboard because you can claim a anniversary reward by just logging back in. There are special win-back rewards you can only get during the anniversary event, like exclusive camouflage and premium time. In the best part, you can also play the game on console. So lose your seals and get going. Listen to the sound. Whatever I tried, nothing worked. Tellings had no idea what gestures I used. Was it a sign my mic holder died on the way to Naples? Would I ever be ready? One thing that a new could help was talk to an expert. I'm going to talk to Claudio Nobili, a professor that knows everything about Italian gesture. We set up the meeting to start filming at 130. I'm having a breakdown because we're supposed to meet right now. But Louis still needs to eat and he's calling the expert we're meeting that we have to live lunch first. So Paul. I haven't even planned anything yet. We're going to eat the San Ferdinando treatise. It's good? Yeah. He's going to eat with us because you cannot work with an empty stomach. After finding out Louis was right, we had dinner and went to the city. Claudio Nobili believed the gesture is connected to the layout of Naples. As you can see, Naples there are a lot of balconies. And people talk from one balcony to another. That's one of the reasons why Naples is the main city of gestures. Because gestures are used when there is a communication barrier and the distance is one of them. So that with words you can't harm me, but with gestures you can see me. Naples had many rules from outside that did not speak theopolitan. Gesture filled the gap. The languages were a barrier, while gestures were a breach. But also because in Italy, over the years there was a reflection about using of gestures. The making of repertoire of gestures so that you can take a book and find them. And this is important also to increase it. Nobili also told me about the Politan hospitality. There is also a chair without a person, so it's a sign of invitation. If you want you can sit. Do you think if I sit there, they're going to be like, You can. You can. No, no. Can I sit to say it with you together? So this is a new theory. The idea that because some people wrote it down, that somehow these gestures survived. There's one man that is at the start of this. I'm in this museum, the National Archaeological Museum, to look for Greek statues and frescoes. Because there was one right of a thought that might be a link to a history of gesture. Andrea de Joria believed that the hand gestures he saw on the streets were the same as those on Greek faces. Naples was founded as Greek colony. And even during Roman times there was a big Greek minority that kept the language, that kept the culture. He made the first visual dictionary of their politin gesture. And he showed how important they were in communication. It's like speech, probe. It's the Italian probe. You have the language and you have the hand gestures helping you. So there are different theories about why Italy has gestures. It could be the influence of the Romans, the political and local twisting division of the country, the presence of foreign powers. The fact people describe these gestures. But you can also find some more of these features outside of Italy, where in some places gestures were lost in Italy, they stayed. Why is Italy different? To understand this, we have to understand the history of Italy as a nation. For a long time the notion of a unified Italy was just a dream. As late as 1847 the Austrian diplomat Clamans von Metanich said, Italy only exists as a geographical expression. There is no national feeling. But Italian nationalists disagree. They think they have a national tradition that goes back centuries. A tradition that started with the most famous author in Italian history. Yummy is a statue of Danza, a writer of the Divine Comedy. I couldn't really get a good shot from the front. He doesn't get this big of a statue just because he is a great writer. He also did something revolutionary when he wrote his work. He didn't write it in Latin. The language that the Elicogians, the Church of Elicogians, the government of Stusius of Elicogians. Now he wrote it in his own local foreign-time dialect. The language for the people seen as vulgar. And this changed everything. It was seen as a cultural revolution. The trend was adopted by other writers, some of whom changed the language a bit to make it easier to write in. Slowly, literary foreign time became a marker for Italian identity. So when Italy gets unified, one choice is easy. That literary dialect becomes the Italian national language. So what's crazy to think is if Danza had been born here in Naples, the national language, Italian, would have been the new politician dialect. Isn't that wild? There was just one problem. Almost no one could speak it. estimates range from about 2.5 to 10% of the population. Italy might be united. But the old divisions weren't suddenly solved. It was said of this time that we made Italy. Now we have to make Italians. And making Italians would take time. In 1950, just 20% of Italians only used Italian to communicate. That's almost 100 years after the Unification. This is the time that just 11% of the children go to school past the age of 13, leaving a lot less time to learn this language. Eventually, schooling, internal migration and introduction of television made it possible for people to learn to speak Italian and develop a common culture. But there are still plenty of other people alive now that didn't have the privilege of going to school to learn this language. I think this is another important reason why gestures are still around today. And that Italy may be unified, but the division is not gone. It's written I'm not Italian, I'm not a politician, it's another thing. Understanding the divide may be understand the power of gesture. I knew I had it in me to communicate in Italian. What? I was asking if I can sit on the chair. Yeah? Okay. Italian? Italian? Italian? No, Italian. Italian is Italian. Italian is perfect. Nato, nato, nato. Ah, okay. In the end, every person uses gesture to communicate. And I was really struck by something that Claudio<|it|> said that all the people are truly with love. And we really have the love of God in the product of love. We can convey it to others.