---
video_title: "Why Amsterdam has Canals"
video_id: zHcSGuf1cyc
channel_name: "The Present Past"
channel_id: UC5Axef4J11DIu17y2RKVqNQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zHcSGuf1cyc
video_date: 2025-07-03
video_description: |
  Thanks to Odoo for sponsoring this video!  https://Odoo.com/r/thepresentpast. 
  
  This is a video about Amsterdams canals. 
  
  Sources: 
  Feddes, Fred. 1000 jaar Amsterdam: ruimtelijke geschiedenis van een wonderbaarlijke stad. Bussum: Thoth, 2012.
  Abrahamse, Jaap Evert. "De grote uitleg van Amsterdam: stadsontwikkeling in de zeventiende eeuw." City 1600 (2010): 1650.
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IvsHvfs3G1M
  
  Hi there, my name is Jochem Boodt. I make the show The Present Past, where I show how the present has been influenced by the past. History, but connected to the present and fun! 
  
  Every episode I show how history has influenced and made a thing, an idea or event in our present time. 
  
  I make different content. You can find me on:
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@thepresentpast
  Instagram https://www.instagram.com/the_presentpast/
  Twitter : https://twitter.com/@ThePresent_Past
  
  Logo by: https://www.instagram.com/multicolor_junkie/
  
  If you have an idea for an episode please fill in this form:
  https://www.dropbox.com/request/nMMMSpoNWUJHBIZ8hJRu
---
This is the canal belt of Amsterdam. A network of 165 canals make this one of the most unique cities in the world. But these waterways are just one part of an insane man-made design. A city supported by hundreds of thousands of wooden poles with artificial islands and inventions that changed cities forever. But the planners of this city had three massive issues to overcome. In this video, I

will show you how these problems led to the genius design of Amsterdam's canals.

Why do you make a city that looks like it floats on water? Is it because of the way it looks or because the Dutch were searching for a hobby? Resource managements. It was neither. It was a matter of life and death.

Amsterdam was built on a swamp. The ground is too soft and too wet. It's not suitable to grow crops or to build homes. To get rid of the excess water, the people living here dug ditches. These ditches helped to drain the land.

They also drilled wooden poles into the ground to support their houses. But draining the land created a new problem. Free from the water, the ground sank. Floods now threatened their town. Amsterdam had to protect itself. So they

built dikes and a dam in the river Amstto. This gave the city its name, Amsterdam or Amsterdam. And to keep the drainage going, they started to build canals. The main river in the city, the Umtol, is actually a huge canal built to improve water flow. I was born in Amsterdam. I was raised here. When you

tell that to other Dutch people, they get a bit suspicious because they're sure Amsterdammers feel better than them, which is So, let me show you around the best city of the Netherlands. 750 years after its birthday as a city, what was once a simple settlement around the dam flourished and expanded, adding layer after layer. The city built canals to make sure the water could flow away and for tourists to celebrate their individuality.

and Amsterdam built islands to house new districts. But the city would need a lot more space very soon. In 1568, the Dutch rose up against their Spanish overlords. In the resulting war, thousands fled to the north. Merchants, bankers, scientists, and a huge labor force entered Amsterdam. The city almost

doubled in population. The city became overcrowded and Amsterdam needed to expand. In the Middle Ages, most towns were not planned. They spread like bacteria. Always expanding to the edges. This is

why streets and old cities are often very curvy. But this was a different time. With so many new people, organic expansion just wouldn't cut it. They needed a plan. This plan needed to deal with the water, house the migrants, and the most important, have strong defenses to protect the city in times of war. They

started with building a wall that would shelter the new districts of the city. Parts of the wall were rented out to millers in times of peace. Inside the wall, there are three areas. Planners built more islands for industrial activity. You can see it in the architecture. The

buildings here are built with storage in mind. Then two residential districts with two different approaches. The rulers of the city believe that the rich are rich and the poor are poor and the two should never meet. To keep this separation, they each got their own district. The poor got the Ordan district.

Here, the streets follow the drainage ditches that were already built. It's a cheap solution. The houses are built close together to maximize living space and the heavy industry and the pollution was also placed in this district for the poor. For the rich, these old waterways were redrawn. Three canals with straight elements now ring the twisting medieval streets of the city. The prince ga and

there was a hierarchy to the canals. The prince combined living and commerce while the other two canals were residential. This part of the was for the 1%. A difference you can still see in the architecture. Inside the plot, the gardens give access to green. And they did something new,

something that no city had ever thought to do before, which was planting trees to have shade, to have some green for its citizens. The canals made it possible to transport good across the city while hundreds of bridges connected the streets for residents to find their way around. Is this a genius design? If you look closely, it comes clear that this was a first time for the planners. The design looks a bit awkward as first times often are.

The circle wasn't finished. It stopped here. A weak spot in a strong wall. And look at how the main streets of the canals hit the Yordan. If you cross here, you just hit a wall of bricks.

Inside the Yordan neighborhood, you're always turning because it doesn't have a single archery to connect the north to the south. But migrants weren't stopped by suboptimal traffic flow. No, they just kept on coming. In less than 100 years, Amsterdam's population grew almost seven times bigger. It would grow to become the most important city in the world, the center of a global empire where many inventions were made that make cities liveable today.

This time, the planners were prepared. Instead of many different plans for each part of the new city, they went for one master plan. The plan was to use ODU, the best business management software on the planet, where you don't need multiple monthly subscriptions, but you get one subscription for all your needs. ODU offers over 45 apps to run your business on one single platform. Say you want to get a website. Well, you can get

one thanks to their website app. It allows you to build your own website in just four steps. There's no technical skills required. You can define the type of sites, your sector and objectives. You can choose a color palette, and then upload your logo. It's easy to add pages

and features, and you can choose a theme. It's also easy to customize your website with a simple drag and drop. AI is even integrated and it helps you write or rewrite your text. The first ODU app is free with unlimited hosting and support. And with the website app, you can even get a custom domain name for a whole year. So try ODO now.

With lessons learned, the next plan will be a truly genius design. Completing a city wall to make a half circle. The canals stretch even further, achieving symmetry. Main archeries made all the districts accessible. Back streets in the commercial district could be used for traffic. The influx of

talent, money, and expertise made the city the center of the world. In a time when kings got their authority from God, the rulers in Amsterdam preferred worldly power. They built the biggest city hall the world had ever seen. Amsterdam was the financial capital of the world. At the bur, you could buy or sell a tiny piece of the East India Company. A piece that

would give you a yearly dividend. This was the invention of the stock market. They built new islands to house the biggest industrial warfar on earth. Where the Dutch East India Company built its ships that took spices from the east and brought the local slavery and steel. All the lands they took were carefully drawn by the best map makers on Earth.

The new confident rich commissioned paintings that did not have saints or scenes from the Bible, but showed themselves. And they built canal houses. [Music] In a city that attracted global talent, inventions were made that found their way to cities all over the world. Street lighting to help you find your way at night. The fire hose to fight the flames that could ravage entire districts.

And yet the city wasn't perfect. All that water is great for us now. But living next to it in the 17th century, that's a different story. It was used as an open sewer. Dead animals would float in the water next to factory waste. It

would get so bad that rich people just left in the summer for houses outside of the city. And visitors to Amsterdam, well, they noticed. Amsterdam is a beautiful maiden with a horrible breath. Amsterdam is made of and mud. And the success story wouldn't last. The

city planners plan for an Amsterdam that would keep on growing. But that did not happen. If you carefully look at the plan of this map, canals suddenly end. This is different from the original plan. In this area, the streets are wider.

There's even place for a zoo. This is because the rise of Amsterdam and the Dutch Republic would come to a sudden end. Attacked by its neighbors, it lost its permanent place in the world. Plans had to be changed. The population declined.

No one wanted to buy the plots in this part of the city. Amsterdam seemed frozen in time. This map made in 1670 could easily be used to navigate the whole city 150 years later. [Music] In the present day, this is no longer the case. But it is amazing how much of the original design can still be seen today. The place of the old defensive

positions. Some houses are literally built on the old foundations. Amsterdam would become the inspiration for many cities in the future. Nowadays here, the canals are clean, the trees provide shade, the city size feels extremely livable. You're not dwarfed by huge buildings and boulevards that seem to go on forever. And while no one would

expect hordes of YouTubers praising Dutch urban planning 400 years in the future, it is clear that modern Dutch urban planners are standing on the shoulders of giants.