---
video_title: "Why Communist Memorials Look So Insane"
video_id: c6ZS8emUR9g
channel_name: "The Present Past"
channel_id: UC5Axef4J11DIu17y2RKVqNQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c6ZS8emUR9g
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Check out "The Book" here: https://mdsh.io/cx434gpmlx
  Use code PRESENTPAST10 for 10% off
  
  Somewhere on a mountain in Bulgaria sits a memorial I've been thinking about for 20 years. Turns out that it is not alone. 
  
  00:00: Intro
  01:19: Honor to the Invincible Red Army
  03:51: Grandfather Ivan 
  06:03: Soviet Liberation? 
  07:11: A perfect Soviet Satellite
  10:02: Defenders of the Stara Zagora
  11:47: The Founders of the Bulgarian State Monument 
  13:04: Buzludzha
  17:08: Goodbye Lenin
  
  Research: Constantin Berlin
  Edit: Erik Contreras Mencinger
  2d: Trevor Lo 
  3d: Agha Mujtaba
  
  Thanks to Dora Ivanova and Dimiter Dimov. Check out the Buzludzha foundation here: https://buzludzha-project.com/en/
  
  Andy's channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCo6F7DjILD7tu9BEllVU9iw
  
  Sources: 
  Bielicki, Paweł. "The Iron Curtain as an Aspect of the Sovietisation of Eastern Europe in 1949–1953." Studia z Dziejów Rosji i Europy Środkowo-Wschodniej 52, no. 1 (2017): 137–158. http://dx.doi.org/10.12775/SDR.2017.EN1.05.
  Brown, J. F. The Challenge to Soviet Interests in Eastern Europe: Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia. RAND Note N-2498-FF. Santa Monica, CA: RAND Corporation, 1986.
  Crampton, R. J. "Bulgaria under Communist Rule, 1944–1989." In A Concise History of Bulgaria, 2nd ed., 180–211. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511996870.012.
  Dobre, Claudia-Florentina. "'Alyosha, go home!' The Monuments of the Soviet Army in Romania and Bulgaria from the End of World War II until the Present." kunsttexte.de, no. 1 (2024): 1–14. https://doi.org/10.48633/ksttx.2024.1.102643.
  Headsman. "1949: Traycho Kostov, Bulgarian Purgee." Executed Today (blog), December 16, 2011. https://www.executedtoday.com/2011/12/16/1949-traycho-kostov-bulgarian-purgee/.
  Heath, Nick. "After the Death of Stalin: The First Revolt - The Plovdiv Tobacco Workers' Strike, May 1953." Libcom.org, 2018. https://libcom.org.
  Kalkandjieva, Daniela. "The Bulgarian Orthodox Church and the Cold War." Euxeinos, no. 8 (2012): 5–12.
  Morys, Matthias, and Martin Ivanov. "Did Living Standards Actually Improve Under State Socialism? Real Wages in Bulgaria, 1924–1989." EHES Working Paper Series, no. 267, European Historical Economics Society (October 2024).
  Sirakov, Nikolay. Stefan Gidikov – The Patriot from Sliven and Rakovski's Comrade in Arms [and other papers]. Sliven: Regional History Museum "Dr. Simeon Tabakov," 2021.
  "Stalinization in Bulgaria, 1944–1954." Unpublished manuscript, Bulgarian Stalinism: Purges, Protests, and the Communist Consolidation Notebook.
  Tismaneanu, Vladimir, ed. Stalinism Revisited: The Establishment of Communist Regimes in East-Central Europe. Budapest: Central European University Press, 2009.
  Özyurt Ulutaş, Selcen. "The Other Face of the Communist Regime: Concentration Camps in Bulgaria according to CIA Reports (1944–1955)." Uluslararası Suçlar ve Tarih Dergisi / International Crimes and History Journal, no. 20 (2019): 75–93.
  Vukov, Nikolai. "Death and the Desecrated: Monuments of the Socialist Past in Post-1989 Bulgaria." Anthropology of East Europe Review 21, no. 2 (2003): 49–55.
  Vukov, Nikolai. "Emergent Reinscriptions and Dynamics of Self-Representation: Monumental Discourse in Bulgaria." Kakanien Revisited (2006): 1–30. http://www.kakanien.ac.at/beltr/emerg/NVukov1.pdf.
  
  
  Hi there, my name is Jochem Boodt. I make the show The Present Past, where I show how the present has been influenced by the past. History, but connected to the present and fun! 
  
  Every episode I show how history has influenced and made a thing, an idea or event in our present time. 
  
  I make different content. You can find me on:
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@thepresentpast
  Instagram https://www.instagram.com/the_presentpast/
  Twitter : https://twitter.com/@ThePresent_Past
  
  Logo by: https://www.instagram.com/multicolor_junkie/
  
  If you have an idea for an episode please fill in this form:
  https://www.dropbox.com/request/nMMMSpoNWUJHBIZ8hJRu
---
There's this picture I can't get out of my head. I first saw it 20 years ago. I was in high school and the internet was [music] still innocent. The picture shows a concrete building on a mountain. I remember thinking, "This doesn't look like something humans would build. It

looks like an alien spaceship."

This is a monument in a country that used to be communist. 20 years later, this image still hasn't let me go. Online, you can find many videos about this building, but none of these videos show us that this [music] is just one of many crazy memorials in this country.

To understand these memorials, I knew I had to go there. >> It really looks [ __ ] cool. I can't say it any other way. And in this video, I will explain how the memorials in this country evolved from simple obligs to Soviet [music] soldiers to something out of a sci-fi film and why they have been under [music] attack.

You can see it. It's like our first day just traverse some jungle. >> Yeah, >> maybe going around would have been easier. That's >> what I thought. >> I'm on the road with my friend Andy trying to find a monument. Like

>> a great view of the city as well. >> At the top of the hill we're climbing stands an enormous Soviet soldier.

He's holding a machine gun. So, we're at the top and there's crazy views over the whole city all around us. And uh yeah, there's just one one guy overlooking it all. It's an 11 m high statue on the highest hill in the middle of the city. It's based on this Soviet soldier called Alexa Skuratov. On the plinth, it says

honor to the invincible Soviet Liberation Army. There are scenes of Bulgarian people welcoming soldiers. This is not the only statue that wants to promote the friendship between the Soviet army and the Bulgarian people. There are around 400 of these around the country. Bulgaria was not part of the Soviet Union. So [music] why do

Bulgarians have statues of the Red Army? And why is the statue covered in remains of red paint? The relationship between Bulgaria and Russia is complicated. But first, let me show you something else that's really cool. This is the book. [music] It is the ultimate guide

to rebuilding civilization. And this is the sponsor that made it possible for me to go to Bulgaria in the first place. As a kid, I always like to go through old atlases and encyclopedias. And this [music] book is kind of an encyclopedia of human progress. You can find out how a real world works, how to make penicellin, or [music] build a power plant.

And there's also a hidden quest in the book. [music] If you solve the puzzles inside, it will give you geographical coordinates. What I really like is the care that went into making this book. The paper feels really thick. Um, it feels luxurious and you have [music] all these beautiful illustrations.

All these illustrations are made by humans. [music] And I think that's very nice in the age of all the AI slot we're presented with. And reading this book, it just makes you think of all the cool things humans have invented over the years. [music] If you also want to get your hands on this beautiful book, you can click the link in the description or you can scan the QR code [music] and use my code present past 10 to get 10% off the book. And we can go back to Bulgaria to see all the cool monuments that humans [music] build there.

This monument shows the layered relationship Bulgaria has with Russia because this monument is to Alexander II, a Russian emperor, and he is seen as a liberator of Bulgaria. This simple obelisk celebrates the year 1878. This is one of the two most important years in Bulgarian history. The first Bulgarian state is more than 3000 years old. Once they were a great power that ruled much of the Balkans. Cerillic was

invented here, the alphabet that is used in parts of the Balkans and in Russia. But then they lost their independence. For 500 years, they were under the rule of the Ottoman Empire. Until their big Slavic brother stepped in. Already in the start of the 19th century, Russia was appearing on the European scene and pretending to be the protector and uh uniting force of all uh Slavic people in Eastern Europe. This political cartoon

from 1877 shows what happened next. [music] On the map, we see the great powers France with their liberty, equality, and brotherhood. They are flanked by Germany, who is pointing a lot of guns at their western neighbors. Austria is reclining, leaning on gunpowder in the Balkans. But the hero of this image is Russia. It is Tsar Alexander II. He is

pointing a sword at the Ottoman Empire. On a sword, we can read protection of the oppressed. There is a dead kid impaled by a sword that reads Bulgarian and a sword that says Bulgarian atrocities. This is a reference to a massacre that the Ottomans inflicted. The message is clear. The Bulgarians

need to be protected from the horrible things the Ottoman Empire are doing to them. So, Russia starts a war. This eventually leads to the independence of Bulgaria and it's the reason you will find monuments to Alexander II. But the next time Russian troops are on Bulgarian soil, the situation is a bit more complicated. Their presence will eventually lead to our monument on the mountain >> and carrier planes fill the skies overhead.

>> During World War II, Bulgaria was neutral. But then the Nazis knocked on their door and made them an offer they couldn't refuse. They could join the Nazis and get some land or refuse and be invaded. Some years later, the Nazis were in full retreat. Now it's a Soviet army that shows up at the doorstep and the most controversial day in Bulgarian history arrives. On the 9th of September

1944, there was a military coup the attack in Sophia. On this day, Bulgaria switched alliances in the Second World War from being uh on the side of Nazi Germany. >> This is the coming of the Soviet army into Bulgaria on the 9th of September 1944. The Communist Party was presenting the date as the liberation of Bulgaria from fascism and monarchism and capitalism. Liberation against occupation is the big conflict of this date.

Bulgaria would turn itself into a good communist state. Their leaders imitated Stalin. You can see it in the art. It shows everything the Soviets want to see. healthy farmers, [music] strong factory workers. They promised the

Bulgarian people that communist rule would lead to a better world. >> Bulgaria became one of the most loyal satellites of the Soviet Union. >> And they built monuments to show the depth they had to the Soviet army. They imitate the Soviet style of social realism, artwork that has a clear message that everyone can understand. This is the Liberty Monument. It has

three parts. There's a man sitting with shackles on. This looks to be the representation of Bulgaria. The same man is standing on top of a pillar with his hands in the air. He is freed. On the freeze, you have people in

bondage. You have people fighting, people hugging, guards giving fruit and vegetables to kids, and even a Soviet Union flag. It's clear who the liberators are. The years on show are 1944. This is the year of the supposed liberation. And 1923,

this is the year of a failed communist uprising. Down the road we see another monument. Here we see a Russian soldier under a star. The years on show are 1878, the year of the Russia Turkish War, and 1944, the Communist Takeover. The message is clear. In both years, a

big Slavic brother came to the rescue of the Bulgarian people. Now, it might seem with all these monuments that the Soviet army fought to liberate the country, but there were no Nazi troops in the country. Not a single Soviet soldier died on Bulgarian soil. Focusing on a glorious past did not improve the present. You know the communism imagines society uh as a no a kind of perfect state of societal relations but it every time it promised it it failed to achieve even very simple things that it has promised like access to apartments or basic foods in the stores reliable public transport. The

better world always seemed to come tomorrow, but never today. So, the rulers had to change. They will do something that sounds completely weird if you know anything about classic communist ideology. Communism is a utopian vision of the earth in peace without any borders. According to Markx, the workmen have no country.

But in Bulgaria, their monuments would now focus on nationalistic themes. The end point of this shift would be our monument. But before that, [music] they built two monuments that are among the craziest I've ever seen.

This is the defenders of Star Zagora [music] or the Samara flag monument. >> [music] >> When you walk up, you you have a number of these steps and you walk up to these figures that are like encased in concrete. And there's this huge concrete structure that's supposed to be a flag. I mean, this is a monument. I I want my monument to be this impressive. This is

a memorial commemorating the fighters in the Russian Ottoman War. There are some real hard men encased in concrete with next to them a huge concrete pole that resembles a flag. The story goes that the big concrete flag was woven by local nuns and they gave it to soldiers and eventually this would be the inspiration for the Bulgarian national flag. Uh and I'm sold, you know, I'm all for the Bulgarian state after seeing this uh this memorial. And I think this is what a good memorial is supposed to do. Like

it is it is impressive. And uh it just goes it just goes really hard. >> But the grass is peeking out the steps that lead to the memorial. And the surroundings are not what they once were. >> What is interesting is you have this epic national monument. But like around

it there's some sort of factory with building equipment. I guess not really dignified. Maybe >> the next monument is definitely dignified.

This is the founders of the Bulgarian state monument. It is a huge concrete structure overlooking the town of Schuman. This monument was made to celebrate the 1300th anniversary of the founding of Bulgaria in 681. And if you walk around here, like the scale is just so insane. If you're inside, you literally have this concrete towering over you. There

are two groups of concrete blocks with a total of 21 structures that show the development of the Bulgarian state. With all these massive statues, it really feels like it's something out of Lord of the Rings or something. A Bulgarian told me they call the structures the Transformers. The big guy standing in front of his horse is Khan Asparu. He is the founder of Bulgaria.

That is not the only all-inspiring artwork. It's a tptic, which means uh it's an artwork made of three pieces. And uh apparently it's the biggest outside tptic in the whole world. And the light between these huge concrete shapes, how the light falls is just really, really sick. But the greatest monument has to be BLA.

When you're on the road, you can already see it from far away.

And once you get there, the small speck on the horizon becomes an imposing structure of concrete [music] and steel.

The scale of this thing is just wild.

Up here, you do see that there's holes in the concrete where water is coming through. And you have these swallows that made their nests against the monument.

I mean, it's in desperate need of a really good renovation. Uh, the formulators are falling apart, although you can still see the shadows of what what used to be.

I spoke to the founder of the Buzzlutza Project Foundation who wants to help with this renovation >> and to reinterpret and present its history in a critical way. There are three reasons why the communist party wanted to build a monument here. There was a Bulgarian rebel called Hatsi Deita who gave his life fighting for liberation from the Ottomans. [music] It was the place where Dimiter Blagoyf founded the Bulgarian Social Democratic Party. And in 1944, some partisans fighting the Bulgarian army were killed.

The builders had to destroy the peak with dynamite to get a level plane for the structure. The official reading of the shape of the monument is that this is red put on the top of the peak and a flag with the red star to acknowledge the historical events. However, we can all see how [music] much cosmic and how much UFO like uh and like a spaceship this this buildings looks like. My personal understanding is that the shape uh of a spaceship [music] and this feeling of future future oriented [music] design and futurism all together was part of the storytelling and part of the idea [music] to say that this is a historical place connecting the past, the liberations, the fights of the party with the bright future of the country and of [music] the party. and they were always having this connection with the bright promised future.

>> Entrance to the monument is prohibited because it is in a bad state and dangerous. [music] So Dora and Act made a virtual tour that shows a memorial in all its current status and former glory with context and contemporary criticism. [music] So you can see the original artwork next to the entrance. The left-sided text at the front of the monument is the international the song to unite workers all over the world. On the right side is the official anthem of the Bulgarian Communist Party. Inside

you can see mosaics showing the history of the party [music] and the top of the dome shows a mosaic with a hammer and a sickle against a background of sunbeams. [music] Around it you can find a socialist rallying call. Proletarians of all countries unite. It is sometimes described as a communist HQ, but that's not true. It was a place for ritual gatherings and for this the architect had a mission. I

think he wanted with the means of modernism uh and the newest brightest ideas of architecture at that time to recreate the monumental feel and the monumentality of things that are built forever and whole purpose of BLucha was to present the eternity. So this is the main message eternity and this is why it is so uh uh ironic the whole thing because the whole eternity lasted for 8 years and then it was dismantled and left and abandoned.

In 1989 the wall fell. Communist governments all over Europe imploded. In Bulgaria, [music] the Communist Party successfully rebranded into a democratic socialist party. They even won the first elections. But the question was still there. What

do you do with the remains of a regime when it collapses? In Sophia, you have a museum that has art from the communist period. You have all these icons of a regime that doesn't exist anymore. You have soldiers, you have farmers, you have workers, and you have a lot a lot of lenin. Other monuments are just abandoned.

And more so than going to the monument, the stairs are now used for people to uh to work out. It looks like on the left side, people offering gifts, flowers to uh to the soldiers. The whole monument there's a lot of graffiti. The original text is gone and all the way up someone wrote what looks like Calvin Klein. Places like Busla became prey to market forces. The copper monuments were

looted. So was the copper dome exposing the structure to the elements. What to do with this heritage became a political question. There are still generations which remember very well uh who have lived enough years under communism. It is a difficult subject because it is a whole generation of people that live there and you cannot just label it white or black.

Some of them were having great achievements because the regime was helping in a way to do that. Uh or some of them could never reach their dreams because the regime was oppressing them. Um, so there are so many different views and so many different stories, >> but abandoning monuments and attacking them is a different thing. When Russia enexed Crimea and then invaded Ukraine, many Red Army monuments were smeared with red paint. Can still see the traces of it. And the most prominent Soviet

memorial in the capital of Sophia got removed. So I'm now at the place where the Soviet memorial used to be. It's quite close to the center. And this whole area feels a bit weird because um it's clear that there used to be something big here. I mean behind me the pedestal is really really tall. Um but

now everything's kind of broken down. There's grass and weeds everywhere and uh just a huge huge ferris wheel like against the whole monumental area. Um, so yeah, it's a bit uh it's a bit weird. >> Already in 2011, this monument was painted over. 12 years later, the government took it off its pedestal.

>> And this happened very fast, almost overnight. Although the discussion about that this was going for years and years. It was also interesting the way how it was taken down. uh because it was um piece by piece and the explanation was that they were cutting where the welding lines [music] were. But how it looked in the public and in the media was that they were killing the figures, taking down the head and taking down the arm with the gun. It was very dramatic. It

was like killing the past in a way and um having a revenge over um something people didn't want to see this way. Here in Bulgaria, the discussion about what the past means is still far from resolved. Monuments that show the nationalistic history seem safe, but I'm grateful for the people like Dora that also care for the monuments that have a more difficult history, but are still worth preserving. Hey, I hope you enjoyed the video. [music] Um, I'm really grateful for my time in Bulgaria and my time with Dora and her team. [music] I think they're

doing really, really cool work. You can go there of course uh if you want to plan a special occasion every year in August they have a whole [music] festival where they like project these graphics on the memorial and they also have a lot of um music. My friend Andy also made a video about another story in Bulgaria and if you want to check that out um I will link it in the description when this uh uh video comes out. All right, have a good day. Don't forget to order your copy of the book, The Ultimate Guide to Rebuilding Civilization, by clicking the link in the description.