---
video_title: "Why Americans Are So Obsessed With Their Flag"
video_id: dK4krnh7zM8
channel_name: "The Present Past"
channel_id: UC5Axef4J11DIu17y2RKVqNQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dK4krnh7zM8
video_date: 2026-07-07T12:00:36+00:00
video_description: |
  Use Code USA250 to celebrate the 250th U.S. Anniversary Campaign: 
  https://wo.ws/4uyK8ps
  
  Don't forget to check out: @echozero_ 
  @ManCarryingThing 
  @Stephanie-Sammann 
  
  Sources: 
  
  Balch, George T. Methods of Teaching Patriotism in the Public Schools. 1890.
  Bonikowski, Bart. "Research on American Nationalism."
  Bonner, Robert E. “Star-spangled Sentiment.”
  Curren, Randall, and Charles Dorn. Patriotic Education in a Global Age.
  Gelernter, David. The Fourth Great Western Religion.
  Kazin, Michael, and Joseph A. McCartin, eds. Americanism: New Perspectives on the History of an Ideal.
  Lyons, Kelly. The Reinvention Of Tradition: The Nationalist Network And The Making Of The American Citizen, 1920-1955.
  Oreskes, Naomi. The Disinformation Age, Politics, Technology, and Disruptive Communication in the United States.
  Wall, Wendy L. Inventing the "American Way": The Politics of Consensus from the New Deal to the Civil Rights Movement.
  Zurheide, Paul T. The Origins of the Pledge of Allegiance
  
  
  How Problematic Is Patriotism? (The New Yorker): https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2026/06/01/how-problematic-is-patriotism#rid=9f0749a6-5dfd-4d24-ab89-1d1ab43b9e2d&q=american+pattriotism+roots
  Why Dual Citizenship Is the New American Dream (Newsweek): https://www.newsweek.com/why-dual-citizenship-new-american-dream-2075272
  The Changing Meaning of the American Flag Under Trump (The New Yorker): http://newyorker.com/news/us-journal/the-changing-meaning-of-the-american-flag-under-trump#rid=86fa832b-0e42-41c9-b0db-463a3cde63c7&q=american+flag
  Colin Kaepernick and the Radical Uses of the Star-Spangled Banner (The New Yorker): https://www.newyorker.com/culture/culture-desk/colin-kaepernick-and-the-radical-uses-of-the-star-spangled-banner#rid=5ffb9ecd-84d7-43b5-8ead-738e3e068e18&q=star+spangled+banner
  For Heaven’s Sake (The New Yorker): https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2012/09/24/for-heavens-sake#rid=90bd1a60-f033-4980-a80e-46e4532c39f8&q=pledge+of+allegiance
  The National Anthem Is a Celebration of Slavery (The Intercept): https://theintercept.com/2016/08/28/colin-kaepernick-is-righter-than-you-know-the-national-anthem-is-a-celebration-of-slavery/
  250th Anniversary of the U.S. Declaration of Independence (America 250): https://america250.org/
  Freedom 250 (U.S. Department of State): https://www.state.gov/freedom-250
  How the Origins of America’s Immigrants Have Changed Since 1850 (Pew Research Center): https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2024/07/22/how-the-origins-of-americas-immigrants-have-changed-since-1850/
  Pledge of Allegiance History (Immigration and Ethnic History Society): https://iehs.org/kelly-lyons-pledge-of-allegiance/
  Fighting for the Country Survey (Gallup International): https://www.gallup-international.com/fileadmin/user_upload/surveys_and_news/2024/Fewer_people_are_willing_to_fight_for_their_country_compared_to_ten_years_ago/Fighting_for_the_country.pdf
  
  
  Hi there, my name is Jochem Boodt. I make the show The Present Past, where I show how the present has been influenced by the past. History, but connected to the present and fun! 
  
  Every episode I show how history has influenced and made a thing, an idea or event in our present time. 
  
  I make different content. You can find me on:
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@thepresentpast
  Instagram https://www.instagram.com/the_presentpast/
  Twitter : https://twitter.com/@ThePresent_Past
  
  Logo by: https://www.instagram.com/multicolor_junkie/
  
  If you have an idea for an episode please fill in this form:
  https://www.dropbox.com/request/nMMMSpoNWUJHBIZ8hJRu
---
Look at this video. This is the opening of the biggest sports event in America, the Super Bowl. There are flags everywhere. It opens with the singing of the national anthem. During the anthem, they cut to active troops. Sirumani ends with a flyover by military jets. In Europe, football is the most important sport. You won't find the anthem, national flags or the military. Why there's such a big difference between these two? I'm from Europe. Here we are a bit suspicious of people that love flags. We know that blind patriotism can lead to a lot of bad behavior. But I wanted to get a better understanding, a different perspective. I've been talking to American friends to see how they think of their flag. I'm the most happy one you're going to interview. This is Mike. He knows what will trigger your beans. We have our Colt 45. We have our night vision goggles. So you just got to be careful. You never know when the government's coming for you. This is what I'm trying to say. The flag is pure. Like 100%. It has no, it's like a child, perfect purity. The government's like the next down, and then the politicians, it's like eating babies. Like that's the level. The flag is pure. Can't describe how the American flag is used, where you find it. It's literally everywhere on everything. Schools, government buildings, pretty much any sort of institution has an American flag. Largely of flies on a big staff in front of police stations. Then it is also used as decoration during 4th of July festivities. I mean, I wouldn't say it really means anything super special or different to me. It's just like a symbol of our country. That symbol is also what the national anthem is about. Every day, across the country, millions of children stand up, put their hand over their heart and pledge their allegiance to the flag. Is this Colt behavior or is this just the culture? You know, that's freaking weird. Americans love their flag in their country. As proud Americans, there is nothing we can do to make us any more proud. In 2016, Paul, 41% of Americans agreed that the country was the greatest country in the world. They were number one of the Paul's countries, USA, baby. In the same year, 81% said they were extremely proud or very proud of the country. But it wasn't always like this. In 8031, the writer Lex DeTocqueville came to the United States and he noted the irritable patriotism of the Americans, which is a bit rich coming from a Frenchman. But he didn't see an instinctive love of country. Americans love their towns and states, but they didn't have a national tradition. In this video, I want to explore how Americans got so patriotic by focusing on the flag. I will tell you where it comes from. How a fringe flag became a symbol, it is today, why children pledge allegiance to it, why the anthem is sung at sports games, and why American patriotism is in a bit of a crisis. In 2026, it's 250 years ago that the group of rebels aside, they will not be ruled by a king in a far away country. They need new symbols. They need new uniforms. They need new logos. And very importantly, they need a new flag for their navy. What is the origin of the flag you were told in school? Betsy Ross, I don't know, did some shit made a flag? They needed a flag and they wanted the stripes to be the 13 colonies. So the story we're often hear is that there is a secret committee headed by George Washington. This committee visits the show up of a humble seamstress called Betsy Ross. Here's a painting of the event. They show her a design of a flag with stars that have six points. Betsy has a different idea. She shows them a five-pointed star could work too. Then she suits the first flag with 13 stars in a circle. The 13 bands are white and red. These stars and bands represent the original 13 colonies. It's a great story. And online you can find it repeated again and again. I saw this video by Prager You, this conservative outlet and the honor of Betsy by making an AI video of her. I am Betsy Ross. An opposed room, a widow, a patriot, and as the story goes, the woman who stitched the first American flag. She shows them a website that celebrates 250 years of the flag. There's just one issue. Historians believe this story is mostly fictionalized. It didn't happen. Hang on. So where does this story come from? Let's start to see what the historical record shows. I found it meeting in 1777, a year after the Declaration of Independence. In this meeting, the Continental Congress passes the first flag act they decide how the flag should look like. It's solved that the flag of the 13 United States be 13 stripes, alternate red and white, that the Union be 13 stars while in a blue field representing a new constellation. They don't mention Betsy Ross at all. Now of course, women get written out of history all the time. But no one has ever found a shred of evidence for this meeting. Now that I received for her work or a letter talking about this, no record of a secret committee. And at the time of the proposed flag making, George Washington wasn't in Philadelphia. He was in New York preparing for the British invasion. Now it's important to note that in this time the flag wasn't even close to the importance it has today. It's a flag used by the Navy, something you see at a military base. It's not flown in public, in schools or at American football games. No one really needed a cool origin story. But a hundred years later, that is very different. In 1870, a certain William can be, the grandson of Betsy Ross, presents a story to the historical society of Pennsylvania. He says that his grandmother made this flag in front of George Washington. And he tells how his grandmother, Betsy Ross, would tell her children and her grandchildren this amazing story of her making this flag for George Washington. Does he have any proof? No, no, nothing. But it does get really, really popular in this period. In 1870, the country just went through a devastating civil war. This war has made the flag really popular. The story of Betsy Ross is a great example of how national myths work. Nations always come up with origin stories that fall apart if you look closely at the evidence. And you can understand why. The story serves an important purpose to unite the country, something that was desperately needed after civil war. These stories say more about the time these myths were created than what actually happened in the past. So even though it most probably didn't happen, the story of Betsy Ross lives on for most Americans. But even though we have these nice paintings, as the years go on, the flag kind of loses its importance. There is one group that really has a problem with that. So it's 1880s. Flag's were big during and not the civil war, but then their popularity kind of dies down. They are not flying in schools. They are not seen in public. There are 25 flag staffs in 130 public schools in New York and most of them are in really bad shape. There is one group that really don't like this at all. Veterans of the civil war. And they unite in this group the Grand Army of the Republic. And they see that something is wrong with America. They identify two root causes. Late 1800s America is the Guilden Age. It's a bit like our time. Some people that control essential industries are getting very rich. A lot of people are getting left behind. The GERC in America that is more industrialized and more materialistic. These veterans, unsurprisingly, believe that military service is the highest form of loyalty to the nation. And they worry. Will the American people sacrifice themselves for the cause? They want to build a patriotic America in their image. So the first take the initiative to start celebrating Memorial Day. And the second take the initiative is to make the American people that gave their life in battle. But that's not the only issue they identify. The second cause is migration. America has always been a country of migrants. At first these migrants had been coming from countries like the UK, Germany, Ireland, Scandinavia and the Netherlands. They were mostly Protestant. By the late 1800s this is changing. Now the migrants are coming from places like Italy, Poland and Russia. They're labor, replacing American workers. But what's worse, they're Catholic. In 1882 only 10% of migrants came from southern and eastern Europe. By 1892 there was 44%. The GRC's a difference between those that come with honest purpose to add to the brain or brown of this free land. And that portion of the tide of immigration sweeping upon our shores which represents only the poverty and the crime of other lands. There's anxiety that Americans are not patriotic enough. I told you, it's like our time. So the GR starts another initiative. The schoolhouse flag movement. The GRC starts comparing to plan a flag in every schoolhouse in the country. Whatever nation you belong to by birth, whatever tongue your mother taught you. Whatever your color or your race, no matter, there is only one flag. Of course in the nation of migrants it's not bad to have a single community. The GRC starts to work together with the youth companion to make it even bigger. This is a magazine with over 400,000 subscribers over America. There are two guys working at the magazine who take the lead. You have James Upman who also wants to rekindle the flame of patriotism. And minister called Francis Bellamy. They think of a marketing campaign. Readers that sell subscriptions to the magazine get sent a flag. This is very successful. Soon flags are popping up in schools all over the country. American flags that had never been a fixture of everyday life now start to become a normal site in every state. Kids see the stars pangol banner every day they go to school. But to fulfill their wish of a flag in every schoolhouse, they will need something else to really push the project. They will need something a lot bigger. There is something almost every kid in America has to do every day. You know every morning growing up you stand up and you put your hand on your heart and you say a pledge allegiance to the flag. A pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands. One nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. Close to cult like you know. Imagine if there was a group of people where it's like okay you have to go live on this compound and you have to sing a song of allegiance every morning. You'd be like that's a cult. 100% that's a cult. And as a kid it was kind of one of those things that adults just made you do. Like an arbitrary tedious thing. And that's something that's so bizarre now. As an adult thinking about like I can't believe what we're doing that. That's so strange. It's so weird. I think they should stop. How did we get here? Now that you know the naval origin of the stars and stripes, what better way to celebrate the 250 US anniversary by playing World of Warships. The best free to play PC naval combat game. They have a campaign celebrating American independence running through July 15th. You can bet through history. Earn exclusive rewards and celebrate the spirit that changed the world. Command legendary battleships, cruisers, destroyers, aircraft carriers and even submarines. All with realistic water effects and dynamic weather across maps inspired by real world locations. If you haven't played it yet, this is the best time to take the helm of your own warship. Join today with the invite code USA250 and unlock a million credits, seven days of premium account time, 500 dough plumes, the stars and stripes camo plus the premium cruiser uses an Albany and premium destroyer uses Smith. New captains, after your first 10 battles you can choose a free ship, South Carolina, St. Louis or Wix, celebrate 250 years of independence by joining the fleet. But if you're not a new player, there's no man overboard. Just play one battle during update 15 and a half to unlock a free anniversary bundle in the armory, including a tire 10 independence camouflage, the Betsy Ross destruction effect, a 3 independent event loot boxes. And the best part, you can also play a console with World of Warships legends. So lose the skills and get going. And let's continue with the video. To understand we have to go back to the youth companion. They were working on getting flagged into schools. It was going pretty well, but it could be going a lot better. Oppen and Bellamy know that we have the flags in the schools, but they're kind of just sitting there. And so they think of an event and that is going to be the Columbus Day, 400 years after Columbus first set foot in America's. It will be the perfect occasion for a pledge. Now, this Bellamy is an interesting figure. He was and this was shocked by American audience, a socialist. Scary, right? He literally says Jesus is a socialist. And next to that, he also thinks that migration is kind of a problem in America. They are races, more or less akin to our own, whom we may admit freely and get nothing but advantage from the infusion of their wholesome blood. But there are other races, which we cannot assimilate without a lowering of our racial standard. I guess there's some strong stuff from Bellamy. Also for Bellamy, there's anxiety that Americans are not patriotic enough. Bellamy thought that the flag in connection with the pledge would make all these new citizens really American. And he comes up with the following. I pledge allegiance to my flag and to the republic for which it stands. One nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. There's also this salute. It's kind of a military salute and children are supposed to put their hand to their head and then stretch it out with an open palm pointed upwards. Unfortunately, not everyone does the correct salute, which leads to some interesting pictures. Yeah, it's not a bad look. After a lot of lobbying, on Columbus Day, children all over the country say the pledge and do the salute. Bellamy saw how that day was impressed powerfully upon the youth that we are a nation. And the pledge taught a lesson of thoughtful patriotism, which will never be forgotten. It's over the years something happens that Bellamy never anticipated. The pledge becomes more popular and suddenly kids are doing it every day, while starting their school day, especially World War I and fears of communism give the pledge a boost. But Bellamy's pledge is not in its final form because… There's anxiety that Americans are not patriotic enough. So to think about how to make it more patriotic, there's an issue with the pledge. Kids are saying, my flag, that could be any flag, so time to make it more patriotic. Now it becomes a pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States and to the Republic for which it stands one nation indivisible with liberty and justice for all. Of course, this is still not patriotic enough. Now it becomes a pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands one nation indivisible with liberty and justice for all. During World War II, they changed the salute for reasons that are lost to history. And after World War II, there's anxiety that Americans are not patriotic enough. America is now engaged in a final all-out battle between communism and Christianity. So they add one nation under God. The pledge reaches its final form and it's finally patriotic enough. So we've seen the flag and the pledge are connected to war and to anxieties about migration. How's that for the star-spangled banner? America's Anthem. It's actually one of the few anthems that I would know some of the words of, which is kind of crazy. I only hear my national anthem during moments like Remembrance of Dead during the Second World War or at international sporting events like The World Cup. When you watch like the American Super Bowl, so bizarre, just seeing like fire jets flying around and everyone singing the flag and the fireworks, you're sitting around about to watch a sporting event and you're just like, okay, can we how long is this gonna be? They're singing this beautiful song and there's fireworks and then a frickin' fighter jet flies over. It's like, does it like freak you out as a so bizarre? That you have a sporting event which is domestic, it's not international. It's just to everyone is there in the arcan, you know, you don't need to be reminded. And you're going to a sporting event and then suddenly there's fighter jets and connection to the military for a random sporting event that is so alien to me. This is cool, like no one can say that it's not cool. Everybody wants to be invited to that club, right? I'm always inclined to sit it out, but... To the times when you heard it when it was like really meaningful. I get a job from someone or something to stand up and be respectful. And rather we didn't. It's also notoriously hard to sing. What's so proudly we hailed? Not the best candidate for a song everyone is supposed to be singing, right? So where does it come from? Like what are the words about? Yes, yes. Well isn't it back from like 1776 and like the war, there's like bombs going off, there's a big battle. It's about some battle. So the inspiration for the star-spangled banner is a battle, but not in the independence war. Now this is from a war that people have kind of forgot. It has the inspiring name of the war of 1812. In this war the British Navy bombard Fort McHendry in Baltimore, however. The next morning the soldiers at the forest raise a flag and defiance. It's a really big flag. I saw it in this Smithsonian in Washington, D.C. And there's this one guy, Francis Scott Key, who is there to witness this. He writes words to the tune of a popular song that has been around. He calls it the fence of Fort McHendry. He sends it to some newspaper who changes text to the star-spangled banner. It gets sent out and it's an immediate smash hit. But it will take more than 100 years for it to become national anthem. In the 1800s the song was popular, but there are other popular patriotic songs like Helcolumbia or America the Beautiful during the Civil War. Even though the Southern states have their own flag, some Confederates say, let us never surrender to the North. The noble song, the star-spangled banner, it is Southern origin, encentiments, in poetry and song. But the real popularity comes after the Civil War. Remember, we are on the late 1800s when there is anxiety that new Americans are not patriotic enough. The navy starts playing it at the end of the day. In 1897 you have the first time that it's played at a baseball league game. But this is not a regular thing. Fast forward a couple of decades and the connection between sports, the anthem, and the military becomes tighter and tighter. They start playing a song before the World Series disturb patriotic feelings. Singing the song now becomes a loyalty test. In the first World War for Patriotic reasons again, it is played at baseball leagues. After the war, there is a lot of petitions to try and make at the anthem. And finally in 1931, it is there, the National Anthem. During the Second World War, it becomes a tradition for professional baseball and football teams before every game. And after the war, it was institutionalized to be played at every basketball game with some no-worthy performances. In recent years, the military has spent a lot of money on professional sports. They want to make the connection between sports, patriotism, and the army a lot stronger. So the protests in the Urland Anthem is seen by many as a series of fans. But not everyone buys into this. Currently, the American flag is not a good look. It's become linked with this America first anti-everyone else sentiment. The Trump administration now plans to prosecute people who burn the American flag. If you burn a flag, you get one year in jail. It's time for Lefty's losing it. Just 27% of Democrats say they will in fact display the flag on July 4th. Americans love their country because they are embraced with this love. From the moment they go to school, they pledge their allegiance to this flag. It's everywhere in the country. And you can always find it at sporting events. Living in America is an incredible thing. There is more space and freedom. Whenever something bad happens and everyone comes together, that's always when we're feeling American. We're on the right track. Yeah, this stupid shit is ours. And it's fun to take part in it. But American patriotism is in a bit of a crisis. In 2001, I was 11. This is the time that American patriotism reached record highs. People ready to round the flag and supported wars that turned out to be not so great ideas. In 2016, 41% of Americans said their country was the best of the world. But since then, things have changed. This graph shows the number of Americans being patriotic as fallen. There is also a political divide. Republicans were always more patriotic than Democrats. But that divide has gotten way bigger over the years. Look at that Democratic percentage. Absolutely plummeting. If someone is waving the flag around a little more than necessary, you know, usually they're trying to exert their patriotism. And that usually is a bit of a red flag. Is patriotism good or bad? Righteous has been wary of it in the past. Fulthera said that it is lamentable that to be a good patriot, one must often become the enemy of the rest of mankind. Patriotism can be a stepping stone to nationalism. I have studied enough history to know that nationalism is a reason for a lot of bad behavior in history. George Orwell sees nationalism as inseparable from the desire for power. But I also think it can be a good thing, especially in a country like America, with people coming from all over the world. The same Orwell described patriotism as a devotion to a particular place and a particular wave life, which one believes to be the best in the world, but has no wish to force on other people. And that can only be a positive. Probably whenever we kill some big terrorist or something, you know, like Obama comes out and he's like, you know, we got him someone been laudin' and then you get to watch a neo video of how they got him, you know, you're just like, hell yeah, you know.