---
video_title: "How AI Slop Is Rewriting History"
video_id: AQKJDWtO2yA
channel_name: "The Present Past"
channel_id: UC5Axef4J11DIu17y2RKVqNQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AQKJDWtO2yA
video_date: 2026-06-30T21:37:40+00:00
video_description: |
  Thanks to Manta Sleep for sponsoring this video, use my code Presentpast for 10% off your Manta Sleep Mask: https://tinyurl.com/4bdyubnf. 
  
  Go check out:  @_magnify  https://www.youtube.com/shorts/k1981Di8CO4 
  
  Stefan’s channel: https://youtube.com/@StefanMilo?si=Xw38hXgLblfu8P0u
  
  Sky interview: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X9ZAas973aQ
  Podcast interview: https://youtu.be/dNejbCnqfq4?si=8aQzaXEQB4If5Hje
  
  Sources used: 
  https://ancienthistory.org/ancient/rome/bread-from-pompeii/ https://mymodernmet.com/pompeii-roads/ 
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41559-021-01652-4 https__medicalhealthhumanities_com_2020_05_15_behind_the_beak_plague_doctor_iconography_in_2020_11_7_2023_6_15_27_AM https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/male-neanderthals-and-human-females-likely-interbred-more-often-than-the/ https://archief.amsterdam/beeldbank/detail/a161278d-ce5b-ec49-42e3-a6e804ea89fa https://www.amsterdam.nl/stadsarchief/organisatie/blog-bronnen-bytes/tekstherkenning-(4)-crowd-leerde-ai/ https://www.rijksmuseum.nl/en/collection/object/De-Blokhuizen-in-de-Amstel-1651--da7efca824dfdb1c74e4bb65e56a0965?tab=data https://www.rijksmuseum.nl/en/collection/object/View-of-the-Bulwark-De-Westerbeer-with-the-Mill-De-Beer-near-the-Haarlemmerpoort-Amsterdam--b29701c8220ea12045b889b31f5bff7d?tab=data https://www.molendatabase.nl/molens/ten-bruggencate-nr-13121 Feddes, Fred. 1000 jaar Amsterdam: ruimtelijke geschiedenis van een wonderbaarlijke stad. Bussum: Thoth, 2012. Abrahamse, Jaap Evert. "De grote uitleg van Amsterdam: stadsontwikkeling in de zeventiende eeuw." City 1600 (2010): 1650.
  
  Hi there, my name is Jochem Boodt. I make the show The Present Past, where I show how the present has been influenced by the past. History, but connected to the present and fun! 
  
  Every episode I show how history has influenced and made a thing, an idea or event in our present time. 
  
  I make different content. You can find me on:
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@thepresentpast
  Instagram https://www.instagram.com/the_presentpast/
  Twitter : https://twitter.com/@ThePresent_Past
  
  Logo by: https://www.instagram.com/multicolor_junkie/
  
  If you have an idea for an episode please fill in this form:
  https://www.dropbox.com/request/nMMMSpoNWUJHBIZ8hJRu
---
So someone recently sent me this video. I'm in Pompeii, 79 AD, and that is Mount Vesuvius. It's an influencer, time traveling to the past, and her videos are insanely popular. She's even winning awards. Wow, this is surreal. It's AI, but people that normally hate AI say they love this. As a historian, it's painful to watch. It's full of errors, and it gives people the illusion they're getting real historical information. It has to come down if you've wildly misrepresented something, in my opinion. The Amstel definitely wasn't the Amstel's high way to the world. In this video, I'll tell you why I think this kind of content is not just innocent entertainment. I'll fact check her videos. But first, let's start with this Chloe. So the channel is called Chloe vs History. The idea of the channel is of an influencer traveling to the past, and then longing about it. At first glance, it looks really convincing, and it also is, well, entertaining. It's the coonness. I voted for you. Kidesis. Even though some people in the comments are confused, is Chloe herself, is not this girl who used AI to put herself in the history. Chloe is just another male fantasy AI doll. We know this, because Sky News found the creator, a British guy named Jonathan, and he explains the moment he struck gold. I was pretty impressed with that look. So this was the birth of Chloe. This is where it all started. Now, Jonathan is not the first AI history content has been around for some time. Most of them are quite easy to spot, unless you're boomer on Facebook. But this seems different, not only because we're really close to a moment that we won't be able to distinguish what's real from what's AI. But also because Jonathan really seems to care about history. Yes, there are people out there that obviously don't care about history, because there are mistakes left, right, and center. I'm trying to create something a bit more meaningful. I wanted to look at his content to see if he is also producing AI Slop, or if it's actually good grounded history content. I wanted to close four videos. The first criticism will be about details the AI can't get right. But then they just get worse and worse. Let's start with the Pompeii one. At the time of writing, this has over 7 million views. I'm in Pompeii, 79 AD, and that is Mount Vesuvius. I saw another creator that made some points about how accurate this always. I double-checked some of these points and will tell them to you. So literally the first frame we have a loaves of bread. They look like French baguettes or something, and that's just not real. We actually know how the bread of Pompeii looked, because everything got carbonized, right? So the bread that they actually found in Pompeii are these round loaves that have been scored into these wedges. Also directly in the background, you can see people in Togas but the people in Togas, they would be senators. And senators are very rich, and they have people that will do their groceries for them. So you wouldn't find them just there at some stall, getting some food for the family. All these people walking in the street, it doesn't make any sense. In this time you would have a lot of horses on the street, and horses are not putty trained. And these streets would be really, really dirty. So to pass these streets, we have these stepping stones that they actually used. These have been preserved and have been documented. Okay, so she's running on the streets, away from the volcano, with the volcanic rock falling towards the volcano. It didn't erupt like this for hours and hours. The better part of the day, it was already raining volcanic ash. This also means that most of the people actually got out safely. It was actually blast of heat that killed the people that were left in Pompeii. You get the picture. There's more stuff wrong with it, but I would suggest you check out the other creator that made a short about this. I've linked this in the description. Let's look at another one about the Black Death. You guys asked me to travel to London in 1348 during the freaking Black Death. Okay, so we're in the Black Death, in medieval times, 3048 in London. Some important context for this video that Chloe doesn't explain is that London at this time was home to the biggest yearly wet t-shirt contest of Europe. Chloe has participated. So I found a plague doctor and honestly he is giving very Halloween costume. How many patients are you seeing a day right now? As many as God sends me. This is a common mistake. You'll find everywhere on the internet. The reasoning for these masks is that they thought bad air would carry disease. And to stop that, they had masks. They would then completely fill with herbs and stuff. But they are not from the 1300s. The mask came from the 1600s in Italy. The plague didn't just hit Europe once and then die out. It was caused by this bacterium, Irsenia Pestis, and it would come wave after wave. And then maybe decades later, plague would come back again. One from 541 to about 700s. The second one from a mid 1300s until far into the 1800s. And the third one in the 19th century ending as late as 1950. Oh, and this red cross means plague is inside this house. The whole family sealed in. Nobody allowed to leave. Nobody allowed to enter. Okay, we see a red cross and some AI gibberish text. The cross is there to stop people from going inside to letting people know that there's a plague here. It's a quarantine. I wasn't really sure if this was already in 1300s. So I did some research and yeah, nothing 1300s. In 1660s, there's another plague epidemic in London. And this is where you find these plague crosses. But not 300 years earlier. So two videos, a lot of errors, a lot of simplification. But these were some of the first videos he made. And he's been called out in the comments that the content is not true. So maybe he changed his ways. At the time of writing, the latest video he posted was this one from 10,000 BC. Okay, so I don't even know where to start. I am standing in 10,000 BC right now. Now 10,000 BC is a long time ago. It's prehistory. It's before written sources. I don't know much about prehistory. I know enough to see that a lot is going wrong here. To be sure, ask my friend Stefan to give his perspective. A Stefan, you might know him from his archaeology channel, where he uses academic sources to inform you about the past. Our earth. Before literally everything, nobody has built anything. Nobody has broken anything. It's just perfect. Controversial statement from the get-go there. But first, I want to show you where I've been traveling. So I'm now in Bulgaria for video and spending a lot of time in the road. The sponsor for today is actually making that a lot easier. Over the years, I've done a number of sponsors and I like them all. But there's only one that my girlfriend loves. And that is a... Mantisleep. I'm not kidding you. Before this, I never really used sleep masks. I didn't think they really worked. Since I've been sponsored by them a few years ago, I've been taking them on every trip that we go on. Now, let's be honest, this doesn't look great. It kind of looks like you're wearing a bra on your face. But you're not wearing this mask for fashion. You're wearing it to sleep good. And for that, it really, really works. It's 100% dark when you have them on. It blocks out all the lights. It's super comfortable. There's no pressure on your face. The seas shaped cups make sure they really work well for side sleepers. And there's also a ton of options. You have the classic, you have the pro, or even the sound sleep mask. So if you want to be rested on your trip or whenever you need it, go to the link in the description and use my goad present past for 10% of your next purchase. And now, let's get back to the video. 10,000 BC. Nothing has been built. Nothing has been built. Quite a lot has been built. Quite a lot has been built. Quite a lot has been in the process of being built. It's so interesting that she uses that phrase because this is like the very start actually of monumental architecture. This side's like Gebekli Tepe, Carajan Tepe, the Tower of Jericho, very famous. And that's, you know, that's just the stuff we know about, right? There's so much we don't know, and there's so much made by wood that is probably perished. They had art, real art. Someone put their hand against this wall tens of thousands of years ago, and just made something. I'm assuming she's in Europe because of like the population we later go on to see. So in a European context, hand stencils would have been made way before then, 20,000 years before then, 30,000 years before that. But hand stencils do get made across the world at different times. So it is like quite a universal human symbol. So I suppose we can give her a pass for that, but definitely in like a European context, this, it happened a lot before 10,000 BC. Now these are Neanderthals for sure. There's no way they don't intend for these to be Neanderthals because it's based on really famous depiction of Neanderthals. Why is an issue that there are Neanderthals in 10,000 BC in this video? Well we have absolutely no evidence of Neanderthals surviving 40,000 years ago. So I suppose they're 30,000 years out of sync with the reality, which you know is an insanely long time when you think about it. In your perception of human history, being off by 30,000 years is quite a lot. You're tired? They're using these Ungabunga-U-U sounds. Do they have language? What is the consensus about that? I think there's absolutely no reason to think that Neanderthals didn't have language. There's no reason anatomically to think they didn't have language. The more we learn about them, the more we understand that they're creating art, symbolic thinking. It's important to never assume that they were just like us. You always have to keep that in mind. You can't assume anything. It's fundamentally, we know genetically like we interpret with them. And you could say like, oh well that doesn't mean anything. But we still carry their DNA within us now. So it's not just a one-night stand in some lonely cave. We interpret with them. Their children were successful enough in that community to also pass on their genes. It's hard to imagine a scenario like that if they didn't have language. Language is everything to us. And for sure, by 10,000 BC, every human across the planet has language. I mean, we've almost certainly had language for hundreds of thousands of years in some way. It's impossible to think that we didn't. Your take on this video, Stefan. Are we being informed historically? It's basically vibes based. I love the vibes of being like, wow, we're exploring time. But in terms of is this an accurate representation of life in 10,000 BC? No. So basically everything is wrong about this video. That makes it three out of three. There are mistakes left, right and center. And by this time I was wondering, how does he make his content? So I searched online and I found this video, the sky video I showed you before, where he talks about his process. Just before the eruption happened to see this. Okay. So she's going to say, okay, so I just arrived in Pompeii and it is giving Roman holiday. But like real. Then that AI generated script is fed into the C dance video AI model. It's a cloud prompt. And he doesn't only use AI to make his videos. He also uses AI to write scripts. Remember when you were in high school and the teachers told you you can't use Wikipedia to write your essay? Wikipedia is great. If you're high as a kite at 3 AM and you want to read up about the adjubi Airplane house, but it's not great if you want to make content that informs millions and millions of people. It's Wikipedia where the AI will just grab the information and sort of frankenstein it together into something that seems basketball at first glance. But if you know anything about the subject, everything falls apart. And this is extremely annoying. Especially if like me you make videos where you spend countless of hours finding articles, reading books, talking to experts to try and make sure your videos have a factual basis. But it's obvious that he presents himself as something different, as something worthwhile, as something informative. But even when people correct him in the chat, he doesn't update his descriptions or anything. But Clover's history is not the only project he has. I found this podcast where he talks about his second project, Majestic Studios. For this project he uses actual historic sources. My channel is taking those historical sources and going one step further and actually making those photo realistic. And then turning those photo realistic images into moving scenes. So I saw this and I thought, okay, this is a lot better. He's using historical documents to make these videos. It's a lot better than just prompting Claude. And again, I want to say this guy really themes to care for history. And actually I really enjoy doing the research. I love finding a hidden little gem that shows that city in the 18 or 1700s is just the best feeling. So I actually get like, in dolphins when I find it. Anyone that has ever done historical research knows this feeling. The feeling that you get when you find this source, when you find a piece of information, a quote, a document, it's really the best feeling. So I thought, let's see how he does this. Maybe this is different. So he made a video about Amsterdam. This is where I come from. I also made a video about it. So it's nice that he uses actual historical documents. It's a bit gimmicky for me, but if you enjoy that kind of stuff, sure, go ahead. Our story begins on the peaceful banks of the Amstel River at Alde Kirk. Just south of Amsterdam. Centuries earlier, a dam was built here on the Amstel, giving birth to the city itself. So he makes it seem as if a dam was built at Alde Kirk. Alde Kirk, if you look on the map, is quite a bit removed to the south of Amsterdam. So not at Alde Kirk. The dam was built on the Amstel right smack in the middle of what is now the center of the city. The Amstel was Amsterdam's highway to the world. Goods flowed down this river from inland regions, heading to the city's ports and then across the globe. Yeah, the Amstel definitely wasn't Amsterdam's highway to the world. Let me show you a picture of actually the Amstel River. It kind of goes nowhere. The actual connection that Amsterdam had was to Dysardrezae. And from there you have rivers that do go all the way to the rest of Europe. And you have Dysardrezae itself that we used. So not the Amstel. No, church tower in the distance is definitely not Alde Kirk. What's happening here is that you have a town called Alde Kirk, which means Old Church. But he's talking about Alde Kirk, the Old Church. This is a church that you find in the center of Amsterdam. And this is the place where rich people would be buried. So it's completely different. This tranquil scene would soon transform as Amsterdam exploded in size and wealth. The peaceful river banks giving way to fortifications, warehouses, and relentless urban expansion. Yeah, so the river bank at Alde Kirk still very far away from Amsterdam. Basically nothing happened here what he describes. There were nowhere houses here. There were no fortifications here. That all happened closer to the actual city, like a lot closer. Until far in the 1800s the city didn't reach further than the city expansion that they made in the 1600s. And even now between Amsterdam and Alde Kirk, there's just a lot of greenery and nice houses next to the river. Notice the windmills dotting the ramparts. These weren't grinding grain. They were pumping water. So I didn't know this windmill, but I do know that windmills on ramparts definitely were used to grind grain. So I searched for it. And you can find it here on the Reichs Museum site. It's called the Vesterbeer. Now because people care about history and people are amazing, there is a windmill database. And on this database we can actually find this windmill. And its function is a cornmole or literally a grain mill. I mean if you look at maps of the city expansion, you can find windmills along the ramparts. They did this because Dutch people are entrepreneurs and they want to make money. Now Amsterdam did have a very intricate network of sluices and windmills. Just yeah, this wasn't it. This is not a gate in Amsterdam. This is an Amsterdam gate in Harlem. A different town. Often these gates would be called after the road would lead you. So from Harlem to Amsterdam you would pass through the Amsterdam gate. Also if you know anything about historical building sites, this is obviously not a 1600 building. And I see here it's from 1355. These two imposing block houses guarded the southern approach to Amsterdam along the Amstorne. Built as defensive structures in 1651, they protected the city's wealth from Spanish armies, rival Dutch cities and English naval forces. Right so I've lived in a city for over 30 years but I've never seen these. Concerning the Spanish in 1648 there was peace and no one wanted war again. The Dutch were part of the United provinces so there wasn't fighting like in between the cities. The first Anglo-Dutch war would break out just a year later. These block houses were the city's response, serving both as military defense and customs posts. They built these fortifications for a war that hadn't happened yet. The Dutch and English were even talking about a potential alliance at this exact moment. Still why did I not know about these? Well they were torn down three years later in 1654. Here's a print in the Reich Museum and it shows you why it is built after a coup attempt in 1651. So this is nothing to do with English with rival cities or even Spanish armies. So this is the first five minutes of the video. I think you can get stripped. Jonathan obviously doesn't know the first thing about the history of Amsterdam. And why would he? If you make a video like this you do research. Now the rest is basically a Wikipedia summary of the Dutch East India Company and stuff about the Dutch Republic. It's not as bad as the first five minutes but what is ironic to me is that Jonathan is talking about trust. My reasoning behind this is that it's all a matter of trust. It's coming from something. You're not asking AI to imagine something from a text prompt and you're just trusting what it spits out. The trust comes from the historical sources. So that is an artistic impression. So you have to trust whatever that artist was doing at the time. He's looking at or she is looking at the city. You have to trust that's what they can see. He's talking about trusting these historical documents. Well the first thing you learn as a historian is you don't trust the historical documents. That's because often they will misinterpret what happened. They will tell a different story because there's reasons why people will tell different stories. I want to show you a picture that is of a sea battle that happened during the first Anglo-Dutch war. In 1653 in this painting you see a lot of ships. I've never seen a 17th century battle in real life but this looks kind of crowded right? Should we trust this? As you can imagine this is not how it happened. The painter got a bonus for every master he could fit in the painting. So he got paid very well and we should definitely not trust it as a source. And there are channels out there that don't use historical sources at all. They're doing a similar concept to me like the entire history of X. But they won't use historical sources and they'll just get AI to invent what they think. And I just think that's a missed trick. The problem is that he's not just trusting the documents. He's putting his full trust in a cloth prompt. That's kind of ironic because he does care about getting things right or wrong. A powerful tool but Jonathan is still the creative director. I've had to edit this one as well because she's holding two forks. Oh yeah? I know because your focus is on her face. But he seems more busy with making sure the AI doesn't show two forks than actually showing what happened in the past. What's frustrating is that correcting misinformation takes so much more time than it is to produce it. By the time that I had finished doing my research writing the script, yet made five more videos. And judging by the comments, I don't think people have the knowledge, the time, or the tools to find out what's real and what isn't real. A lot of people in the comments are saying this is really good historical, accurate information. And that just makes me really sad. If I have some wildly inaccurate thing in the video, I have to take it down. I can't live with it being up on the internet. I also create artwork for my videos with an artist. We'll get so particular on it. You know, even to the point, forgive the pun, if like a spear is not historically accurate, and it's a little detail that maybe no one notices. Or there are very few people notice. But like if you're going to portray a particular point in history, you might as well portray it as accurately as possible, especially in the world of AI when you have like infinite goes, right? You have an infinite attempt to make it correct. AI is a tool and it doesn't have to be the enemy of history. Most of the information about history we get from archives. Archives sit on mountains of information, and most of it historians haven't seen. It's just too much. But my local archive is using AI to decipher handwritten texts from centuries ago. So that means that soon you were able to just as a Google search go through the archive. That's amazing. But actually this image generation scares me. Because it is already quite hard to find out what actually happened in the past. And I think with these models, we're slowly going to get to a point where AI is going to make video that is just instinctible from reality. So future historians looking back at our time trying to figure out what video is real and what isn't are going to be cooked. But what's even worse is that generative AI will also corrupt the past. But there's already a flood of AI generated images about the Holocaust that scammers are posting on Facebook to make money. And these images are supplanting the real stories of what people went through. So I want to ask Jonathan, if you ever see this, please don't rely on cloth to make your prompts. You seem to care about history, you're entertaining people. But you're also spreading so much misinformation that people are walking away from these videos less informed about what really happened in the past. I often talk to economics, I mean, there's a lot of people out there who really truly care for history and I'm sure would want to help you make these videos historically accurate. If you do want to watch these videos for entertainment, sure, go ahead. A lot of people seem to enjoy them. Just don't expect them to be a credible source to know anything about the past. If you do want to know about Amsterdam and the history of this amazing city, I made a video talking about how we build Amsterdam and it's all based on academic sources. So I guess I'll see you there.