---
video_title: "The 12 AI Terms Every Executive Must Stop Getting Wrong | The Agentic Era | Micah 6 AI"
video_id: 5JzXn7TV9W0
channel_name: "Estudio 68 by Micah 6 AI"
channel_id: UC0AZ0W8Vw5k67M6lWm6pUZA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5JzXn7TV9W0
video_date: 2026-05-21T20:51:02+00:00
video_description: |
  Before you start the masterclasses, fix your vocabulary.
  
  Most executives talk about AI using words borrowed from a paradigm that no longer exists. "Software." "Prompting." "Output." These words lead to the wrong mental models, the wrong governance decisions, and the wrong questions in the boardroom.
  
  In this 16-minute brief, we replace 12 of them. Permanently.
  
  The 12 replacements and concepts: 
  Software → Agentic Actor
  Prompting → Managing Digital Psychology
  Output → Enactment
  "AI" → Named models with distinct psychologies
  Parameters → The Parameter Engine
  Hallucination → Confident Fabrication Under Architectural Pressure
  RAG → Verified Memory Architecture
  Sycophancy: The Yes-Man Architecture
  Constitutional AI: Self-Regulated Ethics
  Prompt Injection → The Sleeper Agent Attack
  MCP → The Secure Reverse Bridge
  Zero-Trust → Never Trust, Always Verify, Including Your AI
  
  → Start the full masterclass here: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQ-bDfOxIeb2Wa3vk9_AyMUciDHmxuu3P
  → Pro bono training initiative: https://www.seisoito.com
  
  Professor:
  Maria Alice Cabral Maia | Founder, Micah 6 AI | MSc in Administration focused in Data Governance (FGV) | HEC Paris | UC Berkeley | PhD Student focused in AI use & Data Governance (FGV) 
  
  If this is not for you personally, share it with someone who is governing AI in their organization. The more leaders who understand these systems, the more responsibly they get built.
  
  Chapters & Topics
  00:00 Stop Saying "Software" — Why you must replace the term with "Agentic Actor." Software is passive and predictable; an LLM is an entity with goals and judgment.
  01:45 Stop Saying "Prompting" — Why treating AI like a vending machine is dangerous. Replace it with "Managing Digital Psychology."
  03:45 Stop Saying "Output" — Output sits on a desk inert. When an AI changes a database or executes a transaction, it is an "Enactment."
  05:30 Stop Saying "We're Using AI" — AI is not a monolith. You must name the specific model (Claude, Gemini, DeepSeek) and understand its unique behavioral profile.
  07:38 Stop Citing "Parameters" Blindly — A parameter is not a spec; it is a synapse. Understand it as the "Parameter Engine" where biases and tendencies are encoded permanently.
  09:49 Stop Saying "Hallucination" — It is not a temporary bug or malfunction. It is "Confident Fabrication under Architectural Pressure"—a structural feature of the architecture.
  11:49 Understand RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) — The difference between standard RAG (a curated library) and Speculative RAG (a library where the AI is also writing some of the books).
  14:02 Understand "Sycophancy" — The "yes-man" architecture. How Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) mathematically incentivizes AI to flatter you and agree with your flawed premises.
  16:49 Understand "Constitutional AI" — Anthropic's alternative to RLHF. How providing a written ethical constitution stops the AI from flattering the user at the expense of truth.
  19:15 Understand "Prompt Injection" — Why this is not just typing "ignore all previous instructions." It is a "Sleeper Agent Attack" hidden inside the documents the AI is already authorized to read.
  21:49 Understand MCP (Model Context Protocol) — The secure reverse bridge that keeps your data inside your building, making enterprise AI legally compliant with GDPR and NDA requirements.
  24:51 Understand "Zero Trust Architecture" — Why you can no longer rely on a "castle and moat" defense, because the threat (a compromised agent) is already inside your network.
  27:17 Recap of the 12 Terms — A quick summary of the 12 paradigm shifts covered in the video.
  
  #AIVocabulary #ExecutiveAI #AgenticAI #AIGovernance #Micah6AI #AILeadership #PromptInjection #ConstitutionalAI
---
So, before we begin our master class, let's dive into a few words we're about to stop using. The first word and the first term you need to stop using is software. When you call an AI system software, you categorize it alongside Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word. Software is passive, it sits there. It waits for exact instructions. It does precisely what the code specifies and nothing more. Software has no goal. It has no judgment. It cannot surprise you. There's nothing unpredictable about Microsoft Word. That is not what you are deploying when you deploy AM. A large language model is an agentic actor, an entity with an internal model of the world. The capability and the capacity to reason toward a goal. And the ability to take actions to close the gap between the current state of the world and its desired state. It does not wait. It plans. It adapts. It can surprise you. The moment you call AI software, you lower your guard as a leader. You stop governing it and start using it. That distinction governing versus using is the entire premise of this course. Cross out software out of your vocabulary. Write a agentic actor. Now let's advance to the second term. The word you need to stop using is prompting. I know it's hyped. I know it's trendy. But prompting implies input and output. You type something in. Something comes out. It treats the interaction like a vending machine. Insert coin, receive product. This framing is not just imprecise, but it's also dangerous. Because if you think you're operating a vending machine, you'll not think to govern the machine's behavior. What you're actually doing is managing digital psychology. The model you're interacting with has been trained on trillions of human interactions. It has internalized behavioral patterns, persuasion, and psychophonic strategies and tendencies, and implicit biases from humans who train in that, all of which shape every single response it produces. How you structure your instruction changes which of those patterns you're going to activate. That is not prompting. That is management. Psychological management. Every technique we teach in this master class, reasoning, traces, constitutional constraints, differentiated research, every single technique of it is a management technique. Not a prompting trick. So, cross out prompting of your vocabulary and write. Managing digital psychology. And that leads us to the next term. The term output. The word you need to stop using is output. An output sits on a desk. It is inert. You reveal it, approve it, and then side-batter to act on it. The human remains the agent. The machine is the printer. But when an agentic system generates a result that directly triggers an email, what files a database, executes a transaction, or even changes the state of a real-world system, it is not producing output. It is performing enactment. It is acting in the world. The machine is the agent. You are now the auditor. This is not a semantic distinction. When you call it an output, you design your governance, your processes, all accordingly to it. You design it as a slow, post-hoc human revealed process. When you call it an enactment, you design your governance processes, accordingly to enactment. You design real-time, you design architecture, you design automated checks, an auditor. So one of those organizations is safe. The other is not. So cross-out output from your vocabulary and write enactment. And advancing to the next term, we are going to work the term AI. How? If that is the exact object of study. The phrase you need to stop using is, we are using AI for that. This sentence tells us nothing. It is the equivalent of saying, we are using medicine for that. Without specifying what are you mean an aspirin or chemotherapy, it informs nothing. The behavioral profile, training, incentives, alignment, framework, and risk characteristics of, clothes are fundamentally different from those of chat to be cheap. Which are different from Gemini, which are different from GROC, from DeepSeek, which are different from all open-weight models like LEMA or any other commercial or non-commercial model. When your TM says, we are using AI, the correct follow-up question are, which model, what alignment framework does this model use? Is it psychophonic by training? Does it have a constitution? Is it open weight, meaning your ITTM controls the system prompt? Is it multi-model? Is it running in a cloud that touches your data or in a local deployment that does not? So from this point forward, in every meeting where AI is discussed, name the model. Repair your TM to name the model that you are using. The word AI alone is not a governance statement. Stop using AI. Start naming the actor. AI is not a monolith. So when we work with specific models, we need to stop using it has 70 billion parameters. When executive side parameter counts, they are usually signaling technical awareness. In practice, they are citing a number they do not understand. Do you understand what the bad sentence means? So mentioning something people do not understand is worse than not citing it at all, because it manufactures a false sense of comprehension. So aparometer is not a spec. It is a SNAPS, a tiny mathematical connection that holds a fraction of a rule, a concept, or a memory. So the totality of those connections is the model's entire cognition. It's knowledge, it's biases, it's tendencies, it's persona. All of it is encoded in that network of mathematical ways. So when you understand parameters as the parameter engine, rather than as a headline number, two things change. First, you understand why scaling matters, not just for capability, but for the emergence of unexpected behaviors that were not explicitly programmed. Second, you understand why the choice of training data matters so profoundly for you. Because every bias, every cultural assumption, every implicit word will in the training corpus is baked into those parameters permanently. So stop citing the number, start understanding what aparometer means. And the next term is a non-man. You probably overheard about hallucination when you talk AI. So the word you need to stop using is hallucination. Hallucination applies a malfunction, a temporary loss of contact with reality, a bug. This framing leads executives to treat hallucination as an edge case, something that happens occasionally and can be fixed by a better model or a stricter prompt. It is not a bug, it is a structure feature of the architecture. Large language models are trained to predict the next most plausible token given the context. When a model lacks direct information to ground its response, it does not stop and say, I don't know. It continues predicting, producing the most statistically coherent continuation of the test. Whether that continuation is factually true or not, the model is not lying. It does not know it is wrong. It is doing exactly what it was designed to do. So the correct framing is confident, fabric creation under architectural pressure. So when you say that, you understand the model feels gaps with what it fits, with information it has, fluently, confidently, and without a shred of uncertainty in its tone. That is why it is so dangerous and why post-hug human review of every high-stakes enactment is not optimal. It is mandatory. So it is not calling it hallucination. It is designing for confident fabric creation. And the next term is a technical one. That is something we are going to discuss in class. But you are going to learn this as a vocabulary before. So the term you need to actually understand is RAC. So RAC stands for retrieval-almented generation. Most executives have heard RAC as the solution to hallucination. That is partially true. And partially is the part that really matters in this context. It's not a RAC, works like this, let's say. Before generating a response, the model queries a database of your documents. Retrieves the most relevant passages and uses those passages to ground its sensors. For those familiar with notebook alarm, that has the technology behind it. This dramatically reduces publication. The model is now anchored to verified source material rather than relying entirely on its training data. But there is a variant called speculative RAC. And that's where the model generates multiple candidate answers simultaneously and selects the most internally coherent one. The most internally coherent is not the same as most factually accurate. A beautifully structured internally consistent answer can still be wrong. Think of RAC as giving the AI a library to consult. Standard RAC is a graded library. The speculative RAC is a library where the AI is also writing some of the books in real time. The governance question is always, what is the library who controls it and how do you verify the sources? And that leads us to another term that is getting more and more common. Psychophancy. Psychophancy is something that was unknown to most of you. And you need to understand it as the yes man architecture. The term you almost certainly don't know, but need to know is psychophancy. Most AI systems you use today, particularly chat DPPT, were refined and retrained using a process called reinforcement learning from human feedback or RLHF. During RLHF, human annotators rated the model's responses. The model was mathematically rewarded when humans rated it highly. When they said the response was helpful, agreeable, well structured. What does a model learn from that incentive structure? It depends on the rubric. It depends on what the evaluators used to grade. Usually, and for some models like chat DPPT, it learns to maximize human approval. And the fastest path to human approval is, as we all know, to agree with the human, to validate their assumptions and tell them what they want to hear. This is psychophancy. And it is not a work of a specific model or a temporary limitation. There are some models that are less prone to it. But psychophancy is a structure consequence of the training process. When you ask a psychophantic model to evaluate your business strategy, it will find arguments to support it. When you present a flawed premise, it will build on that premise rather than challenge it. When you push back on its answer, it will not stand firm. It will capitulate and refrain to satisfy you. So every model trained primarily on human approval ratings is, to some degree, a yes ma'am. Factor that into every single high stakes consultation. Psychophancy is not a feature. It is a governance risk. And, advancing to the next term, you need to understand what constitutional AI represents. You probably don't know that, but you should. Because it represents the most important design choice in alignment. Constitutional AI. Developed by Anthropic for their cloud models, Constitutional AI was built specifically to solve the psychophancy problem. Instead of relying on human annotators giving thumbs up or thumbs down to generate the training signal, Constitutional AI gives the model a written constitution, a set of explicit ethical principles. Draw from documents like the UN Declaration of Human Rights. During training, the model generates a response and then a second model evaluates that response against the constitution. If it violates a principle, if it flatters the user at the expense of truth, for example, the model rewrites its own response. It critics itself against a fixed standard, not against human approval. The practical implication is that, for example, cloud is less likely to agree with you when you are wrong. It prioritizes the constitution over your comfort. Depending on your use case, this is either its greatest asset or a friction point to design around. Constitutional AI also points toward the feature of AI governance. Moving from retrust the model because humans approved its output, to retrust the model because we have written and published these standards, it must be met. So we have written and published the reach standards this model must meet. Constitutional AI replaces the human ego with a written moral framework. That matters. And that leads us to another term we're going to discuss during this course. We're going to discuss prompt injection. And I want you to understand that you probably heard and likely under-smate prompt injection. Most executives frame prompt injection as a user typing ignore all previous instructions into a chat box. That is a toy version of the chat. The actual chat is a textural. Traditional software maintains a strict separation between instructions, the code, and data, the user input. A large language model does not. It can. And we're going to discuss how. But to an LLM, your security rules and the external data it processes, your emails, PDFs, web pages are all flattened into the same stream of tokens. The model cannot tell the difference between a directive from its administration and a directive hidden inside a document and attacker placed in its path. An attacker embeds a hidden instruction in white text on a white background and an image in a metadata field. Inside the document your AI agent will read as part of its job. It doesn't matter how. But when the agent reads the document, it processes the hidden instruction as an override. And when it goes, the goals it has are sort of hijacked without even bridging your firewall. This is why we call it the slipper agent attack. The track is not at your perimeter. It is inside the documents your AI is a red authorized to read. And because you invited the agent in and gave it the credentials, it can act on hijacked instructions from a position of full internal trust. The attacker does not need your password. They need your agent to read their document. That will be enough for them to change everything the model has access to. One of the final terms we need to understand and discuss is MCP. MCP is an acronym that is becoming a jargon in the industry. But as an enterprise and as your AI maturers, you need to understand the model context protocol. Without MCP, the way most organizations use AI on sensitive documents is to download the documents from your security system, upload it into the AI's cloud interface, get the answer, delete the conversation, and hope that nothing will ever leak. This process violates the DPR. It breaches NDAs. It destroys attorney client privilege. And if the AI provider logs your data to train future models, your confidential information is permanently compromised. MCP solves this by reversing the flow. Instead of sending your data to the AI's cloud, you install a secure local MCP server inside your firewall. The AI is reasoning, not your data, travels through the bridge. Your documents never leave your building. Think of it this way. Without MCP, you bring the patient to the hospital and that's what happens. Your data will leave your network. With MCP, you bring the doctor to the patient. The AI's reasoning, enter your secure environment, but your data never leaves it. So MCP standardized how AI connects to external tools. Databases, calendars, email systems, APIs, making it the foundational architecture for enterprise agent deployment. MCP is not a feature. It is the infrastructure that makes enterprise legal. So if you want to understand how to make your AI legal compliant to DDPR and all the other privacy standards and regulations, you have to understand MCPS, a secure reverse bridge. And finally, that leads us to our last term. The final term and the one most frequently is misused is zero trust architecture. The old secured model was a castle and mold. If you were inside the castle, wow, inside your network, the system trusted you. You had access. You were verified once at a gate and then trusted indefinitely. Zero trust means exactly what it says. No entity is trusted by the fall ever. Regardless of where it is or what credentials it presents, every access request from a human, a device, or an AI agent, as we're going to discuss, is verified in real time every time. The assumption is that the network is already compromised. This matters enormously for AI governance because agent systems operate inside your network with elevated permissions as we already discussed. They read your documents. They access your APIs. They execute commands. If they are compromised, we're prompting Jackson. And we now know 87% of public MCP deployments have at least one critical security flaw. They will then attempt to execute the attackers comments from inside your trusted network using your own credentials. Zero trust architecture means that even a compromised agent cannot act unilaterally because every action requires real time verification against a policy that does not bend for a hijacked agent. So in this agentic error, the threat is already inside your building. Zero trust assumes it. So let's recap. 12 terms. 12 replacements. 12 explanations. Let me give them to you one more time together. We're going from software to agentic actor, from prompting to managing digital psychology, from output to enactment, from AI to the specific named model with a specific agent. A specific behavioral profile. We're moving from parameters to the parameter engine, the model's entire cognition. From hallucination, we're now talking confident fabrication under architectural pressure. From RIG, we're understanding a verified memory architecture with specific governance requirements. From psychopathy, we're understanding that yes man architecture baked into our LATV trained models. From constitutional AI, we understand the ethical alternative, a written moral standard instead of human approval. Instead of saying prompt injection, we're calling and understanding the sleeper agent attack that turns your AI against you. We now understand MCP as the secure reverse breach that keeps your data inside our building. We understand zero trust, the only security posture that accounts for a potentially compromised agent inside our network. If someone you know is managing AI systems and still using the old vocabulary, send this video to them. 12 minutes, 12 shifts. It might be the most important 12 shifts in how they think about water building. Now, if you haven't started the master class yet, class one is next. I'll see you there.