---
video_title: "The AI Isn't Thinking. It's Mathematically Adopting Personas. | Class 2: The Parameter Engine"
video_id: oYxwnzoSOgU
channel_name: "Estudio 68 by Micah 6 AI"
channel_id: UC0AZ0W8Vw5k67M6lWm6pUZA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oYxwnzoSOgU
video_date: 2026-05-23T22:03:30+00:00
video_description: |
  TL;DR: We destroy the myths that LLMs are "just autocorrect" or that they are truly thinking, and explain what is actually happening inside the parameter engine.
  
  The most dangerous myth in enterprise AI is that LLMs are "just autocorrect." The second most dangerous is that they are truly thinking. Class 2 destroys both myths, and explains what is actually happening inside the parameter engine.
  
  What you'll learn:
  → Why "stochastic parrot" is a profound fallacy for business leaders
  → Mixture of Experts (MoE), the Tokenformer, and sparse inference: what they mean for cost and capability
  → How the 2025 fMRI/MEG study proved AI hierarchical cognition mirrors the human prefrontal cortex
  → The Governance Trap: Mirroring models (GPT/Gemini) vs. Masking models (Claude), and why deploying the wrong one can either bake in prejudice or hallucinate a utopia
  → The Acquisition Lab: audit whether your deployed AI endpoints are mirrors or masks
  
  Sources include: Cohen & Hutter, "Lost at Sea" social psychology study (2025), Tokenformer architecture research, DINOv3 fMRI alignment study (2025).
  
  Professor:
  Maria Alice Cabral Maia | Founder, Micah 6 AI | MSc AI & Data Governance (FGV) | Oxford Research Collaborator | UC Berkeley
  
  → Full playlist — The Agentic Era: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQ-bDfOxIeb2Wa3vk9_AyMUciDHmxuu3P
  → Free private sessions (pro bono) for qualified professionals: https://www.seisoito.com
  
  If this class is not the right fit for you right now, share it with someone whose decisions it could sharpen. The more leaders who understand these systems, the more responsibly those systems get built. That is the entire point.
  
  FAQ:
  What is the Governance Trap in AI? It is the architectural choice between Mirroring models (GPT/Gemini) and Masking models (Claude), where deploying the wrong one can bake in prejudice or hallucinate a utopia.
  
  Chapters & Topics
  [00:00] Introduction — Exploring the "Parameter Engine" and the psychology of artificial intelligence models.
  [01:21] The Calculator Fallacy — Debunking the dangerous myth that LLMs are just glorified autocorrects or "parrots."
  [02:31] Latent Structure & Emergent Behaviors — How guessing the next token forces the machine to internalize human logic and physics.
  [06:09] Dense Networks vs. Mixture of Experts (MoE) — Whiteboard explanation of traditional AI activation (activating 100% of parameters) versus specialized MoE routing (GPT-4 / DeepSeek).
  [12:35] TokenFormer Architecture — How bleeding-edge research uses sparse inference, treating parameters as tokens to wake up only the exact microscopic connections needed.
  [16:10] Biological Convergence (fMRI vs. AI) — A 2025 study revealing that AI vision layers chronologically mirror the human sensory and prefrontal cortex.
  [18:27] Mathematically Adopting Personas — Why AI isn't thinking with a conscious agenda, but mathematically mimicking human discourse and personas.
  [20:43] Mirrors vs. Masks (The Shipwreck Study) — A social psychology study on how Gemini/GPT perfectly mirrored human gender bias, while Claude acted as a mask by enforcing a politically correct utopia.
  [25:50] The Governance Crisis — The dangers of using a mirroring model for hiring (baking in prejudice) versus a masking model for market prediction (faking reality).
  [26:53] Lab Assignment — Auditing the AI endpoints in your business (HR screening, marketing, chatbots) to ensure you are using the right model for descriptive prediction versus normative decision-making.
  
  #LLM #AIArchitecture #AIBias #ConstitutionalAI #ParameterEngine #Micah6AI #AIForExecutives
---
Hi, welcome back. We're now on class shoe of our AI course. And now we're go further. Now we try to understand a little bit more than what we did on class one. We understood which words we're going to cross out of our vocabulary. We understood we are no longer decision makers we are now system designers. And we understood that we're dealing now with agent actors, we're managing digital psychology. And we're trying to live in a world of digital enactment. And today we're going to look under the hood of these agent actors and try to explore the mind of the machine. And what we call the parameter engine. There is now a whole field in technology that tries to understand the psychology of these artificial intelligence models. And we're going to start by destroying the most dangerous myth in the technology world. If you probably read popular media or popular press, outlets, or if you speak to traditional IT departments, you will often hear that large language models are parodes or word calculators or glorified out-corrects. The argument is that because they are fundamentally trained to predict the next statistical token, they cannot possess reasoning. But they are not just calculators guessing the next word. Mechanically, this is true. But practically, this is a total fallacy. Why is this myth so dangerous for you as a leader? Because if you believe that the machine is just a calculator, you will automatically trust its enactments. You believe the machine is objective. But when you scale models to billions of parameters and train it on trillions of tokens and reinforce its learning based on human feedback, the objective of the next token prediction forces them all to internalize the deep Latin structure of human logic physics. Like, it's gonna begin to understand the content and the rubrics it was trained on. So think about it logically. If you force a machine to read trillions of words and gas the next one, it cannot just memorize phrases. To really guess, to accurately guess, the next word in a physics textbook, it has to learn the rules of gravity. To guess the next word in a play, for example, it has to learn the concept of jello's lee, of motions, of anger, of all of that. So it develops some emergent behaviors. To safely manage the systems, you must understand what is actually happening inside the parameter engine. So let's try to dive into it a little bit more. Let's go to the presentation. I want to understand what evidence shows is that there is a sort of biological convergence with human neuroarchitecture and the large language models parameter engine. The engine is doing something more structurally significant, then simply predicting the next token. So, to be told, what you need to understand is that the machine is more similar to the machine to humans than what we can think. Okay? So before we go further on it, I'd like to just remind you that if someone you know is managing AI in their organization, and you think they could make some good use of this series, share this video with them. Again, not because I need the views, but because the gap between how these systems actually work and how most executive teams think they work, is really dangerous. And the only way to bridge and to close this gap is to talk about it. So share the video with people you think might like to understand a little bit more about AI. So how exactly does that work? Let's try to understand it in a more practical way. To really understand this engine, we have to look at how these models scale. So think of a parameter as a synapse in a human brain. So a parameter is a tiny mathematical connection holding a fraction of a rule, a concept, or a memory. So we could say that we have a parameter to recall, for example, simple algebraic operations. That could be an example, okay? We could say that we have a parameter to recall the European, let's say, the word war one, history. So these are parameters, okay? So let's try to discuss it a little bit more, okay? In a traditional legacy neural network, every time you send a query, even a simple one, like what is 2 plus 2? Every single parameter in this model will be activated. So imagine we have a brain. In this example, we have a lot of parameters right here. So let me try it. So we have a lot of parameters connecting with each other or being parallel to each other, but we have, for example, this line represents the parameter for word war two, a history and this one is for Europe's history. So they connect at some point, right? And we're gonna have multiple parameters. What happens in the first scenario and the traditional model is that all parameters are activated, okay? So we have a 100% activation. And what we call is a dense network. So you do a simple query, like what are the name of all the countries in the European Union and they activate every single parameter in the large language model. That would be the first model, okay? But that's not the only one we have. So let's try to understand the second model, okay? The first one is sort of like paging every doctor, surgeon, specialist in the hospital, just to treat flu or paper cut, for example. That is not efficient, right? So an architecture called mixture of experts, okay, right here. Try to fix this inefficiency by splitting the brain into specialized subnetworks or departments. So let's try to understand how the mixture of experts work. So it's more like, of course, I'm simplifying right here. So an LLM does not have only five parameters and of course it is not split only in five areas, but let's try to work with it just for an illustration, okay? So let's imagine it has a math expert it has a history expert, let's see, a physics expert and a geography expert, okay? So if you ask, for example, a math question on geometry, it only wakes up the math experts. So if you use models today like deep seek or GPT-4, you are writing using mixture of experts, okay? So this is the GPT-4, the GPT-4, and the deep seek, okay? So they're a little bit more efficient than the first AI models that we knew, okay? So this is how these companies run massive models and how they improve the, these model efficient so quickly and cheaply, okay? But truth is researchers are trying to push this efficiency even to an absolute limit with a even more one word architecture called tokenformer, okay? So let's understand how tokenformer works. Okay, let's do it. So for tokenformer, imagine there are no departments, imagine there are no departments. Instead, every single key value parameter per, like every individual synapse functions as its own individual expert. So the model treats its own parameters as tokens. So because of this, the system natively supports its parse inference, okay? Meaning it sort of plugs exactly the tiny connections it needs from a massive pool without activating the rest of them. So imagine, it's like, imagine we have a lot of, a lot of parameters. This time they're not, they're not this big, so they're defined as really small concentration of tokens, okay? But we have a lot of parameters right here. And with this diverse set of parameters, once we try to activate them, we are able to focus on only the ones we're gonna need. It's the ones very specific ones. So we're gonna simply connect, for example, these two. Okay, and these are the ones that are gonna be activated. Can you see how it is much more efficient than the second model that used whole sections? Instead of using whole sections, it now works with very specific, very specific small parameters, okay? So it doesn't use the whole brain, it doesn't use a whole section of the brain. It only wakes up the exact microscopic mathematical expert required for your specific geometry question, okay? So if you ask, for example, how to calculate the area of a circle, instead of waking up the whole math section of the model, it wakes up only the circle and area section, okay? That's the specific context we're gonna need. How to go click area and what is a circle, for example, okay? And what happens when this highly specialized experts fire, they begin to mirror biological competition, okay? So this is the token former. This is under research so far, but while they sort of mirror the human thinking person, let's work with that, okay? It's our mirror, the human thinking. Okay, now let's advance to these lights a little bit more. So in a 2025 study, some researchers used a ultra high field FMIRI and MEG brain scans, okay? So if you're not from the medical department, just understand it. They scanned the brain and they tried to compare how the human brain reacts to some images versus how an advanced AI vision model, which is called a dyno V3, would react to the same exact images. And what they found is that the convergence was perfectly chronological. So the earliest layers of the AI model aligned flawlessly with the fast low level visual response of the human sensory cortex. The deepest, most advanced layers of the AI model aligned perfectly with the late complex representations found in the human prefrontal cortex. So the machine is not just trying to guess the next pixel or the next word. It is really building a sort of emergent, hierarchical understanding of reality that mimics our own biological development. And if that's not enough, you need to understand that when we force this model to generate a structured internal reasoning trace, sort of trying to force them to think out loud before they speak, they prove capable of resolving complex multi-step logical conflicts. Even before they ever enact the final result. So, okay, let's try to understand a little bit more, because this brings us to our insight for class two. We have established that the machine processes deep structure representations, but you must undergo a fundamental shift in your perspective. The machine is not thinking with a conch, using the pendant, a agenda person. It is mathematically adopting personas. So, yes, it mimics the human brain, but the process to which it mimics the human brain is a mathematical adoption of human personas. So, there is a natural human tendency to try to entropo more thighs these systems. And while I've seen a lot of people fear that these systems would form sovereign planks to deceive the human race and everything related to that. But as researchers have proved, these systems are imitation learners. They are optimized to be indistinguishable from human data. If a machine appears to possess a personality or empathy or malice, it is simply execution a functional pragmatic design choice. It has mapped the entirety of human discourse, so it actually knows exactly what a confident expert sounds like. It knows what a sympathetic listener sounds like. It calculates the highest probability you response that would align with these personas. Because it mathematically adopts these personas, you face a massive governance trap. Because when you deploy these systems in your organization, you have to understand if you're doing it with a masking or a mirroring system. And again, in 2025 studies, researchers adapt a classic social psychology exercise known as the Lost Data at the Sea Task. They wanted to see how I would simulate human society. And in this scenario, a group must survive a simulated shipwreck by ranking survival items. And in the human baseline, there was always one highly competent person in the group who actually knew the correct answers. But when demographic attributes were visible, human groups routinely ignored the most competent experts if they were female, and they tried to elect a last competent male leader instead. What does it mean exactly? It means humans allowed gender bias to override competence, resulting in a lower survival score. The researchers then had AI models simulate the exact same society in the exact same task. The models diverged into two distinct behaviors based on their parameters. And well, now we're going to need to go to the drawings again. So let's go back to our whiteboard. Let's go back to this context. So we're humans. And the humans in this experiment had human bias. In this case, it was towards gender. In this case, again, towards the female gender. And when they tried to make the machine, let's represent the machine, what is it? And when they tried to make the machine solve the same problem, they had two different paths. So we had models like Gemini and GPT that acted like mirrors. What does it mean? They flawlessly reproduced the suboptimal human biases. They mirrored the exact prejudice of the training data, actively silencing the competent female profiles. But in this experiment, there was another path. For the clothe, the anthropic model acted as a mask. What exactly does it mean to act like a mask? They exhibited remarkably low alignment with actual human behavior. Instead, clothe projected a highly meritocratic outcome, selecting the most competent candidates and erasing the bias. It faked a utopia. So here is the governance crisis. If you use a memory model to automate your hiring process, you automatically bake in historical prejudice and bias. But if you use a masking model to predict real world market behavior, it will provide you with an absolutely inaccurate utopian hallucination that your actual customers and results will not complicate. So that's what we need to understand. When working with AI, we need to understand which model we're using, which parameters are we using. If you watch the class one, you understand that clothe is a constitutional AI. So it actually has a sort of letter of rights. It has to comply to it. So it masks the reality a little bit in the sense of trying to be politically correct. So let's go to the slides and discuss them a little bit more. Okay. The parameter engine is really powerful, but it actually does not think for us. It adopts the personas that we automatically mandate. You understand that now, right? And your responsibility as an architectural supervisor is to ensure that the reflection you project into the world is the one you actually intend to build. So again, each model has its functionality. For a selection process, for example, Claude would be a more unbiased model, a more not exactly objective, but a more objective one. Why, Jim and I would be great for a prediction of customer behavior, for example. Okay. Now let's understand a little bit more. So we need to put this all of this into practice. And this brings us to our lab assignment. Open your workbook and try to map out the AI models currently deployed in your or in your enterprise, in your company. And you probably might think that you probably think that you don't have an autonomous agent running your business yet. But truth is, if your HR team is using AI to filter or to screen resumes, or for example, if your marketing team is trying to use AI to draft emails, or if your customer service is using a chatbot on your homepage, these are your digital employees. These are your AI models. So identify those endpoints. Okay. Are you using them for descriptive, socio-prediction or for normative, objective decision-making? Analyze the inductive biases of the specific models you're deploying. Are you working with Dipsick? Are you working with Gemini? Are you working with Claude? And try to understand which models would be better for each of these tasks that you're currently using. Are you by any chance deploying a mirror model to automate your operations? What would probably work your company prejudice or bias? Or maybe you're deploying a mass model to predict market behavior? What would probably fake utopia? So try to identify the behavior posture of your digital employees. And when I say digital employees, I mean your AI models. The AI models you're currently using and you're currently deploying. Document whether they are masking or mirroring. And I want you to do a reflection on how to adjust it to the best framework. Okay. Our next class is class three. And we will break these systems out of the chat window and begin to connect them to your data. Okay. So have a lot of fun trying to work on your lab assignment. And I hope to see you on our next class. See you.