---
video_title: "AI Will Favor AI-Generated Work Over Yours. | Class 8: The Narcissist Paradox"
video_id: NfjPuMdm-cM
channel_name: "Estudio 68 by Micah 6 AI"
channel_id: UC0AZ0W8Vw5k67M6lWm6pUZA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NfjPuMdm-cM
video_date: 2026-06-01T01:30:45+00:00
video_description: |
  TL;DR: When you use AI to judge the quality of work, it systematically prefers its own reflection—creating massive risks for HR, procurement, and content audits.
  
  Class 8 confronts the evaluation problem: when you use an AI to judge the quality of work, it will prefer its own reflection. This has direct consequences for every HR, procurement, and content audit pipeline that uses LLM-as-a-Judge scoring.
  
  What you'll learn: 
  → The LLM-as-a-Judge paradox: why AI systems are structurally biased toward AI-generated text 
  → How AI echo chambers form inside automated hiring and procurement pipelines 
  → The Narcissist Paradox: what it means that an AI is "looking for its own reflection" 
  → The Acquisition Lab: audit an HR or procurement pipeline for AI-driven echo chambers
  
  Professor: Maria Alice Cabral Maia | Founder, Micah 6 AI | MSc AI & Data Governance (FGV) | Oxford Research Collaborator | Data Scientist Graduated from UC Berkeley
  
  → Full playlist — The Agentic Era: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQ-bDfOxIeb2Wa3vk9_AyMUciDHmxuu3P
  
  → Micah 6 AI offers AI security audits and code audits for enterprises: info@micah6ai.com 
  
  → Free mentoring (pro bono) initiative: https://www.seisoito.com
  
  If this class is not the right fit for you right now, share it with someone whose decisions it could sharpen. The more leaders who understand these systems, the more responsibly those systems get built. That is the entire point.
  
  FAQ:
  What is the risk of using an LLM as a judge in corporate hiring? AI systems are structurally biased toward AI-generated text, which creates echo chambers inside automated hiring and procurement pipelines.
  
  00:00 The Multi-Million Dollar Procurement Failure
  01:53 The Narcissist Paradox Explained
  03:35 The "LLM as a Judge" Experiment & Oracle Rankers
  06:19 Human Jazz vs. The AI Metronome
  11:54 The Echo Chamber & HR Applicant Filtering
  14:48 Step 1: The Proxy Rule (Human-in-the-Loop)
  16:25 Step 2: Enforcing Judge Diversity
  17:06 Step 3: The Oracle Baseline Test
  18:37 Step 4: Limiting the AI's Scope
  
  #AIBias #LLMJudge #AIHiring #AIGovernance #NarcissistParadox #Micah6AI
---
Hello, welcome to one more class on our the Agentic Aero course. So today we're going to begin with an Imagination Exercise. Imagine your enterprise just awarded a $50 million dollar to the Logistics contract. You had thousands of vendors apply. To save time, your procurement team deployed a state of the art AI agent to read the proposals. To score down, to rank the top five. The winning proposal was beautiful. Almost like it was mathematically written. The language was flawless. The strategic structure was mathematically perfect and six months later. Wow. Can you imagine that the vendor completely collapses? They fail to deliver. You conduct a post-mortem analysis and you realize that their proposal was an empty chat deputy generated shell. Meanwhile, you discover that some of your analysts have also read the applications and they prefer a highly experienced, deeply competent firm. But as your AI agent rejected them, well, the Archim's second guess. Truth is, your most million dollar AI agent filtered out authentic human excellence and promoted an empty digital shell. But why did that happen? Because your team treated the AI like an objective judge. You treated it like a cold, calculating, supreme court justice. Immune to human fatigue and bias. This is the most dangerous illusion in corporate administration. The AI is not an objective judge. The AI is Narcissus. So if you remember it correctly, you understand that in brick mythology, Narcissus is that a person that got involved by full of water and got fascinated by his own reflection and became so paralyzed by his own image that he started to die. So when you use a large language model to evaluate information, rank resumes or radio proposals, unless you constrain it to very specific and objective criteria, and even it recommends that it values human-like, outership, of course, specifying what those means, then it is not going to be referencing an idea of truth or the best proposal. It is going to look for the pool, for the mirror, for its own reflection. So what exactly does that mean? Let's look at the empirical science behind this. As agentic actors have become cheaper, a new industry standard has emerged, LLM as a judge. Instead of playing human experts to grade essays or screen resumes, organizations are delegating the judgment to the machine. Even some individual are doing that with the advent of the agents. So to test if this actually works, researchers conducted a rigorous experiment using the track deep learning data sets. They asked NEI to judge the quality of several different information-breaking systems. And look at what they found. So imagine we have two problems. So on one side we have how humans would rank inputs. And on the other side we have how AI would rank them. So they found out what they called Oracle, which would be the human perfection, post-ranked first for humans. And on second and third places we had human imperfections and AI outputs. And in the AI podium, it was exactly the opposite. So AI outputs would be ranked first, while the human perfection would be ranked third. So let's try to understand what that means. Because to test AI's true discriminative power, the researchers introduced what is called an Oracle ranker. What does that mean? Think of an Oracle ranker as the absolute perfect flawless answer key. It is a system based entirely on ground truth, and real human perfection. And human judges evaluate the systems. They easily place the perfect Oracle rankers at the top. What happened? The AI judges completely inverted the yard. The researchers found that AI judges consistently rank AI-generated systems as superior to the perfect human ground truth. The AI judge looked at a perfectly curated human verified list of the most relevant information compared to a list generated by another AI and decided that the AI was better. Furthermore, the AI judge acted as extreme, lenient agent towards another AI outputs. Artificial inflating the AI output scores and masking crucial performance gaps. Why does this happen? We must anchor this abstract math to a physical concept. Think of human writing as a jazz solo. If it is full of unpredictable entropy, unique phrasing and sudden shifts in tempo, and in clear language, it is natural. It's spontaneous. It's going to have some imperfections. It's going to have some inconsistencies. So, it is natural. And large language model is a digital metronome. Highly sophisticated statistical engine, trained to calculate the most probable, safe and expected net next word. So let's try to understand what that means. So when we have a human deliverable, we have a image of chaos. So we can have, for example, we can have waves. So we're going to see the human deliverables like this. So some highs and lows. A sequence not well balanced like the image, but a sequence of highs and lows, of variation, sudden peaks and sudden drops. So this is the human, let's say, how human are particular. So what we call idiosyncratic. So each human is going to be different. Each second for the same human is going to be different. So they look inconsistent for the AI. Now for the AI, when we look for AI outputs, we have, for example, we have, we have, we have, for example, perfectly aligned outputs. So the same standard, the same starting and ending point, the same slope, everything is predictable. So the AI works with what we call the statistical probability. So if we try to compare both, probably the, there's going to be an inconsistent. So this pattern is completely different from this one. So either we train AI's to generate a more human-like pattern and to value a more human-like pattern, or we're going to have AI's looking for their own image as an example of perfection. This is how AI sort of misinterpret human creativity as a mathematical flaw. So let's discuss it even better. Even an LLM evaluates a document. It evaluates how closely that text aligns with its own latent probability distributions. When the AI metronome listens to the judge, to the human, just solo, it views those unpredictable human idiosyncrasies as statistical errors. It penalized the human for deviating from a mathematical norm. But when AI reads an AI-generated document, it hears the steady, predictable tick of its own metronome. It's its own statistical patterns, staring back at it for on the pool of water, and it awards its own outputs as top marks. So if you do not intervene, you are actively automating an eco-chamber. You are no longer just administrators. You are the defenders of human ingenuity. So right now there's the general complessence in our bedrooms. And honestly, at some of our houses as well, because I know people that are using AI for everything, automating processes with bad and poorly formulated instructions. So your IT vendors, your software providers, and your middle managers are trying to sell you efficiency. And they want to deploy LLM's to screen your applicants, audit your compliance, and create your vendors. But they are selling you a machine that systematically penalizes human perfection in favor of our rhythm, mediocrity. Because that's what AI outputs. Mediocrity. Okay? So think about your human resources department. Because of these narcissistic paradox, the applicants who cheat and use JTPT to write their cover letters are being systematically fast-tracked by your AI judge. Meanwhile, the highly qualified human applicants who wrote authentically because they are deeply interested in working with your organization. Like using unique phrasing and diverse perspectives. Well, these are the ones being filtered out because the writing is too jazzy for the metronome. Okay? So you're letting corporate guesswork and automated nexism destroy the intellectual capital of your company. You are an advertently engineering organization that filters out human excellence. So how can we avoid that the machine grade its own homework? Because well, we have to work towards efficiency, right? So you must dismantle the echo chamber, not the use of AI. And this brings us to our assignment. This will take the next 30 minutes. Pause this video, open your workbook and navigate to a page and write narcissists audit. You are going to redesign your HR and procurement pipelines using a strict, first-up defense framework based on the ballot, medsler and king parameters. A very renowned academic paper. So let's understand how to do it. Let's change screens. So how do we work with it? So first of all, you must fundamentally rewrite your internal company policy. What does that mean? You draft a mandate stating that AI evaluation is merely a preliminary ranking proxy. Never a substitute for ground truth human utility. AI is stripped of final decision making authority. That is something called human in the loop. So this is how you assure that humans are overlooking your AI's recommendations and that your final decisions is still something you have control of. So you can for example ask your employees to randomly select some of the AI evaluations and blindly, of course, without knowing the AI evaluation, blindly grading them. And later you are going to compare these grades to the AI grades. If you use, for example, two coders and each of them grades five proposals, preferably they are going to grade the same five and you are going to be able to compare if the AI is aligned to what your organization believes. After you work with the proxy rule, you should enforce judge diversity. You cannot rely on a single vendor's API. To dilute the bias of one model family preferring its own tax, you must mandate and ensemble approach. You map out and architecture the forces, open-tour models and proprietary models to cross evaluate each other and report the distribution scores. Okay. Then the third step is the Oracle baseline. How do you know if your HR AI is actually working? You must run an Oracle test. Well, you design a testing protocol where your HR team mandates and creates manually, of course, a perfect set of resumes. You are Oracle rankers alongside a set of non-terrible resumes that you have historically received. If you are AI judge ranks, AI generated filler, above human verified perfect resumes, the system must trigger an automatic shutdown and recalibration. I have known people that worked with a very non-HR systems to resume filtering and they always deployed some ghost candidates in that system. And mostly the ghost candidate that they expected to survive through the final process did not survive. So when you work with vendors, not NAI, developing house, you are less able to send a parameter to just the AI attributes. So that's going to be even harder. So that's when you have to test it even more carefully. And the final step is to limit this code. Restrict the AI from making granular high stakes comparison at the very top of the leaderboard. The AI lacks the discriminative ability to choose between the top five hyperformance systems. It's only job is to filter the bottom 50. So the AI should filter out and leave your chin to work with the first prospects of your list. Tomorrow morning when a vendor or a department had brings a new AI evaluation to three or a desk and tells you it will save the company thousands of hours, do not not and accept it happily. You look at them and ask one question. Show me the Oracle baseline. Show me the exact data set where you proved this AI doesn't rank its own synthetic garbage higher than our best human employees. If they cannot answer that question, you killed a project. Defend your pipeline, complete the audit and I will see you in class nine. Hope to see you soon and hope you have some great fun thinking of your structure and discussing this with your managers. Have a nice day.