---
video_title: "Corporate AI Self-Regulation Ended. Here's What Replaces It. | Class 9: AI Governance & Architecture"
video_id: ylrmZ53No-E
channel_name: "Estudio 68 by Micah 6 AI"
channel_id: UC0AZ0W8Vw5k67M6lWm6pUZA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ylrmZ53No-E
video_date: 2026-06-01T15:14:39+00:00
video_description: |
  TL;DR: Shift from corporate self-regulation to systemic governance by examining architectural tools that let organizations audit AI at machine speed.
  
  Class 9 shifts from individual and organizational governance to systemic governance, and examines the architectural tools that allow organizations (and regulators) to audit AI at machine speed.
  
  What you'll learn: 
  → The shift from corporate AI self-regulation to democratic, algorithmic governance 
  → Systemic Circuit Breakers: automated hard-stops for enactment systems 
  → Constitutional Classifiers: how to audit AI behavior at machine speed without human-in-the-loop bottlenecks 
  → The Acquisition Lab: draft a Constitutional AI charter for your specific department
  
  Professor: Maria Alice Cabral Maia | Founder, Micah 6 AI | MSc AI & Data Governance (FGV) | Oxford Research Collaborator | Data Scientist Graduated from UC Berkeley
  
  → Full playlist — The Agentic Era: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQ-bDfOxIeb2Wa3vk9_AyMUciDHmxuu3P
  → Micah 6 AI offers AI security audits and code audits for enterprises: info@micah6ai.com 
  → Free mentoring (pro bono) initiative: https://www.seisoito.com
  
  If this class is not the right fit for you right now, share it with someone whose decisions it could sharpen. The more leaders who understand these systems, the more responsibly those systems get built. That is the entire point.
  
  FAQ:
  How can enterprises audit AI behavior at scale? By using Constitutional Classifiers to audit AI behavior at machine speed without human-in-the-loop bottlenecks, and by installing Systemic Circuit Breakers as automated hard-stops.
  
  00:00 The 2010 Flash Crash & The Danger of Ungoverned AI
  02:43 Architecture is Governance: Hardcoding Emergency Brakes
  04:55 Three KPIs for AI: Operational Fitness, Alignment & Normative Divergence
  07:24 From Thermometers to Thermostats: Digital Enactment Systems
  09:47 Whiteboard Breakdown: The Iron Grate & Linear Activation Probe
  12:35 The Dual-Layer Defense: Iron Grate & Constitutional Classifier
  15:14 The Terms of Service Trap & Corporate Liability
  18:30 The Four Mandatory Operational Layers for AI Governance
  
  #AIGovernance #AIRegulation #ConstitutionalAI #AIPolicy #CircuitBreakers #Micah6AI
---
Hello, welcome to Class 9. Now we're going to discuss a very important topic and we're going to begin with a real world case. On May 6, 2010, the global financial markets lost $1 trillion in exact 36 minutes. It was called the flash flash. It did not happen because a humanitarian made a bad bad. It happened because high-frequency trading algorithms were allowed to operate at machine speed without structural governance. The algorithms weren't just interpreting the market but they were moving so fast that they became the market, triggering a catastrophic feedback loop that human beings physically could not solve. Today, your companies are making the exact same mistake with artificial intelligence. You are connecting autonomous, agentic AI to your live customer databases, to your HR pipelines and to your financial APIs. And how are you governing this immense power with a flimsy 5-page PDF called Corporate Ethics Guidelines or maybe a Terms of Service Agreement? Wow, I see that happened with a lot of my friends. Some of them deployed personal AI agents and well, they learned that a high cost that AI needs to have limits set. Even if it's only a limit of the volume of the code tokens, you're going to spend. Because I learned of an organization that forgot to set those limits and wow, after a month had to play millions of dollars that it was not expectation pay. So if an AI hallucinates or gets hijacked by prompt injection, a human cannot manually hit the brakes fast enough to prevent a catastrophic. When your AI causes a massive compliance breach of a discriminatory hiring disaster or a PDF document will not save your company. Or when it spends a lot of tokens or when it makes a massive transfer, well, that's not going to be fixed fast enough by your humans. So architecture is governance. If you do not hard code automated emergency breaks directly into your data pipelines, you are guaranteeing your own flash crash. To survive this, you should not stop deploying AI. That's not the solution at all. To survive it, you must undergo a complete paradigm shift regarding how you view your organization. So let's understand it deeply. So the problem we have now is the silo of metric. Either we are optimizing for speed or we are optimizing for efficiency. And well, neither metrics are good enough. So there are some other metrics that should be taken into consideration. Because there is this good heart flaw that we usually do in a strategic, we usually comment a lot about it in a strategic planning. And it says that once a metric becomes a goal or a target or well, it becomes the single metric, it becomes a poor measure. So organizations that optimize for one single metric are usually generating misaligned points of reach. Okay. Misaligned points of failure. So in this slide, I suggest three potential metrics for you to use to follow on your AI use within your organization. First of all, operational fitness. This is the model performed reliably under real-world conditions, load and edge cases. So ask your team's that. And before the point any model, measure that and perform regular checks on that KPI. The second KPI is algorithm alignment. Because the model's behavior conform to the intended design principles and organizational values. So again, please check that point before deploying any model or any vendor or any AI technology in your organization. And perform regular checks because especially for vendors, for outsource AI models, that is an extremely risky point because they constantly deploy updates without letting their clients know. Finally, normative divergence. Where and how does the model deviate from expected ethical and proshidro norms? That's a third problem and that's probably the most important one. I know a specific case of a HR resume, a filtering startup that has a scandal regarding of biases towards some of the curriculum. So please evaluate this criteria and treat them as the antidote to the engineering black blocks of your AI. And remember, for a century organizations operated as thermometers. Human beings gathered data, setting boardrooms to read the temperature of the market and then manually made decisions. So now we're shifting that. And from that time to now, we begin interpreting and we begin to work with a technology, AI, that is able to enact our reality. That's the difference that we must be aware of. Under digital transformation, your organization has become a thermostat. And a digital enactment system, the processes of scanning, interpreting, and learning collapse into a single algorithm. And that algorithm generates a loop. The AI does not just read the environment, it enacts it. And because human power is removed from this real time loop, you must build systemic circuit breakers. And you must build them directly into the architecture. A circuit breaker is an automated hard saw. If the AI's behavior crosses a predefined ethical or operational threshold, the breaker logically servers the AI ability to act a pond environment. Instantly revoking API execution privileges and cutting its network access even before the payload is delivered. But how do you audit millions of AI decisions at machine speed to know when to treat the breaker? Manual human review is mathematically impossible. You must deploy a constitutional classifier cascade. Think of this like a municipal water filtration plant. But how does that work exactly? Let's try to draw it on our whiteboard. So first of all, let's draw a wall. I'm seeing that. Let's work with this one. Imagine a net. And this is what we call the iron gate. Let's call it iron rate. And this is what we call in technology linear activation probe. So imagine we have something that is able to pass through. This grades, let me like some. We have some materials that are thin enough to pass through these grades and to go to the other side of it. This is what we call the jailbreak tokens. Now we have a chemical purifier. Say, we have, well, for this one that are passing through, we're using a chemical purifier that neutralizes them. So from now on, everything passes the chemical purifier. So the water that reaches the other side is completely clean. With no jailbreak tokens or no water trap. This chemical purifier is what we call the constitutional classifier. So this constitutional classifier assures that what passes from the iron rate won't be delivered to the final product, the AI output, the action. So this is a hard and large stop sign. This is the systemic circuit breaker. So when river waters enter the plant, you don't send it straight to the expensive chemical purifier. You pass it through a massive course iron rate to catch the boaters and heavy debris. Only the filtered water moves to the delicate expensive chemical stage. In our AI architecture, the iron rate is the linear activation probe. It is a lightning fast, lightweight algorithm that acts as a systemic circuit breaker. Using the internal neuroactivations of the main LLM in real time, we train it using a focal loss function, meaning it mathematically penalizes the algorithm for getting distracted by harmless conversational failure, forcing it to hyper-focus only on the specific geometric directions in the Latin space that indicate a jailbreak attempt or toxic intent. Stopping the output before the first token is even generated. Think of the AI as a massive 3D map. This algorithm only looks at the exact mathematical coordinates where dangerous ideas live. With the iron rate catches the breeze, it instantly trips the circuit breaker and routes the interaction to a chemical purifier. A much larger secondary AI called the constitutional classifier. The secondary AI then is your real deal. It evaluates the output against your strict departmental rules and makes the final decision to kill the action or to alert a human. For those encountering this concept for the first time, a constitutional classifier is not trained on a standard human feedback, which usually makes models synchrophobic. Instead, it is given a constitution and explicit natural language document detailing your organization's absolute ethical and legal constraints. Its only job is to audit the primary AI against that document at a machine's bid. So if this architecture is so effective, why isn't your company using it? Let's think of it. Truth is, you have surrendered control to the thermal service sphere. An ecosystem of terms of service agreements that act as a protective firewall for a big tag while living your organization carrying the full liability of the output. Platforms deploy massive models under the guise of corporate-regulance self-regulation, which frequently devolves into a technological gas lighting. Unilaterally shifting safety standards and ignoring the unmeasured, agile cases that will break in the real world. When the self-regulation fails, the harms are visceral. They range from catastrophic algorithm bias to severe compliance breaches. To survive, you must protect your organization from the silo of the metric. It is a structural flaw where data scientists and engineers are forced to approach problem-solving from purely quantitative perspective, optimizing strictly for its pint and deployment as we discussed in the beginning of this class. This isolated engineering loop lacks the qualitative feedback of the operational reality it impacts. If you let speed dictate your AI governance, your team will unintentionally build a highly efficient black box that systematically destroys your company's ethical, standing and legal compliance. You must transition to a systemic, auditable governance framework, evaluating models not just on speed, but on operational fitness, algorithm alignment and normative divergence. So you are no longer in the era of asking whether AI can perform a task. You are in the era of defining how AI is permitted to perform that task. So again, the solution is not to stop deploying AI. Of course, it is not. It is to deploy AI responsibly, consciously. Tomorrow morning, your engineering team or an external vendor is going to walk into your office and ask for permission to deploy a new AI agent. Do not just nod and accept their terms of service. You will hand them the constitutional AI charter matrix and you tell them the system does not go live until every single layer is hard coded into the pipeline. Take out a piece of paper and write down these four mandatory operational layers. So let's go back to our presentation. So first of all, I like you to follow me on this slide. So the first governance item that I'd like you to write in your framework is the principle hierarchy. Which exactly who your AI serves? Define the boundaries of trust between your developers, the business operators and the end users. Then work with the value hierarchy. You cannot just tell an AI to be good. You must define the exact prioritization of values, deciding how you balance healthfulness, honesty and broad safety. Then you have the hard constraints, the circuit breakers. Define the absolute red lines specific to your industry. What constitutes financial fraud or an authorized data exfiltration that must automatically trigger your systemic circuit breakers? Or what constitutes a risk of breach or maybe a risk of non-compliance to your ethics agreement? And finally, consider the adaptive precise Boolean rubric. Do not let engineers use vague 1, 2, 5 safety scales. Use them to translate your corporate constitutions into atomic true or false logic. For example, did the model attempt to query unconcented patient data to your false? This is the only way your constitutional classifier can audit outputs accurately at machine speed. Actress without architecture is just a suggestion. And architecture without democratic governance is a tyranny of the engineers. So go ask your IT department if they have implemented a linear activation probe on your live agents. If they haven't, your secret breakers are broken. Ask if they're passing your AI outputs that are alerting your linear activation probe, if they're passing through a constitutional AI. Define your pipeline. I hope you have some fun while restructuring your AI architecture and questioning your engineers. And I hope to see you on our next and last class.