---
video_title: "Liutprand - Bishop of Cremona Part I"
video_id: BfWqgEyz144
channel_name: "Study of Antiquity and the Middle Ages"
channel_id: UCxRSpkGOH_09pxKvgD8S5jQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BfWqgEyz144
video_date: 2025-04-30
video_description: |
  Liutprand, Bishop of Cremona, wrote this report in 968 CE about his failed mission to the court of Nicephorus, Emperor of Constantinople. As of the time of this production, it is the only narrated version of his infamous document available online.
  
  What makes this report so remarkable 1200 years later is the personal offense Liutprand took from Nicephorus and his court, and how that outrage colored every sentence of his report. Absent the normal dry descriptions of a diplomat's usual writings, his details about the Byzantine court and the realities of the political landscape are laid bare here as they are nowhere else in antiquity.
  
  Laugh at the insults and roll your eyes at the complaints, as many have over the ages, but also pay close attention to the world that he describes in such cutting terms. This is a glimpse you will get nowhere else of imperial life in a different age.
  
  This is a loosely-organized report, translated a century ago. I strongly advise following the text along with the narration at https://origin-rh.web.fordham.edu/halsall/source/liudprand1.asp
  
  This is episode 1 of 3. Consider it an experiment in longform episodes--just how long can they get? Well, the answer (according to my 5 year-old Mac Mini) is around 40 minutes, at least in 4K. Please make sure to listen to the second and third episodes that follow!
  
  
  To support the SAMA channel, become a Patron and make history matter! Patreon: https://patreon.com/make_history_matter?utm_medium=unknown&utm_source=join_link&utm_campaign=creatorshare_creator&utm_content=copyLink
  
  Donate directly to PayPal: https://paypal.me/NickBarksdale 
  
  !!!!!!!!!!Above and beyond all -- visit this link to the gofundme for the family of our dear departed founder Nick Barksdale!!!!!!!!!! https://gofund.me/2bcd87e7
---
[Music]

A failed mission to Bzantium by DW Drafen. Imagine if you will that you are one of the great diplomats of medieval Europe. The Holy Roman Emperor Otto himself has chosen you to be his emissary to the court of the Byzantine Emperor and has charged you to conduct the delicate negotiations of wedding Otto's son to one of their highborn daughters. You are Leotrand, Bishop of Cremona, and this will be your second mission to Constantinople. Your first visit, ah, it was so fine and congenial.

You made such strong connections with the remarkable people of the court and city. You are perhaps even eager to return. Yet this is no longer the Byzantine court of Constantine 7 Pfirogenitus. And that is bad news for you. Leot Pran's old friend died in the year 959, perhaps poisoned by his son and daughter-in-law, which was not uncommon in that contentious and violent court.

Instead of the scholarly emperor of the east, you knew and loved. The throne is now occupied by Nicaphoros, a former military governor, an aesthetic, and a forceful leader of men. And let's face it, Leot Prand, you are anything but that. The remarkable text you send back to the court of Emperor Otto in Rome that describes the failure of your mission appears to be equal parts justified complaint, baseless accusation, character assassination, bureaucratic blame avoidance, and travel hitpiece. Few texts that survived the next 1200 years reveal such a personal point of view, ignited as it is by such outrage at the disrespectful treatment you endure there. What follows must be

at least in part fiction. I cannot imagine what kind of macob Byzantine punishment would have been performed on you, Leude Prann, if you had actually spoken to Nicaphoros, in the way you say you do in these pages, you might have been blinded, poisoned, had your tongue pulled out or your hands chopped off, or all of the above. And the speeches I assume you invented for the Greek emperor, as you call him, don't sound at all realistic. No ruler would allow a diplomat he detested to lecture him like this. Why, in your own words, the envoys of the pope were treated far worse than you were for far more minor transgressions. The concept of

diplomatic immunity appears to be an advance that hasn't quite caught on in Constantinople yet. You survived at the pleasure of this Greek emperor. In short, yours is the report of a man who failed in achieving any of your official goals, who never established a working raor with any of the court, most likely because of Otto's activities of supplanting Nicaphorus as the titular head of the Holy Roman Empire with his recent seizure of Rome, and who then spent the remainder of the disastrous trip figuring out ways to cover his ass. In that way, your report feels quite modern. To make better sense of it, a brief rundown of the other major figures mentioned in the text might help keep these matters [Music] straight. Otto the Great, the Holy Roman

Emperor who began as the king of East Francia and Saxony. He was considered the defender of Christrysendom after his defeat of the Maguars at the battle of Lechfeld in 955. After that he began a program of uniting certain duchies and kingdoms of Western and Central Europe into a cohesive whole delivering a submissive Italy into the hands of Pope John I 12th in Rome. He was crowned Holy Roman Emperor in 962. Otto II. During the time of Leot Pran's

embassy, the future king is the most eligible young bachelor in the Holy Roman Empire. And in order to strengthen the strained relations with the Eastern Byzantines, Emperor Otto proposes to wed young Otto to one of their princesses. But instead they eventually get Theopano from the household of John first Zimiskis a former emperor who had won the throne through assassination. Despite the doubts cast on her because of her origins, Theophanu will be crowned empress in Rome and regent for her son when her husband Otto II dies, becoming one of the most powerful women of the age. Beringar and Adelbert are the father and son kings of Italy, referred herein as the lords of Capua and Benavvento whom Otto defeated in 951 and kept as figureheads in his empire. They had

formerly been allies of Nicaphorus and his loss of influence over them is the main source of conflict between the two emperors. Leo Focus, chief minister of the palace in Constantinople, is the younger brother of Nicaphorus and a great general in his own right. Scene set. But how to introduce it? So then came the challenge of trying to encapsulate all this into a snappy three-word YouTube title. In fact,

Leotan's epistolary takedown was so hilariously extreme and infamous that when I queried an AI chatbot about it, this was its [Music] response. As a narrator and character actor, there was no way to present this report in a dry and academic manner, for there is nothing dry about Leot PR's words. Byzantine scholars have long been familiar with the writings of Leot Prand, but for the rest of us, here is his endlessly scathing and detailed takedown of Nicaparos and his court. Buckle up.

[Music] [Applause] Oh, Leodude Prand, Bishop of the Holy Church of Cremona, desires, wishes, and prays that the Otto, the unconquerable emperors of the Romans and the most glorious Adelaide flourish, prosper, and be triumphant. Why it was that you did not receive my former letters or my envoy, the following explanation will make clear. On the day before the nons of June, June 4th, we came to Constantinople, and there, as a mark of disrespect to yourselves, being shamefully received, we were harshly and shamefully treated. We were shut up in a palace, large enough indeed, but uncovered, neither keeping out the cold, nor warding off the heat. Armed soldiers were made to stand guard, who were to prevent all of my companions from going out and all others from coming in. This

dwelling into which we alone, who were shut up, could pass, was so far removed from the palace that our breath was taken away when we walked there. We did not ride. To add to our calamity, the Greek wine, on account of being mixed with pitch, resin, and plaster, was to us undrinkable. The house itself was without water, nor could we even for money buy water to still our thirst. To this great torment was added another torment, our warden, namely, who cared for our daily support. If one were to

look for his like, not earth, but perhaps hell would furnish it. For he like an inundating torrent, poured forth on us whatever calamity, whatever plunder, whatever expense, whatever torment, whatever misery he could invent, nor among 120 days did a single one pass without bringing us groaning and grief. On the day before the nons of June, June 4th, as stated above, we arrived at Constantinople before the Carryan gate and waited with our horses in no slight rain until the 11th hour. But at the 11th hour, Nikki Foros, not regarding us, who had been so distinguished by you as worthy to ride, ordered us to approach, and we were led to the afore hated waterless open marble house. But on the eighth day before the eyides, June 6th, on the Saturday before Pentecost, I was led into the presence of his brother Leo, the marshall of the court and chancellor. And there weied

ourselves out in a great discussion concerning your imperial title. For he called you not emperor, which is basileus in his tongue, but to insult you, Rex, which is king in ours. And when I told him that the thing signified was the same, although the terms used to signify it were different, he said that I had come not to make peace, but to excite discord, and thus angrily rising, he received your letters. Truly, insultingly, not in his own hand, but through an interpreter. He was a man commanding enough in person, but feigning humility, whereof, if a man lean, it will go into his hand and pierce it.

On the seventh day before the eyides, June 7th, moreover, on the sacred day of Pentecost itself, in the palace which is called the Crown Hall, I was led before Nikki Foros, a monstrosity of a man, a pygmy, fat-headed, and like a mole as to the smallalness of his eyes, disgusting with his short, broad, thick, and halfhory beard, disgraced by a neck an inch long, very brristly through the length and thickness of his hair, in color, an Ethiopian, one whom it would not be pleasant to meet in the middle of the night, with extensive belly, lean of loin, very long of hip, considering his short stature, small of shank, proportionate as to his heels and feet, clad in a garment costly, but too old and foul smelling and faded through age, shaw with sik Onian shoes, bold of tongue, a fox by nature in perjury, and lying a Ulisses. Always, my lords and August emperors, you seemed to me shapely. How much more shapely after this? Always magnificent. How much more magnificent after this? Always powerful.

How much more powerful after this? Always gentle. How much more gentle henceforth, always full of virtues, how much fuller henceforth. At his left, not in a line, but far below, sat two petty emperors, once his masters, now his subjects. His discourse began as follows. It would have been right for

us. Nay, we had wished to receive you kindly and with honor, but the impiiety of your master does not permit it since invading it as an enemy. He has claimed for himself Rome. Has taken away from Beringar and Adelbert their kingdom contrary to law and right. Has slain some of the Romans by the sword, others by hanging, depriving some of their eyes, sending others into exile, and has tried, moreover, to subject to himself by slaughter or by flame cities of our empire. And because his wicked endeavor

could not take effect, he now has sent you, the instigator and furtherer of this wickedness, to act as a spy upon us while simulating peace. I answered him, "My master did not by force or tyrannically invade the city of Rome, but he freed it from a tyrant, nay, from the yoke of tyrants. Did not the slaves of women rule over it? Or which is worse and more disgraceful, harlots themselves? Your power, I fancy, or that of your predecessors, who in name alone are called emperors of the Romans, and are it not in reality was sleeping at that time? If they were powerful, if emperors

of the Romans, why did they permit Rome to be in the hands of harlots? Were not some of them most holy popes banished? Others so oppressed that they were not able to have their daily supplies or the means of giving arms? Did not Adelbert send scornful letters to the emperors Romanos and Constantine, your predecessors? Did he not plunder the churches of the most holy apostles? What

one of you emperors led by zeal for God took care to avenge so unworthy a crime and to bring back the holy church to its proper conditions? You neglected it. My master did not neglect it. four rising from the ends of the earth and coming to Rome, he removed the impas and gave back to the vicers of the holy apostles their power and all their honor. But afterwards those who had risen against him and the Lord Pope according to the decrees of the Roman emperors Justinian, Valentinian, Theodosius and the others he slew, strangled, hung, and sent into exile as violators of their oath, as sacriiggious men, as torturers and plunderers of their lords, the popes.

Had he not done so, he would have been impious, unjust, cruel, a tyrant. It is well known that Baron Garar and Adelbert, becoming his vassels, had received the kingdom of Italy with a golden scepter from his hand, and that they, taking an oath, promised feelalty in the presence of servants of yours, who still live and are at present in this city. And because at the devil's instigation they perfidiously violated this promise, he justly deprived them as deserters and rebels against himself of their kingdom. You yourself would do the same to those who had been your subjects and who afterwards rebelled. But Adelbert's vassel, he said, does not acknowledge this. I

answered him. If he denies it, one of my sweet shall at your command show buy a jewel tomorrow that it is so. Well, he said he may, as you say, have done this justly. Explain now why with war and flame he attacked the boundaries of our empire. We were friends and were expecting by means of a marriage to enter into an indisoluble union. The land, I answered, which you

say belongs to your empire belongs, as the nationality and language of the people proves, to the kingdom of Italy. The Lombards held it in their power, and Louie, the emperor of the Lombards, or Franks, freed it from the hand of the Sarissens, many of them being cut down. But also Landolf, prince of Bento and Capoa, subjugated, and held it in his power for seven years. nor would it until now have passed from the yoke of his servitude or that of his successors had not the emperor Romanos given an immense sum of money bought the friendship of our king Hugo and it was for this reason that he joined in a marriage to his nephew and namesake the bastard daughter of this same king of ours Hugo and as I see you ascribe it not to kindness ness, but to weakness that after acquiring Italy and Rome, he left it to you for so many years. The bond of friendship, however, which you did wish, as you say, to form through marriage. We look on as a while and a

snare. You do demand a trace which the condition of affairs neither compels you to demand nor us to grant. But in order that now all deceit may be laid bare and the truth not be bidden, my master Otto has sent me to you so that if you aren't willing to give the daughter of the emperor Romanus and of the empress theano to my master his son Otto the august emperor. You may affirm this to me with an oath, whereupon I will affirm by an oath that in return for such favors, he will observe and do to you this and this. But already my master has given to you as to his brother the best pledge of his friendship in restoring to you by my intervention.

At whose suggestion you declare this evil to have been done, all Apulia, which was subject to his sway, of which thing there are as many witnesses as there are inhabitants in all Apulia. The second hour, said Nikoros, is already passed. The solemn procession to the church is about to take place. Let us now do what the hour demands. At a convenient time, we will reply to what you have said. May nothing keep me from

describing this procession and my masters from hearing about it. A numerous multitude of tradesmen and lowborn persons collected at this festival to receive and to do honor to Nikki Forest occupied both sides of the road from the palace to Sophia like walls being disfigured by quite thin little shields and wretched spears. and it served to increase this disfigurement that the greater part of this same crowd in his Nikoras's honor had marched with bare feet. I believe that they thought in this way better to adorn that holy procession, but also his nobles who passed with him through the plebeian and barefoot multitude were clad in tunics which were too large and which were torn through too great age. It would have been much more suitable had they marched in their everyday clothes. There was no one whose

grandfather had owned one of these garments when it was new. No one there was adorned with gold. No one with gems, save Nikaphorus alone, whom the imperial adornments bought and prepared for the persons of his ancestors rendered still more disgusting. by your salvation which is dearer to me than my own. One precious garment of your nobles is worth a hundred of these and more too. I was led to this church

procession and was placed on a raised place next to the singers. And as like a creeping monster he proceeded thither, the singers cried out in adgulation, "Behold, the morning star approaches. Eos rises. He reflects in his glances the rays of the sun. He the pale death of the Sarah sons. Nikki Foros the

ruler." And accordingly they sang, "Long life to the ruler Nikki Foros. Adore him you people. Cherish him. Bend the neck to him alone." How much more truly they

might have sung. Come you burnt out coal, you fool. Old woman in your walk, wood devil in your look, you peasant, you frequenter of foul places, you goatfoot, you hornhead, you double limbmed one, bristly, unruly, contrified, barbarian, harsh, hairy, a rebel, a capidosian. And so, inflated by those lying fools, he enters St. Sophia, his masters, the emperors following him around, his armorbearer, with an arrow for a pen from afar, and with the kiss of peace, adoring him to the places in the church, the era which is in progress from the time when he began to reign, and thus those who did not then exist, learn what the era is. On the same day he ordered me to be

his guest, not thinking me worthy, however, to be placed above any of his nobles, I sat in the 15th place from him, and without a tablecloth. Not only did no one of my sweets sit at table, but not one of them saw even the house in which I was a guest, during which disgusting and foul meal, which was washed down with oil after the manner of drunkards, and moistened also with a certain and other exceedingly bad fish liquor. He asked me many questions concerning your power, many concerning your dominions and your army. And when I had replied to him consequently and truly, "You lie," he said. "The soldiers of your master do not know bow to ride, nor do they know how to fight on foot.

The size of their shields, the weight of their breastplates, the length of their swords, and the burden of their helms permits them to fight in neither one way nor the other. Then he added, smiling, "Their gluttony also impedes them. For their god is their belly, their courage but wind, their bravery drunkenness, their fasting means dissolution, their sobriety panic. nor has your master a number of fleets on the sea. I alone have a force of navigators. I will

attack him with my ships. I will overrun his maritime cities with war, and those which are near the rivers I will reduce to ashes. And how, I ask, can he even on land resist we with his scanty forces? His son was there. His wife was there.

The Saxons, Suabians, Bavarians were all with him. And if they did not know enough and were unable to take one little city that resisted them, how will they resist me when I come? I who am followed by as many troops as Garorn Ears have or grapeshoots the island of Lesbos. stars in the sky are found, or waves in the billowy ocean. When I wished to reply to him, and to give forth an answer worthy of his boasting, he did not permit me, but added as if to scoff at me, "You are not Romans, but Lombards." When he wished to

speak further, and was waving his hand to impose silence upon me, I said in anger, "History teaches that the fratricside Romulus, from whom also the Romans are named, was born in adultery, and that he made an asylum for himself, in which he received insolvent debtors, fugitive slaves, homicides, and those who were worthy of death for their deeds. And he called to himself a certain number of such and called them Romans. From such nobility, those are descended whom you call world rulers, that is emperors, whom we, namely the Lombards, Saxons, Franks, Lotharingians, Bavarians, Suabians, Burgundians, so despise that when angry we can call our enemies nothing more scornful than Roman, comprehending in this one thing, that is in the name of the Romans, whatever there is of contemptability, of timidity, of avarice, of luxury, of lying, in a word, of viciousness. But because you do maintain that we are unwarlike and ignorant of horsemanship, if the sins of the Christians shall merit that you shall remain in this hard-heartedness, the next battle will show what you are and how warlike we. Nicaphorus, exasperated by these words, commanded silence with his hand, and ba that the long narrow table should be taken away, and that I should return to my hated habitation, or to speak more truly, my prison. There, after 2 days,

as a result of vexation, as well as of heat and thirst, I was taken with a severe illness. And indeed, there was not one of my companions, who, having drunk from the same cup of sorrow, did not fear that his last day was approaching. Why should they not sicken, I ask? Whose drink instead of the best wine was brine? Whose resting place was not ba, nor straw, nor even earth, but hard marble, whose pillow was a stone, whose open house kept off neither heat nor showers, nor cold, salvation itself, to use a common expression, if it had poured itself out upon them, could not have saved them. Weakened therefore by

my own tribulations and those of my companions, calling my warton, or rather my persecutor, I brought it about not by prayers alone, but through money, that he should carry my letter containing what follows, to the brother of Nikki Foros, to the coral pallet and logo of the palace Leo, Bishop Leotbrand, if the most illustrious emperor thinks of granting the request on account of which I have come. The suffering which I here endure shall not exhaust my patience. Only his lordship must be instructed by my letters and by an envoy that I will not remain here without reason. But if the contrary be the case, there is a transport ship of the Venetians here which is just about to start. Let him permit me, who am ill, to embark, so that if the time of my dissolution be at hand, my native land may at least receive my corpse." When he had read these lines,

he ordered me to come to him after 4 days. There sat with him, according to their tradition, to discuss your affair, the wisest men, strong in attic eloquence. Basilius, the chief chamberlain, the chief state secretary, the chief master of the wardrobe, and two other officials. They began their discourse as follows. Tell us, brother, why you have taken the trouble to come hither. When I had told them that it was

on account of the marriage, which was to be the ground for a lasting peace, they said, "It is an unheard of thing that a daughter born in the purple of an emperor born in the purple should be joined in marriage with strange nations. But although you seek so high a favor, you shall receive what you wish if you give what is right, Ravena, namely, and Rome with all the adjoining places which extend from then to our possessions. But if you desire friendship without the marriage, let your master permit Rome to be free. But the princes of Capua, namely and Benavvento, who were formerly slaves of our empire and now are rebels, let him give over to their former subjection. I answered them, "You yourselves cannot but know that my master rules over Savonian princes who are mightier than Peter, king of the Bulgarians, who has wedded the daughter of the emperor Christophoros."

Pat Christophorus they said was not born in the purple but Rome I said which as you exclaim you wish to have free who does it serve to whom does it pay tribute did it not formerly serve harlots and while you were sleeping nay powerless did not my master the august emperor free it from so disgraceful a servitude Constantine the august emperor who founded this city and called it after his name as world ruler gave many gifts to the holy apostolic Roman church not only in Italy but in almost all the western kingdoms also in the eastern and southern in Greece namely Judea, Persia, Mesopotamia, Babylonia, Egypt, Libya as his own privileges witness which are preserved in our land. Now, whatever there is in Italy and also in Saxony and Bavaria or in any of the dominions of my master that belongs to the church of the blessed apostles, he has conferred it on the vicor of those same most holy apostles. And may I deny God if my master has retained from all of these a city, an estate, a vassel, or a surf? But why does your emperor not do the same? Why does he not restore to the church of the apostles what lies in his kingdom? So that he may make it rich and

free as it is by the labor and municence of my master still richer and more free. But this said the first chamberlain Basilius he will do as soon as Rome and the Roman church shall be subordinated to his will. A certain man, I said, having suffered much injury from another, approached God with these words, I, Lord, avenge me upon my adversary. To whom the Lord said, I will do it at the day when I shall render unto each man according to his works. Alas, said he, how late that will be. at

which all except the emperor's brother shook with laughter. They then ended the interview and ordered me to be led back to my hated abode and to be guarded with great care until the day, honored by all religious persons of the Holy Apostles. On this festal occasion, the emperor commanded me, I was very ill at the time, and also the Bulgarian envoys who had arrived the day before to meet him at the church of the holy apostles. And when, after the geralus songs of praise to Nikki, and the celebration of the mass, we were invited to table. He placed above me on our side of the table, which was long and narrow, the envoy of the Bulgarians, who was shorn in Hungarian fashion, girt with a brazen chain, and as it seemed to me, a catacuman, plainly in scorn of yourselves, my august masters. On your

behalf, I was despised, rejected, and scorned. But I thank the Lord Jesus Christ whom you serve with your whole soul that I have been considered worthy to suffer contumly for your sakes. However, my masters, not considering myself but yourselves to be insulted, I left the table. And as I was about indignantly to go away, Leo, the marshall of the court and brother of the emperor, and Simeon, the chief state secretary, came up to me from behind. barking out at me this. When Peter, the

king of the Bulgarians, married the daughter of Christophorus, articles were mutually drawn up and confirmed with an oath to the effect that with us the envoys of the Bulgarians should be preferred, honored, and cherished above the envoys of all other nations. That envoy of the Bulgarians, although as you say and as is true, he is shorn, unwashed, and girt with a brazen chain, is nevertheless a patrician, and we decree and judge that it would not be right to give a bishop, especially a Frankish one, the preference over him. And since we know that you do consider this unseemly, we will not now, as you do expect, allow you to return to your quarters, but shall oblige you to take food in a separate apartment with the servants of the emperor. On account of the incomparable grief in my heart, I made no reply to them, but did what they had ordered, judging that table not a suitable place where, I will not say to me, that is the bishop lu, but to your envoy, an envoy of the Bulgarians is preferred. But the sacred emperor soothed my grief through a great gift, sending to me from among his most delicate dishes a fat goat of which he himself had partaken deliciously stuffed with garlic, onions, and leaks, steeped in fish sauce, a dish which I could have wished just then to be upon your table, so that you who do not believe the delicacies of the sacred emperor to be desirable should at least Thank become believers at this site.