---
video_title: "Monarchy or Republic: The Last Kings of Rome"
video_id: KjrhlXg6X0M
channel_name: "Study of Antiquity and the Middle Ages"
channel_id: UCxRSpkGOH_09pxKvgD8S5jQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KjrhlXg6X0M
video_date: 2025-06-12
video_description: |
  We study history for its own sake, or sometimes to escape the grim realities of our present day, but the study of the past is most valuable when we use it to discover how our ancestors dealt with the same problems we struggle with now.
  
  Many observers of the current political landscape like to see the corrosion of American and Western power as akin to the fall of the Roman Republic, with the ascent of similar absolutist figures. Many videos have been produced on the parallels of these times. But here at SAMA we felt it would be more valuable to look five hundred years before this, when the Monarchy first fell and the Republic was established.
  
  The fall has already happened. Focusing on it doesn't help us moving forward. But it might help to look at the historical record and the narratives the Romans told themselves about how republics are worth fighting kings to establish.
  
  Collaborating with my old friend Dev Agarwal on his favorite subject--the history of Rome--we hoped to provide a historical context to our current events and also provide some practical advice of what we as a society should do next.
  
  To support the SAMA channel, become a Patron and make history matter! Patreon: https://patreon.com/make_history_matter?utm_medium=unknown&utm_source=join_link&utm_campaign=creatorshare_creator&utm_content=copyLink
  
  Donate directly to PayPal: https://paypal.me/NickBarksdale
  
  !!!!!!!!!!Above and beyond all -- visit this link to the gofundme for the family of our dear departed founder Nick Barksdale!!!!!!!!!! https://www.gofundme.com/f/support-nick-barksdale-his-family?utm_campaign=fp_sharesheet&utm_medium=customer&utm_source=copy_link&lang=en_US&attribution_id=sl%3Aea067170-8ddc-43a7-a8ca-1586cefa0a23&ts=1749739157
---
Monarchy or Republic: The Last Kings of Rome. Written by Dev Agarwal and DW Drafen. Narrated by DW Drafen. Julius Caesar was never a king. First a citizen, then emperor, but never king.

Why? Caesar famously assumed the role of life dictator, but also publicly refused the symbolic crown that Mark Anthony profered to him at the Luprical Festival in 44 B.CE. Michael Grant observes in his history of Rome 1978 that Caesar was as grand as any king. Yet he had no intention of reviving the ancient Roman kingship in his own person since it was traditionally equated with tyranny.

The roots of Caesar's caution date back to the time of the Sabines and Latins and Ruscans in 509 B.CEE. E and to the last of Rome's seven kings, King Tarquin Superbus. As we all know, Caesar brought about the death of the Roman Republic. In turn, he ushered in the era of strong men who called themselves emperors of Rome, even as he was assassinated and failed to seize the throne himself. But Rome had

three eras, not two. We like to recall the republic and the empire, but not the kingdom that founded it all. And that might be because of Tarquin superbus. Through his cruelty and tyranny, he inspired the patrician class to revolt. This ruler who considered himself absolute ruler was instead Rome's last king and arguably the man most responsible for the birth of the republic.

[Music] To understand superbus, we might begin by considering the life and times of his mother, Tanacquil, an Atruscan noble woman renowned for her prophetic visions. In the 7th century B.C.E., Her husband was a successful merchant, but he could never rise out of this class into the aristocracy in her home city of Tarquini because he was an immigrant.

Yet the newly established city of Rome to the south had no such limitations. So they decided to carpay the DM and take their chances in the new city. Writing there, the story goes that an eagle landed on her husband's head, and by that omen they knew that he would be king. Together they befriended the current Roman king, Ankus Marshius, and showered his court with money and gifts, ensuring that her husband would be the next to claim Rome's throne. Tanquil's husband, this merchant without a home known as Lucius Tarquinius Prriscus, found his place in the newly built city along the Tyber. Taking his

Latin name from the Itrusan city that rejected him, he is known to history as Tarquin and was perhaps the greatest of the kings of Rome. Little else is known about the details of this couple's private lives. Yet to reach such heights in a foreign city, they must have been ambitious and skillful political operators. The seven kings of Rome were legendary figures. Tarwin was the fifth. Their

reigns began with the founding of the city in the 8th century B.CE. by the Latin twins Romulus and Remis. Rome was initially a trading post that stood independently of the nearby Latins, Sabines, and Itruscans. As a frontier town, Rome attracted the castoffs of these nearby kingdoms. Better known for

their marshall prowess than their government, necessity required that these early kings of Rome share power with noble families and neighboring states to win support for the throne. These compromises gave birth to the Roman Senate and the curate assembly of all voting Roman citizens. The idea of inheriting the crown and succession had not yet been established in Rome's culture. Both the Senate and the Curi Assembly were naent and weak institutions established to support the king's right of absolute rule instead of providing actual representation for the Romans who at this time numbered around 130,000 for several centuries. They stayed that way until a certain Itrusan merchant showed up with his bags of gold. Perhaps

if Tarwin had been an incapable leader or a tyrant, the thousand-year evolution of Rome's kingdom, then republic, and finally its empire might have gone differently. But Tarquin proved himself to be one of the most effective kings that Rome had yet seen. The precedent he set for strong leadership, eager warfare, and public traditions such as the triumphal processions awarded to victorious generals earned him the political capital to transform the kingship from an elected position into one of traditional primogenature. But his attempt to pass the crown to his son hit an unexpected snag. Legend has it that his wife Tanquil saw a different man on the throne than any of her sons.

Instead, it was a boy of their household called Servius Tullus, who she, or as she insisted, the gods themselves preferred over all others. It was said Cervius was the son of a prince of Corniculum who had died in battle against Tarquin, while the more rapturous versions of his origin cast Servius's lineage as a divine miracle. Blessed by omens and with the support of the prophetist Tanquil, Servius succeeded to the throne after the king's murder. Tarquin fell during a riot started by assassins that were sent by the sons of the previous king, Ankis Marcius. Apparently, they also believed in the right of primogenature, which would place them ahead of Tarwin's heirs at the head of the line. Yet, the sons

of Ankus Marcus did not win the love of Rome with their actions. What its citizens saw was that after a long and successful reign, Tarwin died with an axe to the back of his skull. And with that bloody reocide, Rome would know no more peace for a long time. During these turbulent times, King Servius Tullus proved to be more than capable. He won his wars and built temples to the gods and ruled with popular support, although his ascension to the throne might actually be the first to have come without a popular vote. But just how crucial was

institutional popular support in early Rome? That still remains a contentious topic thousands of years later. What exactly was the value of a vote? What kind of power did the common people of Rome possess during the kingdom era? These were not the first political assemblies in the region based on popular representation. The Atruscans

and the Greeks gave Rome these traditions and cultural lineage first. The Romans soon adopted representative government as their own and claimed that their ancestors were the first emancipators of the common man. It has been argued by classical scholars and political scientists that the early Roman assemblies allowed social classes to communicate with each other and provided the means for the lower plebeian classes to advance and join the upper ranks of society. This gave the king's governmental policies advantages over other authoritarian models. It is a given in the modern world that republics and democracy are a good thing. Yet, as

representative democracy now comes under relentless attack in today's global culture, it is worthwhile to consult both the historical record and the narratives we have long advanced about the benefits of democracy to remember the advantages it provides. Both dictators and kings can point to the mythical achievements of benevolent monarchs such as Tarwin and Servius Tullius and promise that their own paternal guidance is in our best interest. Yet it is the unchecked excesses of the final king of the Romans who disproves their arguments. Tarwin Superbus, the son of Tarwin, was the forgotten prince who seized the throne. the son of Tarwin Prriscus, set aside all those years before by his mother's preference for Servius Tullus.

Despite a long and successful reign, Tullus had never been secure on the throne. Scheming surrounded him, and finally he fell prey to a conspiracy hatched in his own palace. The prince, who had been cast aside by Tanquil, got his reward in the end. This younger Tarwin ascended to the throne in 535 B.CEE and that's when he became Tarquin Superbus or Tarquin the proud.

King Tarquin Superbus was the last of the fabled kings of Rome and actual historical details remain scant. Although the legends tell us that this Tarwin was the son of the original Tarquin, the chronology only really makes sense if he was Tarwin's grandson, since his rule began 80 years later. But we will most likely never know in what way this is incorrect, thanks to an invasion by one of the great enemies of Rome centuries after these events. In 390 B.CE, the Goths sacked Rome and set fire to the city. Libby tells us that

all the records of Rome's founding, including its original laws, records, and historical accounts, were burned at this time. What we remember about the fall of the kings of Rome and the establishment of the republic is equally wrethed in myth. For example, the tale goes that Servius Tullius had two daughters, both named Tullia, distinguished by making the firstborn Tullia Major and the younger daughter Tullia Minor. Tullia Major was a mild woman, but she was married to Tarwin Superbus, who was a scheming and ambitious prince. Her conniving younger sister was married to Tarwin's own brother, Aruns, who was as mild as Tullia Major. In a poisonous cross

relationship worthy of its own TV series, Tarwin cast aside his own wife and with his sister-in-law murdered her father and claimed the throne. What followed was a reign of debauchery and vanity that would not be matched until the crimes of Rome's emperors 500 years later. The legends surrounding Tarwin's excesses are extraordinary. William Shakespeare addressed the despised king's reign in the argument that prefaces his long poem the rape of Lucriccia. Lucius Tarquinius for his excessive pride surnamed Superbus after he had caused his own father-in-law Servius Tolius to be cruy murdered and contrary to the Roman laws and customs not requiring or staying for the people's suffrages had possessed himself of the kingdom went accompanied with his sons and other noblemen of Rome to besiege Ardia during which siege the principal men of the army meeting one evening at the tent of Sexus Tarquinius the king's son in their discourses after supper everyone commended the virtues of his own wife among whom Colatinus extolled the incomparable chastity of his wife Lucriccia in that pleasant humor they all posted to Rome and intending by their secret and sudden arrival to make trial of that which everyone had before avouched Only Colatinus finds his wife, though it were late in the night, spinning amongst her maids. The other ladies were all

found dancing and reing or in several disports, whereupon the noblemen yielded Colatinus the victory and his wife the fame. At that time, Sexus Tarquinius, being inflamed with Lucriccia's beauty, yet smothering his passions for the present, departed with the rest back to the camp, from whence he shortly after privily withdrew himself, and was, according to his estate, royally entertained, and lodged by Lucricia at Kalatium. The same night he treacherously stealth into her chamber, violently ravished her, and early in the morning speedeth away. Lucricia, in this lamentable plight, hastily dispatched messengers, one to Rome for her father, another to the camp for Colatine. They came, the one accompanied with Junius Brutus, the other with Publius Valyriius, and finding Lucriccia attired in mourning habit, demanded the cause of her sorrow.

She first taking an oath of them for her revenge, revealed the actor and whole manner of his dealing, and with all suddenly stabbed herself, which done with one consent they all vowed to root out the whole hated family of the Tarwinds, and bearing the dead body to Rome, Brutus acquainted the people with the doer and manner of the vile deed, with a bitter invective against the tyran Y of the king wherewith the people were so moved that with one consent and a general acclamation the Tarwins were all exiled and the state government changed from kings to consils or as Shakespeare puts it at the end of the poem courageous Roman do not steep thy heart in such relenting due of lamentations but kneel with me and help to bear thy my part to rouse our Roman gods with invocations that they will suffer these abominations since Rome herself in them doth stand disgraced by our strong arms from forth her fair streets chasteed now by the capital that we adore and by this chasteed blood so unjustly stained by heaven's fair son that breathes the fat earth's store by all our country rights in Rome maintained and by chasteed Lucriccia's soul that late complained her wrongs to us and by this bloody knife we will revenge the death of this true wife this said he struck his hand upon his breast and kissed the fatal knife to end his vow and to his protestation urged the rest who wondering at him did his words allow bow. Then jointly to the ground their knees they bow. And that deep vow which Brutus made before he doth again repeat and that they swore. When they had sworn to this advised doom. They did conclude to bear dead Lucricia, to show her bleeding body through Rome, and so to publish Tarwin's foul offense, which being done with speedy diligence, the Romans plausibly did give consent to Tarwin's everlasting banishment.

Would that it were so easy. The rape of Lucriccia by a member of Tarwin's household did appear to be the catalyzing moment that moved Colatinus and Brutus and the other patrician Romans to rebel against their king. But it did not end there. In fact, that was merely the beginning. Two other men led the rebellion along with Lucius Tarquinius Colatinus and Lucius Junius Brutus. Lucriccia's

father, Spertius Lucriccius Triapitinus and Publius Valerius Publica, both leading members of the Senate. According to Libby, it was Brutus who took the bloody knife from Lucricia after she'd stabbed herself and held it aloft, shouting death to Tarquin. He had long held Tarquin superbus, responsible for the death of his own brother. Brutus had been kept at court, yet long avoided the king's suspicion by pretending to be dullwitted. In Latin, Brutus translates to dollar.

But now it was time to act. Among the four leaders, only Publica had no direct personal stake in the matter. a son of the ancient Valeri Sabine house that traced its origins to Rome's founders. His role in the story is more about what he came to represent to the Roman Republic that followed. Publica was the name granted him by the citizens of Rome. An honorific that means one who

courts the people. In the legend, the four patrician plotters gathered the youth of Kalatia, then went to Rome, where Brutus summoned the people to the forum and exhorted them to rise up against the king. In an inevitable signal of the republic that was to come, the outraged populace voted to depose the king and banish the royal family. Tarwin in Absentia was quickly dethroned by the righteous mob who carried Lucricia's dead body as they stormed the Curia assembly. As the king was conveniently not in Rome at the time, he was conducting a siege against the Aldans to bring booty back to his tottering kingdom. Back in Rome,

Brutus led impassioned mobs into the streets and toppled not only the king himself, but the concept of absolute power contained in a single figure. Once expressed, this idea could not be erased. The notion of equality was more valuable than any tradition of gods and kings. Tarwin remained in exile, shorn of power. Or maybe he didn't. Modern scholars of

ancient Rome have long discredited the classical accounts of Libby and Plutarch as useful fabrications that were written centuries after the fact. It is considered not much of a coincidence that Roman historians of the empire identified 509 B.CE as the date of the founding of the republic since 508 B.CE CE is the accepted date of the Greek archon kleineses introducing democracy in Athens. It is always necessary especially during the later Roman Empire days to be not only the best but the first. Modern scholarship has unearthed

many other discrepancies. There is some evidence that the Atruscans had a hand in Tarwin's exile and other evidence that Tarwin was immediately murdered and still other evidence that none of this really mattered and the change from absolute monarchy to representative republic actually took centuries as a gradual process instead of a tragic act that could be told in a single night around a hearth. But what these stories have come to mean to the Kingdom of Rome's descendants and to us, the beneficiaries of representative government, are even more important than what objectively happened thousands of years ago. Back to the legend and the impassioned mob in the streets. The first act of Brutus, according to Libby, was to secure the people who were now jealous of their newly recovered liberty from being influenced by any entreaties or bribes from the king. Brutus therefore

made them take an oath that they would not suffer any man to reign in Rome. Even though this scene was written by Libby hundreds of years later near the end of the republic, this became the core phrase at the heart of Roman Republicanism, similar to the preamble of the Declaration of Independence for the United States. Committed entirely to the eradication of the monarchy, Brutus quickly forced Colatinus himself out of his consil ship despite being Lucricia's grieving widowerower because he was related to the house of Tarwin. Brutus was an energetic reformer. As well as administering the oath that the people of Rome would never accept a king again, Brutus created many reforms that stretched forward into the new Republican era. He raised fresh men to

join the ranks of senators, drawing on the military knight class of Romans rather than just the patricians. Brutus is also credited with a peace treaty with a powerful trading citystate of Carthage. After the replacement of Colatinus with Publius Valyriius, the two consils also created a new office of senatorial priesthood, the Rex Sacorum, to carry out the religious duties that had previously been performed by the kings. This may have been the first instance of a separation of church and state. And although the republic began as a conspiracy of privileged patricians, the much larger plebeian class fought over time to increase their own share of power, which made the republic that much more representative. Yet, regardless of

how inclusive the government became, it never included political rights for women or immigrants or slaves. Yet from the intreaties and bribes mentioned and throughout all of Brutus' works, it was clear that the exiled king wasn't done. Tarquin took refuge among his allies in Aturia and conducted attacks on Rome from afar. He sent agents into Rome's Senate to subvert its stance against him. He also plotted the assassination of the consoles. Pablo was

informed of the plot by a slave. In response, he undertook a personal investigation of the conspiracy, even going so far as infiltrating the estate of Tarwin's allies, the Aquili, to gather evidence. This led to a public trial. Once the plot was discovered, Tarwin's supporters were put to death, including two sons of Brutus himself, who were publicly flayed, then beheaded. This extraordinary passage reveals not only the commitment of Brutus to the Republican cause, but it also reveals one of the most important historical lessons one can learn about deposing tyrants. They hardly ever quietly

vanish. Yet the exiled king's attempts to break the republic from within ultimately failed. At the battle of Silva Arcia, Tarwin led his Atruscan allies against Rome. Brutus himself commanded Rome's defense. His own cousin, Aarons the Younger, led the Atruscans invading cavalry, and the legend tells that challenged to single combat, they slew each other with spears.

Yet Tarquin did not win the battle nor the war, even after persuading other allies to join him in assaulting Rome again and again. Scholars argue over whether the Atruscan king Lars Porsena of Kusium succeeded. The legend has it that his armies were halted by the heroic defiance of Horatius at the bridge, giving time for the defenders to burn it and thus deprive the Atruscans of Rome. But it is more likely according to modern historians that Lars Porcena invaded and occupied not only Rome but the entire region for years. Either way it was not the outcome Tarquin Superbus had planned. So he continued his efforts

which culminated in one last attempt to win back Rome. The battle of Lake Regillis, supported by his son-in-law, Octavius Mamlius, dictator of Tusculum. The monarchs and rulers of the Latin League allied against the rising power of Rome. Legend has it that this is the battle where the twins Caster and Pollock fought. Their existence threatened. The Romans elected their own

dictator, Alice Posumius Albus, and gave him the power of an absolute ruler. But only for six months. The Latin League defeated. Posumius set one of the most important traditions of the Roman Republic. He gave the power back.

What started as Brutus' outraged rebellion and armed resistance was completed by the last surviving fellow consul Publica. With the fighting finally concluded and Tarwin Superbus vanquished, Publica set about reforming Rome. He also began building his new house on top of the Veian Hill. This site was visible from the Senate itself, and rumors swiftly moved through Rome that Publica sought to make himself the new king. Publica moved swiftly, and rather than fighting these rumors, he demolished his own home overnight.

A skilled politician, he assembled the people of Rome. Addressing the assembly, he caused his lic to lower their symbolic fascis. This was the original sign of royal power. And Publica declared that I have just liberated Rome bravely. But now I am slandered like being either an Aquilius or a Vitellian.

I am the bitterest enemy of the former kings. so I shouldn't be accused of wanting to be king. In a further display of his shrewd political instincts, Publica then ordered that his house be rebuilt, but this time at the foot of the hill rather than on top of it. Publica told the people of Rome that he was one of them and would live among them. less symbolically but with more consequence. Publica was also the hand

behind the new laws governing Rome. These included a democratizing step to entrench the rule of law. Under Publica, any decision made by a magistrate could be appealed in the public assembly. Significantly and dramatically, Publica also enshrined in law that any man who declared himself king of Rome could be killed by another man at any time without fear of reprisal. A law that would have a dramatic impact for Julius Caesar at the end of the Roman Republic.

Yet this was a very limited republic. The only real political power was wielded by the patricians of the Senate. The much larger plebeian class of male Roman citizens did not see the benefits of the republic until they fought for them, eventually confronting the Senate in what has become known as the secession of the plebes. They were the foot soldiers of Rome's armies. And when promises were not kept after they won further wars against the Latin League, they decamped to the sacred mountain three miles from the city, leaving it defenseless.

In a landscape filled with war and civil strife, the patricians quickly made a deal, allowing for the plebeian class to have its own executive with veto power, known as the tribune. This political accommodation allowed the republic to thrive where it might have otherwise faltered over the coming centuries. [Music] The struggles for power never ceased. The plebes seceded many more times, sometimes abandoning their shops and stalls and leaving the patricians to rot. It is important to understand that the revolution was not a single event.

It was a political experiment hundreds of years long. The modern consumer of books and videos on ancient Rome will almost inevitably think of its main characteristics as events. Lucricia died. The Romans took to the streets. And republicanism was invented all in one heady rush. But this

is no Hollywood revolution montage, and there was no accelerated end to Superbus' dictatorship. The lesson to be learned here for both the ancient Romans and for us in our own time is that tyrants can never maintain power for long. What the Roman Republicans understood for nearly 500 years was that it was important above all to be loved by the people. Their first six kings were able to achieve this and early Rome prospered as a result. But in the historical record, the inevitable curse of development is always that one bad actor, that contrarian who sees the framework of law and order as a challenge against their own wildness, an opportunity to exploit.

If he had just left well enough alone, Tarwin Superbus would have had a luxurious life as a prince of Rome. But his ambitions led him to depose and murder his king, then to destroy the foundations of the throne he had stolen. In the legends of the later Romans, the lesson that his descendants tried to instill in the Roman culture that followed is a simple one. One cannot rule the people for long without proving to them that you are their servant.

[Music]

[Music]