---
video_title: "The Folklore of Mythology"
video_id: XM7WVajUokE
channel_name: "Study of Antiquity and the Middle Ages"
channel_id: UCxRSpkGOH_09pxKvgD8S5jQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XM7WVajUokE
video_date: 20250920
video_description: |
  What exactly is folklore, and how is it different from mythology? Here to answer this question is today's guest Ronald M. James, professor of folklore and author of 17 books. You can also find him on Reddit's AskHistorians as u/itsallfolklore.
  
  Stories underpin every historical legend and myth. How did those stories emerge and disperse in the environment? Why can we see variations of Jason and the Argonauts or Noah's Biblical Flood Myth across many parts of the world? Just what is the academic study of folklore and how can it be used to increase our understanding of the classical world?
  
  Join us as Professor James shares his experience and insight into the foundations of oral traditions. This is a contentious subject which draws many internet pop theorists, and their understanding of folklore has little to do with academic study. To learn both the advantages and limitations of the field, please lend us your eyes and ears. 
  
  Both the audio and kindle versions of Introduction to Mythology by Ronald M. James are available at Amazon here: https://www.amazon.com/Introduction-Mythology-Perspective-Ronald-James-ebook/dp/B0DY6QK9N2?crid=1A30I1IYK68F0&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.YW8jvR8UXVDzkiWaduE8hPZf7a5asWyRqD4QCMgo4djGjHj071QN20LucGBJIEps.0TZt1cLP9AhSaHwMo3YtMv_mB2Ksv2tnAdksf8Y74Ho&dib_tag=se&keywords=introduction+to+mythology+ronald+m+james&qid=1757517874&sprefix=introduction+to+mythology+ronald+m+jame%2Caps%2C190&sr=8-1#
  
  
  
  To support the SAMA channel, become a Patron and make history matter! Patreon: https://patreon.com/make_history_matter?utm_medium=unknown&utm_source=join_link&utm_campaign=creatorshare_creator&utm_content=copyLink
  
  Donate directly to PayPal: https://paypal.me/NickBarksdale
  
  !!!!!!!!!!Above and beyond all -- visit this link to the gofundme for the family of our dear departed founder Nick Barksdale!!!!!!!!!! https://gofund.me/08b282293
---
Hello and welcome to another episode of the study of antiquity in the Middle Ages. I'm DW Drafen and today I'm joined by the folklorist Ronald M. James who is the author of the introduction to mythology from a folkloric perspective. Thanks for joining us, Ron. Well, >> great to be here. Thank you for having

me. >> We have folklore throughout our lives. We don't really think of it in the same way that we often do the great classic myths or uh the historical record. These seem to have a kind of respect that folklore has yet to achieve and yet it is an academic discipline and we're hoping that today and with your book you can help us understand what that perspective is. >> Sure. Yeah. I I I think one of the

issues that that from a popular point of view is that it's really hard to recognize your own folklore. It's easier to recognize it in other people. We talk about that person or that culture has silly superstitions. That's folklore. We never say I have silly superstitions.

We don't I don't have superstitions. They do. But I I will always knock on wood. Uh and that's folklore. Knocking on wood. It's it's not silly and it's

not a superstition. It's just folklore. It's a tradition that you do. The thing about the classical myths is that they were elevated by often great authors who recorded stories that they were hearing, the stories that were circulating all the time. We have stories that we call urban legends that circulate all the time. These classical authors were

hearing the stories of everyday life and they wrote them down and they happened to be great authors often and when they were their their works became codified and revered over the centuries. That's why we look at the classic myths and say now that is literature. You they're studied in English departments as great literature, aren't they? English departments don't study urban legends as great literature. >> Not quite yet. But I love the

distinction being made of when that oral tradition gets fixed in time. when the quill hits the parchment or the chisel hits the stone and we only get a snapshot. >> In my book, I make the analogy of a historic photograph taken of a London street say in 1853. Is that London? Is that all of London?

Well, of course not. Is that everyone in London? No. Were they always standing right where they are in that photograph? Absolutely not. the next moment they all

moved. So, uh the fluidity of humanity is ex was and is expressed in folklore. When folklorists would record uh at first with pen and paper and then with uh electronic devices, storytellers there in stories telling sessions with other people there. They would often be stopped and and and one of their somebody from their audience would say, "Oh, I've heard that story as well, but when I heard it, it was like this." and they and they would commits and talk about varants themselves, things that they had heard. And there's also

evidence that every storyteller would gauge his audience. Oh, they're getting bored with this. They're not interested with this episode or this time I'm telling a story that has a nautical passage and there are a lot of sailors in the room. So, I'm going to really elaborate that because they'll enjoy that. So, you play the audience. Uh the

audience plays interacts. It's it's a very dynamic process much like theater as opposed to film and television where where it's gets immediately codified. The real living oral tradition was interactive. Myths are codified. They're like that old photograph from 1853 of a London street. It it says a lot about

London. It's magical. There's a lot of information in there, but it's only that split second. >> I think for many people, one of their first questions would be, well, how could you possibly know anything about the folklore? And this channel is a place where we are very interested in the methodology and the tools that researchers use in order to gain insights into the past.

>> You're trying to examine a folk oral tradition through the lens of an ancient author whose motivations and artistic or or whatever changes that he inflicted on that material could be virtually endless. So you have to sort that out. This the levels of source criticism can be pretty intense. >> Did they make this story up? Are they merely relying on the idea of ghosts for example which uh was in their society but they have a story that is unique to them either they made it up or they as opposed to a traditional story. The the

the magic from a folklorist point of view uh occurs. The easy path to gaining insight about oral tradition is when you can say, "I recognize that story because it appears in the Grim collection. It appears here. It appears there." So, the story of of Jason in the Argonauts includes a folk tale that is extremely widespread and has been recorded over much of uh Eurasia. Um, and so there it

is and you look at it and say that is clearly a story that that author had heard and was circulating at the time. Um, Polyphimmas, the the Cyclops in in the Odyssey uh getting blinded and and with the the clever hero escaping uh you know his his cave. That is clearly a a very old folk legend. So these these this becomes evidence of what was circulating. You can that's the easy path. It isn't always so easy but when

it when it's that easy then folklorists go okay familiar turf. I know what I know where we are now. You can get your bearings. >> Yeah. People think of this uh very often in linguistic terms these days and they find the common roots of words and uh concepts. And it seems that folklorists

um use the similar forensic and predictive tools but not with the phonemes and actual words but rather the uh concepts in the stories the different themes motifs and what we would almost think of as memes these days. >> Yeah. the the analogy of linguistics holds up for a very long time. All all analogies eventually break down. But it is much like uh what what linguists do to to uh understand and recreate the history of a language and uh and language groups by tracking it back. and

a phone and and all those bits of of linguistic sound and and all that are much like the motifs that that folklorists are always talking about. >> And in um the cultural traditions of uh Europe and the Near East, these have been codified by uh academic folklorists for 200 years now. uh leading to encyclopedias of listed folktale types um that each have their code that can be uh does I wonder does this exist online anywhere? Has anyone hyperl all of the uh the folktale types like in a Wikipedia? There's a folklorist from Pennsylvania who has uh a a great website that has varants of various tail types. The the and you understand that a

lot of folklorists have drifted away from the significance of tail types. So that's it that's been up for dispute as well. The classic approach to dealing with ta t tail types was uh developed by the by Finnish folklorists in the early 20th century. And uh and that resulted in monographs uh folktale types. And the idea the goal was that there were roughly a thousand major tale types told from Ireland to India. And if we

could just have a monograph for each one, then we would have a full understanding of its dis all the all the various distributions. And with the whole point of this Finnish what was called the Finnish historic geographic method was to go backwards and find uh a a place of origin and roughly the time when a a given folk tale was first told. that was too great of a burden for the method. Uh here is my mentor's monograph. His name was Sven Liublad. He

was born in 1899 and he died in 2000. So he was almost 101 when he died. And this is uh the Tobias Kishta, the toten health, the grateful dead. This is where the motif of the Grateful Dead first resided. It was in these tale types. And so Sven

gathered all the variance he could of the folktale of the of the Grateful Dead >> and charted out its history. It was a very controversial dissertation because he introduced a new method that uh was easily being challenged. He had developed it with his his mentor Carl Vilham von Sudof and uh the two of them launched a critique of the Finnish method and we're trying to show different ways it could uh spread and and change over over over time and space. That was pretty radical, you know, and and a lot of modern folklorists, especially American folklorists, kind of said, "Ah, that's not what we're about anymore." And they drifted away from it.

But as they drifted away, they became so contemporary that their interest in things like folklore and myths became less focused. I appreciate that you give a chapter in your book to the acknowledgment that this particular study of folklore does not necessarily uh transfer to Asian, African and many American traditions. >> You have to develop different methods and and different bibliographies for for each major geographic zone. That's true. And I was trained in European. I uh I have just recently come

out with a book on the American West, the folklore of the of the Wild West, uh where I did and didn't use a lot of these methods because they simply don't work the same. >> So, that being said, uh to focus on some of the stories that we all know, you've mentioned Jason and the Argonauts. Um I've uh talked about Gilgamesh. I've made a lot of Gilgamesh because I think that's extremely interesting. But that, you know, it was relatively late in our literature because of uh we had to discover Kaoa form. We had to be able to

translate it. We had to be able to find it. Uh it wasn't quite like the ancient Greek myths uh which were revered by the Romans and uh because it was great literature. So you if you were a educated Roman citizen, you had to read the Greeks and and the Romans then passed that on to uh Christian educators during the Middle Ages that they still said, well, it's not Christian, but these are great stories. And so uh the the myths continued to re resonate Greek myths continue to resonate for over two millennia to the present and still are very popular in films. Gilgamesh is is a

is a great hero a great hero story. It's quite clear that it is a a uh has a lot of oral tradition in it and there's that wonderful story in it uh involving Utna Pishtam. Yeah. >> Uh who is the Mesopotamian, the Sumerian Noah, uh who ends up surviving a flood with his his wife and and are granted immortality. And so Gilgamesh goes and and seeks him out. This was clearly an

analogy of of Noah. And so it raised all sorts of questions as to what's going on. It's quite clear that there was a a Middle Eastern body of oral tradition that was circulating and uh the uh tradition embedded itself in the story of Gilgamesh which was itself a historical legend that was uh revered not only by the Sumerianss but then passed on to many of the subsequent uh cultures that that uh that came to live in the Mesopotamian area. And obviously it manifested in the Bible as well in the Hebrew Bible and the story of Noah that becomes folklore. And I at the same time and I I try to make this point.

It's completely legitimate to look at all of that as great literature. It's completely legitimate to look at it as uh windows into the psychological psychology of humanity. And you you can do both of those things and ignore the underpinning oral tradition. One approach is not more, you know, is not the right approach. It's not more valid than any of the other approaches.

I offered this book as a way to understand how folklore could cast light on the myths and and the the the situation where they were created. I I answer questions on Ask Historians. My handle is it's all folklore and I answer a lot of questions dealing with mythology and folklore and I frequently get questions that say, "Well, what's the real version of this? I've seen a lot of different versions of it and Robert Graves in his two volume work on on Greek myths has a lot of different versions. So which one's the true one?

And they always want to say I want to know what the true one is. And the answer is yes, they all are. In fact, that's evidence right there that it was circulating because there is variation. >> When you don't get variation is when you have a story that originated in a novel. But when it's oral tradition, it's there's never going to be a true version. And that can be frustrating. We

want the true version, the single truth. [Music] You mention in your book, The Brothers Grim are considered some of the early folklorists. So for anyone trying to visualize who that person is at at the at the dawn of this discipline, it's these two brothers going through the German highlands uh collecting the stories at in Hearth and Tavern. They weren't the first to collect or and publish, but they really formulated it uh the the study of the these stories and of folklore in general as a discipline, especially uh Yakob, Jacob Grim >> uh was the one. Vilhelm was more interested in in uh literary adaptations and they were they were translated very quickly and uh and inspired folklorists uh all over Europe and then all over the world. I have published a book on on the

folklore of Cornwall and I'm now working on a sequel just about ready to wrap that one up. and uh the uh the Cornish collectors were clearly inspired by uh the brothers Graham. >> Where does Hans Christian Anderson fit in there at all? Does he? >> No, that's a very good question. uh on

the spectrum of how to use a folktale or folk legend uh an oral narrative is on the one hand Yakob Grim as opposed to people like uh Hans Christian Anderson and for that matter Jirr Tolken >> uh who say look the material is very inspiring but I'm inspired and I'm inspired to write my own story. And uh in 2016, a couple of very imaginative folklorists uh Michael Dylan Foster uh and uh Jeffrey uh Tolbert uh came up with a term uh they came up with the folkloresque which is things that are like uh folklore in imitation of homages to folklore and uh and and so these these things are part of the human condition and they have been ever since people have written things down. They were producing something that was in many ways a homage to folklore. They were inspired by folklore but they wanted to write their own stuff. One of the things you said about um the tra of the traditions in Asia and the Americas and Africa is that it's difficult to talk about these things in mythological or folkloruric terms. So many of their

stories are still parts of their daily lives today. And so the separation can't be made. >> Yeah. And I that's why I I shun the word use use use of the word uh myth for living traditions because not everyone uses it in a in a detrimental way but it can have that effect. And so you have to be very careful with people who have living traditions and referring to their their stories as myths. Um, even if you don't

intend it as prejuditial, they may take it that way or the person hearing you talk about it may take it that way. Um, so so I'm not never comfortable talking about Native American myths, >> right? >> Because I knew Native Americans who who either believed in these stories or had grandparents who did. And that's cruel. I and I always try to make the I always point out the analogy of we talk about for example the resurrection story the story of Jesus being resurrected and Easter and all that that's a perfectly acceptable way to refer to that that story if we refer to it as the resurrection myth there's immediately a sense of judgment there is there not I and you could say oh I don't mean that in any kind a negative way. I really like miss.

>> Right. Right. Right. I I was thinking of Utna Pishtim again and uh and Gilgamesh and the people sitting around the fires and adding different ideas as they they come to them. But also as they they're incorporating the news of the outside world and making sense of it with many of these stories. Those stories are

charting real world events. Is there a rigorous study of these types of metaphors and how they apply to real world events? Does the the study of the motifs and and how they develop uh extend to com comparisons in the historical record >> define the source of the legend? Is that what you're asking? Well, sure. Yeah.

>> Yeah. And that's very a very popular approach. It it it's very popular today. Uh it isn't something that folklorists normally do and it's actually been shunned by folklorists in general in most cases. uh it was an idea that that was put forward is attributed to a 4th century BCE Greek e-hummerus and eh humorism which uh says there is a truth behind every legend every myth and uh if if you have a a hero described in a in a in a myth then there must have been a hero that lived that inspired that, >> right?

>> And if there's a monster beh

you you try to reverse engineer a story to find out what the event and people were that are responsible for the creation of that story. And that's something that folklorists don't normally engage in. But a lot of classicists, a genre of geographers called geomthologists who try to find the geograph geological events uh behind myths and and they say, "Ah, I found it. Here it is." But it's almost always reversed engineering and it isn't always uh valid. It does occur

sometimes. Oral traditions can be amazingly faithful to uh to events, but to try to find the origin of the minur is not necessarily going to going to help you very much. Obviously, some historical legends are based on real people. We tell stories about George Washington. Well, we know he's real. Did he really chop down a

cherry tree? No, that's oral tradition. But it's based on a real person. So it does occur and sometimes it is useful to look at that but it's been exaggerated in ways that can approach pretty silly uh terms and it it it doesn't help us much if we look at the folktale in Jason and the Argonauts and ask ourselves so did Jason and the Argonauts really do those things? Well, first of all, if he did that, then how do we explain its counterpart in Ireland and and the one in Norway and the one in India? How do

we explain those same stories? Are they all referring to something Jason did? No, they were that they clearly all derived from a shared common ancestor and a body of oral tradition that was extensive. But trying to find the the real uh story, the the event behind uh Jason the Argonauts could be maddening. Is it a reference to fleeces being used to mine gold uh to up in the Black Sea?

Perhaps. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's going to have motifs like that that make sense. They were selling they were selling real ships as they knew them and described uh in the in the story. It's

that part of it very useful for capturing the time and it's real. They they they weren't Jason the Argonauts did not engage in space travel to pursue the golden fleece. They it was real real life but but it could be taken way too far. When you have your findings, to what extent do you yourselves apply them? Do you stray into anthropology? Do

you make observations on culture or try to characterize culture by the findings that you've oh these this is a quarrelome lot. These people everything that every one of their stories seems to be an argument. It's like the Icelandic sagas. Every single one seems to end with somebody running across a field and burying an axe in somebody else's skull. It's like the only way they knew how to end a story.

>> Yeah. You know, clearly these these stories as codified in literature, inspired by oral tradition are telling us a great deal about their times. And uh that's you can gain a lot of insight as you could without being a folklorist by reading the sagas. You don't have to understand that uh the great hero Gredder when he when he wrestled the the walking dead glamour to the ground and then cut his head off. Uh did that occur? Probably

not. It's a it's a fairly well-known motif and uh but it was a but it was attached to to Gret. You get a feeling, however, for the the the nature of the of of a burial tomb in in pre-Christian Iceland. Uh you get a feeling for a lot of the uh dynamics of the society. You don't have to be a folklorist to to uh glean a great deal of insight from the Greta saga. It's it's chocked full of

observations about that the community folklores and it's something I was just I I don't mean to be critical of the discipline but folklorists have looked at the Greta saga uh which is an example of of uh atu301 the bear sun story uh and uh and they said well here's an early example of it so Therefore, we know that it was circulating in Iceland at that time. They use that insight or the insight from Jason and the Argonauts, ATU 313, the magic flight, and they use that to understand what they've just collected. They give a historical texture to a folktale that they're familiar with, gathered in the 19th or early 20th century. >> That's how they've used it. I offered my introduction to uh mythology a folkloric perspective to suggest that that insight can be projected backwards to remind readers of myths that they're not looking at an author who was uh inspired um inventor of a story who was loosely grabbing motifs but is in fact the toolken of of uh ancient Greece. No, these people were not doing

that in all likelihood and it it almost certainly seems that way that they were in fact recording stories, adding their own literary artistic flares to it, but they were recording stories they had heard. So, it is a way to understand them the story in the context of its time and to to give fabric and texture to that time. I offer a way a doorway through which to walk with the myth to shake hands with people in everyday Greece who did not write stories but simply told them. >> Yeah. And it's all very fascinating. Uh

the book is 180 pages I believe and uh is in 13 chapters looking at so many of these different traditions. It contains artwork that is uh attached for analysis and observation and I came across it on ask historians and then reached out to Ron and asked if I could narrate it. Um so by the time this video comes out uh the audio book version should be available along with his Kindle version. Something that it makes me think of is uh the many uh anthropological observations um of various people still living in oral traditions and their incredible capacity for absorbing and maintaining and sometimes uh with a kind of idetic memory reciting with um nearperfect fidelity. And uh I wonder if there are examples which appear to have almost uh zero uh change because we've got some obsessive cultures out there, >> right? And uh and those are the legends,

the stories that were told to be true. and the historical legends could could be pretty amazing in what they could preserve about the past, knowledge about the past. They're they're that's has been really studied by uh several African historians, folklorists uh who have asked the question, how much can we rely on an oral history that talks about events that occurred generations ago? And it's it's a very tough question. One of the things they point out is that we wouldn't trust a a written source that was a hundred years old that documented something that happened uh 50 years before that. We would ask fundamental

questions about whether it was accurate. We would assume in many ways that it had drifted from reality. It was one person's uh recollection of that. we we would exercise a great deal of source criticism as we evaluated that historical source. But some cultures are very good at it and some cultures are not. Some cultures really emphasize

the fidelity to the to the uh the spoken word. The Irish storytellers were famous for that. They insisted that they were repeating these stories word for word and clearly they tried. The Cornish storytellers, the droll tellers, the traditional droll tellers of Cornwall that I study, uh, were infamous for changing everything. They mixed it up. They had no sense of

fidelity to the spoken word. They were absolutely interested in being creative with the stories they heard and then retold in any way they felt like. That's a difference in culture, isn't it? So I would trust an oral history from Ireland more than I would from Cornwall frankly. But even with a culture that says we are telling you the way I tell these stories the way I heard it word for word and my father did that and the previous storyteller before him did that and it goes on and on for generations and generations. No, there was a lot of

variation inherent. I've written on the ear manu of um that Charlemagne uh pulled down among the Saxons in Germany. They had no written language and when they were forcibly converted there at the beginning of the 9th century all of their traditions I mean 99.997% of their traditions were vanished forever because none of it was fixed. We have very few archaeological um items. Uh but it was all folklore

their entire culture and we see it again and again in Native American contexts here in North America and all I mean entire empires of thought and concept and culture that we'll never know. And to me, that is why I return again and again to this study because it's in some ways the only thing worth knowing even though we in many places just have crumbs. >> Yeah. And to to look at those people uh that Charlemagne was so brutal to uh we frequently again reverse engineer their their traditions by using a few bits of information that seem familiar to other more extensive sources from Saxo Grammaticus from uh from uh Denmark or Snory Sterles from uh from 13th century Iceland who wrote elaborate uh treatments of the pre precon conversion pre-Christian belief systems and stories that were told the the the myths of of the Germanic world. And so there's an assumption that those myths were common property. Therefore they

must have been there. And when you see a little reference or an artifact or something you say, "Aha, see they had it there, too. Yes, they probably had an analogy of it. What exactly it looked like is hard to say because of the fluidity. We can't trust Saxogrammaticus or Snory Sterles to be accurate. They were after the

fact, but they are still one author. Um and and if you wanted to understand the the vibrancy of the oral tradition and how they were related to their how they dealt with the great supernatural beings of their belief system, you'd have to walk into every village from every generation in every expan part of the expanse of the Germanic speaking world and ask questions. Who's the who is the lord of the sky? uh and who causes thunder, who does this, who does that, uh and hear their stories and you would just be overwhelmed by the by the variation. And sometimes you think this doesn't even look like anything I' I've run into elsewhere. And then other times

you'd say, I recognize it. It's it's different. It has its own flavor here, but I do recognize it. We're coming to the end of our time uh here, Ron, and I really appreciate it. I could talk about this subject all day. I I think

>> obviously I could too. >> Yeah, that's right. And uh I urge everyone to go and find your book. Um find your many books. I think you have 17.

>> Yeah, I Yeah, I think I'm working on 18. I think it's eight number 18 now. >> Excellent. Congratulations. Well, thank you and thank you and I I I'm now listening to your audio version uh and it it's delightful and I really appreciate the the care you've taken uh in reciting that and I enjoy your voice.

It's very very well done. >> Oh, great.