---
video_title: "Liutprand - Bishop of Cremona Part III"
video_id: 1G5-ICMiGCU
channel_name: "Study of Antiquity and the Middle Ages"
channel_id: UCxRSpkGOH_09pxKvgD8S5jQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1G5-ICMiGCU
video_date: 2025-04-30
video_description: |
  Liutprand, Bishop of Cremona, wrote this report in 968 CE about his failed mission to the court of Nicephorus, Emperor of Constantinople. As of the time of this production, it is the only narrated version of his infamous document available online.
  
  Here in the conclusion, Liutprand describes the end of his mission and his return to Rome. But, of course, being Liutprand, nothing is easy about any of it.
  
  This is a loosely-organized report, translated a century ago. I strongly advise following the text along with the narration at https://origin-rh.web.fordham.edu/halsall/source/liudprand1.asp
  
  This is episode 3 of 3. Thanks for listening!
  
  
  To support the SAMA channel, become a Patron and make history matter! Patreon: https://patreon.com/make_history_matter?utm_medium=unknown&utm_source=join_link&utm_campaign=creatorshare_creator&utm_content=copyLink
  
  Donate directly to PayPal: https://paypal.me/NickBarksdale
  
  !!!!!!!!!!Above and beyond all -- visit this link to the gofundme for the family of our dear departed founder Nick Barksdale!!!!!!!!!! https://gofund.me/2bcd87e7
---
a failed mission to

Bzantium. But mark now why he led his army against the Assyrians. The Greeks and Sarissens have books which they call the visions of Daniel. I would call them cibiline books. In them is found written how many years each emperor shall live.

What things, whether peace or war, are to happen during his reign, whether fortune is to be favorable to the Sarissens or the reverse. And so it reads that in the time of this Nikaphorus, the Assyrians will not be able to resist the Greeks, and that he, Nikaphorus, will only live 7 years, and that after his death, an emperor shall arise worse than he, only I fear that none such can be found, and more unwarlike, in whose time the Assyrians shall so prevail that they shall bring all the regions as far as Chaledon. which is not far from Constantinople under their sway. For both peoples have regard for their favorable seasons, and from one and the same cause. The Greeks press on encouraged, and the Sarissens in despair make no resistance, awaiting the time when they themselves may press on, and the Greeks in turn may not resist.

Hippolitus indeed a certain Sicilian bishop wrote similarly concerning your empire and our people I call our people namely all those who are under your rule and would that it were true what he prophecied concerning the present times. The other things have hitherto come to pass as he foretold as I have heard from those who know these books. And of his many sayings, I will mention one. For he says that now the saying is to be fulfilled, the lion and his welp shall together exterminate the wild ass. The interpretation of which is according to the Greeks, Leo, that is the emperor of the Romans or Greeks and his wealth, the king namely of the Franks, shall together in these days drive out the wild ass, that is the African king of the Sarissens, which interpretation does not seem to me true, for this reason that the lion and the welp, although differing in size, are nevertheless of one nature and species or kind. And

as my knowledge suggests to me, if the lion be the emperor of the Greeks, it is not fitting that the Welp should be the king of the Franks. For although both are men, as the lion and the Welp are both animals, yet they differ in habits as much, I will not say alone as one species from another, but as rational beings from those who have no reason. The welp differs from the lion only in age. The form is the same, the ferocity the same. The roar the same. The king of

the Greeks wears long hair, a tunic, long sleeves, a hood, is lying, crafty, without pity, sies, a fox, proud, falsely humble, miserly, and greedy. Lives on garlic, onions, and leaks, and drinks bath water. The king of the Franks, on the contrary, is beautifully shorn, wears a garment not at all like a woman's garment, and a hat is truthful, without guile, merciful enough when it is right, severe when it is necessary, always truly humble, never misly, does not live on garlic, onions, and leaks, so as to spare animals, and by not eating them, but selling them to heap money together. You have heard the difference. Do not be willing to accept their interpretation. For either it

refers to the future, or it is not true, for it is impossible that Nikki, as they falsely say, can be the lion and Otto the Welp, and that they together shall exterminate anyone. For sooner mutually changing their bounds shall the Parththeian exile drink the Ararice, or the German the Tigris, than that Nikaphorus and Otto shall become friends in close a treaty with each other. You have heard the interpretation of the Greeks. Hear how that of Leotrand, Bishop of Cremona. For I say, and not alone do I say, but I affirm, that if the prophecy is to be fulfilled in the present time, the lion and the whelp are the father and the son, Otto and Otto, unlike in nothing only differing in age, and that they together shall in this present time exterminate the wild ass Nicaphoros, who not inongruously is compared to the wild ass on account of his vain and empty gall, and on account of his incestuous marriage with his fellow godparent and mistress, if now that wild ass shall not be exterminated by our lion and his welp, by Otto and Otto, the father, namely, and the son, the august emperors of the Romans, then that which Hippolitus wrote will not have been true, for that former interpretation of the Greeks is entirely to be discarded.

But oh blessed Jesus, eternal God, the word of the father, who does speak to us unworthy as we are, not by voice, but by inspiration, may you be willing to see in this sentence no other interpretation than mine. command that that lion and that welp may exterminate and bodily humble this wild ass to the end that retiring into himself, subjecting himself to his masters, the emperors Basilius and Constantine, his soul may be saved at the day of the Lord. But the astronomers prophecy alike concerning yourselves in Nikoros. Truly wonderful, I say. I have spoken with a certain astronomer, who truly described your form and habits, most illustrious master, and that of your august namesake, and who related all my past experiences as if they were present. Nor were the names mentioned of

any of my friends or enemies concerning whom I thought of asking him, but that he could tell me their appearance, form, and character. He foretold all calamity that has happened to me on this journey. But may all that he said to me be false. I only ask that one thing alone be true, that which he foretold you would not do to Nikki. Oh, may it come to pass. Oh, may

it come to pass, and then I shall feel that the wrongs I have suffered are as nothing at all. The afore said Hippolitus writes also that not the Greeks but the Franks shall put an end to the Sarissens. Encouraged by which prophecy the Sarissens three years ago engaged in battle near Skila and Kuribdus in the Sicilian waters with the patrician Manuel, the nephew of Nicaphorus. And when they had laid low his immense forces, they took his own self and beheaded him and hung up his corpse. And when they had captured his companion and colleague, who was of neither gender, they scorned to kill him. But having bound him and kept him

to pine in long imprisonment, they sold him for a price at which no mortals who were sound in their heads would have bought him. And with no less spirit, encouraged by this same prophecy, they shortly after met the general Exacantis, and when they had put him to flight, they destroyed his army in every way. Another reason also compelled Nicaphorus at this time to lead his army against the Assyrians. For at this time, by the will of God, a famine had so laid waste all the lands of the Greeks that not even two Pavian sectaries could be bought for a piece of gold. And this, in the very realm of plenty, as it were, this misfortune, the field mice aiding him, Nicaphorus increased by collecting for himself at the time of harvest whatever corn there was anywhere, giving a minimum price to the desparing owners.

And when he had done this on the side toward Mesopotamia, where the supply of grain on account of the absence of the mice was greater, the amount of corn that he had equaled the amount of the sands of the sea. When therefore, on account of this bile transaction, famine was everywhere shamefully raging, he brought together 80,000 men under pretext of a military expedition, and he sold to them during one whole month for two gold pieces what he had bought for one. These, my master, are the reasons which compelled Nikki Forest now to lead his forces against the Assyrians. But what sort of forces? I ask. Truly, I

answer, not men, but only images of men, whose tongue only is bold, but whose right hand is frigid in war. Nicaphorus did not look for quality in them, but only for quantity. How perilous this is for him. He will learn to his sorrow when the multitude of unwarlike ones, brave only on account of numbers, shall be put to route by a handful of our men who are skilled in war, nay, thirsting for it. When you were besieging Bari, only 300 Hungarians seized 500 Greeks near Thessalonica and led them into Hungary, which attempt, in as much as it succeeded, induced 200 Hungarians in Macedonia, not far from Constantinople, to do the like, of whom 40, when they were retreating in cautiously through a narrow pass, were captured. These

Nikaphorus, freeing them from custody and adorning them with most costly garments, has made his bodyguard and defenders, taking them with him against the Assyrians. But what kind of an army he has, you can conjecture from this, that those who are in command over the others are Venetians and Amalfians. But no more of this. Learn now what happened to me. On the sixth day before the calendars of August, July 27th, I received at Umbria outside of Constantinople permission from Nicaphorus to return to you. And when I

came to Constantinople, the patrician Christophorus, the unic who was the representative of Nicaphorus there, sent word to me that I could not then start to return because the Sarissens at that time were holding the sea and the Hungarians the land. I should have to wait until they retired. Both of which facts, oh woe is me, were false. Then wardens were placed over us to prevent myself and my companions from going out of our habitation. They seized and slew or put in prison the poor of Latin race who came to me to beg alms.

They did not permit my Greek interpreter to go out even to buy supplies, but only my cook, who was ignorant of the Greek tongue, and who could speak to the vendor when he bought of him, not with words, but by signs of his fingers or nods of his head, he bought for four pieces of money only as much as the interpreter for one. And when some of my friends sent spices, bread, wine, and apples, pouring them all on the ground, they sent the bearers away, overwhelmed with blows of the fist. And had not the divine pity prepared before me a table against my adversaries. I should have had to accept the death they arranged for me. But oh, who permitted that I should be tempted, mercifully granted then that I should endure. And these

perils tried my soul at Constantinople from the second day before the nons of June, June 4th, until the sixth day before the nons of October, October 2nd, 120 days. But to increase my calamities, on the day of the assumption of the Virgin Mary, the Holy Mother of God, August 15th, there came an evil augury for me, envoys of the apostolic and universal pope John, through whom he asked Nikaphorus, the emperor of the Greeks, to close an alliance and firm friendship with his beloved and spiritual son, Otto, August, emperor of the Romans. before the question as to why this word, this manner of address, sinful and bold in the eyes of the Greeks, did not cost its bearer his life, why he was not annihilated before it was read, I, who, in other respects have often shown myself enough of a preacher, and with words enough at my command, seemed dumb as a fish. The Greeks invade against the sea, cursed the waves, and wondered exceedingly how they had been able to transport such an iniquity, and why the yawning deep had not swallowed up the ship. Was it not unpardonable, they said, to have called the universal emperor of the Romans, the august great, only Nikaphorus of the Greeks, a barbarian, a popper of the Romans? Oh, sky. the earth. Oh, see. But

what they said, shall we do to those scoundrels? Those criminals. They are poppers. And if we kill them, we pollute our hands with vile blood. They are ragged. They are slaves. They are

peasants. If we beat them, we disgrace not them, but ourselves, for they are not worthy of the gilded Roman flail, and of such punishments. Oh would that one were a bishop, another a margrave, for sewing them in sacks, after stinging blows with whips, after plucking out their beards or their hair, they would be thrown into the sea. But these, they said, may continue to live, and until the holy emperor of the Romans, Nikaphorus, learns of this atrocity, they may languish in narrow confinement. When I learned this, I considered them happy because poor, myself unhappy because rich. When I was at home, my

desire was to excuse my poverty, but placed in Constantinople, fear itself taught me that I had the wealth of a cus. Poverty had always seemed burdensome to me. Then it seemed welcome, acceptable, desirable. Yes, desirable since it keeps its voteries from perishing, its followers from being flayed, and since at Constantinople alone this poverty thus defends its voteries, may it there alone be considered worth striving after. the papal messengers. Therefore, being

thrown into prison, that offending epistle was sent to Nicaphorus in Mesopotamia, whence no one returned to bring an answer until the second day before the eyides of September, September 12th. On that day it came, but its import was concealed from me. And after 2 days, on the 18th day, namely, before the calendars of October, September 14th, I brought it about by prayers and gifts, that I might adore the lifegiving and salvation bringing cross. And there, in the great crowd, unnoticed by the guards, certain persons approached me and rendered my saddened heart joyful through stolen words. But on the 15th day before the calendars of October, September 17th, as much dead as alive, I was summoned to the palace. And

when I came into the presence of the patrician Christophorus, the unic receiving me kindly, rose to meet me with three others, their discourse began as follows. The power in your face, the emaciation of your whole body, your long hair, and your beard flowing contrary to your custom show that there is immense grief in your heart because the date of your return to your master has been delayed. But we pray you, be not angry with the Holy Emperor, nor with us. For we will tell you the cause of the delay. the Roman Pope, if indeed he is to be called Pope, who has held communion and worked together with the son of Alber the apostate, with an adulterer and unhallowed person, has sent letters to our most holy emperor, worthy of himself, unworthy of Nikaphorus, calling him the emperor of the Greeks and not of the Romans. Which thing beyond a doubt

has been done by the advice of your master? What do I hear? I said to myself, I am lost. There is no doubt but what I shall go by the shortest way to the judgment seat. Now listen, they continued, we know you will say that the pope is the simplest of men. You will

say it and we acknowledge it. But I answered, I do not say it. here. Then the stupid silly pope does not know that the Holy Constantine transferred hither the imperial scepter, the Senate, and all the Roman knighthood and left in Rome nothing but vile minions, fishers, namely peddlers, bird catchers, bastards, plebeians, slaves. He would never have written this unless at the suggestion of your king. How dangerous

this will be to both the immediate future unless they come to their senses will show. But the Pope, I said, whose simplicity is his title to renown, though he was writing this to the honor of the emperor, not to his shame. We know, of course, that Constantine, the Roman emperor, came hither with the Roman knighthood, and founded this city in his name, but because you changed your language, your customs, and your dress. The most holy pope thought that the name of the Romans, as well as their dress, would displease you. He will show this if he lives in his future letters for they shall be addressed as follows.

John the Roman pope to Nicaphorus, Constantine, Basilio, the great and august emperors of the Romans. And now, Mark, I beg, why I said this? Nikki came to the throne through perjury and adultery. And since the salvation of all Christians pertains to the care of the Roman Pope, let the Lord Pope send to Nicaphorus an epistle altogether like to those sephilers which without are whited within are full of dead men's bones within. Let him show to him how through perjury and adultery he has obtained the rule over his masters. Let him invite

Nikaparos to a sinod. And if he do not come, let him hurl the anathema at him. But if the address be not as I have said, it will never reach him. but to return to the matter in hand. When the princes I have mentioned heard from me the afore said promise concerning the address, not suspecting any guile, we thank you, they said, "Oh, Bishop, it is worthy of your wisdom to act as mediator in so great a matter. You are the only

one of the Franks whom we now love. But when at your behest they shall have corrected what is evil, they also shall be loved. And when you shall come to us again, you shall not go away unrewarded. I said to myself, if I ever come back here again, may Nicaphorus present me with a crown and a golden scepter. But tell us, they continued, does your most holy master wish to close with the emperor a treaty of friendship through marriage? When I came hither, he wished

it, I said. But since, during my long delay, he has received no news. He thinks that you have committed a crime and that I have been taken and bound. And his whole soul, like that of a lioness barereft of her welps, is inflamed with a desire through just wrath to take vengeance and to renounce the marriage and to pour out his anger onto you. If he attempts it, they said, "We will not say Italy, but not even the poor Saxony where he was born, where the inhabitants wear the skins of wild beasts will protect him. With our money,

which gives us our power, we will arouse all the nations against him, and we will break him in pieces like a potter's vessel, which when broken, cannot be brought into shape again. And as we imagine that all thou in his honor hast bought some costly garments, we order you to bring them before us, what are fit for you shall be marked with a leaden seal and left to you. But those to which are prohibited to all nations except to us Romans shall be taken away and the price returned. When this had been done, they took away from me five most costly purple staffs. Considering yourselves and all the Italians, Saxons, Franks, Bavarians, Suabians, na all nations as unworthy to be adorned with such vestments. How unworthy, how shameful it

is that these soft, effeminate, longsleeved, hooded, veiled, lying, neutral gendered, idol creatures should go clad in purple. While you heroes, strong men, namely skilled in war, full of faith and love, reverencing God, full of virtues, may not. What is this, if it be not condomly? But where, I said, is the word of your emperor, where the imperial promise, for when I said farewell to him, I asked him up to what price he would permit me to buy vestments in honor of my church. And he said, "Buy whatever ones and as many as you do wish." And in thus designating

the quantity and the quality, he clearly did not make a distinction as if he had said, "Excepting this and this, Leo, the marshall of the court, his brother, is a witness. And Odysius, the interpreter, John Romanus are witnesses. I myself am witness since even without the interpreter, I understood what the emperor said. But they said, "These things are prohibited." And when the emperor spoke as you say he did, he could not imagine that you would even dream of such things as these. For as we

surpass other nations in wealth and wisdom, so also we are to surpass them in dress, so that those who are singularly endowed with virtue should have garments unique in beauty. Such a garment can hardly be called unique, I answered. When with us the street walkers and conjurers wear them. Where do they get them? They asked. From

Venetian and Amalfian traders, I said, who by bringing them to us support themselves from the food we give them. Well, they shall not do so any longer, they said. They shall be closely examined, and if anything of this kind shall be found on them, they shall be punished with blows unshorn of their hair. In the time of the emperor Constantine of blessed memory, I said I came here not as bishop but as deacon, not sent by an emperor or king, but by the margravear, and I bought many more and more precious vestments, which were neither looked at nor viewed by the Greeks, nor stamped with lead. Now having become a bishop by the mercy of God and being sent by the magnificent emperors Otto and Otto, father and son, I am so insulted that my vestments are marked after the manner of the Venetians and as they are being transported for the youth of the church entrusted to me, whatever seems of any worth is taken away. Are you not weary of insulting me,

or rather my masters, for whose sake I am derided? Is it not enough that I am given into custody, that I am tortured by hunger and thirst, that I could not return to them, being detained until now, without to fill the measure of their disrespect to them? My being robbed of my own things. Take away from me at least only what I have bought. Leave me those things that have been given me as a gift by my friends. The emperor Constantine, they

said, was a mild man who always stayed in his palace and by such means as this made the natives friendly to him. But the emperor Nicaphoros, a man given to war, abhores the palace as if it were the plague. And he is called by us warlike and almost a lover of strife. Nor does he make the nations friendly to him by paying them, but subjects them to his rule by terror and the sword. And in order that you may see what is our opinion of your royal masters, all that has been given to you of this color and all that has been bought shall revert to us by the same process.

Having done and said these things, they gave to me a letter written and sealed with gold to bring to you. But it was not worthy of you as I thought. They brought also other letters sealed with silver and said, "We judge it unseammly that your pope should receive letters from the emperor. But the marshall of the court, the emperor's brother, sends him an epistle which is good enough for him, not through his own poor envoys, but through you, to the effect that unless he come to his senses, he shall know that he shall be utterly confounded." When I had received this, they let me go, giving me kisses, which were very sweet, very loving. But as I

went away, they sent me a message right worthy of themselves, but not me, to the effect, namely, that they would give me horses for myself personally, and for my companions, but none for my luggage. And thus being very much annoyed, as was natural, I had given to my guide as pay objects of the worth of 50 pieces of gold. And as I had no means of retaliating upon Nikaphorus for his illde, I wrote these verses on the wall of my hated habitation and upon a wooden table. False is our goal faith. be warned and mistrusted, oh Latin. Heed

you and let not your ear be lent to the words that they utter. When it will help him, the archive will swear by all that is holy, lofty with windows tall, ornate with varying marble. This dwelling deficient in water admits the sun in its confines fosters the bitterest cold nor repels the heat when it rages. Leude Prand a bishop I from Cremona a town of Aonia hither for love of peace to Constantinople did journey here I was kept confined throughout the four months of the summer for before Bah's gates had appeared the emperor Otto striving to take the place by flame alike and by slaughter thence by my prayers induced he hastens to Rome his own city Greece meanwhile having promised a bride for the son of the victor. Oh, had she never been born, and I had been spared this grim journey, safely avoiding the wrath that Nikaphorus since has poured on me.

He who prohibits his stepchild from wetting the son of my master. Though the day is at hand when war impelled by fierce furies wildly shall rage or earth's limits, should God not see fit to avert it, peace which is longed for by all because of his guilt will be silent. After writing these verses on the sixth day before the nons of October, October 2nd, at the 10th hour, I entered my boat with my guide, and left that once most rich and flourishing, now half starved, perjured, lying, wily, greedy, rapacious, avaricious, binglorious city. And after 49 days of ass riding, walking, horse riding, fasting, thirsting, sighing, weeping, groaning, I came to now Pactus, which is a city of Nicopoulos. And here my guide deserted me after placing us on two small ships, and committing us to two imperial messengers who were to bring me by sea to Hydronto. But since

their orders did not include the right of levying from the Greek princes, they were everywhere repulsed, so that we were not supported by them, but they by us. How often did I revolve within me that verse of Terrence? They themselves need help whom you do choose to defend you. On the ninth day before the calendars of December, then November 23rd, we left Nactto, and I arrived at the river Afidaris in two days. My companions not remaining in the ships, which could not hold them, but advancing along the shore. From our position on the river

offidaris, we looked over to Patric, 18 miles distant, on the other shore of the sea. This place of apostolic suffering which we had visited and adored on our way to Constantinople, we now omitted. I confess my fault to visit and adore. My unspeakable desire, my august lords and masters, of returning to you and seeing you was the cause of this. And if it had not been for this alone, I would, I believe, have forever perished.

A storm from the south rose against me, mad man that I was, disturbing the sea to its lowest depths with its ragings, and when it had continued to do this for several days and nights, on the day before the calendars of December, November 30th, on the very day, namely, of his passion, I recognized that this had happened to me of my own fault. Trouble alone taught me to give ear to its meaning. Famine indeed had begun to violently oppress us. The inhabitants of the land thought to kill us in order to take our goods from us. The sea to hinder our flight was raging high. Then

be taking myself to the church which I saw weeping and wailing, I said, "Oh holy apostle Andrew, I am the servant of your fellow fisherman, brother and fellow Apostle Simon Peter, I have not avoided the place of your suffering or kept away from it through pride. The command of my emperors, the love of them, urges me to return home. If my sin has moved you to indignation, may the merit of my august masters lead you to mercy. You have nothing to bestow on your brother. Bestow something on the emperors who love your brother by putting their trust in him who knows all things. You know, with what labor and

exertion, with what vigils, and at what expense, snatching it from the hands of the godless, they have enriched, honored, exalted, and brought back to its proper condition the Roman church of your brother, the Apostle Peter. But if my works cast me into peril, let their merits at least free me, and let not those whom your afore the chief apostle of the apostles wishes to have rejoice and prosper, be saddened by this, that is through those whom they themselves had sent. This is not, oh my masters and august emperors. This is not flattery. I tell you truly, and I do not sew pillows under my arms. The thing I say is true.

After 2 days, through your merits, the sea became calm and so tranquil that when our sailors deserted us, we ourselves sailed the boat to Lucat 140 miles, namely suffering no danger or discomfort, except a little at the mouth of the river Akaloy, where its current running down rapidly is beaten back against the waves of the sea. How then, most mighty emperors, will you repay the Lord for all that which for your sakes he did to me? I will tell you how God wishes this and demands this to be done. And although he can do it without you, he wishes nevertheless that you shall be his instruments in this matter. For he himself furnishes what shall be offered unto him, keeps what he demands from us in order to crown his own work. Pay attention then, I beg.

Nikki Forest being a man who scorns all churches on account of the wrath in which he abounds towards you, has ordered the patriarch of Constantinople to raise the church of Hydronto the rank of Bishopri and not to permit any longer throughout all Abuia and Calabria that the divine mysteries be celebrated in Latin, but to have them celebrated in Greek. He says that the former popes were traitors and that they sold the Holy Spirit. That spirit by which all things are vivified and ruled, which fills the universe, which knows the word, which is co-eternal, and of one substance with God the Father and his son Jesus Christ, without beginning, without end, forever true, who Christ is not valued at a fixed price, but is bought by the cleanhearted for as much as they hold him to be worth. And so Polyucus the patriarch of Constantinople wrote a privilege for the bishop of Hydronto this effect that he should by his authority have permission to consecrate bishops in Akarenza, Turi, Graina, Matera and Triaro which however evidently belong to the dascese of the Lord Pope. But why need I say this when indeed the church of Constantinople itself is rightly subject to our holy Catholic and apostolic church of Rome.

We know nay we have seen that the bishop of Constantinople did not use the paleium except with the permission of our holy father. But when that most godless Alber whom cupidity not by drops but as it were by torrent had filled usurpered for himself the Roman city and held the Lord Pope like his own slave in his dwelling. The emperor Romanos made his own son, the unic Theophilactus patriarch. And since the cupidity of Alberik was not hidden from him, he sent to him very great gifts, bringing it about that, in the name of the Pope, letters were sent to the patriarch Theophilactus by the authority of which he and his successors alike might use the Palium without permission from the popes, from which bile transaction, the shameful custom arose, that not only the patriarchs, but also the bishops of All Greece should use the palium. How absurd this is, I do not need to make clear. It is therefore my

plan that a sacred sinod be held and polyuctus be summoned to it. But if he be unwilling to come and to amend the faults that have been mentioned above, then let that be done which the holy canons shall decree. Do you in the meantime, most potent emperors, continue to labor as you have done, bring it about that, if Nicaphorus be unwilling to obey us when we arrange to proceed against him canonically, he will hear you whose forces this half corpse will not dare to meet. This, I say, is what the apostles, our masters and fellow fighters, wish us to do. Rome is not to be despised by the Greeks because Constantine went away from it, but rather to be the more cherished, venerated, and adored for the reason that the apostles, the holy teachers Peter and Paul came thither.

But may what I have written concerning this suffice until being snatched from the hands of the Greeks through the grace of God and the prayers of the most holy apostles. I may come to you and then it may not weary me to say what it burdens me now here to write. Now let us return to the matter in hand. On the eighth day before the eyides of December, December 6th, we came to Lucat where by the bishop of that place, a unic, as by other bishops everywhere, we were most unkindly received and treated. In all Greece, I speak truly, and do not lie. I found no

hospitable bishops. They are at the same time poor and rich, rich in gold, with which they play from full coffers, poor in servants and implements. Alone they seat themselves at their bare little tables, placing before themselves their ship biscuit, and then not drinking, but sipping their bathwater from a very small glass. They themselves sell and buy. They themselves close and open their doors. They are their own

stewards, their own ass drivers, their own capies. But I was going to write cow ponies. But the thing itself is so true that I was compelled to write the truth even when I did not wish to. For really I say they are cowon, that is Unix, which is against the ecclesiastical law. And they are also capones, that is tavernkeepers, which is also against the cannons. One can say of them, let us end

in the meal that with lettuce has had its beginning, lettuce, which too was want to close the meals of their fathers. I would consider them happy in their poverty. if this were an imitation of the poverty of Christ. But nothing impels them to this save sworded gain and the cursed thirst for gold. But may God spare them. I think

they do this because their churches are tributary. For the bishop of Lucat swore to me that every year his church had to pay to Nicaphorus a hundred pieces of gold. and in like manner the other churches more or less according to their means. How wicked this is is demonstrated by the acts of our most holy father Joseph. For when he in the time of famine made all Egypt tributary to Pharaoh, he permitted the land of the priests to be free from tribute.

Leaving Lucat then on the 19th day before the calendars of January, December 14th, and navigating ourselves since, as we said above, our sailors had fled on the 15th, December 18th, we came to Corfu, where before we had left the ship, a certain war commander met us, Michael by name, a Chersonite, born in the palace called Sheron. He was a horry-headed man, chovial-faced, good-natured in his discourse, always pleasantly laughing, but as it afterwards turned out, a devil at heart, as God showed to me, even then by clear enough proofs, if only my mind could then have understood them. For at the very time, when with a kiss he was wishing me the peace that he did not bear in his heart, all Corfu, a great island, namely, trembled. And not only once, but three times on the same day did it tremble. 4 days later, moreover, namely on the 11th day before the calendars of January, December 22nd, while sitting at table, I was eating bread with him, who was treading me underfoot, the son, ashamed at such an unworthy deed, hid the rays of his light, and suffering an eclipse, terrified that Michael, but did not change him. I will explain then what I

had done to him for the sake of friendship and what I received from him by way of reward. On my way to Constantinople, I gave to his son that most costly shield oiled and worked with marvelous art which you, my august masters, gave to me with the other gifts to give to my Greek friends. Now returning from Constantinople, I gave the father a most precious vestment, for all of which he gave me the following thanks. Nicaphorus had written that at whatever hour I should come to him without delay he should place me on a Greek ship and send me to the Chamberlain Leo. He did not do this, but detained me 20 days, and nourished me not at his own, but at my expense, until an envoy came from the aforesamin Leo, who rated him for delaying me. But because he could not

bear my reproaches, laments, and size, he went away and handed me over to a man so sinful and utterly bad that he did not even permit me to buy supplies until he had received from me a carpet worth a pound of silver. And when after 20 days I did go away from there, that man to whom I had given the carpet, ordered the ship's master, after passing a certain promontory, to put me ashore, and let me die of hunger. This he did, because he had searched my baggage to see if I had any purple vestments concealed, and when he had wanted to take one, I had prevented him. Oh, you Michael, you Michaels. Where have I ever found so many of you and such ones? For my keeper

in Constantinople gave me over to his rival Michael. A bad man to a worse, the worse one to a rascal. My guide was also called Michael. A simple man indeed, but one whose simplicity harmed me almost as much as the wickedness of the others. But from the hands of these little Michaels, I came into you, oh great Michael, half hermit, half monk, I tell you and I tell you truly, the bath will not avail you, in which you do assiduously get drunk for love of St.

John the Baptist. For those who seek God falsely shall never merit to find him. The manuscript containing Leud Pran's report breaks off here suddenly. [Music]