---
video_title: "Puduhepa - Queen of the Hittites"
video_id: 0_e56XpmekM
channel_name: "Study of Antiquity and the Middle Ages"
channel_id: UCxRSpkGOH_09pxKvgD8S5jQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0_e56XpmekM
video_date: 2026-01-31T21:01:21+00:00
video_description: |
  Puduhepa, Queen of the Hittites, is a figure from antiquity who becomes more important the more we study her. At first, only known as a notation and a royal seal on broken tablets, this minor priestess rose to rule one of the greatest empires of the Bronze Age.
  
  As a presenter of historical subjects, I've long been leery of voicing female subjects. Now, with the help of the skilled and talented Katie Otten, we strive to bring to life not only Puduhepa herself but also her contemporary queen in Egypt, Nefertari. Enjoy!
  
  To support the SAMA channel, become a Patron and make history matter! Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/The_Study_of_... 
  
  Donate directly to PayPal: https://paypal.me/NickBarksdale 
  
  !!!!!!!!!!Above and beyond all -- visit this link to the gofundme for the family of our dear departed founder Nick Barksdale!!!!!!!!!! https://gofund.me/75507dae2
---
Puduhepa, Queen of the Hittites, daughter of the goddess, by D.W. Drafin, narrated by Katie Atten and D.W. Drafin. Thus speaks Puduhepa, great queen of the land of the Hati, greetings to my brother, the king of Egypt, Ramses II. I understand my brother, that my gifts were well received. When your messengers told me so, I rejoiced. As the wife of your brother, Hattishili, I will respond to your inquiries about me by saying I enjoy full life. May my brother in Egypt also enjoy his life to the full. Send me treasures and adorn them with lapis lazuli. Our lands also enjoy full life. May your lands in Egypt also enjoy full life. I have sent cherished ornaments to my brother, wishing that all is well with him. Yet why, through your emissaries, do you express such displeasure to me? My brother has asked for one of my daughters, and now he sends messengers to express his impatience and anger. Why have you not yet given her to me? My brother presses his case. Yet at the moment, my daughter is unable to join you. Why? Could it be that our house is in disorder with the fall and flight of Uri Tashoub, who ruled before my husband did? And to where has he fled, dear brother? Perhaps you could ask him yourself since he now sits at your side. So it seems there is no room for anyone else at your side, and certainly not for the daughter of heaven and earth. Perhaps instead, you could look to the daughters of Babylon, of Zulabi, and Assyria. Perhaps they will pay the bride price you seek, since my brother is so lacking in possessions. Why, it seems as though my brother truly possesses nothing at all. If the sons of the sun god and storm god also possess nothing, like the emptiness the sea god provides to his son, then I can see that you truly have nothing at all. Yet you seek to gain what little I have to fill your emptiness. That is not how kings behave. I wrote in my last letter to my brother that I would send captives of war to you, along with cattle and sheep. Yet I could not spare any barley for none grew in our lands this year, and I cannot spare my daughter. Again, I say, consider the daughters of Babylon and the Muru. I took their daughters into my own household, and the people of Hathi praised me for it. It was my own decision to take a foreign daughter of a great foreign king as daughter-in-law. So now, if ever the messengers of Babylon and the Muru appear in my court in full regalia, asking for her, does that not shine brightly on me? For I could have raised any of the local Hathi women, yet I am named after Hepat, the goddess who nurtures, and in praise of her, do I take all the daughters in? Why is my brother so impatient for my daughter? Does he have no wives at all? These overtures of peace and matrimony draw us all closer together. But were you not matched to the king of Babylon's daughter? Did you not take his daughter in marriage? Or did you spurn her, declaring that the king of Babylon is not a great king? When I heard you had said this, I realized my brother does not know Babylon, and how mighty Codora and Lil truly is. I am the daughter of Hepat. With the son goddess Arena, the storm god and Ishtar, these deities worked together to make me queen of Hathi. They joined me in matrimony to your brother Hathoseeli, and they provided me with many sons and daughters. Even you, brother, know that I am the tawanana, the great mother. When I first entered the royal household, they knew me by my midwifery. All the daughters of the king gave birth in my hand, and I raised those who were already born. These are my riches. These babies that have grown to be women and men, who are now military officers and governors of our provinces. I pray that the gods may make my own daughter as nurturing and maternal as her mother. And yet the question remains, how does my brother find all of this unacceptable? How is my brother now displeased? This is my own abridged adaptation of the direct translations we have of the partial tablet on which this is recorded. These words, or something close to them, are what Puduhepa wrote to Ramziz the second, in response to the increasing demands of his emissaries for the hand of her daughter. The tablet this letter was recorded upon is damaged, and many passages are missing. Much of what remains is open to interpretation. This adaptation is looser than strict translators would accept, but attempts to portray the intent behind her stilted and formal correspondence. Yet the directness of her statements and the sharpness of her protests are all hers. It is clear that this queen of the hitites saw herself not only as an equal of one of the greatest pharaohs in Egyptian history, but that she felt she was in some ways his superior, and presumed to lecture him on morality, propriety, and the obligations of royalty. Just who was this young headstrong woman, Puduhepa? And how did she earn a place at the very center of the ancient world? A leading figure in a rising wave of queens and female rulers in the ancient Near East, by word and deed she forever changed the way the modern world thinks about religion, gender, and state craft. The year is 1274 BCE. One of the greatest conflicts of antiquity has just taken place. The Battle of Kadesh ended in a bloody stalemate. After the King of the Hitites, Muwatali II, failed to break the invading Egyptian forces and capture or kill Ramziz II. Yet he got awful close. Surrounded by Hitite soldiers and chariots in the initial attack, the pharaoh wrote later, no officer was with me, no charioteer, no soldier of the army, no shield bearer. I was before them like set in his moment. I found the mass of chariots in whose midst I was scattering them before my horses. The pharaoh, suddenly in a desperate fight for his life, called upon his god Ammon and drew his forces to him. He personally led several charges into the Hitite ranks along with his bodyguards, some chariots they gathered from his Ammon division, and survivors from the routed Rae division. The Egyptians broke through the Hitite lines and counter-attacked, trapping the Hitites in their chariots against the banks of the Orantes where they died. Yet the Egyptians had no more fight in them. They were lucky to escape with the stalemate, and Kadesh remained in Hitite hands. In fact, as Ramziz II retreated from the field, Muwatali II continued to campaign further south into Egypt, placing the conquered territories under the command of his brother, Khatushili, who would one day become the next king of the Hitites, Khatushili III. It was on his way from this campaign that Khatushili, a great general but already passed his prime, stopped in Laoazantia with his court. There he was introduced to the head priest Ben-Tep Chari, and his daughter, the priestess of Ishtar Puduhepa, who was named after the goddess Hepat, a maternal goddess locally worshipped. It was Ishtar herself, who evidently instructed Khatushili to take Puduhepa as a wife and enjoy the benefits of matrimony. Of course, Khatushili already had many concubines, and possibly other wives, yet Puduhepa appeared to quickly gain a preeminent position among them. Here is the wonder of the Hitites. Two hundred years ago, we only knew about them in the bearish terms as one of the obscure empires listed in the Old Testament. A hundred fifty years ago, archeological discoveries that laid bear their capital, Khatusha, and many other sites, began to reveal an immense trove of tablets and documentation that now allow us to see their nearly 800-year-long empire with a level of detail that equals ancient Egypt and surpasses what we know of Mesopotamia. These revelations we have gained from the Hitites are very recent, and are still transforming our understanding of the late Chalcolific, or what we refer to as the Bronze Age. So let us follow the life of this young priestess from thirty-three hundred years ago, perhaps she is worldly, but it is maybe more likely that she has led a somewhat secluded life in a temple. And then all of a sudden she has been uprooted by the gods themselves, as one of the leading figures in the entire kingdom, fresh off a not unsuccessful military campaign, suddenly arrives at her doorstep to tell her that Ishtar herself has told him to take her as wife. The journey back to the cities of the Hitite Heartland must have been a tremendous shock, regardless of her background, traveling suddenly in the train of a bloodied army. And yet there is something about this young woman that does not quail in the face of such monumental historical events. In fact, she seems to be one of those charmed figures whose personal goals align with the needs of the empire. As she advances herself and her own interests, it benefits not only Puduhepa herself and her kin, but with her vision and institutional reforms, perhaps the entire Hitite kingdom, and with her eventual diplomatic efforts and successes, the entire civilized world. And what she does for the role of women in Indo-European cultures may be formative to how women are defined today. She might just be that much of a foundational figure. The path Puduhepa chose was inspired by her own tutelary goddess, Hepat, who was, as has been said, more of a maternal figure. Tracing the worship of this goddess is a good example of how gods were shared in the ancient Near East. By the time of Puduhepa, Hepat had already been worshipped by many cultures. She was considered the patroness of Aleppo, and has appeared in Luian and Ugarit and Eblaite sources as a deity and sometime consort of various gods. The many cultures of the region swapped gods and incorporated entire pantheons when they conquered or were conquered in turn. This is why their contemporaries referred to the Hitites as the Kingdom of a Thousand Gods, because their infamous treaty diplomacy had absorbed so many cultures that the gods they acknowledged became too many to worship. Back to Puduhepa, and her introduction to the world of royal courts and power. Perhaps she was clever, or perhaps she was truly a nurturing person, but she found that the way she could build her power and become a necessity to the court was in the women's quarters, birthing and rearing the children of the elite. She must have excelled at these tasks somehow, a young outsider suddenly thrust into a prominent role who not only landed on her feet, but gathered power which she maintained for nearly the rest of her life. Alessonia myself learned over the years is that to win the hearts and minds of leading figures, you don't appeal to their power or their vanity. That is how everyone else appeals to them, surrounding them in crowds. Instead, to gain their attention and respect, you diligently care for their loved ones. If you truly take care of the ones they love, their children, and elders, and animals, the powerful people learn to trust you and treat you as family. To me, it seems this is the approach Puduhepa took. But she was not yet a queen. Muwatali, the second, still ruled in Hattusa. Were there other female figures standing in her way, perhaps Hattusaelis, mother or sisters, perhaps his concubines and lovers? What do we know of the setting the young Puduhepa found herself in? According to scholar Judith Starkston, Monogamy appears to have been far and away the most common state of marriage. The only regularly polygamous marriages we hear about are in the case of the Hittai King. His first wife had a special status with the others as a species of concubine. Since the Hittai King required prodigious numbers of offspring, both male and female, to govern and militarily protect the empire, as well as to form alliances with other kingdoms, his polygamous marriage status appears to have been a special case for the most part. So the aging Lord returns triumphant and his young wife appears in the palace. They may doubt her at first, but her gentle nature appeases them. She is also a priestess, a servant of the gods, and begins to win the hearts of the court by tending to the young. This is an idealized vision of a pre-modern woman at her maternal best. Yet before we get carried away with poorly substantiated heroin worship, what might be a realistic alternative narrative? It's easy to think of Pudukhepa as this kind of angelic visionary, but is that the reality or just what we wish? If Hittai public relations with their own populace were as advanced as their diplomacy with their neighbors, then the worst version of her might actually be more realistic, Pudukhepa as a grasping and manipulative climber, who knew to control the narrative about herself and loudly extoll her virtues as all kings and emperors did. They were always building monuments to promote or even fabricate their best qualities. Why should she have been any different? We will never know who she was with certainty. The evidence is too scant. So without worshipping or vilifying her too much, let us say that the truth of Pudukhepa's life was most likely somewhere in between these two extremes. The Hittai Empire consisted of different administrative regions, bounded by other kingdoms and empires on all sides. Hattushili was the youngest son, so when his brother Muwatali II was handed the throne upon the death of their father Muwatali II, Hattushili was made governor of the northern provinces, and the sickly prince did all he could to contradict any rumor of weakness. He was a strict military governor who had no patience for dissent. It is somewhat hard to blame him. The ancient near east of the 13th century BCE was a dangerous place. Constant border wars and kingdom-ending conflicts prevented any kind of stability through Hattushili's life. And this extended into the royal palace itself. When his older brother Muwatali II died, Hattushili was passed over, in favor of the king's eldest son, whom Pudukhepa refers to in her letter to Ramzi's II as Uri Tashub. Upon becoming king, he took the name Mursili III. Yet eventually, Hattushili fought a civil war with his nephew, and took the throne for himself. In his famous apology and autobiography of his illustrious life, Hattushili states, For seven years, I submitted to the king, but at a divine command, and with human urgent, Uri Tashub sought to destroy me. He took Hakhpista and Neri from me. Now I submitted to him no longer. I made war against him, but I committed no crime in doing so by rising up against him with chariots or in the palace. In civilized manner, I communicated thus with him, you have begun hostilities with me. Now you are great king, but I am king of only one fortress. That is all you have left me. Come, Ishtara Samoa, and the storm god of Neri shall decide the case for us. The story of the civil war is quite fascinating, with fortresses and cities won and lost across the breadth of Anatolia. Yet their external enemies were not sitting still, the Amaru to the west, Assyrians to the east, Mitani to the southeast, and Egypt behind them all, doing all they could to unravel the splendor of the hit heights. Yet in doing this research, the one culture which keeps getting mentioned again and again in pivotal moments, and seems to have an outsized impact on the hit height fortunes of this era, are the caska tribes of the northeast, from the impassable mountains along the black sea. It is presumably because of the growing caska threat that Mursili the second moved the capital from Hattusa for their south to Tarhun Tasa, claiming religious reasons for the move. But he left his uncle to deal with the caska tribes, who would raid hit height lands, then vanish into their mountain canyons. But with new leadership, they grew more bold. United under Pihunia of Tipia, the caska began to capture entire hit height towns and cities, eventually threatening Hattusa, which they had burned several generations before, when locusts had eaten all the caska grain, and they had rampaged throughout the region, united in starvation. Mursili the second took lands and cities of his uncles, and put him in charge of their greatest threat. As ruler of the northern marches, Hattusaily constructed a string of defensive forts, and eventually broke the strength of the united tribes. The hit heights defeated the caska and retook the city of Narek. Then he was finally free to turn his attention on his nephew. And this was how a minor priestess from Laoazantia became queen of the hit heights. Puruhappa is known to history for two main reasons, the significance of her diplomacy, and the profound changes in the development of Indo-European religion from her reform of the hitite pantheon. First, Puruhappa the diplomat. Although it was normal for Egyptian, Babylonian, and Levantine royal women to correspond with each other, we have few other examples of these queens answering rulers directly, as Puruhappa does. The wife of Ramsey's second, Nefertari, wrote a very different letter to Puruhappa, than the one the hitite queen wrote to her husband, the Pharaoh. The great queen Nefertari of the land of Egypt speaks thus. Speak to my sister Puruhappa, the great queen of the hotty land. Ah, your sister, also be well. May your country be well. Now, I have learned that you, my sister, have written to me asking after my health. You have written to me asking after my health. You have written to me because of the good friendship and brotherly relationship between your brother, the king of Egypt, the great and the storm god, will bring about peace, and he will make the brotherly relationship between the Egyptian king, the great king, and his brother, the hotty king, the great king, last forever. See, I have sent you a gift in order to greet you, my sister, for your neck, a necklace of pure gold composed of 12 bands and weighing 88 checkles, colored linen Maklaalu material, for one royal dress for the king, a total of 12 linen garments. We gain much less insight into Nefertari as a person in this letter. She seems to have been content to play the role of ritual gift giver and friend, rather than the thinly veiled hostility on display in Puruhappa's letter. Yet that wasn't the only letter Puruhappa sent to Ramziz. Her seal is displayed on other texts where she is more conciliatory and persuasive, and eventually the hitites did promise to send not one but two daughters to Egypt. She even appears to have played a part in the negotiation of the Egyptian Hittite peace treaty, the earliest known peace treaty we possess where both participants have their own version preserved. Puruhappa's own seal is on the treaty. It is likely that the physical weakness and age of Khatushili played a part in Puruhappa's outsized influence. Upon ascending the throne, Khatushili moved the capital back to Khatusha, and the queen ruled with him there, making proclamations in both his name and her own, making political and legal judgments, developing policy for the city and kingdom, and reforming the empire of a thousand gods into a more streamlined religious framework. For millennia, Anatolia was one of the bottlenecks in the movement of peoples from central Asia into the west. After endless waves of migration, the region was filled with a bewildering variety of tribes and kingdoms that we know best from the Old Testament of the Bible. Also, this has always been a crossroads for people traveling from Africa to the north, or from the Volga to the south, delivering everything from far-flung Nubian to Sintashta, goods and traditions. In short, the density of cultures in a relatively small area led to constant conflict, but also a relentless syncretism of beliefs that blended the gods of each group together. The hitites were notable among ancient empires for how much they borrowed from others, including the Horeans whom they displaced, the Assyrians to the east, and their old foe Egypt to the south. They ruled less by military action than diplomacy to judge by the number of treaties we have found in their records. And each time they formed an alliance, they absorbed parts of that tribe or kingdom into their core identity in the same way Rome famously copied the Greeks. But what if Rome had a thousand gods from dozens of cultures to assimilate? Now imagine trying to rule an empire, built of all these restive tribes and kingdoms. Cultural unity was at some point necessary, and it was Pudu Hepa who seems to have initiated it. Starting with a campaign to transform the Pantheon into something less unwieldy, the priestess queen elevated the goddess Hephat from a regional consort to one of the principal gods, consolidating many other gods and goddesses and placing them under her care. She performed wedding ceremonies among the gods, drawing different cultures together by fusing their religious traditions, and made efforts to define a core classical Pantheon of many of the Horean gods the hitites first assimilated at the founding of their empire. The Indo-European Pantheon, which further developed into everything from the Greek and Roman gods to the Norse gods to the Celtic, were profoundly shaped by these reforms begun by this priestess queen over three thousand years ago. This was a wider trend of moving away from animist local traditions into a broader unified narrative of great figures such as Ishtar and Taruna, the Storm God. Pudu Hepa initiated a campaign of large temple construction, from which this new version of their religion could be promoted. She put herself front and center in these initiatives, writing letters in appeal to the gods, and publishing them so all could see. Her seal is found at the end of many clay tablets more and more than her husband as the years go by. Khatushili the third died long before Pudu Hepa did, although we don't have a date. Their son Tudralia the fourth gained the throne, and his mother took the title of goddess queen. At first she seemed to wield power as a regent. Basically the ruler of Hati in all but name, but the fractious nature of the Hittite court eventually caught up with her. A palace coup, led by her daughter-in-law Tudralia the fourth's wife from Babylon, appeared to have driven Pudu Hepa from her place of power and kept her from her son. This was, ironically, the very same daughter-in-law the queen had used as an example of her wisdom and diplomacy in her letter to Ramziz II. But the exile most likely didn't last very long. The goddess queen seems to have restored her position by the end of her long life, and although we have many records from the reign of Tudralia the fourth, Nunmake mention of his wife from Babylon by name. Pudu Hepa, daughter of the goddess, found her first and greatest power within the temples of the gods. Prayer was a core activity of the priestly and ruling classes, calling for intercessions on their own behalf and for the sake of the society and empire at large. We have many tablets of Hittite prayers, including many striking examples of please from the reign of Morsili, where he and his wife the queen beg a god named telebynus for his protection from the plague that ravages the Hati lands. They would intone the prayers again and again, making offerings and performing rituals in repetitive cycles that would sometimes last days. For a daughter of the goddess such as Pudu Hepa, this was her primary language of power and appeal. In one text that survived, Pudu Hepa prayed to the goddess Zintuhis for the health of her husband Hato Shili. First, she begins by documenting his successes as the ruler of the northern districts who was eventually betrayed by the king, but the heart of the prayer is about his health. Zintuhis, my mistress, beloved grandchild of the storm god and the sun goddess of Verinah. For the storm god and the sun goddess of Verinah, you Hato Shili are their strong right hand. From above, hour by hour, they look down on you, ozend to his, my mistress. Show us your divine power by conferring a blessed life of long years to Hato Shili, your servant from the storm god, your grandfather, and the sun goddess of Verinah, your grandmother, I beg you to get them to utter these words with their own mouths.