---
video_title: "The Varian Disaster - Murder in the Forest"
video_id: Cv6agxLkuw4
channel_name: "Study of Antiquity and the Middle Ages"
channel_id: UCxRSpkGOH_09pxKvgD8S5jQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv6agxLkuw4
video_date: 2026-06-28T00:31:19+00:00
video_description: |
  The Varian Disaster is one of the greatest defeats in the long history of Rome. Three of their 28 legions were slaughtered by a coalition of Germanic tribes and clans and the defeat was so stunning and comprehensive that the Romans never mastered the north again.
  
  In this cinematic version of events, Dev Agarwal and DW Draffin try to create an atmosphere and level of detail that is only made possible by the extensive records of the event. 
  
  As always...
  
  To support the SAMA channel, become a Patron and make history matter! Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/The_Study_of_...
  
  Donate directly to PayPal: https://paypal.me/NickBarksdale
  
  !!!!!!!!!!Above and beyond all -- visit this link to the gofundme for the family of our dear departed founder Nick Barksdale!!!!!!!!!! https://www.gofundme.com/f/support-ni...
---
The Variant Disaster Murder in the Forest by Dev Aguil Narrated by D.W. Drafin These words are attributed to the first Emperor of Rome and Gulea Caesar's heir, Augustus. According to Suetonius and by Robert Graves in his novel I-Claudius, Augustus raged through his palace in Rome, constantly crying out, Quinta Laibare, Legionist Radeh, as he called on the dead governor Varus to return the three legions that he destroyed fighting the Germanic tribes. Varus lost the legions in the Tutoburg Forest in 9 CE, in what is now present day lower Saxony, Western Germany. The Calcrisa Berg is a modest wooded hill, surrounded by farmland that creates a bottleneck between it and the bog known as Grocersmoor. The bog is only a hundred paces wide. There in what is today a bucolic landscape, the ancient Tutoburg Forest held terrors that haunted the Romans for centuries. When we talk of the Romans in their epic battles against the barbarians, we often mean the Germanic tribes of the Central European forests and valleys north of the Danube and east of the Rhine. When we talk of the epic battles against the Germanic tribes, none was more epic than the Claudess Varyana, or the variant disaster of the Tutoburg Forest. Much is lost to history of how this disaster unfolded, but what historians can be confident of is the crucial role that the German ally Arminius played in the disaster. Arminius was that most intriguing of warriors, a man who never forgot his barbarian origins, but was deeply inside the Roman war machine and able to see their key weakness from within. The other major contributor to the disaster was the governor Quintillius Varyus, himself. Varyus was a former governor of pacified Syria. A fellow Roman contemporary described him as a man of mild character and of a quiet disposition, somewhat slow in mind as he was in body, and more accustomed to the leisure of the camp than to actual service in war. But other commentators disagree, describing installing Varyus as governor of the province as a provocative act in its own right. There had been little conflict under Varyus's immediate predecessor, Nero Claudius Drusus Germanicus. Drusus did not, like his successor Varyus, rouse and inflame opposition by tyrannous insolence or wanton cruelty to the conquered. Having lived peaceably in his province in Syria, Varyus mistakenly assumed that the German tribes lacked either courage or confidence to cast off Rome's yoke. He compounded that mistake by putting his faith in Arminius, leader of his auxiliary cavalry, and his false German friend. Arminius was born around 18 BCE, the eldest son of a tribal chief Segemer. Father and son were from the prominent German tribe the Heruski, and lived near modern day Hanover. Having a peace treaty with Rome, Segemer volunteered Arminius and his younger brother Flavus to enter Rome as its hostages for the Heruski's good behavior. Their Segemer's sons learned Latin and lived like aristocrats. The Romans taught the boys their tactics, and they may both have fought as auxiliaries to the legions in Pannonia and Illyria between 7 and 9 CE. In adulthood, Arminius remained in military service, and around 9 CE, he transferred to the army of the Rhine under Quintilios Varyus. Varyus' task was to turn the land east of the Rhine in Germania Magna, or a greater Germany, into a Roman province. This was the longstanding strategy by Augustus Caesar to protect his empire's fragile northern border. By 12 CE, military conquests had pushed the Roman frontiers all the way to the Rhine and Danube rivers, forming a vulnerable corner where they might someday be trapped. If Rome could drive another 250 miles east to the Elba River, they could straighten the border and more efficiently protect Gaul from German raiders. By the time of Varyus' arrival, the German tribes had been beaten back by earlier Roman incursions in 4 and 5 CE. Varyus was familiar with Rome's harsh, but successful tax policies on subject people in Syria, and he employed them to his advantage here. His men built a walled camp on the Upper Vesa River inside Carusky Territory. This proved to be a profitable location for Varyus, who collected tribute from the many tribesmen that came to trade with him. Varyus soon managed to increase the tribe's resentment as he began to demand excessive taxes and tributes and set about enslaving the locals. In Carusky Territory, Arminius proved to be a useful liaison for the Romans with the local nobility. He was also able to reunite with his family, and he soon brought his father, Segamer, to Varyus as a guest. At the dinner table they both flattered Varyus on his mastery of Germany. However, Arminius had secretly chaffed for years at the inferior status the Carusky were given by the Romans. As he saw it, Rome took the cream of Germany's youth for its legions and exhausted the people through the yoke of tributes and taxes. An occupation even scarred the land itself, felling its ancient and sacred forests. It was there, in those forests, and beyond the legionary camp, that Arminius gathered the tribal chieftains at night to design Varyus's fall. Arminius had waited until only three legions would be available for this frontier border, before feeding Varyus false information of a rebellion among the tribes. Arminius skillfully manipulated Varyus to quell this fictitious rebellion in a location of Arminius' choosing. Now it was time to strike. The only contemporary record of these events was from Valleus Petrkulis. Petrkulis was an amateur historian, soldier, and politician. He served as a legate in Germany and Pannonia for eight years from 4CE, and doubtless felt that Varys' conduct besmirched both the Roman army and his own reputation. He ruled the untamed savages as if he dispensed justice in a province of quiet submission. Petrkulis criticized Varys for holding court and dealing with the internesying Germanic tribes as a political or legal problem, rather than drilling and preparing his troops for war. We lost three legions not due as much to the valor of the enemy as the rash fumbling of the Roman commander. This view has come to dominate our perception of Varys, as Petrkulis' contemporary record colored all later histories. In the view of Petrkulis, Arminius was little more than an opportunist who couldn't resist seizing on the mess Varys had made of his campaign. Yet, it may be argued that this was the historian's Roman prejudice. No barbarian could outthink and outmaneuver three Roman legions, for it was long believed in the Republic and then empire that the only one who can defeat a Roman was himself. No historian of the period has defended Varys through the years, but we should remember that he was operating far from the security of Rome. He also faced an opposing general in Arminius who was naturally gifted in guerrilla warfare and embedded inside his own camp. What is known is that Varys was unprepared for what was coming, even though there were allies within the Germanic tribes who tried to warn him. Some German chieftains had grown soft on the pleasures and privileges that they received as Rome's gifts, and they sought to preserve the status quo. Arminius observed the Romans closely throughout the summer of 9 CE. Their encampment was effectively a city in size, set behind high defensive walls. It eclipsed the nearby villages, and Arminius concluded that the Romans were invincible while they remained within it. The military campaign was constrained by the seasons, and as fall approached, the army would withdraw to its winter quarters. This would frustrate the Germanic tribes, who were neither as militarily advanced nor as well equipped. They were not prepared to chase the Romans across Germany and to mount either Sieges or bring supplies to outweigh the Romans in their secure camps. In July 9 CE, Arminius ordered his allied tribes to start skirmishing with the Roman forces deep inside the forest. He chose the swamps between the Ems and Vezer rivers in particular as favorable ground. The tribal chieftain Segesstis and Arminius' father-in-law revealed the conspiracy to Varus. Bad blood had developed between Arminius and Segesstis. Segesstis had refused Arminius' request for his daughter's hand in marriage. Due to his rebellious spirit, Arminius had outraged Segesstis by marrying Thosnellda anyway. They were also rivals for the leadership within the Kyrusky people, and Segesstis believed that the path to his personal advancement lay in subjugating Germany to Roman rule. After sundown in Varus' main feasting tent, Segesstis leaned across the table and revealed the plot to him and his centurions. Varus molded this news, considering what he knew of Segesstis' anger at being defied by his daughter Thosnellda. Varus also knew Arminius as his comrade. He had seen, at first hand, Arminius' loyalty and leadership, and the years Arminius had already given in service to Rome. During all this, the scales tipped against Segesstis as an embittered and embarrassed father and minor chieftain, goading the Romans to destroy his rival. Petruchilus records that fate now dominated the plans of Varus and had blindfolded the eyes of his mind. And so Quintillius Varus refused to believe the story and insisted upon judging the apparent friendship of the Germans by the standard of his merit. Seeing that his warnings fell on deaf ears, Segesstis still urged Varus to put Arminius and his lieutenants in chains. Varus continued to blunder by dismissing Segesstis as a disgruntled slanderer, Petruchilus recorded grimly, and after this warning there was no time left for a second. By the fall, Varus prepared his army to return back to their winter quarters on the Rhine in Aliso, the current location of the city of Haltern on the Upper Lippa River. This news of a revolt by the Angravary reached Varus. This was a well-established tribe living in the northwest of Germany near the middle of the Vezer River. But the rumors of their uprising were actually the first move in Arminius' covert campaign. As he was within the circle of Varus' trusted confidants, Arminius quickly proposed that the Roman army divert from its route and strike north past the Vezer Hills to suppress the uprising along the way of their march. And this was how Arminius chose the ground for his battles. Varus' army did indeed take the route along the Lippa River to the Vezer Hills as their most direct route to the revolt. The army drew together three legions on foot, Roman cavalry, auxiliary Germans, but also Messily, the traders and camp followers of a permanent occupying force. Come the morning of 8 September. Dispralling and sluggish column was mustered out of its camp. The legionaries were in high spirits, laughing and joking among themselves as they had just been paid, lifting their spirits even higher. Their centurions announced that they were authorized to loot the Androvery to make up for operating past their own supply lines. It is this legionary pay in the form of gold and silver dinaari that would act as their grave goods and aid archaeologists 2,000 years later as they work to trace the course of the battle. For now these men stood in high spirits. Their segmented armor shiny and clean, their gladiases sharpened and in scabbards. Behind their ranks their camp wives and even children played and called to each other. All of them faced the day, watching the sun rising through thick forest and chasing away streamers of mourning mist. In the bukel sounded the army fell in behind Varus and Arminius and commenced snaking its way into the Tutoburg Wald. This must have been a remarkable spectacle. The noise of an entire town of 20,000 people on the move. Sunlight would have played on the forged steel of helmets, spear points and bridles. Yet this would also be the only man-made objects inside the forest. The Wald runs for 1,500 miles and in antiquity it would have no paved roads and would have greatly restricted the army's mobility. The forests of Germania were their first and greatest enemy. Roman legionaries were more familiar with the sunny climate and open cultivated farmland of Italy. Here they were forced to march among old-growth forests that were densely packed and alive with game and birds. It must have been awe-inspiring to confront furtories that foremen couldn't encircle with their arms and that reached higher into the sky than they could shoot an arrow to. And now winter was coming. Regularly the forest was swept with torrential rains and turned wet with sucking mud under foot. The forest formed a natural defensive landscape against any invader. It was also the training environment for thousands of years for the Germanic tribes. Here was where they taught their children to hunt and live off the land. Entering this primordial forest, the line of march stretched and slowed until it ran between nine and twelve miles from its leadscouts to its own rear guard. Arminius encouraged Varus to head towards Calcrizahill where the Angriveri lay in ambush. He then sent another tribe, the Bruckterie, to harass the army along its length in the late morning. Javalan's flashed through the dark trees and the Romans responded to the surprise attack. This was the start of a running battle that stretched over four days. The Roman historian Cassius Dio describes the ground under foot quickly becoming slick with mud and very treacherous, with the tops of trees breaking off and falling down causing much confusion. The legions were now at their most vulnerable, not proceeding in any regular order, and mixed in Helter's Celter with the wagons and their unarmed camp followers. The throwing Javalan's and narrow-bladed Fremey spears of the Bruckterie were designed for this kind of close combat. They hurled their missiles from the dense forest into the Roman column. The more aggressive warriors ran from shelter to fight the legionaries in close, their spears against Roman Javalan's, the Gladius, and infantry-shield ringing against German longswords. Caught by surprise, fighting in driving rain and entangled in their own baggage train, the three legions were unable to properly form up. Every tactics required space to maneuver, and the ability to hear shouted commands. Yet maneuver warfare never came. The fighting arrived in waves of fast, aggressive skirmishes, always beginning with a storm of pelted Javalan's and Fremey. The Bruckterie hit and ran, refusing to stand and fight. This had proved a successful tactic among the Celts and Gauls to confound the brute force and discipline of the Roman-Maniple formation. Throughout the day, the Germans harried the Romans, tiring them, and raiding their supplies. Varys cursed the Bruckterie, never realizing they attacked at the behest of his own German agitant. Throughout the fighting, Varys still believed Arminius and his Karruski auxiliaries to be loyal to him. By the evening of this first night, Varys' men had managed to erect a hasty stockade while under attack. This heroic effort had seen infantry and cavalry repelling constant sporadic guerrilla assaults, while sappers had cut down logs and hastily erected wooden fences. Arminius came to Varys at his rough command post, with the day-luge continuing, and the Bruckterie chanting and mocking the Romans the two men talked urgently. Arminius soothed Varys' anxiety, assuring him that the survivors of his three legions contained many veterans from as far as Syria to Penonia. When he had calmed Varys' nerves, Arminius insinuated that his men could best serve him by breaking away and gathering reinforcements from the local Karruski, knowing this tribe and Arminius' extended family to be trustworthy, Varys granted his consent. This was the last time that these two men would ever meet. Arminius rode out at first light and even left behind a small Karruskin force to continue as Varys' guides. Varys waived Arminius off, surely relieved that Arminius' plan promised to bring back timely help. That Varys could not imagine how he sealed his own fate, and that even inside his small fortress, the Karruski with him were all enemy spies. By withdrawing his warriors, Arminius cut Varys' fighting force by a quarter, and even more significantly eliminated the Roman's ability to scout through the vast forest. Arminius took away five thousand men, leaving Varys with fifteen thousand. As these men were now almost exclusively Roman, their forest lore was minimal and their knowledge of the world greatly limited. Arminius led his mounted cavalry north into the forest and toured a rendezvous with the Angravary and Brachtery. When Arminius rode away from the plotting Roman column, he had told Varys that he would return within two days with reinforcements. Reinforcements did come, not just from the Karruski, but also from the Marcy, the Brachtery, and other tribes as well, yet they did not come to aid the Romans, but to destroy them. On September 8, the weather turned harsher still with another heavy thunderstorm. The nearest tributaries overflowed, and the roadway turned into mud and flooded ditches. The torrent must have made the superstitious Romans feel that they were beset by the very Germanic gods themselves, and then the new reality set in. Most sources agree that Varys' column reached a pass that divided Calcrizahill from a swath of marshland. The army approached it through the torrential downpour, and by way of a sea of mud. Arminius' rebels were now lying in weight along the ridge of the hill, and behind a series of fortifications raised banks of earth and sand. They held their attack until the entirety of the Roman column was exposed to them. That Arminius' command, the tribes hurled a rain of javelins and flaming arrows along the length of what had been his fellow Roman comrades. Tacitus, writing forty years later, observed that Arminius posed a hybrid challenge to Varys. He was both embedded in German power structures, and also a trained knight of the Roman military machine. The old German unsystematic battle order and chaotic charges were things of the past. Their long wars against Rome had taught them to follow the standards, keep troops in reserve, and obey commands. The Romans called their battle lines Acheas, the word is Latin for the sharp edge of a sword. In the Tutoburg walled, there was only space for the Simplex Acheas, the single line of cohorts. This formation was the battle line of necessity to respond to the German ambush, and to the fact that the Bruckterie was a larger and more mobile force. The Bruckterie attacked up and down the length of the Acheas during the late morning. They came in waves with projectile weapons, javelins, arrows, and slingshot stones. These were indiscriminate attacks that fell on legionaries, camp followers, pack animals, and war horses alike. The Romans, though poorly led, still contained many veterans, just as Arminius had observed. These men took command, seeking to restore order, and turn the attack. Some even pushed the fight from the flooded roadway and up the slopes of Calcrizahil itself. However, both terrain and tactics favored the more agile tribesmen. The large walls of sand allowed the Germans to repeatedly attack the legionaries and then retreat back behind them. The Germans assaulted the front and rear of the Roman line, and the legions fell into chaos. The German warriors crept steadily closer, hurling missiles until they overwhelmed the Romans entirely in places. A large portion of the Roman column was shattered on this day. Yet the veterans and, in particular, the Sanchorians inexorably rallied the legionaries to their standards, drawing their gladiases and marching in formation against the press of Germans. Despite the driving rain, the missiles exploding unseen from the thick forest and the taunting laughter of the Brucktery, the veterans stood firm. Varus's men met the Brucktery in close order, soon locked together with their swords in a wrestling contest. When a legionary fell, he was carried away by the reserves behind him and a fresh man took his place. In each man tired, he stepped back to recover, as if they were safe in their legionary camp at regular morning drill, then they would grapple with the Brucktery again. The veterans had no need of encouragement, and every man in the mud and noise and confusion of the Acheas must have understood the desperate struggle that he was in. After this ferocious fight, even the frenzy Germans were driven back. The Brucktery did not press a fresh attack and instead faded into the forest, taking the Caruskin's spies with them. They had learned this much discipline from their general Arminius. The Romans had bought themselves time, and Varus still had the bulk of three veteran legions at hand. He therefore, loggered the survivors by retreating behind a circle of baggage-trained carts. This was one of his few wise tactical decisions, and the Romans were able to again erect a fortified camp. Within it, Varus called a war council of his officers. Out in the open, surrounded by his men and the surviving women and children, Varus could survey his hasty fortifications as his centurions, chued legionaries, and women out of earshot of the officers. Varus's thoughts must have tumbled through his head. He had to show his leadership to his men, and his metal as a Roman patrician. He must put aside his regrets and his outrage at the German impudence. His force was outnumbered and deep in hostile territory. They had come this far to hunt one lesser tribe, almost for sport, only to find themselves surrounded by a regional uprising. However, his veterans had just won a major skirmish and shone their agility in the face of a surprise attack. His centurion's casualty reports revealed light or losses in fighting men than he might have expected. Varus had lost much of his baggage train and his remaining cavalry was vulnerable, but the way forward was shorter than the retreat, and the risk always came from remaining in the forest longer than necessary. Possibly, Varus even took comfort when thinking of Arminius. For as far as Varus knew, Arminius had left the column to bring back allies, and they were still expected to return. The Roman's picture at nightfall was therefore mixed, and far from hopeless, Varus decided to march west toward the fortified Roman base at Xan-Ten. Either during the night of September 8, or on September 9, Varus led his army out. To speed up their movement, the legions cast aside their equipment and supplies. They moved out through changing terrain of both deep forest and now open grasslands. The men carried only their shields and personal weapons and the most meager of rations. Walking into pelting rain and lashing winds, the legionaries trudged through mud up to their shins. We might imagine that these men, many from Mediterranean and southern European climates, were unused to the harsh cold of autumn in Germany, and that the conditions turned them numb and miserable. However, the legions remained primed for the fight and even confident of their prowess. They resumed good battle discipline, formed orderly ranks, and smashed a gap through the German lines on their flight west. At the foot of Calcrizahill, now the town of Bramsha in modern-day lower Saxony, they met a broad strip of sand. Following their formation until the path narrowed, it forced them between the side of the hill and the marshes of what the Germans called the Great Bog. There the legions were squeezed into a pathway the width of a hundred meters. This was the narrow Calcrizah-Nidovator-Sanka pass. Yet Varus had not taken the initiative from the Germans. Once again he had played into Arminius' hands. He had led his legions into a defile, hemmed in by the grassy bank of the hill to one side and the sucking grip of the Great Bog on the other. This squeezed the column ever tighter and slowed its progress yet again. The bulk of Arminius' forces waited behind another wall. This was a truly considerable fortification built along the passes entire four-mile stretch. This wall enabled the Germanic tribes to attack the Romans from cover again. Having learned from the first days of fighting, the Romans were ready for this tactic. Legionaries attempted to storm the wall but failed and fell back. When instead of offering a head-to-head clash, the Germans stayed in cover, hurling spears and scavenged Roman javallans, short-armed throwing darts and rocks by the thousands. Some Romans stayed crouched behind their shields while other cohorts unwilling to remain passive targets advanced on the German positions. Most of these unsupported assaults were easily repulsed but others broke through. However, those brave, aggressive men were in for a truly unpleasant surprise. Once they had breached the German wall, they met thousands of Germans waiting on the hill. Eagerly, these Germans cut the Romans down. Among those Germans was one who knew various personally. Like a weathervane pointing to the strongest prevailing wind, Seguestis had allied with Arminius now that his son-in-law was besting Rome's legions. Confidently Arminius threw his warriors at the paralyzed legions. This was grim, close fighting, with thousands of men hacking at each other with swords and axes. German losses likely outstripped Roman fatalities, but the tribes could continuously draw on fresh reserves while the Romans, still a hundred miles away from the nearest military camp and help, were steadily winnowed. Now the Simplex Acheas battle line began to flag as men grew exhausted. The Romans formed up with comrades standing side by side, defending spearcuts and constantly being assaulted by German missiles, yet never with a moment's respite. His motivations have long been disputed, but what is known is that Verus' second-in-command, Legatus Nimonius Valla, rode out and away from the battle with a surviving cavalry wing. Some historians view this as opportunism and cowardice, while others see this as a tactical withdrawal to pull the horse unit away from the direct assault, to circle back and outflank the Germans. But no good ever came of it. The Roman cavalry raced through the narrow pathway and found themselves chased hard by Germanic cavalry. Valla, either coward or strategist, took the fight away from the main battle, but never had the opportunity to either flee entirely or turn to flank Arminius. The Roman cavalry and their mounts had been exhausted and mistreated by the fighting and the harsh weather. The Broctery and Angraveri, chasing them, were made up of fresh troops on fresh horses. As the men who often became auxiliary cavalry for the Roman Empire, the Germans would be the equal of any Roman equestrian. Valla's cavalry wing was chased by their foes. Each straggler picked off by the tribesmen as they drew closer. The Germans hunted them relentlessly. Each Roman that they brought down gave them greater confidence and tilted the odds in their favor. According to Poterculus, the cavalry wing was soon scattered and the horsemen either slain or captured. As for Valla himself, Poterculus judges him harshly and tells us that he left the infantry unprotected by the cavalry and in flight tried to reach the Rhine with his squadrons of horse, but fortune avenged his act for he did not survive those whom he had abandoned but died in the act of deserting them. Now Varys' end was inescapable. His expeditionary force had collapsed and fallen into retreat, exhausted and defeated. The remains of the Roman column fell back to the west, probably towards Osnabruk, scattering equipment, abandoning wagons. They fell into a desultory camp upon the nearest hill. On this second night, the Romans lacked the energy to fortify their camp and the legionaries huddled together against the harsh night, sharing what little body-worn they still had. Each Roman, veteran or green recruit, would by now have witnessed the gathering host of barbarians. Men of each Germanic tribe now rushed to join the Kharusky, Brucktery and Angravary already locked in the fight, and the Romans knew that the Germans would choose the time and manner of the next battle. At this point Roman command fell apart. Officers gave up giving orders. Men refused to follow the basics of their training. To be effective in battle, their soldiers knew they needed their weapons in good order, their officers organized, and plentiful rations to fuel them as they fought. Here the morning brought them cold mist, nothing from their officers, and the certainty of the tribes massing on the level ground. German warhorns and the chanting of thousands of bloodthirsty men rose to greet these demoralized Romans. The Germans barraged the Roman remnants, assaulting the hill with arrows, spears, and more scavenged Roman javelins. Then they closed steadily from all sides in an inexorable tide. It was a historic rite of passage, and the tribesmen knew it. Beardless youths were initiated in blood with their first Roman kills in battle. The legionaries fell, screaming or silent, defiant or resigned, impaled on incoming arrows or burned by German torches, gutted and beheaded by barbarian long swords. As the Roman front faltered and died on all sides, Barriss and his officers would have watched the triumphant Germans coming yet closer and known the grinding inevitability of their fate. On this the third day of the battle, and with no other choice, Barriss committed suicide. It was this or be taken alive, and suicide was commonly expected from a high-born Roman. Petrkulus remained critical of Barriss in his death, for his men still faced the enemy, and at least some were willing to fight. The historian wrote that the general had more courage to die than to fight for, following the example of his father and grandfather, he ran himself through with his sword. With Barriss' death, two prefects remained in command, prefects, psionias and Lucius Egeus. Petrkulus observes that Lucius Egeus furnished a precedent as noble as that of psionias was base, who after the greater part of the Arnmey had perished, proposed its surrender, preferring to die by torture at the hands of the enemy than in battle. Egeus led his troops in the morning of the fourth day, rallying the men despite the despair eating into them. They were surrounded, assailed, and the weather degenerated further. Heavy wind fought against the Roman's ability to cast their javelins, and the torrential rain seeped into the leather covering of their shields till their wooden cores were waterlogged and they became impossible to wield. The total number of surviving Romans is a detail lost from history, as is the total number of Germans now gathered in the assault. However, any tribes that had been ambivalent at joining the fight must have seen the opportunity to rally to Arminius' winning side. Surrounded, the remaining Romans under Egeus would know that there would be neither rescue nor escape. At this point, each legionary faced taking his own life or surrender and slavement, torture, or even ritual sacrifice. The Romans therefore attempted to break out, down from the hill, the diminished force ran into a wooded area, and by noon it was all over. The German warriors stormed their fleeing column, slaughtering the men as their order disintegrated. After a four-day running fight, the Germans had obliterated three legions. By 9 CE, the legions had already become masters of the world, having fought successively against all peoples, as the historian Montesquieu later wrote. By the time of the battle in the world, a Roman legion was considered the finest force of organized men of the last two hundred years. Not since the Battle of Carhe in 53 BCE under Crasse, had the Romans suffered such a loss, and that had been to a so-called civilized people with a professional army, the Parthians. Varus' loss was to disordered tribes living in huts in a forest. The blow to Rome's psyche cannot be overstated. Particularly since it was delivered by a non-professional guerrilla army, Arminius had masterminded the destruction of three legions, the Roman Empire's entire military was twenty-eight legions. Roman casualties have been estimated at fifteen thousand to twenty thousand dead. Contemporary historians have praised those many officers who were said to have fallen on their swords in the approved manner, rather than accept surrender. The stoic philosopher Seneca would later make explicit the virtues of Roman suicide in general. A Roman remains free as long as the option of his death remains open to him. Suicide, used correctly, is the last defense of dignity. Rome was a society that judged every public figure's deeds. Those ranged from the honorable, the shameful, the freely given, and whether the Roman had acted with utility to the state itself, Utilitas Ray Publicay. Three leaders of the Varian disaster are noteworthy within this social context. Egeus chose command, rather than suicide, and Sionius's end was shameful, as he surrendered to the enemy even in the expectation of torture and death. Petrkulis, reflecting the strict social moors of Roman society, remained judgmental of Varus in his death. While he agreed that Varus's suicide was courageous, it was not as courageous as forsaking his own death to lead his men in battle. Varus, we may recall, took his own life on the third day of battle, but the legions fought on for a fourth day without him. Tacitus wrote that the battle's survivors were given up to the tribe's druids for ritual sacrifice, roasted in cages, or cooked alive in pots. Those that were not tortured or burned alive had their heads nailed to trees and their skulls taken as souvenirs. According to Tacitus, these human sacrifices took part in sacred groves and formed offerings to ensure prosperity and to win favor from German deities. But paganism was centered around beliefs in the natural and supernatural world, and this victory would have been a particular cause for celebration. Other officers were ransomed, and legionaries were enslaved, trapped in Kyrusky and Bruchtery villages deep inside the wall. Their whereabouts and fate were never discovered. This records that the body of Varus, partially burned, was mangled by the enemy in their barbarity, his head was cut off and taken to Marobodus, king of the Marco Mani. From their Marobodus sent the head onto Augustus in faraway Rome, where this much of Varus was finally put to rest in his ancestral tomb in Rome. After the defeat, as we have heard, Augustus went into mourning in Rome. He tore his clothes and let his hair and beard grow. He wandered the halls of his marble palace so the ancient sources claim, and stopped only to hit his head against the wall, wailing. Rome exacted its vengeance on the rebellious tribes. In 1415 CE, just after Augustus's death, his successor Emperor Tiberius sent the legions back to Germany to wage war again and to retrieve the legionary standards that the Germans still held. According to Tacitus, the Romans fought Arminius three times, defeating him twice. His brother, Flavus, raised alongside Arminius in Rome, had remained loyal to the Empire, and even fought against Arminius at the Battle of Idis de Viso. Arminius' position should have been secure as the man who had usurped the Romans from Germany under Varus, and then fought hard against the Romans when they returned for vengeance. However, he discovered the hard truth that it is easier to unite the German people with one victory than to rule them forever. Arminius in battle does not mean dominion or even a long life. Arminius' Karruskin opponent, Sigestys, re-enters the story in 15 CE. Sigestys it might be remembered was reluctantly Arminius' father-in-law after his daughter Thosnellda eloped with Arminius. Sigestys used the new Roman invasion to openly resist Arminius. He even went so far as to hand over Arminius' pregnant wife his own daughter to the Romans as a prisoner. In return, the Romans promised Sigestys a safe harbor for his household in Gaul. Thosnellda was taken to Rome and gave birth in captivity to Arminius' only son, Thamelicus. Neither Thosnellda nor Thamelicus would ever see Germany again. They were exiled in Ravenna, where Thamelicus was trained as a gladiator. He is believed to have died in the arena before his 20th birthday. Tacitus recounts that Arminius was maddened by his wife's abduction and the prospect of servitude for their unborn child. The historian depicts Arminius touring the Karruski villages and joining them to rise up against the Romans again. Unraged he proclaimed that Germany will never tolerate Roman roads, axes and robes between Rhine and Elba. Arminius fired up his fellow tribesmen into fresh rebellion, alarmed the Roman general Germanicus, launched multiple fresh attacks against the German tribes. During these new campaigns, Tacitus dramatized the remarkable moment when Arminius' forces were divided from the Romans by a single river. Arminius walked to the river's bank and shouted across it to his own brother, Flavus. Tacitus records that they spoke and Arminius asked what rewards Flavus had received for his loyalty to Rome. Flavus mentioned his higher pay, chain and wreath of honor. The wages of slavery are low, sneered Arminius. When their mother was present, she stood beside Arminius and joined him in imploring that Flavus should not choose to be a deserter and betrayer rather than the liberator of his country. The two brothers almost came to blows, but Flavus was restrained by his Roman comrades. The next night, the Karruski rode up to the Roman stockade and taunted the soldiers in Latin. The following battle favored the Romans. They were now better led under Germanicus and prepared for war where the complacent Varus had not been. Arminius was wounded in the battle, but smeared blood over his face as a disguise and broke through the ranks of Roman archers on horseback. In his escape, Arminius defied Rome yet again. Despite neither killing nor capturing Arminius, Germanicus celebrated his defeat and was ordered back to Rome to be feted with a triumph in his honor. The Greek historian Strabo gave us an account of it on May 6, 17 CE, and present for the triumph and paraded as part of the Roman victory where Arminius' wife Thus Nelda and their son now three years old, Thamelicus. Also present that day in Rome, but as a guest of the emperor rather than a prisoner of war, was Sigeztis. Arminius' arch rival Thus Nelda's father and an arch survivor. By claiming victory, the Romans were able to withdraw from Germany with honor. They understood how campaigning there overtaxed their legions and stretched their supply lines. This meant that the Germans also claimed victory. They had expelled the Roman yoke from their shoulders again. After doing so, the Germans returned to their favorite pastime, descending into war and chaos among themselves. To return to Tacitus again, he recounts that, now that the Romans had gone and there was no external threat, national custom and rivalry had turned the Germans against one another. As Sigeztis in voluntary exile in Gaul, Arminius' prime rival was Mara Baduas, king of the Marca Manny. His war with Mara Baduas ended in a stalemate. But by then, Arminius was perhaps too famous, too prominent a chieftain, and thus too obviously a threat to the other German leaders. In 21 CE, Arminius was murdered by men of his own tribe, who resented him positioning himself as Germany's ruler. No more than 38 years old. Arminius had reshaped the history of the German peoples and the policy of the mighty Romans, but he never saw the end of fighting nor found the opportunity to enjoy peace. At that time, in 21 CE, Germany posed no threat to Rome itself. The tribes fought one another within their own borders and allowed Rome to turn its attention to other, closer enemies, including the Britons on their mischrauded and mysterious island. Arminius' most significant impact on Rome was that he changed its entire policy on the Rhine Frontier. Augustus had intended to pacify Germany to create a secure, hard border around the Roman Empire. Varus' defeat stopped Rome's expansion and forced Augustus back from its high watermark for the Empire in the east. The land Augustus and then Tiberius seated in Germany was territory that no Roman would ever reconquer. Augustus even warned Tiberius to keep the Empire within the natural borders of the Rhine, the Danube and the Euphrates. Anything more Augustus cautioned was like catching a small fish with a golden hook that could be carried off at any moment. Augustus was a pragmatist, but perhaps he did not see far enough into the future and to life in the years after both he and Arminius were long gone.