---
video_title: "The Behistun Inscription of Darius the Great"
video_id: XymYUzHQ8T4
channel_name: "Study of Antiquity and the Middle Ages"
channel_id: UCxRSpkGOH_09pxKvgD8S5jQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XymYUzHQ8T4
video_date: 2026-03-03T17:15:44+00:00
video_description: |
  The last time we produced a video of Persian history, it was during the protests in defense of Iranian women -- Women, Life, Freedom! This time, the video is being released against the backdrop of war in Iran. May the people of Iran and the wider Middle East find the peace they deserve.
  
  Darius the Great was one of the greatest emperors in dynastic Persian history. His achievements grew the Achaemenid Empire into its largest and most successful era. But it did not come easily. The son of a minor noble, Darius had no legitimate claim to the throne of Cyrus and Cambyses II. To him, it was his daring and his decisive action (with a massive helping of divine favor from Ahura Mazda and the other gods) that allowed him to seize the moment and rule from Persepolis for 38 years.
  
  He believed that the Behistun Inscription would declare to the world that this was destiny and he was a humble, yet deadly, servant of fate. But in hindsight, it reads more as a very insecure declaration of a man who never sat easily on the throne. In his first year, Darius fought nineteen battles to secure the empire. And these were not small spats, but massive conflicts against armies of hundreds of thousands of men. He put down multiple rebellions from Media, Babylonia, and his own Persia, claiming that he had toppled nine kings. These are the figures he leads in a halter to their doom in the Behistun Inscription, saving the worst fate for Gaumata the Magian pretender, who called himself Smerdis and history recalls as Bardiya, the second son of Cyrus. It is his prone body that Darius stands upon.
  
  Ultimately, the greatest worth of the Behistun Inscription is linguistic. By writing out his claims in Old Persian, Elamite (Susian), and Babylonian, this priceless artifact preserved them after they had been forgotten, and served as a kind of Rosetta Stone for each, allowing us to decypher the forgotten languages. Please join us for this fascinating declaration of heaven and war in the ancient near east!
  
  To support the SAMA channel, become a Patron and make history matter! Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/The_Study_of_... 
  
  Donate directly to PayPal: https://paypal.me/NickBarksdale 
  
  !!!!!!!!!!Above and beyond all -- visit this link to the gofundme for the family of our dear departed founder Nick Barksdale!!!!!!!!!! https://gofund.me/7fc2764dd
---
The Behistoon Inscription of Darius the Great by D.W. Drafon In the foothills of the Zagros Mountains in Western Iran, a great cliff stands at the eastern end of a narrow range. It overlooks an ancient trade passage that once connected Babylon with Ekbatana and the interior of Iran. The small town of Bizotun lies at the base of the cliff and the great rock that bears an immense carving that is thousands of years old. It places Bizotun on the list of United Nations World Heritage sites. It is the inscription of Behistoon by Darius the Great. Darius ruled the Echaemenid Empire from 522 BCE to 486 BCE. It was one of the greatest empires the world had yet seen and reshaped the course of history for the entirety of Eurasia. The Echaemenid founder Cyrus the Great subdued the Meeds and the Lydians and destroyed Babylon. His son, Cambysse's II, continued the expansion of the empire, but died after only an eight-year reign of an infected wound while fighting in the west. His younger brother Bardia was unable to keep the throne in a chaotic succession that ended with Darius, the son of a minor noble in the court of Cyrus, taking the throne and ruling for 36 years. Yet his rule, especially at the beginning, was precarious. His claims were not widely supported and he had to deal with many uprisings to eventually conquer the empire and consolidate his power. In the first year alone he fought 19 battles, winning them all. The extraordinary inscription he left on the Behistoon rock, as Herodotus called it, was both an autobiography and also a demand for legitimacy, for what was one of the most disputed thrones of the ancient world. Measuring 25 meters long by 15 meters tall, it is a timeless billboard carved in limestone, of the god-given supremacy of Darius the Great with a Zoroastrian far of a harb, floating above. Yet its historical significance has turned out to be less about reminding us of what a fine king he was and more about language. Darius made sure to cover the face of the cliff with his proclamation in three languages, Old Persian, Elamite or Sussian and Babylonian, two prominent, to ever be lost. The languages it was written in were eventually forgotten, and it became a subject of legends and fancy. Various scholars throughout the centuries attributed the images and text to everyone from Christ and the Apostles to Shalmaneser of Assyria. But as the scholarship of ancient history advanced in the 18th and 19th centuries, the Declaration of Darius was revealed. This allowed the Beheistun inscription to serve as something of a Rosetta stone, to modern researchers for the understanding of each of these languages. In 1835, the East India Company officer Sir Henry Rawlinson began a more systematic study of the inscription for Western audiences. From the 1907 book, The Sculptures and Inscription of Darius the Great on the Rock of Beheistun in Persia, a new collation of the Persian, Sussian and Babylonian texts, his account is quite entertaining. On reaching the recess which contains the Persian text of the record, the upper inscriptions can only be copied by standing on the topmost step of the ladder with no other support than steadying the body against the rock with the left arm while the left hand holds the notebook and the right hand is employed with the pencil. In this position I copied all the upper inscriptions and the interest of the occupation entirely did away with any sense of danger. To reach the recess which contains the civic translation of the record of Darius is a matter of far greater difficulty. On the left hand side of the recess alone is there any foot-ledge whatever, on the right hand the face of the rock presents a sheer precipice. My first attempt to cross the chasm was unfortunate and might have been fatal. I had hardly begun to cross over on a horizontally placed ladder when the vertical pressure forced the bars out of their sockets and the lower and unsupported side of the ladder thus parted company from the upper and went crashing down over the precipice, hanging on to the upper side which still remained firm in its place and assisted by my friends who were anxiously watching the trial, I regained the Persian recess and did not again attempt to cross until I had made a bridge of comparative stability. The Babylonian transcript at Behistune is still more difficult to reach than either the civic or the Persian tablets. At length however a wild Kurdish boy who had come from a distance volunteered to make the attempt and I promised him a considerable reward if he succeeded. The boy's first move was to squeeze himself up a cleft in the rock a short distance to the left of the projecting mass. It then only remained for him to cross over to the cleft by hanging on with his toes and fingers to the slight inequalities on the bare face of the precipice and in this he succeeded, passing over a distance of twenty feet of almost smooth perpendicular rock in a manner which to a looker on appeared quite miraculous. Here with a short ladder he formed a swinging seat like a painter's cradle and fixed upon this seat he took under my direction the paper cast of the Babylonian translation of the records of Darius. I must add too that it is of the more importance that this invaluable Babylonian key should have been thus recovered as the mass of rock on which the inscription is engraved bore every appearance when I last visited the spot of being doomed to a speedy destruction. Water trickling from above having almost separated the overhanging mass from the rest of the rock and its own enormous weight thus threatening very shortly to bring it thundering down into the plain dashed into a thousand fragments. Here is the English translation from Rollinson's book of the Old Persian text in its five columns. Column 1. I am Darius, the great king, the king of kings, the king of Persia, the king of the provinces, the son of histaspis, the grandson of Arsumis, the Achaemenian, thus sayeth Darius, the king. My father is histaspis, the father of histaspis was Arsumis, the father of Arsumis was Artyamnis, the father of Artyamnis was Taspis, the father of Taspis was a chemist. On that account are we called Achaemenians, from antiquity are we descended, from antiquity hath our race been kings. Eight of my race were kings before me, I am the ninth. In two lines have we been kings. By the grace of Ahura Mazda am I king, Ahura Mazda hath granted me the kingdom. These are the provinces which are subject unto me, and by the grace of Ahura Mazda became I king of them. Persia, Susiana, Babylonia, Assyria, Arabia, Egypt, the islands of the sea, Sparda, Ionia, Media, Armenia, Capitose, Parthia, Dranjiana, Arya, Korazmia, Bactria, Sardiana, Gandhara, Sivia, Satajidya, Aracosia, and Makkah, 23 lands in all. These are the provinces which are subject unto me, by the grace of Ahura Mazda they became subject unto me, they brought tribute unto me. Whatsoever commands have been laid on them by me, by night or by day, have been performed by them. Within these lands, whoever was a friend, him have I surely protected, whosoever was hostile, him have I utterly destroyed. By the grace of Ahura Mazda these lands have conformed to my decrees, even as it was commanded unto them by me, so was it done. Ahura Mazda had granted unto me this empire. Ahura Mazda brought me help until I gained this empire by the grace of Ahura Mazda, do I hold this empire. This is what was done by me after I became king. He who was named Cambysis, the son of Cyrus, one of our race, was king here before me. That Cambysis had a brother, smerdus, by name, of the same mother and the same father as Cambysis. Afterwards, Cambysis slew this smerdus. When Cambysis slew smerdus, it was not known unto the people that smerdus was slain. Thereupon, Cambysis went into Egypt. When Cambysis had departed into Egypt, the people became hostile, and the lie multiplied in the land even in Persia, as in Medea, as in the other provinces. Afterwards, there was a certain man, a magean, Gomata, by name, who raised a rebellion in Paiishyaulvada, in a mountain named Aracadrish. On the 14th day of Viakna did he rebel. He lied unto the people saying, I am smerdus, son of Cyrus, brother of Cambysis. Then were all the people in revolt, and from Cambysis they went over to him, both Persia and Medea and the other provinces. He seized on the kingdom. On the 9th day of the month Garma-pada he seized on the kingdom. Afterwards, Cambysis died by his own hand. The kingdom of which Gomata, the magean, dispossessed Cambysis, had belonged to our race from olden time. After that Gomata, the magean had dispossessed Cambysis of Persia and of Medea and of the other provinces, he did, according to his will, as king. There was no man, either Persian or Median or of our own race, who took the kingdom from Gomata, the magean. The people feared him exceedingly, for he slew many who had known the former smerdus. For this reason did he slay them, that they may not know, that I am not smerdus, the son of Cyrus. There was none who dared say ought against Gomata, the magean. Until I came. Then I prayed to Ahura Mazda, Ahura Mazda brought me help. On the tenth day of the month Bhagyadish, I, with a few men, slew that Gomata, the magean, and the chief men who were his followers, at the stronghold named Sikayao Vattish. In the district named Nisay, in Medea I slew him, I dispossessed him of the kingdom. By the grace of Ahura Mazda, I became king. Ahura Mazda granted me the kingdom. The kingdom that had been rested from our line, I brought back, and I established it in its place as it was of old. The temples which Gomata, the magean, had destroyed, I restored for the people, and the pasturelands, and the herds, and the dwelling places, and the houses which Gomata, the magean, had taken away. I settled the people of Persia and Medea and the other provinces in their place. I restored that which had been taken away, as it was in the days of old. This did I by the grace of Ahura Mazda. I labored until I had established our house in its place as in the days of old. I labored by the grace of Ahura Mazda so that Gomata, the magean, did not dispossess our house. This is what I did after I became king. After that I had slain Gomata, the magean, a certain man named Atrina, the son of Upada Ranma, raised a rebellion in Susiana, and he spanked us under the people of Susiana. I am king in Susiana. Thereupon the people of Susiana became rebellious, and they went over unto that Atrina. He became king in Susiana. And a certain Babylonian named Nidintubel, the son of Anirri, raised a rebellion in Babylon. He lied to the people saying, I am Nebuchadnezzar, the son of Nabonitis. Then did all the province of Babylonia go over unto that Nidintubel and Babylonia rose in rebellion. He seized on the kingdom of Babylonia. Then sent I an army into Susiana, that Atrina was brought unto me in fetters, and I killed him. Then did I march against Babylon against that Nidintubel, who was called Nebuchadnezzar. The army of Nidintubel held the Tigris. There they were posted, and they also had ships. Then I divided the army. Some I made riders of camels, for the rest I led forward horses. Ahura Mazda brought me help. By the grace of Ahura Mazda we crossed the Tigris. Then did I utterly overthrow that host of Nidintubel. On the 26th day of Atriadja we joined battle. Then did I march against Babylon, but before I reached Babylon, that Nidintubel called Nebuchadnezzar, came with a host, and offered battle at the city Zazana on the Euphrates. Then we joined battle. Ahura Mazda brought me help. By the grace of Ahura Mazda did I utterly overthrow the host of Nidintubel. The enemy fled into the water. The water carried them away. On the second day of the month Anamaka we joined battle. Column 2 Thus saith Darius the King. Then did Nidintubel flee with a few horsemen into Babylon. Thereupon I march to Babylon. By the grace of Ahura Mazda I took Babylon, and I captured that Nidintubel. Then I slew that Nidintubel in Babylon. While I was in Babylon, these provinces revolted from me Persia, Susiana, Media, Assyria, Egypt, Parthia, Marjiana, Satajidia, and Siddia. A certain man named Martia, the son of Kikrish, raised a rebellion in a Persian city called Kuganaka. This man revolted in Susiana, and he said unto the people, I am Umanish, King in Susiana. At that time I was friendly with Susiana. Then were the Susians afraid of me, and that Martia who was their leader, they seized and slew. A certain media named Freyortis revolted in media, and he said unto the people, I am Kshatrita of the family of Syaxories. Then did the medians, who were in the palace, revolt from me, and go over unto that Freyortis. He became King in media. The Persian and Median army, which was with me, was small. Then sent I forth the army. A Persian named Hyderni's, my servant, I made their leader, and I said unto him, go. Smite that median host which doth not acknowledge me. Then this Hyderni's marched forth with the army, when he was come into media, at a city in media named Marush, he gave battle to the Meeds. He, who was leader of the Meeds, withstood not the assault, Ahura Mazda brought me help. By the grace of Ahura Mazda, my army utterly defeated that rebel host. On the 27th day of the month Anamaka, the battle was fought by them. Then did my army await me in a district in media named Kampada, until I came into media. An Armenian named Dada Rishesh, my servant. I sent into Armenia, and I said unto him, go. Smite that host which is in revolt, and doth not acknowledge me. Then Dada Rishesh went forth, when he was come into Armenia, the rebels assembled and advanced against Dada Rishesh to give him battle, at a place in Armenia named Zuzah they fought the battle. Ahura Mazda brought me help. By the grace of Ahura Mazda, did my army utterly overthrow that rebel host. On the 8th day of the month Thura Vahara, the battle was fought by them. The rebels assembled for the second time, and they advanced against Dada Rishesh to give him battle. At a stronghold in Armenia named Tigra, they joined battle. Ahura Mazda brought me help. By the grace of Ahura Mazda, did my army utterly overthrow that rebel host. On the 18th day of the month Thura Vahara, the battle was fought by them. The rebels assembled for the third time, and advanced against Dada Rishesh to give him battle. At a stronghold in Armenia named Uyama, they joined battle. Ahura Mazda brought me help. By the grace of Ahura Mazda, did my army utterly overthrow that rebel host. On the 9th day of the month Thaigarshish, the battle was fought by them. Then Dada Rishesh waited for me in Armenia until I came into media. A Persian named Valmisa, my servant I sent into Armenia, and I said unto him, go, smite the host which is in revolt and doff not acknowledge me. Then Valmisa went forth. When he was come into Armenia, the rebels assembled and advanced against Valmisa to give him battle. At a place in Assyria named Izata, they joined battle. Ahura Mazda brought me help. By the grace of Ahura Mazda, did my army utterly overthrow that rebel host. On the 15th day of the month Anamaka, the battle was fought by them. The rebels assembled a second time against Valmisa to give him battle. At a place in Armenia named Aoteyara, they joined battle. Ahura Mazda brought me help. By the grace of Ahura Mazda, did my army utterly overthrow that rebel host. At the end of the month Thura Vahara, the battle was fought by them. Then Valmisa waited for me in Armenia until I came into media. Then I went forth from Babylon and came into media. When I was come into media, that Freyortis, who called himself King, in media, came against me onto a city in media named Kundur Rush to offer battle. Then we joined battle. Ahura Mazda brought me help. By the grace of Ahura Mazda, did I utterly overthrow the host of Freyortis. On the 25th day of the month Adukani, we fought the battle. Thereupon, that Freyortis fled this with a few horsemen to a district in media named Raga. Then did I send the army against them. Freyortis was taken and brought unto me. I cut off his nose, and his ears, and his tongue, and I put out his eyes, and he was kept in fetters in my court, and all the people beheld him. Then did I crucify him in Ekbatana, and the men who were his chief followers, I imprisoned in the stronghold in Ekbatana. A man named Scythran Takma, a Sagartyan, revolted from me, and thus he spake unto the people. I am King Insagatya of the family of Syaxories. Then sent I forth a Persian and a median army. A median named Takmaspada, my servant, I made their leader, and I said unto him, go, smite the host which is in revolt, and doffnott acknowledge me. Thereupon Takmaspada went forth with the army, and he fought a battle with Scythran Takma. Ahura Mazda brought me help, by the grace of Ahura Mazda, my army utterly defeated that rebel host, and they seized Scythran Takma, and brought him unto me. Then I cut off his nose, and his ears, and I put out his eyes. He was kept in fetters in my court, and all the people beheld him. Afterwards did I crucify him in Arbella. This is what was done by me in media. The Parthians and the Hercaneans revolted from me, and they declared themselves on the side of Frey Ortiz. My father Hisstaspis was in Parthia, and the people forsook him. They became rebellious. Then Hisstaspis marched forth with the troops which had remained faithful. At a city in Parthia named Vishpāzātish, he fought a battle with the Parthians. Ahura Mazda brought me help, by the grace of Ahura Mazda, Hisstaspis utterly defeated the rebel host. On the 22nd day of the month Vyākhna, the battle was fought by them. Column 3 Thus sayeth Darius the King. Then did I send a Persian army unto Hisstaspis from Rāga. When that army reached Hisstaspis, he marched forth with the host. At a city in Parthia named Patigrabhāna, he gave battle to the rebels. Ahura Mazda brought me help. By the grace of Ahura Mazda, Hisstaspis utterly overthrew that rebel host. On the first day of the month Garmapāda, was the battle fought by them. Then was the province mine. This is what was done by me in Parthia. The province named Marjana revolted against me. A certain Marjana named Frada made their leader. Then sent I against him a Persian named Dādārshish, my servant, who was governor of bacteria, and I said unto him, Go, smite that host which Dothnātic knowledge me. Then Dādārshish went forth with the army and gave battle to the Marjans. Ahura Mazda brought me help. By the grace of Ahura Mazda, my army utterly overthrew that rebel host. On the 23rd day of the month Atriyādya was the battle fought by them. Then was the province mine. This is what was done by me in bacteria. A certain man named Vākhyazdata dwelt in a city named Tarava in a district in Persia named Yautia. This man rebelled for the second time in Persia and thus he spoke unto the people. I am smerdess, the son of Cyrus. Then the Persian people who were in the palace fell away from allegiance. They revolted from me and went over to that Vākhyazdata. He became king in Persia. Then did I send out the Persian and the median army which was with me. A Persian named Artavardya, my servant, I made their leader. The rest of the Persian army came unto me in media. Then went Artavardya with the army unto Persia. When he came to Persia, at a city in Persia named Rākhyazdata, who called himself smerdess, advanced with the army against Artavardya to give him battle. Then they fought the battle. Ahura Mazda brought me help. By the grace of Ahura Mazda, my host utterly overthrew the army of Vākhyazdata. On the twelfth day of the month, Thura Vahara was the battle fought by them. Then that Vākhyazdata fled then with a few horsemen unto Paísya Vada. From that place he went forth with an army a second time against Artavardya to give him battle. At a mountain named Paaraga they fought the battle. Ahura Mazda brought me help. By the grace of Ahura Mazda, my host utterly overthrew the army of Vākhyazdata. On the fifth day of the month, Garn Māpāda was the battle fought by them, and they seized that Vākhyazdata, and the men who were his chief followers, they also seized. Then did I crucify that Vākhyazdata, and the men who were his chief followers in a city in Persia, named Uva-dāikāya. This is what was done by me in Persia. That Vākhyazdata, who called himself Smirdis, sent men unto Arakosia against a Persian named Vivana, my servant, the governor in Arakosia. He appointed a certain man to be their leader, and thus he spake unto him saying, go, smite Vivana, and the host which acknowledged King Darius. Then that army, which Vākhyazdata had sent, marched against Vivana to give him battle. At a fortress named Kapisha Kanish, they fought the battle. Ahura Mazda brought me help. By the grace of Ahura Mazda, my army utterly overthrew that rebel host. On the 13th day of the month Anamaka was the battle fought by them. The rebels assembled a second time and went out against Vivana to give him battle. At a place called Gandhutava, they fought a battle. Ahura Mazda brought me help. By the grace of Ahura Mazda, my army utterly overthrew that rebel host. On the 7th day of the month Viakna, the battle was fought by them. The man who was commander of that army, which Vahyazdata had sent forth against Vivana, fled thanks with a few horsemen. To a fortress in Arakosia named Arshada, he went. Then Vivana with the army marched after them on foot. There he seized him, and he slew the men who were his chief followers. Then was the province mine. This is what was done by me in Arakosia. While I was in Persia and in media, the Babylonians revolted from me a second time. A certain man named Arakhah, an Armenian, the son of Haldita, rebelled in Babylon. At a place named Dubala, he lied onto the people, saying, I am Nebuchadnezzar, the son of Nabonidas. Then did the Babylonian people revolt from me and went over to that Arakhah? He seized Babylon. He became king in Babylon. Then did I send an army unto Babylon? A Persian named Vindafrana, my servant, I appointed as their leader, and thus I speak unto them, saying, go, smite that Babylonian host which doth not acknowledge me. Then Vindafrana marched with the army unto Babylon. Ahoramazda brought me help. By the grace of ahoramazda, Vindafrana overthrew the Babylonians and brought over the people unto me. On the twenty-second day of the month Markazanish, that Arakhah, who called himself Nebuchadnezzar, and the men who were his chief followers, they seized and fettered. Then I made a decree, saying, let that Arakhah and the men who were his chief followers be crucified in Babylon. Column 4 Thus say of Darius, the king. This is what was done by me in Babylon. This is what I have done. By the grace of Ahoramazda, have I always acted. After I became king, I fought 19 battles, and by the grace of Ahoramazda, I overthrew nine kings, and I made them captive. One was named G-Mata, the magean. He lied, saying, I am smirters, the son of Cyrus. He made Persia to revolt. Another was named Atrina, the Sussian. He lied, saying, I am the king of Sussiana. He made Sussiana to revolt. Another was named Nidin Tubell, the Babylonian. He lied, saying, I am Nebuchadnezzar, the son of Nabonitis. He made Babylon to revolt. Another was named Martia, the Persian. He lied, saying, I am Ummanish, the king of Sussiana. He made Sussiana to revolt. Another was named Frey Ortiz, the Mide. He lied, saying, I am Kusha Thrita, of the race of Syaxories. He made media to revolt. Another was named Scythran Takma of Sagarthia. He lied, saying, I am king of Sagarthia, of the race of Syaxories. He made Sagarthia to revolt. Another was named Frada of Marjana. He lied, saying, I am king of Marjana. He made Marjana to revolt. Another was named Vahyasdata, a Persian. He lied, saying, I am Smyrdas, the son of Cyrus. He made Persia to revolt. Another was named Araka, an Armenian. He lied, saying, I am Nebuchadnezzar, the son of Nabonaidus. He made Babylon to revolt. These nine kings did I capture in these wars. As to these provinces which revolted, lies made them revolt, so that they deceived the people. Then a Hura Mazda delivered them into my hand. I did unto them according to my will. Thou who mayest be king hereafter, beware of lies. The man who is a liar, destroy him utterly, if thou thinkest. Thereby shall my land remain whole. This is what I have done. By the grace of a Hura Mazda have I always acted. Whosoever shall read this inscription hereafter, let that which I have done be believed. Thou shall not hold it to be lies. I call a Hura Mazda to witness that it is true and not lies. All of it have I done. By the grace of a Hura Mazda there is also much else that have been done by me which is not graven in this inscription. On this account it have not been inscribed, lest he who shall read this inscription hereafter should then hold that which have been done by me to be too much and should not believe it but should take it to be lies. It was not done by the former kings during their time as it hath always been done by me through the favor of a Hura Mazda. Now may that appear true unto thee which hath been done by me, so conceal thou not. If thou shalt not conceal this edict but shall publish it to the world, then may a Hura Mazda be thy friend, may thy house be numerous, and may it thou thyself be long lived. If thou shalt conceal this edict and shall not publish it to the world, may a Hura Mazda slay thee and may thy house cease. This is what I have done. By the grace of a Hura Mazda have I always acted. A Hura Mazda brought me help and the other gods all that there are. On this account a Hura Mazda brought me help and the other gods all that there are because I was not wicked nor was I a liar nor was I a tyrant neither I nor any of my line. I have ruled according to righteousness, whosoever helped my house him I favored, he who was hostile him I destroyed. Thou, who mayest be king hereafter whosoever shall be a liar or a rebel or shall not be friendly, him do thou destroy. Thou, who shall hereafter see this tablet which I have written or these sculptures destroy them not but preserve them so long as thou livest. If thou shalt behold this tablet or these sculptures and shall not destroy them but shall preserve them as long as thy line and doereth, then may a Hura Mazda be thy friend and may thy house be numerous. Live long and may a Hura Mazda make fortunate whatsoever thou duest. If thou shalt behold this tablet or these sculptures and shall destroy them and shall not preserve them so long as thy line and doereth, then may a Hura Mazda slay thee and may thy race come to naught and whatsoever thou doest may a Hura Mazda destroy. These are the men who were there when I slew gammata the magean who was called smerdus, then these men helped me as my followers. Interfernis, the son of Vaisparra, a Persian, Otani's, the son of Tukra, a Persian, Gobrius, the son of Mardonius, a Persian, Hidarnis, the son of Bhagabindna, a Persian, Meghabizus, the son of Daduhia, a Persian, Ardu Manish, the son of Vahalka, a Persian, Thou who mayest be king hereafter preserve these men. By the grace of a Hura Mazda this inscription which I have made have I written, this inscription and me hereafter, the inscription in the provinces us altogether. Column 5, a note, the end of Column 4 and most of Column 5 shows the most where, and many of its passages cannot be reconstructed. In those places I leave a short silence where the blank text appears. Thus say if there is the king, this is what I did and manner, after I became king. The province named Susiana revolted from me, a Susian named Jmammita they made their leader. Then I sent an army unto Susiana, a Persian named Gobrius, my servant, made either leader. Then Gobrius set forth with the army, he delivered battle against the Susians, then Gobrius destroyed many of the host and that Jmammita their leader he captured, and he brought him unto me, and I slew him. Then the province became mine. Then were the Susians afraid, and a Hura Mazda delivered them into my hand. By the grace of a Hura Mazda I did unto them according to my will. He who respective a Hura Mazda will be so long as his line and Dorif and his life will be long. With the army I went to Scythia, against Scythia I marched, the Tigris, unto the sea. I crossed over. Many of the Scythians I slew, the rest I took prisoners, was brought unto me in fetters and I slew him. Named Ka, I took prisoner, then appointed another as their leader, was named. Then the province became mine. Not a Hura Mazda. By the grace of a Hura Mazda I did unto them according to my will. Thus save, Darius the King, a Hura Mazda, his life, and Imagine life as an ancient Persian, that is someone from the city of Persia, in the 6th century BCE. In your lifetime you have gone from being one of many, a kingdom in a world of many kingdoms, to the greatest empire the world has ever seen. Cyrus the Great has conquered all your neighbors, and even drawn into the accammated empire far flung city-states you have probably never known. But then on a campaign against the Massegatai, no mads of the steppe, he died. In the aftermath his sons could not hold the throne. After the death of Cambyses II, an immense struggle for control of the empire from claimants in every city-state tore the new empire apart. When Darius says he fought 19 battles in a year and won every one, it is this civil war he means, in which his competitors for rulership not only raised armies of hundreds of thousands of men, many did so under the banner of legitimacy, naming themselves Smerdis or Keshavthritta of the House of Cambyses. This is why Darius is so fixated on legitimacy in the Behistune inscription. His was by no means the most solid claim, as he was no more than the son of a minor noble, or at best the honored spear bearer of Cyrus himself, but his armies accomplished what none of the others could, uniting the accommonids for another generation and raising its empire to its greatest extent, from Macedon in the west to the Indus Valley in the east. So evidently, does Ahura Mazda will it to be?