---
video_title: "100 Quick-fire Word Facts"
video_id: uPfbuo6iP6Y
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uPfbuo6iP6Y
video_date: 2025-10-15T05:01:10+00:00
video_description: |
  Internet word nerds RobWords and Jess Zafarris share 100 word facts. They met in person for the first time after Words Unravelled reached 100,000 subscribers on YouTube. Prepare for 49 minutes of pure linguistic geekery.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
Hey, Jess. Hey, Rob. Nice to be in the same country as you. Yeah, I think so. For the first time ever, right? Welcome to New England. Having left, well, Europe, the old England,

the OG England before that. I'm here because we just hit 100K subscribers and he flew all the way out for the occasion. Yeah, it definitely is not a coincidence that I just happened to be here at the same time as that happened. Yeah, of course. But we thought we'd celebrate it by bringing you 100 word facts from the episodes that got us this far. Exactly. Should we get cracking? Let's do it.

Fact number one from our very first episode, which was about greetings, is that Thomas Edison, as well as persuading telephone companies to recommend people began their phone calls with hello. That's why we do that. Uhhuh. He encouraged people to end their phone calls with that is all. I love it. I love it. Alexander Graham Bell, meanwhile, wanted everyone to say ahoy,

right? But hello became so heavily intertwined with telephone conversations that telephone operators in the United States were known as hello girls. That's the amazing thing. We didn't say hello before the telephone, right? Madness. Fantastic. Our second episode was about myths. It

was Yeah. But not like mythology like like things. I have one of those. But yeah, that that's coming up later. But things that people think are true about words that aren't. One of them is that

posh is an acronym for port out starboard home. That is not true. Despite what Chitty Chitty Bang Bang tried to tell us, no ticket has ever been found with port out starboard home written on it. Many instances of supposed acronyms are false. Anything that existed prior to like 150 years ago was probably not an acronym if someone tells you it is, including swear words. Some people will

say that the word [ __ ] is short for uh what is it? Ship high in transit or store high in transit supposedly because that's how manure was shipped. But that is not the case. It has old English and middle English predecessors all meaning exactly what it means today. There we go. Also, tip does

not mean to ensure promptness. Correct. My next fact, collective nouns. We talked about collective nouns. Like a murder of crows. You've got a you've got a murder of crows like a pet murder of crows

here, right? Yes, I do have a pet murder of crows. Yes, has crows that follow her around. Weatherwax, Hazel, and uh oh gosh, what was my other one? Elphaba. There we go. Give them names. If one

of them doesn't turn up one day, heartbreak. Okay, so we got to go fast in this. We're going to do a honey. We do. We do. Okay. Uh the collective noun for a snail is a walk. According to the book of

St. Orbins, which is this really old book that gave us The Murder of Crows, The Murmmoration of Starings, and The Kindle of Kittens. A Kindle of Kittens. I love that. It ignites my soul. Um,

so we also talked in this episode about eggcorns and malapropisms. And the difference between eggcorns and malapropisms is that an eggcorn is a commonly confused word or phrase. So, uh, saying wreck havoc instead of wreak havoc is more of an eggorn because it's a more understandable mistake. You can see why that phrase would be confused, often containing fossil words. Now, a malapropism is named after Mrs. Maliprop who makes more egregious mistakes like saying

pineapple instead of pinnacle. This is in Sheridan's The Rivals. That's right. So it's it's a little funnier if it's a malapropism. We then did an episode about lost positives which are words where we have like the negative version of the word now but we don't have the positive one. A word that came up

is the word nonchalant. But I am here to tell you as I did in that episode that nonchalant is an English invention. It is not a French word. In fact, it has never been possible to be chalant in either English or French. Did we determine that the root there is chaloir? Yes. Meaning heat.

Excellent. So related but but never a French word completely. Yeah. Exactly. Excellent. We added non

to the start of the sort of hypothetical French sounding chalant. My favorite comparative word which which was a real Latin word is the word well based on a real Latin word is nonplussed. Typically people will confuse the meaning of the word to mean something else like confused but it means you can't you don't know how to respond you literally can't do anything else so it's non plus very good actually the French in your head I said the French in my head right right but it's Latin so it's non plus right but it does help nautical terms we talked about the many phrases and words that we get from the high seas so to show your true colors comes from the seas yeah showing your uh flag right that's right yeah so to show Your true colors is to reveal who you're actually operating on behalf of because ships in combat would sometimes sneak up or pirate ships would sneak up on other ships flying a fake flag, the flag of a friend of the ship that they're targeting and then would at the last moment reveal their true colors. Colors being a flag as you said. And that's where we get the phrase sneaky. My favorite uh nautical etmology facts are the words relating

to nautical like astronaut which means star sailor favorite cosmonaut cosmos sailor. I also like nausea which literally means seasickness. Yeah. Mhm. So whenever we are nauseated we feel as if we are seasick. Yeah. Exactly. There we go. We talked about word mashups. So you know when you

have words that have either come together to make another word or they they've sort of been ripped apart to make two of them. Here's a good fact from that episode. Umpire, apron, and adder were all originally numpire, napron, and nadder. And a newt was originally an ewt. Ewt.

Yeah. And those are examples of rebracking, right? Exactly. So the N has been stolen from one word, given to the other, depending on, you know, which of those examples you're looking at, whether it's umpire or ute. But orange in English was never a norange. Let's let's nip that one in the bud. It

was It was naranja and then it has Yeah. Ancestors that began with an N. But in English it was never an orange. Never never a norange. Never a n orange. A norange. Um never a norange it was. Now

if we mash up two words like hangry when we make hungry and or when we're angry for being hungry, that's called a portmanteau, right? And that was coined by Lewis Carol uh who meant it to mean two words packed into one. There's some debate over exactly what he meant, but usually it's considered a suitcase or travel bag of some kind containing two words. And some of the ones that he has he originally coined in Jabberwocky and in some of his Alice stories were frumious, which was furious and fuming, and slithy, which is slimy and lithe. But some have entered common usage, like chortle, which is chuckle and snort, and uh gallumph, which is gallop and triumph. I love this. You're wowing

me with facts that I already had been told but had forgotten. We've done so many episodes. Remind ourselves of these magical facts. As you might expect, me being a Brit, Jess being an American, we have covered the differences between British and American English. And one of them is the word we use for coriander because you call it cilantro. That is correct. So those come from the same

Latin word which is coriandrum. And one of them is the Spanish and one of them is the French. Interesting. As simple as that. You might also find dried coriander in an American kitchen, but the leaves when you chop them up are typically called cilantro. There we go. Another one. Uh,

this is a common one, biscuit versus cookie. We've talked about this one. You made me biscuits this morning. Oh, that's right. I I made you American biscuits. Yes, exactly. Which I would have called

a like a savory scone. Mhm. Something like that. The word biscuit means twice baked and is related to the word Well, it's pretty much identical to the word the Italian word biscotti. Right. Right.

Because often they're harder cookies that are often twice baked. Yeah. Biscotti are really, really hard. Mhm. Whereas American cookies, especially when you call them cookies, are a lot softer. Mhm. But we would call all of them cookies. Yeah. How did we allow this

to happen? We talked about colors. Here's one. The color orange is named after the fruit, not the other way round. Most of the time that is the case because the word green comes from a root that meant grass grow and graze. and uh and to sprout. It's just so difficult to think of a time

that recent where we did not have the word orange, right? I mean, in old English, it was called yellow red. We called it things like saffron in the past, but orange is what eventually stuck. I believe it's been like tangerine, too, and things like that in the past, which now we have we have more distinctions thanks to our crayons and color boxes. All thanks to Crayola. Right. I'm going to

move on to space. Yeah, let's do it. Let's Let's hit the stratosphere. Yeah, let's do it. So, here's here's something that surprised me. That's why I'm telling it to you. Uh, galaxy already

means milky way. It's from the Greek galaxias kyklos meaning milky circle. So the milky way galaxy. You're doubling up there. The other kyklos we have is the zodiac which was originally from the Greek zodiakos kyklos meaning a circle of little animals. So it's related to words like zoology and zoo. Now

you know. Indeed. Indeed. We talked about lost words as well. So these are words that we don't have anymore, that we don't use anymore. And one that I mourn all the time is the old word that the

Brits used and up until like the 70s for what we now call a billion because we adopted the American billion. So that is one followed by nine zeros. We used to call that a milliard. Like all the other languages of Europe still call it something like a milliard, but we've lost that word and I'd like to bring it back. Yeah, I think that would be more useful. A few lost words. Some antiquated words

for a hullabaloo, a kerfuffle, or a brouhaha include a hubbleshubble, a bobbery, or a foofara. A foofara Foofara. I kept foofara in my head from when you said it. Actually, it's just one of those ones that now comes out of my mouth, but like in your accent when I hear it. Fossil words as well, not to be confused with lost words, but fossil words are words that we only still have in a certain formulation. like they only crop up in a certain saying or a phrase or whatever. And one

of those is the word shrift which only appears in short shrift. But a shift was originally like a a confessional or something like that. So to give short shrift was to give a condemned criminal on their way to the gallows or the chopping blocks only a short amount of time to confess their sins. Presumably not enough time to get themselves out of hell. Basically my favorite one of these is hoist by your own petard or hoist with your own petard. Hoisted sometimes nowadays. But originally

a Shakespearean phrase, a petard was a conical bomb that was used to breach fortifications. And the uh the funny thing here is that petard is related to the French word peter meaning fart. Hoist by your own fart bomb. And actually that peter is going to come up again later. I've got another I've got another farty fact. Excellent. For later on. Uh okay. So here's a good one. Um,

we're talking about food and I'm here to tell you that meat originally meant any food. Vegetables were known as green meat. Dairy was known as white meat and meat was known as flesh meat. That also explains sweet meats, which we still use. Indeed, it does. Excellent. Um, the word

companion literally means someone you share bread with. I think that's probably widely known. Also related to words like panini empanada and pantry. All things that are bready. Pantries are bready.

Of course they are. We did an episode about contronyms, which are words that are their own opposites. And one fact that we didn't actually mention in that episode that we're absolutely sure of is that the words ravelled and unravelled mean the same thing. That very word on your chest there. Indeed. Indeed. Look at that. By the way, you can get one of these if you'd like. They're in

our shop and they're lovely. So is this. Uhhuh. Word nerd. We have merch for every word nerd.

We also covered we did a number of nyms on that episode is our nym. So we did uh eponyms as well. And uh one of the more famous and surprising eponyms that is surprisingly true despite sounding fake is that uh sideburns are named after General Ambrose Burnside who was a Civil War general who sported this magnificent set of whiskers. And it was eventually metathesized because people assumed it was a more general term. I don't understand how that happens. how

they just swap the thing around. But because I suppose you think they are burns on your side, but how do you explain the burns? Surely it just looks like I don't know if you have a dark beard perhaps. It doesn't have to be a solid logic to it. People do all sorts of silly things, don't they? In and our episode about mythology that we mentioned that we did do. Um I learned

that all cereals are named after Ceres, who is the Greek goddess of agriculture. I love that fact. Uh, Panic is named after the forest god Pan, who supposedly drove people to madness or was just associated with the uh the chaos of the wilds. Yeah. Like like the forests you've got around you here. The noises we've been hearing at night here could well have been created by that mischievous

pan. Very spooky to be outside at night around here. Panic inducing. Palindromes. We talked about palindromes. The words that are the same in either direction. And the longest palenrome

in the Oxford English dictionary is tattarrattat which is 12 letters long and was used by James Joyce in Ulyses to represent a the sound of a knock at the door. He almost certainly did it on purpose. Yes, I believe that. He did a lot of that on purpose, especially in that work. Um, a word that spells a different word when spelled backwards like bonk and knob is called a heteropalindrome or an anadrome. I like that one. There's another name for

those as well. What is it? Uh, I don't matter. There is one. In our episode about insults, um, we talked about the fact that a cumberworld was a medieval insult for someone who's taking up too much space on the planet. They are an encumbrance. The world is encumbered by a presence. Oh,

that's very funny. Um, the ending ard or art is my favorite ending. If you've been watching the show, it's used to make insults and pejoratives and to intensify things as seen in dullard, braggart, and bastard, which literally means an unwanted saddle son. Yeah, packsaddle son. When you uh conceive while traveling. Yeah. Uh I need a bit of a runup for this one. So, we talked about long words.

The longest scientific name for an organism is myxococcus llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogochensis which is found in a soil sample from the Welsh village of llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch. I like I don't know I don't know how well I I did that but a Welsh person tried to teach me. Phenomenal much better than I could have done. And mine is going to be a shorter word but it's anti-disestablishmentarianism. And my favorite fact about this, it's it's originally a a political term describing church dynamics of the Church of England. Um, you know,

whether you wanted to be disestablished from or were against being disestablished from the Church of England. Uh, but it got a big pop culture boost when 12-year-old Gloria Lockerman successfully spelled it on a mid 20th century game show called The $64,000 question. This is so good. I had no idea about this extra element of part of American culture that that had completely passed us by. We went into much greater detail on that in the episode. There's there's a lot more there. I

also really enjoyed our episode about the periodic table of elements. There's so many interesting stories behind all of those, you know, 100 plus elements. I don't know exactly the number. Uh but there is one place that has more elements named after it than any other. Remind me. It is Ytterby.

Oh, that's right. In Sweden, which is not far from Stockholm. It's like uh Yeah, it's Is it on the coast or is it an island? I'm not entirely sure. Swedish village anyway and it's got uh itrium, itbium, turbium and herbium all named after it in not terribly creative terms. Um but also holmium,

scandium, thulium and tantelum were found there as well. I love it. Um one of my favorite facts, elemental facts is that the word brilliant is related to the word beryl and beryls are gemstones including emerald, aquamarine, garnet and morganite. Burillium. Nice indeed.

Uh Halloween. We're We're approaching Halloween. It's legit to do Oh, yeah. Halloween right around the world. I don't I've looked at my wall. Spooky season. So, here's one. This is an annoying one,

really. Uh the word ghoul has a silent h in it. It's only got a silent h in it because the word ghost has a silent h in it. And and ghost only has a silent h in it because Flemish printers when the first printing presses came over to England decided that it should do because in Flemish it has an H in it. You know, we are actually very close to Sleepy Hollow here, the town of Sleepy Hollow. But the town of Sleepy Hollow wasn't named Sleepy Hollow until 1996.

It is the former a former area of Tarrytown, which is where Washington Irving, author of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, lived. And eventually, when the town ran into hard times economically, they rebranded as Sleepy Hollow to cash in on some of that uh that spooky clout. That's smart, isn't it? I love it. Did it work? It did. It did. Tons of people go to Sleepy Hollow for Halloween.

There's a great pumpkin blaze and a festival over there every year. Let's go there this afternoon. Okay. We did an episode about emotions. And I was surprised to discover in my research that sad originally meant to be satisfied. And in fact, it's related to the word satisfied or satiated,

sated. Yeah. And you get the current meaning because it essentially means to be full up, to have had enough of something. My favorite emotional word is one that many people think is beautiful. And it's the word melancholy, but in fact, it's quite disgusting because it literally means black bile. It's one of the four humors that supposedly governed how healthy or welladjusted

you were. Humorism is hilarious as it name suggests and well worth looking into if you can't see it. We talked about woodland words. Oh, look at that. Always surrounded by them. And that's

a tree there. I don't know if it's in shot, but there's a tree. And uh the word tree and the word true are related. They have a common root that means steadfast. Excellent. Makes sense. One of

my favorite woodland creatures is a hedgehog. And hedgehogs were originally called urchins. So a sea urchin is named after the fact that it looks like a hedgehog. A sea hedgehog. We talked about booze.

Alcoholic words. Trying not to encourage people to get too much into the Cheers. What's in there, Jess? Uh, so German linguists concluded that the British have 546 words for drunk, including cabbaged, blottoed, and flooded. I would use blotted. I've used that. I haven't

used cabbage. My favorite one you gave me was uh drunk as a boiled owl. That was excellent. Now, many alcoholic spirits have names that mean water of life, including whiskey, aquavit, and eau de vie. Even vodka means little water. They're all water really or there's a lot of people

pretending that they're water. Anyway, good for the soul kind of maybe. Not the liver though. We talked about games in another episode and in New York the other day I was chatting to a guy like a guy who's really into his scrabble. Like really into his scrabble and he firms this one up for me. The highest scoring word ever played in American rules scrabble is quixotry,

scoring carpenter Michael Crester 365 points back in 2006. And quixotic is named after Don Quixote. Exactly. Indeed. Indeed. Exactly. I love it. um from our games episode. One of my favorite

uh etmology facts in general is that every sense of the word check, from making a checkbox or marking a checkbox to writing a check of any kind, no matter how you spell it, comes from the game of chess. This is amazing. And words like exchequer as well. And it's all originally from a phrase like shamat, which means the king dies or the king cannot move. Back from uh Arabic and Persian terms from the game, which becomes checkmate. Isn't that amazing? Yeah. Amazing. Jargon. We did a we did one

about business jargon and discovered that we're both it's one of the few things that really creeps us out about language. It's business jargon. We get we get queasy when we hear it. But the word jargon itself originally meant the twittering of birds. And you can see how because it's kind of only understandable to other birds as jargon is kind of intentionally only understandable to people in the know. It's the uh the love language of business. Right. There we go. One

of my favorite facts in the jargon space is that the word synergy is significantly older than you would think. It's a biblical term. It literally means working together. Using the Greek elements, it means an identical construction as the word uh collaboration, collaboration, synergy is working together. You're just reading through the Bible one day and you see the word synergy. Which translation is that? Right. The notion was that like synergy is divine and you

can imagine why corporate America would glom on to that one right away. Exactly. Um where are we? So I'm just taking a period to look through my notes from our episode about punctuation. Did I just did a hilarious pun there, Jess? Oh, sorry. I was thinking I was thinking about other things.

You looked happy wherever you were. You were thrilled. Also thinking about punctuation. Okay. We did an episode entirely about punctuation, which is kind of an odd thing to do for a podcast because it's a very visual thing, right? But nevertheless, here's a fact. Uh we only started

putting spaces between words in the 7th century. The Greeks and the Romans never did it. The Romans experimented with putting dots between words, but it didn't last. And in fact, so the first to do it were like Irish monks. It was Christian monks. Um, and it really didn't catch on until like the

10th century, which is kind of amazing. How did we do without it? You would think we uh we wouldn't be able to communicate in writing without it. I mean, I would struggle to read without spaces now. It took us that long to decide that there was a better way. I think we encounter a lot more text

in our daily lives now, too, though. What with these devices and whatnot. This is true. I bet we we write more than ever. Certainly. The Greek roots of the word apostrophe give it the literal

meaning of to turn something away, which makes a lot of sense when it comes to contractions like can't and won't. Well, for the most part and uh and other words like that. But in possessives, there is also been a letter turned away, and that is the letter E. In middle English, possessives were formed with the formed with the ending e s. So that letter that's been turned away in modern possessives is the letter E. That apostrophe is somewhat controversial. We go into

it into just for just just for that debate around that one. There is there is an apostrophe is also like a a dramatic technique, isn't it? Where you turn away from whoever you're talking to almost like given aside or something. Indeed. Yeah. On to trades. We talked about trades. So milliner I

think means something different here to it does in in the UK. A milliner is a hatmaker in Britain. That makes Yeah, that's true. Here we live near this. We are near Hat City right now which is Danbury.

Many milliners there. How exciting. Well, all those milliners are named after the city of Milan. Yeah. The original makers there. Yeah. Well, they original millers were the traders that would sell

garments from the Italian city of Milan. They were called Milaners. It is. I mean, they they were very fashionable. Surely. Also, in our trades episode, uh an old English term for a carpenter

was a treewright. A baker was a breadwright. A battlewright was a soldier. A housewright was a builder. And a stonewright was a mason. Which that one I think probably still has some legs. I

like all of these terms. Yeah, they were replaced like by French ones. Very satisfying. You had a favorite right though. What What was it? Um it was a it was a food related one. I really like

the fleshmonger, which is one that we lost. It was puddingwright, right? You liked the Yeah, that's right. This is I mean I like the idea of them making treacle sponge and custard but I guess they were making sausages or something like that. I do also like that Ben Johnson used the term playwright sort of ironically like he he he meant that as sort of a joke like haha I make things that are plays rather than carpentry and whatnot. This is the interesting thing that I I

don't think has immediately occurred to everyone is that it playwrights does not refer to the fact that they write plays, right? It's W r i g h t. They have wrought a play effectively. We did a Christmasy episode and this is where our farty word comes back. The word partridge most likely means fart bird. The Greek pedesti break wind. And um yeah, the bird is perhaps so

cool because as it flies past you, it makes a sort of sound with its wings. That might be my favorite thing you've taught me on this entire podcast. And a fart bird in a pear tree. Oh, it's so good. Um also in our Christmas episode, the word jolly is related to the word Yule. It's from the French jolif,

but ultimately from the same Germanic source. That is unbelievable to me, right? Because Yule is still words along those lines still the word in like most Germanic languages for Christmas or not most at least definitely all of the Scandinavian words. Joyful joyful jolly season. Wow. We talked about

idioms. Uh we've done a few episodes about idioms actually. They're popular getting to the bottom of where they actually came from or or scotching ideas about them. But here's a really good genuine origin story for stealing someone's thunder. So it comes from a time when an 18th century playwright, there's that word, had his technology for making a thunder sound effect copied without his permission. So John Dennis is said to have said when he went to see this play,

it was a Shakespeare play. I can't remember which one. They said, "They will not let my play run because his play had just been cancelled, but they steal my thunder." Oh, how dare. That's where the phrase comes from. The uh the phrase by the skin of your teeth comes from the book of Job in the

King James Bible. My bone cleaveth to my skin and to my flesh and I am escaped with the skin of my teeth. So just your gums. You've lost all the rest of your uh your body fat. And you just have the skin of your teeth. And it was with the skin of your teeth rather than by the skin of your

teeth. Yes indeed. Indeed. So we've altered that one over time. Interesting. We did an episode all

about criminal terminology and words for crimes. So to eavesdrop originally meant to hide under the eaves of someone's house and listen in on their conversations and it was a crime. Excellent. Well, not excellent. Excellent. Depends depends on who you're talking about. Um the word heist is a

variation on the word hoist as in to lift someone in the air with a petard perhaps. Um it's the same logic as when people use the word lift to mean to steal. Oh yeah. So heist and hoist different parts of speech, same thing. And you can stick up a place and stick up the joint. Exactly. Wonderful.

We talked about numbers in one episode and had the revelation that the word thousand means a swollen hundred. So the the und at the end of thousand is related to hund which is the old word we had 400 and then we added the r at the end which actually originally meant a count of hundred. I'm getting geeky. Point is a thousand is a swollen hundred. I love it. The word algebra is from the Arabic term

al-jabr which meant a reunion of broken parts or a restoration and it was originally a word for setting bones. This was the episode where I learned of your excellent grasp of Arabic. Uh I have a a mediocre grasp of Arabic, but you pronounce things in a very convincing way. I can read it. That's about it. Not well. That'll do. We did a musical episode and my favorite my favorite

fact from that was that the oboe used to be called in English the hoboy. The hoboy. I love it. Which is from the French hautbois which means high wood because it has a high register for a woodwind. But oboe is actually an Italian take on the French or as well. The one thing that I learned in the process of

researching that episode was that in ancient Greek theater, the orchestra was the semic-ircular space in front of the stage where the chorus of dancers performed. So the word literally means the dancing place. Brilliant. Right. Very different from now, right? Yeah. Another interesting place that

orchestra turns up which I didn't know but I did learn from that episode is at the end of the word karaoke. So the oke at the end of there is from a Japanese rendering of the word orchestra. I love it. means silent orchestra. It's beautiful. We then did an episode about anatomy, bits and bobs

on your body. And the word nostril comes from the old English nosthirl, which literally means a nose hole. And the ending there, the thirl is related to our word thrill, which originally meant to run someone through, to put a hole in. Yeah. Awful. So something is thrilling, it's it's, you know,

at its worst, it's deadly. One of my favorite old English words is the is one of the words for your head which was your brain locker. Your braegnloca. That's good. They also had a ban loca as well, right? Which is your body, your bone locker. These have like kenning energy, right? The

when you uh use two semi unrelated words to create an image of something else, a metaphorical image. That was a word you taught me, Kenning. I didn't know about that. It's the same as the word Beowulf, which it means bee-wolf, but means a bear, a fluffy wolf type animal. I hate to see a bear say that.

It's a bit like a bee, isn't it? Just buzzing around. I mean, it does like honey, too. So, I think that's also part of the notion. Ah, there we go. There we go. Yeah, of course there's a bear

here somewhere, isn't there? There is a bear here. I do have a bear. I call him Jeremy Bearemy. Jeremy after the good place. The one thing I had to get over when I first arrived at Jess's place is the

fact that her cat is called Wolf. Yes. Wolfgang Amadeus Meowzart. Oh, and um is quite the character. He's also about the size of a bear. Big big puss, big mog. Uh literary devices. We talked

about literary devices. Old English poetry did not rhyme. They were very big on the alliteration. Instead, rhyme was introduced by the French. In fact, Geoffrey Chaucer who's credited with being the first to use an aba bbcc what was called a rime royale rhyme scheme into English. Wan that aprill with his

shoores soote, the drought of march hath perced to the roote. This is great. That is the verse that Jess uses to test her microphone. I do. I do. That's the uh the introduction to the Canterbury Tales, the preface.

Um another literary device here is oxymoron, which itself is also an oxymoron because its Greek elements give it the literal sense of sharp dull or clever, stupid. Brilliant. So when we say call someone a [ __ ] we are calling them sort of stupid, moros, dull though. Okay. So another thing here is the word sophomore is often said to mean uh wise fool but it's actually not quite that.

It's it's more related to sophists or sophistry which was which were people who well they were philosophers but they were well known for rhetoric and uh in early at Oxford and and Cambridge and whatnot when you were a sophomore you would study rhetoric. Brilliant. We talked about flowers on another episode and the word daisy comes from the old English for days eye because they open up during the day and they close at night. Nice. These are are some of my favorites. I love

dandelion which is from the French dent de lion meaning tooth of the lion. Uh other names for dandelions by the way that's from their jagged leaves. And other names for the plant include milkwitch tell time pissabed and cankerwort. Actually, they still call it in French pissenlit. Uh, swear words. Uh,

this is an episode in which I blushed more than any episode ever. And that's saying a lot. There's a lot of blushing over. Hey, you're you're holding up great. I've already sworn twice. Um,

so here's one. The bird the kestrel used to be known in English as the wind [ __ ] It's again another unfortunate reference to the sound of the wings. Beating and and rapid movement. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So to [ __ ] something was to to beat something. There we go. Excellent. Um,

now we'll just stay on the top. Come on. We're almost through. We're almost out of the way. So ass was a word for a donkey. Before it was a word for a butt, though both ass and arse coexisted in

old English. The donkey sense is related to the word asinine, which literally means like an ass. Ah, and so those words ass and ass, meaning an ass and a donkey, they've just kind of merged, right? Their spelling, but they're not they're not related necessarily. Uh, we went on, if we can move on. Mhm. We learned some good facts about printing and and terms that

we get from the printing presses and just, you know, the printing industry. So, the Apple logo, it's not a logo because a logo technically has to be a word. that it comes from logogram or logotype and the logo at the start of there is the Greek logos. Yeah. Meaning word. There you go. Fabulous. Wait,

what is it though? I don't know. It's an emblem. Didn't we have a word for it? Oh, maybe. Well,

I mean, it is a logo, right? I mean, the meaning of the word logo has changed, but originally it would be a single piece of, you know, smelted type that was just a whole word at once. So, the Google logo is a logo. Excellent. Um, speaking of pictogram type things, it is serendipitous that the word emoji sounds and looks similar to the Latin derived English words emotion and emote because they aren't related to one another. Though emoji probably caught on in English due to its

similarity. Emoji is composed of Japanese words meaning picture and character and has nothing to do fundamentally or etmologically with emotions. That is an amazing revelation to me. I I I just can't get my head around it. It's certainly intentionally uh been spread because it sounds similar. Yeah, it's caught on because it's easy to remember like that. Not a total coincidence,

but is it is serendipitous. Nevertheless, kind of cool. When we discussed the military and military words, we talked about the fact that colonel has that silent L in it colonel because colonel. Yeah. Well, actually, the way I just said it then kind of gives it away, but we are using an Italian spelling but a French pronunciation. So the French word is coronel with an R, but the Italian was

colonello. And because at some point we got really like military historians got really into Italian military tactics, we started spelling it the Italian way, but we kept a pronunciation based on the French spelling. Excellent. The word gun is ultimately from a Norse word meaning battle. But as a word for a weapon, it's a shortening of the woman's name, Gunilda, which also means battle and war in various capacities. And one of the first documented connections between the female name

and the name of the weapon was in a 1330 munitions inventory of Windsor Castle, which referred to a specific particularly large ballista, Una Magna ballista, named Domino Gunilda. a name that was then extended to cannons and then to smaller firearms. But we don't know who Gnilda was, right? Well, she was she was the ballista, the woman that launched a million bullets. Well, this this also um there were many like female names like that uh for large weapons and ballista at the time. There was also a big cannon around that time, I think maybe a hundred years later,

known as Roaring Meg or Great Mag. They they often had like like look at this look at this big blasty [ __ ] So Margaret is kind of an every woman name. Yes. Exactly. Like we talk about Jack and all these other names. And then it's also found in magpie which just means woman's name plus pie

which was a word for a magpie. Excellent. In our episode about Shakespeare old Willie Shakes. Yeah. We talked about the fact that Shakespeare coined using the word coinage to refer to something other than coins. Yeah, in Hamlet you have the phrase, "This is the very coinage of your brain." Oh,

indeed. The first use of coinage to not mean a coin. I don't have a coin. Appropriate for a person who coined many words. Indeed. Indeed. But maybe not as many as some people think. Oh

yeah. Uh I mean that is very much the subject of that video. It is. Yeah. Go watch it. The

word lackluster first appears in As You Like It. In its first several recorded instances, it describes someone someone's eyes. So one's eyes can be lackluster due to weariness or stress or unintelligence in many cases. Uh but uh Shakespeare regularly made compounds involving the word lack including lack love, lack beard and lack brain. Lack brain. That's so harsh. I

mean the insults in Shakespeare are so cutting. They are and excellent. We also cover those in that episode. Yeah, we did a whole Falstaff spree. We did another episode about UK English and American English and We learned that in England public schools are the most expensive whereas in the US public schools are the cheapest. Terminology is a little different there. Yeah.

Also we have the words gasoline and petrol or petroleum. The word gasoline began as Cazeline after salesman John Cassell who refined uh this product and used his name and a suffix meaning meaning olive. But then when John Boyd started selling counterfeit gasoline, Cassell intervened. So Boyd changed it to gazeline which American refineries then refined to gasoline and they sort of retconned the etmology reinterpreting it as gas plus plus plus the Latin oolium meaning oil and then the chemical suffix ine. So that explains why we are so perplexed by Americans use of the word gas to refer to liquid liquid. In another episode we did about idioms and debunking them

or you know explaining where they came from. We talked about the fact that mad as a hatter comes from hat makers suffering the effects of mercury poisoning from the mercurious nitrate used to make felt hats. Oh my. Uh, one of my favorites here is the term balls to the wall, which is from military planes, which were which were designed with ball-shaped grips on engine controls, particularly uh I'm going to say this wrong because I always get corrected on it. Anyway, they had ball-shaped grips, and if you wanted to go faster or go into a dive, you'd push it all the way toward the front of the plane. Push your balls to the wall. Indeed. A similar but less frequently used idiom,

balls out, is inspired by steam engine governors. I said train engine. I meant it was steam engine. Um, which use rotating fly balls that move outward due to centrifugal force as the engine speeds up. I can see one of those in my head now. Yeah, there's the So sometimes balls to the wall is

uh falsely attributed to that instead. But balls out means the same thing and is from that. Okay, good. Speaking of not balls just out. Speaking of trains, we actually did an episode all about cars and trains and and and land transport. And in that episode came the revelation that the Jaguar

Car Company was previously called SS Cars, but changed its name at the end of the Second World War for I think obvious reasons. But the SS stood for swallow side cars, which what was what it was called before. And obviously the SS took on a rather more negative connotation during this Second World War. Indeed. Indeed. And for good reason. Um, although very anti-Nazi on this

podcast, just so you know, that's fine. I'm good with that. Um, although Americans use caboose to imply the end of something, whether it's the end of a train or a person's backside, the word itself does not specifically denote the end of something. It was originally a word for a ship's galley and then became a word for a galley or staff car on a train, which wasn't always at the back, but often was. I I didn't even know before that episode that the the back of a train was called the caboose. Which way round is it? Are we naming our asses after the back of a train, which seems

insulting, or doing it another way round? Uh, our next episode was about fashion. And there's some really interesting origins for names of fabric and things that we wear. And here's a double one. So, not only is Denim named after the French city of Neem, it's de Nimes, but jeans themselves are named after the Italian city of Genoa. It's based on an old spelling, old English spelling of of Genoa.

Two locations there. I love that. We We saw a lot of that in that episode. We did. Knickers are named after Knickerbockers, which are named after Washington Irving. Here he is again. his New York

Dutch caricature, Diedric Knickerbocker, who was illustrated wearing trousers, Dutch style trousers that bloomed around the knee. Knickers became a nickname for bloomers, which also billowed around the knee and then shifted back across the pond to become a British name for women's underwear. Uh, bloomers, by the way, are not named for their blooming shape, but after Amelia Bloomer, who was a women's suffragist and rights activist who advocated for the mobility of the clothing item and was lampooned viciously for it. I was trying to work out whether she'd have been proud to have pants named after her. I guess it sounds like she would. She was. She was heavily

ridiculed in the media. So, a little column A, a little column B. Holy Etymology. Yes, we did an episode about phrases from religion. The phrase the writing is on the wall comes from the Bible.

It's from the biblical tale of King Belshazar whose death was predicted by this disembodied handwriting of his wall. It said you're going to well say it was interpreted what was written on the wall which was well actually people will know people will know the um the Latin. Um, but anyway, yeah, it said he's gonna die later tonight. And uh, he did. O, the writing was on the wall. I

love a good ghost story. It's great. Yeah, a holy ghost story. Yeah. What else did we talk about in that one? We talked about John Milton's Paradise Lost, which has a few coinages. One of them is the

first known instance of the word pandemonium, which was the name of Satan's Palace in Hell, which housed all of his peers and servants, and it literally means all demons. Yeah, quite a chaotic place. Hence, pandemonium today. Demonium. We talked about insects and bugs and and the like and the differences between those terms. Let's not go into it all now, but let's point out that a bug

bear, which is a term we still use, but that was originally an evil spirit that would steal kids from their beds and eat them. Oh my goodness. It was also a word for a scarecrow. similar to a nightmare which was not a nocturnal horse but a uh a demon that sits on you like a sleep apnea demon or or an incubus or succubus type. Um butterfly is not contrary to popular opinion a spoonerism of flutterby but instead refers to myths that butterflies like to eat butter or simply that many species of butterfly are a little yellow. There's also the fact that they so so another name for

them in Dutch was buttery because if you ever seen a butterfly's poo yellow poo you'll understand. I love it. In our movies episode we learned that the original blockbuster was a World War II bomb that was thought to be capable to destroy an entire block of buildings in one go. And the first film to be described as a blockbuster was called Bombardier. Oh my goodness. Excellent. The

Simpsons has coined and embiggened several perfectly cromulent words, including embiggened and cromulent, which with cromulant being a mostly nonsensical word that in context means satisfactory. Very good. Mhm. An episode about time and terms for time, we talked about a medieval method of telling the time that broke the hour up not into minutes and seconds, but into pricks, moments, ounces, and atoms. There were 22,560 atoms to an hour. And we should talk about what does atom mean

again? Unsplittable. Unsplittable, which is kind of ridiculous. Excellent. Um, a month is basically a moonth. It is related to the word moon and is therefore related to words like meter, dimension,

menstrual, semester, and trimester. All senses of measurement. Yeah. An amazing thing about semester is it sounds like it should mean like half of something, doesn't it? It means six months. Yes,

exactly. We did an episode all about the contribution that the French language has made to the English language, which is huge, mainly thanks to William the Conquer and his lot invading England in the 11th century. And before that happened, we weren't using the word butcher, but we were calling that person, as I've mentioned earlier, I kind of gave this one away, a flesh monger. But a butcher is so-called because uh they dealt primarily with goat meat. And that that butch at the start of there is related to the word buck. Huh. Interesting. Though a buck is not,

you know, a goat these days. Uh it is in some languages like in Africans you have a bo which is a a goaty kind of animal. Springbach is a is a little jumping exactly goat. Very cute. A uh the word budois is from the French bud meaning to pout or to sulk. So a budois is a place where a woman

can withdraw to go be alone or lit literally have like a grumpy room. I definitely have a part of our apartment that is my budwois sleek off to also the desserts known as lady fingers are also known as budois in French and evidently well supposedly you might have to fact check me on that one evidently because one might enjoy a light and delicate dessert in one's budois oh very nice in our episode all about terms for weather I mentioned because I had to look this up because a very American phrase but but it's one that has slipped into to to British English as well to take a rain check what does originally mean? So, it originally meant to be given a ticket for another baseball game because the one you were supposed to be going to was rained off. So, it would be a a rain check would be like a a physical slip of paper which I I think is really neat. That is very interesting. We also related to whether the term meteorology does not mean the study of meteors as

we currently define them because it comes from the Greek word meteoron meaning a thing high up in the air. So is it is the study of anything high up in the air including other atmospheric phenomena. Originally a meteor was anything visible from the ground like uh storms, rainbows, auroras or shooting stars. Right. So that is why meteorologists do not study precisely meteors.

Okay. And this is my last fact Jess. Excellent. from our episode about money and it is that the US dollar is named after a Czech valley. Yakimov in Bohemia used to be called Yorims Tal and coins made from the silver that was mined there were called Yorim's Tala and that's where we get the word dollar. I love that. And then the word money and the word mint are from the name Monetta,

which was an epithet for the Roman goddess Juno, who had a temple near the place where money was minted in Rome. I think that's right on the money. Very good. And a great place to end is 100 facts from our first episodes that got us to 100,000 subscribers. Thank you so much if you are one of those subscribers. If not, do click subscribe now and help us get to the next milestone. Oh,

we love that. Jess, this has been such a thrill to do this actually with you in the flesh. I know, right? It's It feels It's so mad that we've been doing this for so long and we hadn't met and we hadn't actually met, but we're friends all the same. Hell yeah.