---
video_title: "Why are we saying 'Caesar' wrong? | TITLES & POWER"
video_id: MrsqUCgXGBk
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MrsqUCgXGBk
video_date: 2025-09-10T05:00:26+00:00
video_description: |
  In this episode, Rob and Jess take a right royal romp through the etymologies of eminent titles. They discuss the origins of words like "lord", "emperor", "queen" and a whole host of others:
  
  🏛️ How did Caesar become a title all over Europe?
  𓁏 What did 'pharaoh' mean to the ancient Egyptians?
  👑  What is the etymology of the word 'king'?
  🗳️ What is a 'timocracy' or a 'kakistocracy?
  
  These questions answered – and many more – in another Words Unravelled.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
What’s the difference between an -archy and an -ocracy? Which rulers were the bread people? And are we all pronouncing Caesar wrong? We’ll lead you through the etymology of kings and queens, monarchies, and kakistocracies on this most illustrious and government-centric episode of Words Unravelled. Stick with us. It rules.

Welcome to another Words Unravelled. I’m Rob Watts from the YouTube channel RobWords. And I’m Jessa Ferris, author of the etymology book Useless Etymology. And today we’re doing government without the politics, the crowning achievement in all things global. So yeah, the etymology of rulers and the ruling classes we’re talking about here, the most powerful people. How did they get

their titles and what do they literally mean? And we will also talk about the -ocracies and -archies of the world and the systems that they rule. Yeah, let’s get stuck into it. I mean, where do we start? Oh, well, we should, I think we should, start with king and queen, which I think are the most emblematic symbols of power, at least in the English language. Yeah, sure. In fact,

they’re sort of the default, particularly king. If we don’t know the actual title of a supreme leader of somewhere, we tend to call them the king. So king, where does that come from? It’s an Old English word. It’s been around for a while, but it wasn’t spelled the way it was originally.

It was “cyning” or “cuning” originally, a word for any ruler or sovereign. So we come by that generalization pretty honestly. Yeah. But what’s interesting about it is that it is related to the word kin, because originally these kings were… Yeah. Well, I mean, obviously they’re familiarly important because of their dynasties, but really it’s not like that. It’s more like a

representation of a kinship. Yes, indeed. Did you know, by the way—this is pertinent to king because kingdom tends to be the general term for the thing that person rules—did you know the -dom on the end of that word is not related to the word dominion or dominate? It’s more closely related to the word doom. Oh no. I mean, I would never have guessed that. So, doom in Old English meant a law or a

statute or a decree or administration of justice. Like your doom is the judgment made upon you. A judge was called a doomsman. Uh-huh. Exactly. But it kind of reads—a kingdom almost reads as

if it is the dominion of a king, which is not the case. It is the doom of a king, which I feel like is very poetic. Right. Yeah. That’s beautiful. It’s beautiful. Like you say, it’s a word

that goes back an awful, awful long way and is kind of common to the Germanic languages. It’s very Germanic. It has cognates across everything, indeed. König—I mean, I could just list them all. What’s the point? Here’s an interesting thing. The word queen, what it originally meant, I think, is

interesting. Yes, it meant “wife.” “Cwene,” “cwen” or “cwēn” in Old English, was a word for a wife, but it was a poetic word for a wife. You wouldn’t say, “I’m just going home to my queen.” It would be used in poetry. Yeah. Well, this is where we should also mention that wife, of course, in Old

English didn’t mean the person you were married to necessarily—that’s the female person you were married to. It meant “a woman.” Woman, yeah. Yeah. You could have a “wīfman,” which was a woman, originally became the word woman. Yeah, indeed. Queen also comes from the same Proto-Indo-European

root as the Greek “gyn-,” which we use in, like, gynecology and things like that. That makes a lot of sense, doesn’t it? So, yeah. Just meaning “woman.” Yeah. And you can still call your wife

your queen if you like. Sometimes they might insist on it. I can understand that. Um, so how did we get from woman to ruler, female ruler? Simply because the first queens are the wives of the kings, and then eventually you have women who, you know, have the power themselves, but really the route to being a queen is to marry a king. It is interesting, though, that other languages more

logically simply feminized the word for king, like Regina and Rex, for example, or even in Germanic languages “Königin” is the word for queen, which is just the feminine version of the word “König,” which means king in German. So England has had some interestingly named kings. Correct. Yes, it has. Particularly the Anglo-Saxon. I mean, the most famous interestingly named king, of course,

is William the Conqueror, right? When I say interestingly named, we’re talking about monarchs with monikers, really, right? Yeah. William the Conqueror, William the Bastard, as he was known before he was conquering things, I suppose. Both accurate and used emphatically. Yeah, exactly.

But there have been others. There was Æthelred the Unready that people might have heard of, and that one is worth a mention because it doesn’t mean what it sounds like it means, but it also includes a pun. Unready here doesn’t mean he was ill-prepared. I mean, you know, he did have—well, no, the history books say he had quite a calamitous rule, you know. He’s not liked as much as Alfred the Great. Now, there are people who will tell you that actually Æthelred was,

you know, made some pretty smart moves, but generally he was quite ill-advised, it’s considered. And that’s what unready here means. It means ill-advised. It’s from an Old English verb meaning “to advise.” And the reason that this is a pun, Jess, is that Æthelred can be interpreted as meaning “well-advised.” Oh, interesting. I love that. Feels very topsy-turvy. Yeah,

exactly. So when you see “Æthel-” at the start of an Old English king’s name, it’s, you know, it’s a nice word. It means “well,” “great,” or something like that. Um, and then the “-red” at the end can be seen as the same as unready or “unræd,” as he would have been described in Old English. There was also Edward the Confessor. Guess why he was called that? Presumably his connections to,

I don’t know, religion. It is entirely that. Yeah, he was pious, and indeed he was made a saint. And the theory is that he was so pious that he felt the need to confess fanatically and frequently. I mean, it’s not necessarily why—it is, that’s one of the theories. It also sort of evokes an earlier

meaning of the word confess, which was closer to “to avow” or “to declare,” which I think we talked about before, how to confess something was originally more “to declare it” than “to admit to it.” That perhaps means that William Rufus—so that is the son of William the Conqueror. “Rufus,” what does that mean? Red. Right. There you go. Exactly. He had a red bushy beard or red hair,

depends on the picture that you’re looking at. They aren’t very reliable, the pictures. And there was—my favorite one is John Lackland. So King John was the youngest of Henry II’s five legitimate sons. He also had three daughters and two illegitimate sons. He was, um, he was

a busy lad, and as such, John was bequeathed very little land, so he was called John Lackland. Well, and the last one, Edward Longshanks. Edward I was so tall that they called him Edward Longshanks, shanks being your lower legs. Fair enough. I mean, that epithet is in Lord of the Rings, too, so I’m here for that one. Oh, there you go. Yeah. Legs, trousers—Ragnar Lothbrok, right? Ragnar “woolly

trousers” sounds like it sounds like a surname. It’s not. It’s an epithet. You know, you have reminded me there—like, these aren’t exclusive to English rulers. Like, I remember off the top of my head, I believe it was Alfonso the Slobberer from somewhere in Spain, because apparently he would foam at the mouth when he got upset, and then— Oh God, please. Oh, you know, it would really

undermine my rise to power if people start calling me “the Slobberer.” I mean, I get the sense that this was like a popular nickname, not an official one, but there was also, like, Bermudo the Gouty. And I believe that’s from the same region. Well, gouty as in you’ve got a lot of gout. Yeah. Vlad

the Impaler. Of course, one of Ragnar Lothbrok’s children was called Ivar the Boneless. Ah, how do you get that one? Well, I think he was—I’m basing this mostly on the Vikings series now, actually—he had a problem with his legs, I think, was the point. He couldn’t really walk. Um,

so that’s very—that’s a mean nickname. Presumably he wasn’t boneless. He might have been. I don’t know. Interestingly, he ended up—oh no, I’m being boring here—but he ended up in Derbyshire, living there. Oh, lovely. Near where I grew up. Not the same time, though. There was no—oh, no

crossover. That’s good to know. Thank God you’re not as old as I thought. Ivar the Boneless. Uh, yeah, I think by now you would be boneless, wouldn’t you, if you lived 1100 years. Fleshless,

certainly. Yeah, indeed. Uh, okay, let’s talk about some more rulers. Yeah. What about—okay, we should do prince and princess since we’ve done king and queen, right? Tell me about them.

Prince—does it mean “first,” which actually I feel like kind of makes a little more literal sense than king and queen, given the—like, it means “the first man,” a chief leader. It’s originally from Latin “princeps,” which also means the same thing, a ruler or a sovereign, and is related to the word prime. There’s a nice Anglo-Saxon word that was used before the, you know, the Normans brought over the word prince, which was “ætheling.” Heard this one? Oh yes, yes I have. Yeah, it’s a nice

word. It means—well, the “æthel-” at the start of there refers to a noble family, and so the suffix “-ing” or “-ling” is, you know, a member of a noble family, but it usually referred to, yeah, a young lad. There’s also a nod to that in Lord of the Rings. The plant called king’s-foil is called “athelas” in one of the languages in the book. So you’re not going to mix up your “æthe-” and your “ethel-” like I was mentioning earlier, because they’re slightly different things, even though, annoyingly, in Old English they’re spelled almost exactly the same, because you have this weird “æ” letter, right, called ash, that’s a cross between an a and an e, and the thing that separates those two things is whether or not they’re spelled with an a or an e, and sometimes both of them are spelled with this combination letter. Hooray, consistent.

It’s quite an interesting subject, I think, the titles. The nobility titles are brought over by the Normans because they don’t displace all of the existing titles. For example, you still have earls in England after the Normans turn up. What they would normally have done—you know, a French invader would start calling the earls “counts,” which is—it’s quite unusual that England doesn’t have counts at this point. And earl is, you know, another really, really old Germanic word related to the “jarl”s of the Vikings. You know what’s cool about earl is

that Old English had the alderman, basically, but it was spelled E-A-L-, and then it also had earl, which is Old Norse origin. So one is more Anglo-Saxon and one is more Norse. They’re related words, aren’t they? And alderman, the sort of local judicial position that it is now, is exactly the same word as elderman. A cool thing, since we’re on the topic—count is both is and isn’t related to the act of counting, because it has the same suffix, but it doesn’t have the same root verb, which is kind of cool. The count as in the leader, the Latin root here,

is the assimilated prefix “co-,” “to,” “with,” or “together,” and the second part is “ire,” “to go.” It was a Roman title for provincial governor or attendant originally. But then “to count” is from “conter.” The root verb there is the same as compute. Don’t take your etymological knowledge from Sesame Street. The Count should not be counting anything just based upon his name.

He’s perfect and he does not need to change. A wonderful companion at the very least, right? Companion. Oh. Oh, now here’s a nice link. You’re going to like this link. So, we can move

from count, who is the companion—companion meaning someone you eat bread with—over to the lord, can’t we? More bread people. More bread people. Yes. Yes. So, the Old English lord, the word

for lord, meant “loaf-guardian.” Yeah. “Hlāford.” “Loaf-ward,” you could say. Yeah. Yes. And “lady”

is just a further extension of that. A bread kneader. The— Oh, is it? Uh-huh. Bread kneader.

And then there was also a “loaf-eater,” who was someone who consumed bread rather than providing it. These were like two different people. I think I could have worked out that the loaf-eater was someone who consumed bread. Thank you. I could be the loaf—bit of a third wheel, though. But

these were like two different titles, apparently, for a while. Was it a type of noble as well then, a loaf-eater, evidently? You’ve got the loaf maker and distributor and the loaf-eater—two different people who worked in the house. And then you’ve got the Scottish “laird,” which is a title that you can still find now, which is just, you know, a Scottish interpretation of the word lord. But there are interesting titles in Scotland as well, because we haven’t talked about the Anglo-Saxon title of the thane, but most people, when they think of a thane, will perhaps think of Macbeth, who becomes—well, who is a thane and becomes Thane of Cawdor. And this is one of those—am I

wrong that this is one of those that starts out as a word meaning, like, follower or attendant and then turns into a leadership title? Yeah, you’re entirely right. Yeah, it starts off as an attendant. And I think the other one you’re thinking of is knight, right? Which is—that is one of them, too. There are a ton of them. Like, a lot of these words, they got promotions over

time. Yeah. A knight is originally a servant. It’s a “Knecht” still in German, which means a servant, but they become servants of the king; therefore, yeah, becomes a— And it’s interesting that knights stick around as well. They don’t get replaced by cavaliers necessarily. I mean,

obviously you can think of Cavaliers in England, but that’s a deliberate import later, much later on. It doesn’t get Frenchified or Latinized. Exactly. But the Normans bring over the barons as well. So that actually comes from a Latin word that just means “a man.” So a baroness would be a

lady-man. A “man-ess.” And dukes—we should mention dukes as well. Um, because similar titles come up all over the place in the Latin “dux,” which, yeah, is a leader. That would be related to words like conduct and educate and induce and produce. Lots and lots of relatives in there.

So let’s talk about a few from Latin, a few titles that we use in English that we’ve gotten from Latin, one of them being emperor and empress, which is from the Latin “imperator” or “imperāre,” meaning “to command.” The root here is “to prepare” or “to arrange.” So someone who issues commands and prepares things. And what’s interesting about that is that the earliest sort of emperors to the Romans were not—and that title was not given to the person that was, you know, supreme head of the state. It was a military leader. So they would be beneath whoever was

ultimately in charge. Yes. And from Julius Caesar onward, the Senate and people began treating “imperator” as a permanent honorific. And speaking of which, Caesar. Yeah. Ah,

do you think everyone knows that Caesars are all named after Julius Caesar? They might not. It’s not—Gaius Julius Caesar. Yeah, that’s his full name. It is a cognomen. So, the third element—

Yeah. —of a citizen’s name. Originally a family name that became hereditary. And so from Julius Caesar onwards—so you get Augustus Caesar, and then from then on they are Caesars. Do you know, I couldn’t get to the bottom of what Caesar meant. It would just be interesting to know. Part of the

confusion is that people had been writing about it for a long time, like been speculating about the etymology of this word for a while. Like Pliny the Elder said it came from gray hair—or sorry, thick hair, not gray hair. Another one was about gray eyes. And then another one suggests that it’s related to “cut,” which, you know, that kind of dovetails nicely but probably is inaccurate with the notion of the caesarean section and everything. Yeah. Well, that would make

both—and “caesarean section,” I mean section comes also from a Latin verb meaning “to cut” as well, isn’t it? Into pieces. I think, in fact, I’m sure of it. We’re pronouncing Caesar incorrectly all the time. Yes. Probably. Yeah. It should be more like the German version of the word Kaiser.

“Kaiser.” Right. That C at the start should be pronounced like a K, not a soft C, because that’s how the Romans pronounced that letter. The other title related here would be Tsar. Right. Yeah,

exactly. Whether you spell it T-S-A-R or C-Z-A-R, it is a rendering of Caesar or Kaiser. Yeah. And there are also Middle English renderings of the word Caesar as well, and they’re spelled with a K in Middle English. They’re spelled with a C in Old English, but again, in Old English you pronounced a C as a K. So I’m just saying we’ve got to start calling him “Gais Iulius Kaisar.” So

that’s Emperor—tick. Let’s do some more of these sort of supreme leaders, perhaps. Pharaoh. Let’s go right back. Yeah. Pharaoh. Interesting thing about pharaoh is that it originally applied to the

building that the Egyptian king lived in. It means “great house.” It means “great house,” exactly. And then it gets transferred to the guy—usually the guy—that’s living there. That feels the same way as using the word White House as a stand-in for, like, the executive branch. Can you remember

what the word was for that? Because it came up in our -nym episode. I believe this is an example of—it’s either metonymy or synecdoche, and I want to say it’s metonymy because I believe synecdoche is a part for a whole. Yes. Yes, that is correct. Metonymy is a stand-in for another thing. They can

be any kind of stand-in. So synecdoche is a form of metonymy. Interesting. So, like, saying “you live under this roof.” You mean you’re referring to your house as a roof. Or “a suit” is a business

person. Okay. But if you’ve got a little dispute and you think you want to consult the pharaoh, that could originally have meant you consult the palace, I suppose would be a good way of saying it. And you might even do—in fact, they do do that now when they’re talking about the king. You know, they’ll say “consult Buckingham Palace” or Kensington Palace. I can’t remember which is

palace these days. It’s the same thing with the pharaoh, but now we use it for the guy himself. Uh, another Roman leader that we have today is a senator. Oh, yeah. Tell us about senators, then. It means “old man.” I would never have guessed that. I mean, I promised that this

would be government without the politics, but it is appropriate that that’s a lot of the people in senator roles. Old men are very wise, Jess. That’s the idea. It’s an elder, or an elder leader. I’ve got a few more interesting ones from history, and some of them are still used but, you know, outside of Europe—I don’t want to be too Eurocentric—but you’ve got the shah, which was a Persian title that just did mean king. Now, sometimes people will group shah with

tsar and Kaiser and Caesar, but it’s not—it’s much older, right? Much, much, much older word, indeed, from Persian. Then you’ve got caliphs, which were Sunni Muslim leaders. There aren’t any at the moment, but actually I mention Sunni and Shia because basically the main reason that you do have these two branches of Islam is because they don’t agree over who the successor to Muhammad is. And the word caliph means “successor.” So, yeah, so they don’t agree on who the first caliph was, and

that’s why you have these two branches of Islam ultimately. Very nice. I can whack out a few more from around there if you like. Sultan, which is most associated probably with the Ottoman Empire, and it’s just a word meaning a king or a ruler. You know what the feminine version of a sultan is? Or the wife of a sultan is called? Feel like I’m going to know this when you say it, but I’m

blanking. It’s a sultana. Okay, that’s what I was going to say. I thought—I was questioning myself. But the question is, why are dried grapes named after the sultan’s wife? I didn’t know they

were. Ah, okay. So, okay. So, this is a big—this is a big deal. Maybe it might be a British thing, but you’ve got currants, sultanas, and raisins, right? Raisins are made from white grapes that

still have their seeds in them. Sultanas are made from white grapes that don’t have their seeds in them. And currants are made from red grapes. And currants are the smallest. Then you’ve got sultanas, the next biggest. And then raisins are the biggest. I was woefully ill-informed

about my raisins. Oh, there you go. Now you know. Now we all know. But they are not named after the sultan’s wife. They are named after the sultan himself, because the “sultana” there is not the

feminine version of sultan. It’s a possessive. Oh, interesting. Yeah, I was going to say—oh, you can imagine, like, you put the name of—you say “the Great Sultana,” for example, which is actually what we’re talking about. The story goes that the sultan, escaping a tiger, left his grape harvest and it all dried out. When he came back, the dried-out grapes were

flipping delicious, and then Europeans started to call them that. I mean, it’s more likely that the Europeans started to call dried grapes sultanas because this specific grape they’re made from is from Turkey and the İzmir region, where there was a sultan. He left because there was a tiger. Yeah, that’s amazing. That’s like seeing a spider in your house and being like, “Well, you can have it.” Yeah. I don’t think seeing a tiger is like seeing a spider. True. True. I know which

one I’m more likely to run away, abandon my crop for—that is true. I will pick up spiders. I will not pick up tigers or touch tigers without lots of permission from everyone who knows about tigers. Yeah, indeed. Another title that’s worth a mention is raja. Ah, excellent. What does that mean? Well,

it’s an Indian title meaning a king. It does just mean that. But the interesting thing is it’s from Sanskrit, and it is related to words like Latin “rex.” The Irish word “rí,” by the way, which we haven’t mentioned already—but you’ve got some good Irish titles like “rí” and “taoiseach” as well, that are kind of unique to Irish. Uh, anyway, anyway, anyway—that would also connect it to, like, “royal,” too, as well. It connects it to so many words. It connects it to rank, regulate,

rail, regal, you know, because it’s believed that the Indo-European root, the Proto-Indo-European root, shared by a word all the way over in India in Sanskrit and a word all the way over in Ireland with “rí,” meant “to lead in a straight line,” to move along the correct path or to guide people along the correct path. Right. Yeah. There you go. Yeah. That idea of leadership actually, I suppose,

comes a little bit later, but it means—yeah, it means go in a straight line, but it’s also related to words like right and stuff because of that. All these words, and ruler—both versions of the word ruler. Yes indeed—measurement and leadership. Yeah indeed. Thank you for humoring me with all of those, Jess. No, that was very fun. I love a root deep dive. Those are my favorites.

Where in the world should we go next? Well, okay. So, I’ve got a few more that I wanted to look up, because I realized a huge gap in my knowledge is what leaders of, for example, the Inca were called. I mean, the problem there is that the leader of the Inca was called the Inca, because Inca means emperor. Yeah, exactly. So, the leader was called the Sapa Inca, which means “the

only Inca,” as in the only emperor, which is kind of cool as well. I also looked up the name of the Aztec leader. I’m going to do my best with it, but it was “huey tlatoani.” Oh, interesting. Yeah, it says—that’s the title, right? And the “huey” means great. And then you would have the “tlatoque,” who

were also the layer—the stratum beneath the “huey tlatoani.” And that word means “speaker.” So neat. Yeah, they called their leaders “speakers,” which is kind of neat. It’s a bit—I mean, we have those now, right? Very modern. And then beneath the “tlatoani,” you have the “cihuacóatl.” That

second part—that reminds me of something. It’s the “-coatl,” right? That’s the name of a god—came up in our dinosaur episode because there’s a dinosaur named after the god. So what does the name of the god mean? I believe it’s like “Aztec snake” or something like that, and it was a plumed serpent god. It had feathers. Well, this noble title “cihuacóatl” means “female serpent,” so

you’re right to link those two words. Yeah, cool, that’s awesome. Sorry, I said—Quetzalcoatl—he is a deity associated with, like, wind and wisdom and learning. I double-checked that one. Yeah, and actually “Cihuacoatl” was also a deity, but then you have the title that is named for the deity.

Should we pivot to some modern titles? A minister is fun. Like, we have our prime minister, which is kind of fun. It’s like the highest-ranking lesser one, right? Yeah. The word minister,

regardless of whether you’re talking about a religious minister or an administrative minister, which is also the same root, means someone who serves or attends. And it’s related to words like minus and minor. And it means a lesser one—so a servant, someone who serves someone else. So a public servant in the administrative sense. And so a prime minister is a little bit of a—just has a touch of oxymoronic energy. But, you know, that’s an accurate description in some ways,

because the prime minister is essentially just the most senior politician. I mean, they are a public servant. That is true. Well, we don’t elect a prime minister in Britain, for example, right? The prime minister is the prime minister because they are the leader of their party, not because they have been elected prime minister. You know, that’s not how we— The point is, they’re

just the most senior of the people that have been elected. I’ve got a vague memory that the first use of “prime minister” actually was pejorative, you know. Yeah. It wasn’t meant to be flattering, but it’s become the official title. And, of course, the first word prime there is related to, like, premier, which we have—like another form of political leader. Same root there as “primus” or

“primarius.” Can you tell me about president? Does it just mean someone who presides, or literally that? “A president” dates back to the 14th century—someone who presides over a meeting or in court—and then it was in the 1400s and the 1500s it became used for, like, appointed governors, presidents of councils and provinces. Oxford and Cambridge has had presidents. The first use in

what is modern-day America, the United States of America, is in 1608 in the Jamestown colony. John Smith was among those who were styled president of the council, and it was translated in 1774 to the officer who led the Continental Congress, and then when the U.S. Constitution was written, President of the United States was adopted as the title of the new republic’s first chief executive. I see. It seems like a word that should be an adjective rather than a noun. Do you understand

what I mean? This person is president—as in, they are presiding—therefore they are president. They are the president person, but instead we are presidential. A little note here. They try to be. One of my—heh, right. The way you said right there. Right, right, right,

right. “Government without the politics.” Anyway. But one word that I love that is pertinent to presidential elections in the United States—one of my favorite origins because it is so unhinged—is the word inauguration. And have we talked about this one before? I don’t know if we

have. You know the root of this word, the “aug-” bit? It’s about birds. It is about birds. It is about psychic birds. So no, it’s not about psychic birds. It is about the prediction of birds. So,

and the reading of birds in the sky. So an augur in Rome was a religious official who watched natural signs to determine what the gods thought of proposed actions and potential leaders, and it’s thought to be related to the word “avis,” or bird, because the augur’s role largely involved watching the behavior of birds for omens of divine— And you still see these, like, murmurations in particular considered signs, and you still say “it doesn’t augur well for you,” right? It means that it’s not looking good for you. The Latin verb “inaugurāre” meant to take omens from the flight of birds, but it also meant to consecrate or install someone in a role when the omens are favorable. And so that term has stuck around. So we still inaugurate presidents,

not based on birds, but still—the birds are still there. They’re hiding. I do remember once seeing when President Biden was taking office, you know, he got this dog. What was his name? What was the name of his dog? Major. Major, that was it. When Biden was inaugurated, they held an inauguration

for his dog. “InDOGuration.” I’ve never been able to get the word “inDOGuration” out of my head. It’s just such a travesty of a pun. Wait, is that what they actually called it? I don’t

think they actually called it that. No, that was the headline. It was the headline that I saw. Oh, good. Because I just thought of—like, I did not know that. Oh, okay. Yeah. Well,

it—I mean, it doesn’t work in my accent. “In-dog-uration,” kind of—that kind of works, but “innawguration,” really—we don’t say “innawguration,” although I think some people might think a British person would. We wouldn’t say it like that. That’s fantastic. Another ruler that dates back to more ancient times but is still used today is chancellor, which means “doorkeeper.” Interestingly, this is another one that got a promotion,

but in the late Roman Empire the doorkeeper expanded into clerical and—not—uh, notary duties. I was trying to make that into an adjective and couldn’t think of what the adjective was. Yeah. Got a chancellor here. So the chancellor is part of a church in laws and courts in Rome originally.

Mhm. I see. So like an usher or a secretary or something like that. And then the office grew in importance in England. There’s a record from—if you’re reading this in modern English, it looks like it says “the queen’s canceler” in 1123, but it is the word chancellor. Today, we refer to our

finance minister as the chancellor—the chancellor of the Exchequer, which is quite the phrase. We should get into our -ocracies and our -archies and our -ships. Yes, indeed. Yeah. -Ocracies, -ocrats as well. So someone who is participating in one of these -ocracies. I mean, the one that

we’re perhaps most aware of is the democracy, which is the, you know, rule by the people—by “demos.” The root here is probably actually “city.” So it’s funny that democracy is rule—it’s rule by the people of the city, the citizens, but originally, like, ruled by the citizens of a location. Democracy was one of Plato’s five forms of government. You see a lot—so, a handful of the -ocracies we talk about do go right back to the Greeks, and then we’ve got a lot of the modern ones. But some of these original ones, I suppose, include Plato’s five forms of government, and what

he listed—he listed these five ways of running a country and said that each one would sort of devolve into the next, right? It would degenerate and you’d end up with the other one. He said that aristocracy was the best system of government because it means “by the best.” Indeed it does. It’s funny how far the meaning of that feels like it has come. So aristocracy is the best—rule by

the best—so therefore it is the best, which makes sense. Plato then thought that it would degenerate into timocracy, which is not one that gets talked about very often. Timocracy is rule by honor or worth. Yeah. So this is the interesting thing. So he said it was rule by people who were motivated

by honor, right? That’s a nice way of putting it. A less nice way of putting it is, you know, ambition, really. But Aristotle, another very key figure in this whole thing, thought that—interpreted it as meaning rule by people with property. And actually, to me, that makes more sense—the idea that aristocracy would devolve into that. That makes sense, too,

because if the root here means worth, it could mean monetary worth, not, like, worth of character. Exactly. But you’re right, that’s what links those two concepts, isn’t it? The idea of worth. Anyway, when that goes wrong, you degenerate into oligarchy according to Plato, which is rule by the few. The start of that means “few,” the “olig-.” There’s a good word for using

short words, which is “oligosyllabic,” which means, you know, having few— Oh, I like that. Yeah. But it’s obviously highly ironic because “oligosyllabic” is a mouthful. Yeah. Right. That’s one of those heterological words, one that doesn’t describe itself,

right? Yeah, exactly. “Monosyllabic” is another one. There we go. Exactly. Very similar—I mean,

that’s—you’re dealing with oligo-syll—It’s basically the same thing. Oligarchy, by the way, according to—descends into democracy. So, quite far down the list. And that’s the one where most of us are now. What does that degenerate into? Tyranny. Ah, which is a democracy but,

nevertheless, rule by the tyrant—the tyrant being someone who seizes power without the legal rights to it. That’s quite a different arrangement of power dynamics than we would value today, right? Yeah, you’re right. I mean, it’s often—who’s cited as saying about democracy being the least-worst system of government? I bet Churchill gets cited. I don’t—I can’t remember who said it,

but that is more along the lines of what we think these days. We certainly wouldn’t say that aristocracy is the best possible one. Right. Right. Yeah. I think the French Revolution

probably did away with that notion. Exactly. But a few more of these, like, older -ocracies. Theocracy—rule by God. I mean, there are still some of those around. It’s not rule directly by

God. It’s rule by the church— Yes, rule by the church, by representatives of God. And plutocracy as well—rule by the wealthy. Have we mentioned autocracy, which was someone who rules by his own authority? An autocrat—that’s what that means there. And it was used in classical Greek,

and in Roman and then Byzantine rulers sometimes styled themselves in that way to underline their independence from the Senate and the Pope. Yeah, there’s obviously a lot of crossover in these -ocracies and -ocrats as well. Milton mentions—like, he dismisses monarchy as an autocracy. We didn’t talk about monarchy, actually, right? We were talking about -ocracies, which, by the way, “kratos” means “strength,” right? Yeah. Yeah. So that—and also that

“kratos” that it comes from—you can have a “kratocracy,” which is power by means of power, which is basically rule by strength or might. And then “-archy” means rule or leadership. Monarchy, which we’ve said, is rule of one. Is that right? So monarchy is also rule of one, yes. Now, I mentioned monocracy, which I guess means the same thing. We did mention oligarchy

already, too, which is rule of the few. Two different endings. One is—they’re both Greek, but one implies a little more strength or might, and one implies more rule. And then, over the centuries—sort of more recent centuries—you’ve had more of these -ocracies coined, you know, within the English language by borrowing Latin and Greek terms. So you’ve got a kakistocracy, for example, which is rule by the worst in society, from—yeah, “kakistos.” That was the word of the year last

year according to a number of sources. There are a few other cool -cies and -archies that you may not have heard of, like thalassocracy, which is rule of the seas, which was applied to ancient maritime— I did not hear thalassocracy there. What did you hear? I heard phallusocracy. I mean, that’s probably one, too. But that describes most of the world’s governments, so— Yeah,

indeed. Androcracy, right? And then the opposite of that would be gynecocracy, or in some cases pornocracy. The 10th century “senatrix” Theodora and her daughter Marozia exercised immense influence upon the Roman government and the papacy for almost 500 years through both their own power and their descendants. Theodora was described by historians and contemporaries as a shameless harlot who exercised power on the Roman citizenry like a man. Between the two of them, they had mistresses and sons who became popes. It was

said that their rule was a pornocracy, because they were sleeping with people and producing— producing popes. When—this is like when a man and a woman love each other very much. What would be the equivalent of this for “anatiferous” from our, like, Sam Johnson episode? That was the word “producing” that meant producing ducks. What is one who produces popes? We’ve

got “anatiferous.” Is it—is it “anatocracy” is, like, rule by duck? I love this. I love this. Oh, no, no, no, no, no. Also, you said “senatrix,” by the way, which is a new word to me that I’m

going to add to my lovely list of words. They have been called “senatresses” before as well, kind of depending on which ending you want. But the “-trix” ending is properly, like, Latin. So, yeah, it makes sense. If you’re going to end the male version with “-or,” then you want to end the female version with “-rix,” “-trix.” A few more that you may or may not know is a gerontocracy is

a rule by an elder—rule by the old—or let’s say a kleptocracy is a rule by thieves, or “stolen rule.” Stratocracy is rule by an army or by the military. A hierocracy was rule by—like, the Greek “hieros” or “hagio-,” sacred—priestly rule. A panarchy is universal rule, is what that comes from. It’s supposed to have “pan-” on the front, but I don’t know why the “t” is in there. Is

it just to make it scan? “Pantarchy.” I guess it doesn’t roll off the tongue as well. But it sounds much more like it’s related to pants. So I don’t know. There’s also “pantocracy,” which has an

additional element in there meaning, like, rule of equals—so rule by all equals—that was a Coleridge and Southey coinage for a utopian society. You swept up most of them there, I reckon. There’s one that you didn’t mention, which is noocracy. Oh, I was going to mention that one. Good. Good. Nice

one. It’s the, I suppose, the delegation of power to smart people—to wise people. And ergatocracy is a worker— A mobocracy is mob rule. That word goes back a few hundred years. I thought that was, like, a new coining, but it’s not. 1700s. It sounds weird because “mob” sounds like a word

that shouldn’t be attached to— Yeah. —“-cracy” there. Well, there’s an alternative that sounds a little bit more technical, which is an ochlocracy—O-C-H-L-O-C-R-A-C-Y—but that means rule by— Yeah. —the mob, by the masses. There’s also an ad hocracy, which is a modern coinage from ad hoc, of course. And bureaucracy obviously was not one of the original Greek ones—rule by desks. Indeed,

rule by fancy French desks. Or “bureau” could be, like, a wardrobe as well. Got it, right. No, that’s a new one. But that is the notion. It’s like rule from an office, basically. Yeah,

exactly. Technocracy. So yeah, definitely— Yeah, technocracy. That is it. All hail our rulers: the desks. The desks. We have a couple of words that come along with, like, “-ship.” This is

the Germanic ending that we would add to a form of rule or a form of government, like a dictatorship. For example, in Old English we had a “cyningscip,” which was kingship, or a “cnihtscip,” which is a knighthood, and then friendship, which is friendhood. Same deal. And we’ve talked about—we’ve talked about “feond” as well, which is an Old Germanic word for a fiend—fiendship, an enemy. It’s more about a condition of being rather than implying exact rule, but if it’s attached to a ruler, then it—or a system of government—then it can become a word for a government. Ta-da. Jess,

you rule. And you. Does that crown this episode? Does it bring it to a head? Okay. Very good. Yeah,

I think it does. I’ve enjoyed this one. It’s been weirdly silly, hasn’t it? I don’t know. I don’t know why it should have been. Uh, anyway, thanks for watching if you have watched. You rule. If

you’ve listened, you also rule. This has been another Words Unravelled. See you next time.