---
video_title: "How could one man write a dictionary? | SAMUEL JOHNSON"
video_id: GW0em6wW15A
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GW0em6wW15A
video_date: 2025-08-13
video_description: |
  Samuel Johnson's 1755 dictionary was one heck of an achievement. But it is also far from perfect. In this episode, Jess and Rob discuss some of the more amusing entries within its pages, and even the words that landed dear Samuel in hot water. Enjoy this cover-to-cover exploration of English's most important dictionary and the extraordinary man who wrote it.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  📘 JESS'S BEAUTIFUL BOOK 📘
  Bookshop . org: tinyurl.com/UselessEty
  Amazon: tinyurl.com/UselessEtyAZ
  B&N: tinyurl.com/UselessEtyBN
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
How did Samuel Johnson's dictionary ever come to be? Why did he hate the word compliment? And why did he include the words dogbolt, fopdoodle, and foupe? Today, we're talking about our friend Sam Johnson, his landmark 1755 dictionary and the quirks, cantankerousness, and curiosities found within its storied pages on this episode of Words Unravelled.

Welcome to another Words Unravelled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel RobWords. And I'm Jess Zafarris, author of etmology books like this one, which I just got a print copy of. Oh my god. Oh, that's the first hard copy of Useless Etymology that I've seen. Oh, I'm so excited. It's the

first one I've seen, too. But today we're talking about a different book. One that I mention several times in Useless Etymology, which again for our podcast listeners, I am holding a book like that beautiful book. Oh, so pretty. Today we're talking about Samuel Johnson, who is not just a meme of a man squinting at a piece of paper, but the author of arguably the most important English language dictionary in history. Yeah, I think it's very easy to say that, isn't it? It's not that his 1755

dictionary is the first dictionary by any stretch. We'll get into that during the course of this, but it is the first that is really recognizable to us as as a dictionary in the way that we understand the word today. The first definitive compilation of almost every English word in use to at least the society that he lived in until the publication of the Oxford English dictionary 173 years later. It's just an extraordinary undertaking. And we'll get into some of the fun, amusing, and also insightful stuff that is in there as we go through, but we perhaps need to get an understanding of the man and how the book comes about to start with, don't we, really? Yeah. Yeah.

Tell me tell me about Johnson's life. I would gladly talk about it because he's sort of from my neck of the woods. He's about 40 minute drive away from where I grew up. So I grew up in in Derby in the English Midlands and he was from Lichfield. Yeah. So he's from a humble background. you know,

is the son of a a book seller and a stationer and yeah, born in 1709. He goes to Oxford but has to drop out because his dad runs out of money. Then he gets married in controversial fashion to a woman who is a quarter of a century older than him. And he gets married in Derby, my hometown. And St. Werburgh's church where he got married which is very very beautiful

is next to a bar that he used to spend an awful lot of time in in my late teens. The less said about that the better. Um then he goes down to London and yeah he gets his first publishing job writing for the Gentleman's Magazine and then 1746 he writes something called A Short Scheme for Compiling a New Dictionary of the English Language. And it is in this that he sets out his plan to write a comprehensive dictionary. at the time he says one great end of this plan is to fix the English language. So the the idea is that he's right. He's going to nail all these words down,

their meanings, their spellings, maybe even their pronunciations. Okay, he kind of sheds that idea during the course of writing the thing, which you know is no small feat and no small effort. Jess, tell us about the dictionary that he ends up actually producing. So this is this is probably you could argue maybe like the fifth or sixth attempt at something like this, but nothing was ever so comprehensive. Sometimes the the first one that that most people consider to be anything resembling a dictionary is Robert Cawdrey's A Table Alphabeticall which was in 1604 but it only had 2400 some odd words and they were like hard words with definitions. So it was more like

a vocabulary book than it was a dictionary. We also have Nathan Bailey's 1721 40,000 word English dictionary which has broader coverage but it also lacked literary depth a consistent structure. The book that we eventually get on April 15th 1755 first edition was two gigantic folio volumes covering 42,773 words and about 114,000 literary quotations throughout. So it's it's not just definitions. Its examples, its connections, it's lots of editorialization which we will get into.

And Johnson was the first to combine these precise definitions with these examples of them in usage. One of the things that made Johnson's dictionary particularly useful and still makes it useful to us today is all of these usage notes, the commentary on register, on tone, on shifts, on words that don't exist anymore, words that are in use anymore, and who uses those words, and then examples of them in context, which makes it a lot more useful than some of the other ones that we have looked at in the past. What I really enjoy reading about was was how they actually went about compiling this because he didn't work alone. He had assistants who who helped him. And he spent the first three years of making this just reading through text after text after text after text after text looking for examples of the usage of words. Three years he spent doing that.

Then his poor assistants had to copy down each of those quotations onto a little slip of paper which they then filed away. and then began the onerous task of writing definitions. And then when they were done, they got the definitions which were on slips of paper. They got the quotations that are on slips of paper. They stuck them onto a much bigger bit of paper and sent it to the printers.

It's wonderfully analog as you'd expect. That process also like that continued for some time after this too in terms of uh lexicography because that's also how dord got introduced as a ghost word in a later a later a much later dictionary. This was not Johnson's time. It was it was a mixup of slips. They were trying to type d o r d. And right, it's capital D or lowerase D, right,

for for density. Ghost words. So a ghost word is a word that should not be in the dictionary. And there are a few in this one, aren't there? Can you tell us about those? Okay. So,

my my favorite one, and I think everyone's favorite one because it sounds funny, is foupe, which uh which is defined as to drive with a sudden impetuosity. He says it's a word out of use, but the fact is it never was a word in use before. He he quotes um the he has a citation in there of a 16th century work by William Camden about the people of Britain. It says, "We pronounce by the confession of strangers as smoothly and moderately as any northern nations who foupe their words out of their throats with fat and full spirits." And what the idea might be like, maybe swoop or just uh another word that's unrecognized here. We've got a problem with that

F and that F looking like an S looking like an F, right? And it's more likely that it was soup, but which is some sort of relation to swoop. It must have been S O U P E is is likely the word that was was going there. But but he was correct. That's not in use either. Um but he's also got a couple

of he has adventine which is a misprint introduced in place of adventive and then dentize which is a misprint of dentire which was meant to mean like tooth cutting essentially. Both of those were from Francis Bacon's work. he lifted the quote and and misread it or someone did in the process, probably one of the people who was helping him assemble it. And when you're putting together 42,000 plus words, it's difficult to apply the same level of effort to all of them, isn't it? Which is why he does he sort of yeah fall short of his own standards occasionally. But he's he comes across

as a very modest man, doesn't he? in the in in the pages and in the descriptions there is the most perhaps the most famous one is his definition of a lexicographer of someone who writes dictionaries where he describes them as a harmless drudge which I think is a term that lexicographers today enjoy referring to themselves with I didn't read that exactly as uh humble necessarily so much as like uh work you know which he has another one along those l lines too doesn't he I believe under the the entry dull. It says something like to compile dictionaries is dull work. So both of those read to me is like but I like the way that he admits his mistakes. There are lots of entries in here where for example for dogbolt he just writes of this word I know not the meaning. The same

for stammel of this word I know not the meaning. although he writes that in the 1755 edition but by the fourth edition he's worked out what it means and he's replaced that with a species of red color and there's also another one which is trolmydames of this word I know not the meaning and I don't think anyone does there are some fabulous words along these lines he also he he's very he's he's very judgmental of many words and often many people and there are many words that he expressly does not like and says explicitly says that he doesn't like them in the dictionary and they're like words that we use all the time now. He uses the word barbarous to describe a lot of words. If there's a word that he really doesn't like, there's some fun ones. Oh, I here's one that I really like that caught my attention. It's the word awk which is in there awk. And it is,

as he describes it, a barbarous contraction of the word awkward, which is just like awks. Awks. I really like that one. Oh, that's funny. That's relatable. It is. He defines it as odd,

out of order. He says, uh, he doesn't like the word finesse. He says it is an unnecessary word which is creeping into our language. Oh, he doesn't like when you introduce like French neologisms. He doesn't like that at all. He hates the word rapport for the same reason. Yeah. And

there's uh another one. It's souvenance, right, which means a sort of memory, right? And again, he leaves a little note in there saying, thank goodness we're not using this French word that much anymore. You really like too many borrowings where, you know, there's a a good old fashioned Anglo-Saxon one to replace it. He's got a bunch of like pedantry throughout. Some of my favorite like

ordinary words that he calls low words or doesn't like. And part of that could certainly be that they're more commonly used among people who are not of his class. Yeah, it might not be a value judgment when he says low, but some of them are. I think I think so. They said with a written with a sneer, right? A couple of them that that you know, whether value judgments or not are clever,

which he describes as a low word, which is scarcely ever used, but in burlesque and one without a settled meaning. And the idea was at the time clever was used to describe like manual dexterity and not intellectual dexterity. But he did like the word crack for he thought it was a really good word for good things, which is older than I figured. Like if you're a crack shot at something or on the A team, if you're a crack commando unit. Yeah, that's one that he approved. I would also like to note one of his definitions for the word crack. And I'm so sorry

because according to Johnson, crack is a word for quote unquote a [ __ ] in low language, which also is older than I thought. I was assuming that was affiliated I mean it is affiliated with cocaine in the modern era but but a prostitute called a crack apparently was also a thing as early as 1755 cocaine be damned I do I do worry that it's an anatomical reference I do oh yeah we're going to end up getting into some of the the more raunchy words in here aren't we don't think we're going to be able to get past those by me Before we get there, please please before we get there, a few more of the the the sneering definitions. One I really like is uh opiniatry, which is a slightly odd word, but he describes it as this word, though it has been tried in different forms, is not yet received, nor is it wanted. Not wanted. Get out. Hey, listen. Listen. He is fair. He puts

it in the dictionary even if he doesn't want it. This is true. He's trying to so by this point he has decided that trying to fix the language or tell people how to use it is a a fool's errand. He compares you know trying to stick with such an aim to the people of the past who searched for an elixir of eternal life. He says it's just not going to happen. So he is putting in every word

that he can think of. And he's putting in the same word twice just with different spellings at different places in the dictionary. Yeah. But he's just occasionally giving us a a clue as to what he thinks of it. Another one's twittletwattle or twiddletwattle, which he says is a vile word. A ludicrous reduplication of twattle. How dare. Twittletwattle Oh, that's good. He doesn't

like the word width. He calls it a low word, too. And it's because prior width like wide wideness because prior to the 1700s, the preferred word was wideness. and width was introduced on the same model as words like breadth and depth, which feels like logical parallelism to me. But we get all salty about semantic parallelis parallelism in modern phrasing, too. Like in

our in our grammar episode with Grammar Girl, uh we mentioned by accident and on accident, which is probably like a shift that parallels on purpose, right? The same thing happened with like width and breadth apparently, but he does not like it. He also doesn't like lesser. He the the entry for this one, another barbarous one, a barbarous corruption of less, formed by the vulgar form, the habit of terminating comparatives in er afterward adopted by poets and then by writers of pros till it has all the authority which a mode originally erroneous can derive from custom. I wonder what he'd make of the uh fewer lesser debate. Oh man. [Music]

He does crack the occasional joke though, doesn't he? We should mention the entry for oats, isn't it? He describes it as food for horses in England and food for people in Scotland. Yeah, that's right. He's basically I think it's so a lot of the people that are his his assistants are Scottish I think because there's a lot of Scottish slang that there's no reason he should know it being a guy from from Lichfield working in in London. And so I think the assumption is that a lot of the people

that were working with him were Scottish and he makes this sort of little joke kind of you know at their expense in in a a more loving way than it comes across because it comes across as very mean. He throws shade at professions in kind of the same way that we do like now too. Like he's let's talk about those. Yeah, there's some good they're good ones. The first one that I came across was um politician which is he defines as a man of artifice or one of deep contrivance and he also gets specific about types of politicians. So you know at this time you have really two

big political movements or parties in Britain. You got the Whigs and the Tories. who describes uh the Tories. Well, he says he describes the word as a cant term derived, I suppose, from an Irish word signifying a savage. Oh, fabulous. And then on on Whig, he just calls it the name of a a

faction. But when he's describing the word leader, he says uh as the detestable Wharton was the leader of the Whigs. So, he doesn't seem to doesn't seem like any politicians, it would appear. He also has attorney jokes, which like attorney jokes are evergreen. We've been apparently doing this for all time. He observes he doesn't care to speak ill of any man behind his back, but he

believes the gentleman is an attorney. Oh, yeah. I've heard that one. Oh, too good. Too good. Yeah,

but he chooses to put that one in, you know. He calls a patron commonly a wretch who supports with insulence and is paid with flattery. And by that he is, I believe, referring to kind of someone who pays for artistic works, you know, like a like an art patron. So, at this point, by this point, he has had a major public falling out with his own patron, a guy called Lord Chesterfield. Lord Chesterfield writes a couple of eulogies. By eulogies, I mean, you know, they're supposed

to be exulty remarks about Johnson, but Johnson considers them to be condescending, so he writes his own letter to a newspaper. Yeah. and and they they fall out. And then when it comes to defining the word patron, yeah, he he just has another dig. I've got three sort of slightly odd professions that that he does talk about. Um aleconnor. So we ale connor came up in our episode about weird

jobs and ale connor is someone whose job is to go around and test basically the purity of the beer to make sure it's not decided we wanted that job. Absolutely. Absolutely. But by this point he's clearly fallen out of favor because uh he describes of an aleconnor their places are now regarded only as synicures for decayed citizens. Basically they're kind of pointless.

He also doesn't approve of like bad behavior. Like he's not into drinking. He doesn't suffer people who are foolish or behave in ways that he doesn't think are socially acceptable which we see frequently throughout. He also doesn't like people who he he perceives to be conning other people. He defines a palmistry example so a palmist would be the profession but he describes palmistry as the cheat of foretelling fortune by the lines of the palm. He probably doesn't like street performers

in general because he defines a mime as a buffoon who practices gesticulations. [Laughter] A buffoon say harsh, right? Can I just go back? We were talking about politicians and and we were talking about the patron thing and and how his sort of personal vendetta with Lord Chesterfield sort of creeped in there. Well, there are a couple of entries in here that are related to sort of politics that actually land him sort of in a little bit of hot water. I don't know if you've

heard about these already, but he for example, so he has the entry on pension for which he writes uh an allowance made to anyone without an equivalent. Then he goes on to say in England it is generally understood to mean pay given to a state hirling for treason to his country. Oh, spicy. Do you know why this one comes back to bite him? I guess I mean I can imagine many reasons but yeah well he takes a kingly pension from George III of £300 which isn't too bad and then also sort of I suppose related we're talking about taxes here his description of excise is a hateful tax levied upon commodities and a judged not by the common judges of property but wretches hired by those to whom excise is paid. Man, he's probably lucky that more politicians didn't read the dictionary. Hey,

so no, he did get into trouble for this one. So, this is this is the one that really does come well almost comes to bites him on the ass, I'd say, because the commissioners of Excise were sufficiently offended by this. This is according to James Boswell who wrote his biography and was a friend of his. Now, he says, "The commissioners of Excise being offended by this severe reflection consulted Mr. Murray, the attorney general at the time, to know whether redress could be legally obtained. Boswell though goes on to write, "I am however informed by very good authority that its

import was that the passage might be considered as actionable, but that it would be more prudent in the board not to prosecute." So basically, they want to sue him for it, but they decide that it's probably not worth their while. Yeah. I mean, he he went from being kind of a book seller, bookish type writer who earned almost nothing to being a celebrated person by the end of his life because of this dictionary. Yeah. In his lifetime, they're calling him dictionary Johnson and he is,

you know, he's Johnny Big Balls. And before this, like he was he was like Johnny Big Balls. He like grew up above a bookshop. He like was always struggling for cash when he was writing for the gentleman's magazine. that was sustaining him. Even when he married his wife, who their

relationship is actually kind of adorable despite the fact that she's dramatically older than him. It said that when she first met him, she said something like, um, "I've never met a more sensible man in my life." And this is interesting that it clearly didn't go down well with his family, his marriage. The reason that he gets married in Derby, where I'm from, 40 minutes drive nowadays away from Lichfield, but much longer away in the 1700s, is probably because the family didn't approve. Neither family approved because she wasn't from those parts either, and that they just wanted to get away from it all and and get married somewhere else. And they weren't together

that long. She died not too long after they were they were married. But like he adored her and uh wrote on her gravestone that she was in Latin he wrote that she was beautiful, accomplished, ingenious and pious which there are a lot of words for women in this dictionary and most of them seem to be uh when he when he expresses disapproval it is because they are not those things. We should talk about women in the dictionary. For example, he describes certain words as being woman's words, which I I think is quite amusing. He says that frightfully is a woman's word. He

says it's a can't word among women for anything unpleasing. He uses the word cant a lot, and we've addressed cant words before, but it might be worth explaining. It's thought to be from the same source as chant, which is from the Latin cantus, as in religious chants and songs and literally singing. And according to the century dictionary, the word can't may have become associated with beggars on the notion of them like standing and and uh repeatedly asking for alms kind of like the church does, right? Yeah. Sort of chanting their appeals for for alms. He also says um that

horrid is women's count as well. So you can only imagine women saying frightful and frightfully and horrid. I love the notion of like women having their own dialect. Yeah. Which like it's I mean there there are gendered ways of speaking. That's not wrong. It's just very interesting to

hear cant as a gendered expression. You know, we do not talk about words as being women's or men's words. We just we just don't. He also has a lot of many insulting words for for women throughout the dictionary, which I mean they they should be there because they're words that people use, but uh the descriptions of them are kind of uh funny and uh and also express his disapproval. like um a harridan, which is a word you might still encounter today, but his definition is a decayed trumpet. At similar times, she's been described as half [ __ ] and half bawd.

Oh, Samuel, what fun. I mean, it's more a reflection of the times, I think, than a reflection of him. Yeah. The approach to sex workers of the day was not to describe them in glowing terms. It was to describe him as the the lowest of the low, but also like a flirt he defines as a pert young [ __ ] I I feel awkward laughing at these Jess. They are That is funny.

The word pert is funny anywhere. Pert also comes up in the word, the definition of the word minx, which was originally a word for a dog, by the way, but this later a young pert wanton girl. I love the idea of you just looking through the dictionary for all of these. I do have like a whole a whole chapter on bias in and words from hell and just like the way we uh we lampoon each other which he brings up lampoon a couple times too. Ah what does he have to say about it? He

distinguishes satire and lampoon. proper satire is distinguished by the generality of the reflections from a lampoon which is aimed at a particular person but they are too frequently confounded. He says you're using it wrong. He's telling us how to laugh. Right. A sat it's a lampoon

is a personal satire particularly designed to vex someone. He's um quite easily vexed himself. I it has to be said. So, I was reading um this this is David Crystal's anthology of of of Samuel Johnson, right? It's it's brilliant. Everything that David Crystal does is brilliant. But he very helpfully

pulls together certain categories of things and and and one of the categories is entries where he throws shade. This is not how David Crystal phrases it. He phrased it far more eloquently than me, but where where he has a go at some of the writers that he's quoting in the entries. Can I can I tell you a couple of those? Yeah. Yeah. In hyper he writes a word barbarously curtailed

by prior from hypercritic. A hypercritic one more critical than necessity requires. Prior did not know the meaning of the word which I really like. Oh, that's funny. And quaff he says genius with his usual idleness of conjecture derives it from the Greek. So he's he's just having a go at

other people who are trying to trace the sources of these genius is is an etymologist. The boom in etymology hasn't happened by this point. So so his efforts to trace the origins of these words are laudable. He he mainly uses just a handful of of sources but anyway he makes some assumptions that aren't true too like about and things like that which I think we've addressed. Yeah. He he

equates the word stallion to a Welsh word that it almost certainly doesn't come from but uh you know it's creative approach and also he gets annoyed yeah in the entry for to scamble with an author called Merrick Castleborn who I haven't heard of so I'm probably mispronouncing the name but he says this word which is scarcely in use has much exercised the etymological suggestity of Merrick Castleborn But as is usual, to no purpose. Oh my goodness. Just saying this guy, this this guy has tried to work out where it's come from and and he's failed. To scamble, by the way, is just a an alternative version of scramble. It is interesting that in modern dictionaries like that they they consider their job to be to document the way people use words. And he does this,

but he's also like, you're doing it wrong. Yeah. He's having his prescriptive cake and eating it, isn't he? He was being very descriptive. The word precarious. He thinks everyone uses the

word precarious wrong. I actually didn't know the root of this word ahead of time. Do you know the what the the Latin root of precarious means? No. Prayer. The notion is if you're in

a precarious situation, the implication is that your fate hinges upon a prayer or perhaps upon the will of someone else or another divine deity or something. So, you know, it in other words, it described something you hold only at someone else's mercy, like a favor that could be yoinked away. But Johnson doesn't like this usage. He defines it as dependent, uncertain, because it's depending on the will of another. And then he says, "No word is more unskillfully used than this with its derivatives because although it is used for uncertain in all its senses, it only means uncertain as if you are dependent on someone else, which is feels like splitting hairs to me.

It does. Yeah. It's interesting that he's picking up on it being confused with another word or or consistently swapped out for another word, treated as a synonym for another word in a way that we continue to do with those same two words. Precarious has taken on that exact position that he's annoyed about as well. Exactly. There's some unusual meanings for words that have changed.

One of the ones that David Crystal points out is that tomboy in Samuel Johnson's dictionary is not specific to a female. So, so a guy can be a tomboy as well, which I thought was interesting. Oh, that is interesting. I thought it was notable that humanist in there he describes as a philer or a grimarian, which is not how we describe humanist these days. More like humanities. Yeah. Yeah. So,

so that exactly. Yeah. But it's it's just and and you might use it like that now, but it's just even more specific than that, right? He's talking about people who are interested in in words. I guess that means he would probably call himself a a humanist perhaps. Uh also romp, his

definition of romp as a noun is a rude, awkward, boisterous, unttaught girl. There you go. One for your list. Yeah, there you go. There we are. And what I thought also thought was interesting was

his definition of sneaker, which is a large vessel of drink. So before it was a before it was a shoe, it was something to to suck your beer out of. Sneak a little drink, you know. There we go. Yeah, maybe that's it. A big one. What is it? Yeah. And and he defines storyteller, strapping, and sturdy

in negative terms. All of those terms that we now use as flattery, you know, describe someone as sturdy or strapping. That's good. But he in his reckoning they're negative or they they can be negative and storyteller is essentially a liar. The entry for the word compliment makes me want to give my boy Sammy a big old hug cuz obviously his friends are kind of [ __ ] He defines it as as an act or expression of civility usually understood to include some hypocrisy and to mean less than it declares. In other words, a compliment is a lie. He also continues. He says this is

properly complement with the e in the middle. Uh something superfluous are more than enough. And he's alluding to the fact that despite the way we distinguish them now compliment and complement are etymologically identical doublets. they the things that complete compliment is verbal phrse for you saw for someone in conversation adjusted its spelling via Latin um with the I and I'm sorry via Italian with the I in the middle of the word and uh where it had become an expression of respect or civility perhaps something that suits you or fluffs up your ego a bit but Johnson doesn't uh doesn't like the Italian sense and considers it to be disingenuous he he's actually very well not actually I mean he's you know he's famed for being very good at explaining what words mean. I mean, sometimes he gets criticized for using more complicated explanations than the word that you start off with. You know, he'll use synonyms that are more complex than the original word,

but he does point out in is it in the pre I can't remember if it's in the preface to the dictionary. I think it is. He sort of excuses this in advance by pointing out that, you know, if a foreigner comes to his book trying to understand the English language, they'll find these more complex words that are usually borrowings from another language. It's a good way to get to the origin of the English word. And he's right about that. I mean, it would it does help. A good example is, and this

isn't a word we use now, as far as I know, maybe someone does. Someone's going to be like, "Yes, I use this word daily." Um, but it's uh clancular. Yeah, sure. It's another word for clandestine and it's loosely related to the word clandestine but he uses clandestine as the definition. So it's

like you have to know what clandestine means too. Um but he also adds secret and private and concealed and obscure. Clanculum was a Latin word meaning secretly and it's a diminutive of the Latin word not the not the English word clam which also means secretly. This is interesting to me because to clam up is a relatively modern slang term referring to the notion of like clams closing their shells to shut up. But in 14th century English, clam was also an interjection meaning be quiet and it may have been a reference to the Latin word instead. So, so the thing shuts,

right? Yeah, it does. Um, but these words are unrelated. Like a clam is in is uh is the the the the sea creature is not named after the Latin word for secret stuff. Well, he's just talking about the the the sort of the synonyms that he provides with the entries. And for one entry for the word

careless, he provides no fewer than 12 synonyms as his definition. He writes without care, without solicitude, unconcerned, negligent, inattentive, heedless, regardless, thoughtless, neglectful, unheeded, unthinking, unmindful, with, of, or about. Stop. It's already dead. Not all necessary, but he's he is very thorough. For example, for for the word comet,

he writes a 750 word explanation. I am taking all this direct from David Crystal's research here, by the way. Yeah, David Crystal mentioned that because he doesn't actually include these words in the books. They're too big. The entries are too long. You know, you mentioned words where he

throws shade at the author using them. Alexander Pope used the word writative to correspond with talkative. And so the definition is a word of Pope's not to be imitated. Increase of years makes men more talkative but less writative which I mean I think Pope's being funny, right? But I I I would use it. That sounds fun. That's I like writative. Yeah. Yeah.

We are running a little short on time. So, I think we should address some of the like antiquated and or obscure words that would be useful to bring back from the dictionary. One of them, I think, which is nicely elegant, is afterwit. It's the same thing as staircase wit, but I like it because it doesn't necessarily require a staircase. It more accurately describes what you're doing. It's

like you come up with something smart to say after you've had a conversation. I much prefer afterwit because the staircase wit always requires that explanation, doesn't it? to the unacquainted whereas afterwit immediately makes sense one that I like is backfriend you've come across this so this is a friend backwards he defines it as that is an enemy in secret one who's pretending to be a friend he also uses mouthfriend that's in there as well which he describes as one who professes friendship without intending it that doesn't sound like what that means to me a mouth just

We didn't do the rude words. I just feel like I managed to skip past them. Another fun one here, which is kind of gnarly, but also like I This is a word that in my 30s comes up more often than than I would hope, is the word nidorosity, which is Oh god, this one's cited really frequently. It's eructation with the taste of undigested roast meat. So it's it's a it's a meat burp. Beefy

burp. Disgusting. Fun fact though in Latin this was also a concept and a word that was used in classical Latin. Nidoricupupius which was a word for someone who loves the smell of cooking. So like the root here means like steam fumes or an aroma specifically of food. Yeah,

I can draw a nice little link here because there's this other word that he includes which is smell feast which he describes as a parasite, one who haunts good tables. So, this is someone who somehow manages to consistently con their way into banquets, right? They're they're a parasite. But I saw one description that said that they were attracted by the nidorous smells of the table. So, the meaty smells of the table. The cartoon character like floating through the air on the

scent of a delicious pie or something like that. Yeah. I put this word in my newsletter recently and I said I think it's an appropriate one to use a smellfeast for you know the teenager who comes back only when there's food on the table only to leave once more just after dessert you know someone who's only really around for when they can stuff their face and then they're off again. Another one you see mentioned a lot like this one comes up because it seems so utterly random is anatifus which means producing ducks and it is from the Latin anes which means or anesus which means ducks. So that's fun. It means like carrying ducks. Carrying ducks. Yeah. Bearing ducks. It's

the the f e r on the end is the the Latin for like carrying. I say bear. Okay. Bearing. I thought I thought you meant like giving birth. Who does that lighting with the ducks? I think I think

that could also be interpreted that way. I mean I don't know I don't know how many people are anatiferous in their lives unless they have ducks like I don't know that word is somewhat horrisonous dreadful. He does say that anatiferous is not in use but he quotes let's see if there be anatiferous trees whose corruption breaks forth into barnacles. Oh, this is like a barnacle goose thing. We should do a beastiary episode. Yeah. Yeah. You You introduced me to beastiaries. I didn't

really know much about medieval beastiaries are wild. Barnacle they're the barnacle goose is a is a figure and we should get into that another time because it's a whole story. I cannot cannot wait. Any more fun words from Sammy Johnson? A jiggumbob. Jiggumbob A jiggumbob. Does that mean what it sounds

like? Does that mean something that's just sort of a trinket? Knickknack, a slight contrivance in machinery, which he's tolerant of this one, but not twiddle twaddle. Yeah, it's funny that. Yeah, right. I like that word, but not this one. He has a couple of like cute definitions,

too. Like for hiss, he notes that it is remarkable that this word cannot be pronounced without making the noise it signifies, which is also true of like a lot of onomatopoetic words and things like that. But I do like that he notes that on hiss. Yeah, hiss. Like lisp. And yeah,

I also like his um he he likes the word agog. He seems to anyway, which means he defines as in a state of desire, in a state of imagination, heated with the notion of some enjoyment or longing. Agog in case you are unaware, is from the old French en gogues. I don't know how to pronounce it in French, but it means in jest basically or in good humor from the French word for the old French word for fun. Okay. So that doesn't really imply its current meaning, does it? Yeah. No,

it's very different. But it could also mean like joyfulness. So I think maybe um and a go I feel like is more like I feel like it it pairs well with aghast. Yeah. Or agape. Yeah. These

words have kind of they've probably influenced each other the meaning. Yeah. Because they get put together a lot. Yeah. Uh he he describes uh a syncopist as a contractor of words. Oh,

I love that. Yeah. Someone who shortens words, which I like syncopation. Yeah. Exactly. Like

syncupation. Yeah. Musical syncopation. This is a note on this is one of your definitions earlier where I I'm surprised he didn't get in trouble for it and maybe he did, but the definition for heresy is an opinion of private men different from that of the Catholic and Orthodox Church. Oo. Oh yeah.

He doesn't have much time for the Catholics, does he? He also his description of Reformation and Reformer are all about how excellent it is to get away from the popish types and the popish ways. I do think it's interesting that ninncompoop and curmudgeon he has incorrect origins for. He's the one who notes non compo mentis as a possible origin of nincompoop which we've addressed before is not where it comes from. Probably not anyway. Yeah, we don't actually know. No one actually

knows but probably. And then curmudgeon is not from the French for like a broken heart or a wicked heart, but is probably a mashup of like corn merchant or it could just be like mudgeon could be uh from a Gaelic word meaning a disagreeable person. Corn merchant. Corn merchant. Yeah, but it's probably not that. It's probably the the Gaelic word. That's rubbish. I hate that. I

don't like that at all. I don't like the idea. It's just a slur word and that's that becomes it. Back to our words that you could borrow for future use. I challenge you to introduce any of these into your uh into your lexicon this week. One of them is ophiophagous which is

serpent eating you know as we do. Another one is galericulate which means covered with a hat or sorry galericulate if it's an adjective. So yeah covered with a hat. Galericulate today. This one may be more useful. blunderhead, which is a a stupid fellow adultic skull, or a fopdoodle,

which is a foolish or insignificant person. Yeah, those ones sound like what they are, right? Exactly. Those ones are all right. Well, as we round this off, can I leave you with a merrythought? Yeah. Which is the definition of the word merrythought, which

is actually not what you'd expect because I bet you're guessing if you're watching this that oh, you know, it's just a a happy thought, right? a merry thought. But no, it's not. It is a forked bone on the body of fowls. It's a wishbone. It's a wishbone. So-called because boys and girls

pull in play at both sides. The longest part broken off betokening priority of marriage. There you go. Sweet little word for the personal lexican merry thought. But what he has done for our collective lexican Samuel Johnson, we're very very grateful to him for it. dictionary. Johnson,

the harmless drudge. He's such a delight. Uh we highly you you can access the entire dictionary online. So we highly recommend jumping in and and digging around for some treasure because every every single definition has a little something to look at. Yeah. And if you are a true word nerd,

that's where you should go next. After that, go to our shop, get yourself a word nerd t-shirt, as I've been wearing all the way through this episode. It's bringing me bringing me great inspiration. We do have a new design in there this week, too. It pertains to animal collectives. It's so good. Let's at least let's leave that as a a little tease. But if you like

your crazy collective nons, we've got a very special one for you that we just put up over there. Very fun. Congrats again on the hard copy of your book, Jess. Thank you. Thank you. I I It's coming out on October 7th, so grab yourself one. It's very pretty and I'm very happy.

And Samuel Johnson makes several appearances throughout. So glorious. Thank you very much for watching or listening to this episode of Words Unravelled. We'll catch you next time.