---
video_title: "Exposing grammar myths and mistakes with Grammar Girl"
video_id: 9C9nvVUEuOI
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9C9nvVUEuOI
video_date: 2025-07-16
video_description: |
  Is it "on accident" or "by accident"? Should "red, white, and blue" have that second comma? Is "10 items or less" okay? Jess and Rob are joined by the internet's Grammar Girl, Mignon Fogarty, to examine some common grammatical myths and mistakes.
  
  🥳 Is it wrong to use "fun" as an adjective?
  🏎️ Is "drive SLOW" bad grammar? (or just a flat adverb?)
  🥃 Why does "tonic and gin" sound weird?
  
  These questions answered, as well as many more, on Words Unravelled.
  
  Mignon's podcast: https://www.quickanddirtytips.com/grammar-girl/
  Mignon's books: https://www.amazon.com/stores/Mignon-Fogarty/author/B001JS0XMW
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
Why does cheese and macaroni sound wrong? Is it by accident or on accident? And what's wrong with the American young singer? We are verbing nouns, flattening adverbs, and discussing all things grammar today with Grammar Girl herself here on this episode of Words Unravelled. Welcome to another Words Unravelled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel RobWords. And I'm Jess

Zafarris, author of the forthcoming book Useless Etymology. And today we have a special guest, our first ever guest, uh, to discuss all things grammar with us. I am so excited to introduce my friend Minan Fogarty, known for years now as Grammar Girl, The Grammar Girl across the web. Truly a word legend of the internet. She's an author, podcaster, educator, blogger, short form video personality, and many more things. Mignon, welcome. Thank you, Jess. I am so excited to be

here. So honored to be your first guest. We're so thrilled to have you because if if anyone has ever Googled a grammatical question, there's a good chance whether they've known it or not, that the answer that they've read, the definitive one was written by Mignon. So, we've got the right person here. Can you give us a a rundown on on how you became Grammar Girl and when? I've been doing

this, gosh, almost 20 years, believe it or not. And um I was working as a science and technology writer and editor in Silicon Valley. And because I love technology, I heard about this this new thing called podcasting. And I wanted to try it. I wanted to do it. And um I realized for my editing

clients, I was correcting the same mistakes over and over again. And because I was using different style guides, sometimes AP, sometimes Chicago, I was constantly looking things up myself and creating weird little memory tricks to help help me remember all the different rules. And I thought, well, maybe people would like, you know, a quick and dirty tip about grammar once a week. You know, something my mom always said, oh, let's just do a quick and dirty job on these dishes or something like that. Yeah. So, um, I started Grammar Girls quick and dirty tips for

better writing largely on a whim and to play with podcasting. I I went down to the coffee shop and, you know, wrote out three um, quick scripts and and put them up on back then it was called iTunes, not Apple podcasts, and it it just rocketed up the charts. It was unbelievable. It was it was number one for a while. Just this little show about writing. It really matters to people in this

day and age because we write a lot. know day-to-day we do a lot of writing we produce a lot of text and grammar is at the center of all of that and actually there's so there are a few things you know you've been doing this for two decades I'm I'm going to be interested to hear about sort of modern changes in grammar that have happened just over that period and also I I I just wanted to ask you a really basic question and that is so what is grammar oh no it's such a it's actually it is the first line you didn't know this but It's the first line in the first sentence of my first book is about um how I call myself grammar girl, but my dirty little secret is that what I'm not talking about grammar most of the time. And um you know, I'm talking about usage and punctuation. You know, when I'm talking about which versus that, who versus whom, that's like barely grammar. That's usage. You know, how to use a semicolon, definitely not grammar. That's punctuation. That's

mechanics, you know. And so it's funny like early on I would get some criticism for from linguists and people like that would say you're not even talking about grammar. How could you call yourself grammar girl? But you know my argument is always that the average person if you go up to someone on the street street and ask them what grammar is it's going to be all those things. It's the things they learned in school about writing. And so I feel like I'm using the common definition of

grammar the understood meaning of what is grammar. And in the interest of this being an etymology podcast, that definition has changed dramatically throughout its history. Like in Latin and Greek, grammar was a much broader field of study referring to any type of learning and scholarship, but primarily language. And then it when it ported over into English, it was Latin and French learning. And then over time, grammar school was extended to any type of schooling. And then

we narrowed back down to words and and language and usage. I love that grammar and glamour come from the same root. Roy Peter Clark has a book called The Glamour of Grammar because the words are related. When you talk about usage versus grammar, if you're trying to decide whether to use that or which, it does depend on the grammar of the sentence, doesn't it? Which one you choose?

So, they're they're intertwined. They are. Yeah. Restrictive versus non-restrictive clause. That's grammar. Usage is more like, you know, affect versus effect or something like that, word choice.

And just the very fact that there are multiple style guides tells you that grammar is not fixed, right? That there are not that sometimes there are right and wrong answers. Of course, you have to be understood, but there is disagreement over some of the points that many people hold sacred, which I think might be a good route for us to go down in in this podcast. Those sort of commonly held beliefs about grammatical errors that maybe are errors themselves. I don't know. Minan talks about

this a lot in the grammar daily there. This is a really fun book by the way. Um, it has a lot of exercises and interactivity including puzzles and things too which I really enjoy. But some of what we are going to talk about today appears in these pages. I will die on the hill that using a serial comma, the Oxford comma is a style choice. So the AP style doesn't use it in simple sentences. I

use it. I love it. My house style is essentially AP but with the serial comma. But it is a style choice. It is not wrong to not use it in simple sentences. So this is if you if you've got three

options, putting a comma before the and that goes before the final option, which is something I was taught not to do at school, but I have since sort of adopted, but not in all cases. Like you say, I think it's sometimes most people a lot of people were taught like it's either you absolutely have to put it in or you absolutely have to leave it out. And it it you know, you don't you don't if your sentence is understandable, right? And and if you're following AP style, then you don't use it in a sentence like red, white, and blue. It's just so simple, you don't need it. But if you're following Chicago style, you would use it. When you definitely do use it,

are there situations where you've perhaps got two ands involved in the same sentence? Exactly. Yeah. Anytime there'd be confusion, you want to use it. Of course, it's, you know, writing is about clarity. So in sentences that go beyond the simple, then you should essentially always use it.

Something else that you've written about that's commonly sort of picked up on by people who would describe themselves as pedants to be fair and they're correct is less and fewer. It's something I've talked about on my own channel before. Less versus fewer. Can you just explain to us what the commonly held belief is and whether or not it's correct? Yeah, this is really interesting because there's a traditional rule that a lot of people learn that you use um less for things that are uncountable and fewer for things that are countable. But then there are

all these exceptions like time, money, distance. There's a rule that actually the Chicago Manual of Style uses too is singular versus plural instead. And so you use less for things that are singular and fewer for things that are plural. And then that takes care of all the exceptions because think of it this way, amounts of money. You wouldn't say $100 are a lot of money. You would

say $100 is a lot of money. Oh, it's singular. And so then, you know, you use less. You know, less than $100 because it's singular. And it also covers the um the rule that people get confused about is whe when you're talking about one, is it one less banana or one fewer banana? And a lot of

people will think it's fewer because bananas are countable. But one banana is singular. And so it's one less banana. So So that plural singular rule, which isn't how most people learn it, that is the one that covers all the ways we naturally use those words anyway that sound right to us. Ooh, I didn't know this. Hang on. So, so this Yeah, this is a revelation to me as well. I've I've

never differentiated in this way. I've done the sort of the continuous versus discrete thing, but but ne never this singular plural. Yeah. I always thought it had to do with definite versus indefinite amount. And this is blowing my mind because, you know, like you you wouldn't say like fewer sugar or fewer gasoline, but okay. So, are people right to take a Sharpie to their local

local grocery store signage that says 15 items or less? Oh, that's a tougher one. So Merriam Webster says it's idiomatic to to have 10 items or less. It basically and all that just means is we all kind of agree that that sounds right. Yeah. There's zero ambiguity. It's it's somewhat

violates the rule. It violates the rule. But then there is like this one way of thinking about it. So we use many or much. So many is how many is for countable and how much is for non-countable.

Right? Right? So, if you're standing there looking at the conveyor belt in the grocery store, you know, you could say, "How many am I allowed to bring through?" or "How much am I allowed to bring through?" So, you're thinking of, are you thinking of your groceries as individual items, or is like this mass of groceries that you're putting on the conveyor belt? So, that is an argument you can use

to say 10 items or less is acceptable. But, but really, I think it's just that idiomatic kind of thing. Like we've seen it on signs so much we accept it. The massive supermarket chain in Britain, Tesco, got in hot water for its 10 items or less sign. It was a few years ago. It's over a

decade ago. Do you know what their solution was? Do you know what they changed it to? It's such a what they do a depressing copout. They changed it to up to 10 items. Oh, which means something

else because that means nine max, doesn't it? It does. Not having it. I feel like, you know, I'll die on the hill of the com serial comma. I just don't feel like I want to die on the hill of 10 items or less. It just doesn't whatever. There is some an interesting note in the Guardian style

guide about this though, and they point out that there is a clear difference between fewer bad people and less bad people. Oh, yeah. Right. Because fewer bad people is fewer in number. Less bad people are less well, we don't know how many there are, but they're not as bad. You know

what I mean? In these situations, it really does matter. In other situations, it feels to me like fewer is a subsection of less. And by the way, you can find it being used in the way that people get very upset by, you know, as far back as the 1500s, you know, Henry VIII's time. And if that is in any way a measure of what how correct something is that it's been done for centuries, then it's okay.

That's why people who get real tied up about the figurative use of the word literally. I can't get behind that because like Mark Twain used it, Dickens used uh literally to mean figuratively and so did let's see it's in F. Scott Fitzgerald's works and Jane Austen even makes fun of people for being pedantic about it subtly in her works too. I do find myself reaching to my own defense on grammar points by just looking back at past quotes and finding people who did it hundreds of years ago. Tell them they've been wrong. In my newsletter the other day, I used the phrase the choice

between small, medium, and large. And I got a few emails saying, you should have said among there, not between. Between is only between two people. I thought, well, a choice among small, medium, and large sounds very unnatural to me. So, I go to the OED and I have a look and it says, haha, one or more items. And there's a quote from Samuel Johnson where he lists three vindicated.

Am I vindicated? Is is this one of those issues that you you've heard minion of the the whole among versus between thing? Absolutely. And and again like the if you dig deep into the the rule when you're talking about a choice between distinct items, you can use between for more than two. So, you know, if you're saying like like she was choosing between uh you know, Harvard, Yale, and Princeton, like between is right. You wouldn't say she's choosing among Harvard, Yale,

and Princeton. Like, it just it they're distinct units. So, 100% vindicated. Great. Thank you very much, Man. That's exactly what I need to hear. And the quote that I will be sending to everyone

who email me about this. But I I completely get their point though, right? Because you are among a crowd. you're not between a crowd. So there has to there is a difference between between and among I just think it maybe doesn't work when you're talking about decisions etc. Rob and I have talked

a lot before about uh the fact that because of the topic we discuss and I'm sure you get this too. We're not allowed to make mistakes without someone being like aha I thwarted the word nerd. I'm sure you're not either right? That that's why my show is scripted or was scripted for so many years. So now like my Tuesday show is scripted. That's sort of like the traditional original show that's about

rules and stuff that is completely scripted because you can you're just not allowed to make mistakes, right? And but then on I've sort of loosened up and now on Thursdays I have interviews and those shows are obviously not scripted and more loose. But but yeah, people do have higher expectations of people who make word shows which is fair. Absolutely. Um speaking of which, we got we got into a a discussion. Rob really has an aversion to the word winningest and it's

because it's a superlative that doesn't feel right. And so you mentioned we in the run-up to the show you mentioned funnest as another form of superlative adjective resistance. So so why do we why does this feel weird versus most fun? No, it's super interesting because you know before I became Grammar Girl, I didn't even know that some people object to using fun as an adjective. You know, saying that was a fun party. Oh, okay. That's new to I didn't know it until now. Oh, really? Okay.

Oh, okay. So, like older people, you know, like our grandparents, they thought it was wrong to say a fun party. Fun was a noun. That party was a lot of fun. But you couldn't say a fun party.

It was considered wrong as an adjective. What it was? It was a droll party. A Yeah. A delightful party. Fun is a thing you have. Yeah. Fun was not an adjective. It just It just wasn't. They

didn't think of fun as an adjective. And then, you know, I'm not sure exactly when it started, but I think it was in the the 50s or so that or the 60s that people started using fun pretty regularly as an adjective, but it was still controversial like like when I started Grammar Girl 20 years ago or so, like I would still get calls from older people saying, you know, you really shouldn't be saying fun and that that you have a fun like you have a fun show. You know, I made a card game at one point and I debated whether to call it a fun game in the advertising because I had gotten complaints, but I did. I did. It's a fun game. But um yeah, and so because

there's this objection to fun as an adjective that has largely gone away, but it it seems like the um the superlative has lagged in acceptance. So, right. So, like people were like, "Okay, fun can be an adjective, but funnest is a bridge too far, you know, like like there was still that objection to funner and funnest." So, people are okay with most fun though, are they? Um, I think it would draw less attention because people are used to hearing fun as an adjective now. But adding that that next step, like what all adjectives do, you know, it was furry. It was

furrier. It was furriest. That's a weird example, but but you know, we do that with all our adjectives. But but fun, I think because it's such a new adjective, we aren't as used to hearing those words. And so I think that's why they stand out. I do hear Rob's objection to winningest too because

you wouldn't say like excitingest. It seems that you wouldn't turn as many like participles into superlatives typically if they already have the ing on the end. There's actually a rule about the number of syllables in a word. So if it's three syllables or more, you're supposed to use more or most. Most objectionable versus objectionablest. Yes. Yes. Good one. Okay. So yes, exactly.

And if it's a one syllable word, then you always add eer or est. So it's taller, tallest, not more tall or so. Yeah. But then two syllable words are in this gray area. There's some rule about like sort of how you pick if it's a two syllable word whether you use more or most or er or est.

But it's like there's this clear rule for one syllable words and three syllable words or more. I'd got it in my head and I I don't think I'm totally wrong about this that there was a sort of Germanic-Romance thing going on in the difference between when we use more something or we put the the est at the end of it. So Germanic things like you know biggest but then it falls down in so many places because they're using the more thing to make something a superlative is a very French thing to do right they don't put something on the end of a word to make a superlative they put glue and that makes it the most something so it's a direct translation I think you're right though I was about to say this too the the est ending is a Germanic suffix even the word most itself is a is a combination of words meaning like more and and the est ending. It's the more-est. Mhm. Yeah. And

like when we say like utmost and things, these are always Germanic words. So it may feel and a lot of Germanic words are well not a lot, but a decent amount of Germanic adjectives are monosyllabic. So adding the est might sound older or more familiar and therefore more right. But of course since 60% of our language is not that um then we uh we've become more accustomed to other superlatives over time with the est. It's quite likely it's one of those constructions that the the Normans gave us is the the using the more thing because there's no doubt that in old English to create a superlative you were adding characters to the end of a sent to to to the end of a word rather than using a word to make it as such. So it's definitely a French habit but it doesn't fit. For example,

commonist is a word. When you hear common is very obviously a French derived word or largest large. I don't think large is a Germanic word, right? You wouldn't say more the most large. Oh, I mean you things you could, couldn't you? But yeah, the one that always messes me up is clear

because you can say more clear or clearer. I like more clear, but I think you're supposed to say clearer because it's one syllable. So that one I am always like fighting the rule. Right. Yeah. And and there are clearly more exceptions to this romance versus Germanic thing that that are

sustainable. The the current rule is definitely a syllable thing. [Music] I think this probably leads into one of the other topics we wanted to get into and that's flat adverbs like drive slow. Can you talk a little bit about that, Mignon? A lot of peants, as you'll say, will, you know, criticize signs that say drive slow. But, um, that's a completely legitimate grammatical

structure because English has this thing called flat adverbs, and slow is one. And so, we have slowly is the regular adverb. Slow is the flat adverb. We have closely is the regular adverb, but close is the flat adverb. Stay close. Stay close. Listen closely. You know, so they they have

different sometimes they have different meanings, but they don't always. Drive fast is another one. Fast is a flat adverb. And they are these adjectives that can function as adverbs. And we have them. We just do. They're like a normal part of English. But sometimes people have picked up on

them and think when especially when there's two when you have slow and slowly, people will say, "Well, you should use slowly." But we have a slow like we can use it if we want to. Actually, an interesting thing is that they used to be more common. So, if you look at old writing, you'll see things like it was violent, hot, or he was horrid, angry. Those are all flat adverbs that, you know, we just kind of stopped using. At school, you're told that an adverb is a -ly word, right? A word

ending ly. Maybe it's just that people aren't aren't pleased to see the music otherwise. But sometimes, presumably, it is sort of clunky and and incorrect. I I wonder about usages like I was hurt bad or something. Is that okay or is should it always be badly? Well, so bad isn't for

whatever reason considered a flat adverb. A flat Yeah, a flat adverb. So there are instances where you you are just getting it wrong. There's sort of a class of words and and like why why is slow a flat adverb and bad not? I have no idea. But yeah, but like bad would not is not a flat adverb.

you should say, you know, he swam badly or something like that. In the other instances, hurt. If you are hurt badly, isn't that badly is being used or bad or badly is used as an adjective there, right? Well, I say it depends on whether the person who hurt you did a bad job of it, in which case you've been hurt badly. So maybe that's that's the distinction there. It's not necessarily

being a flat adverb. It's it's masquerading as a as an adjective. You got me I was starting to go down the path of linking verbs versus action verbs. So, and because it comes up a lot with bad, like I feel bad or I feel badly. Um, but that has to do with linking verbs and not flat adverbs, right? The the uh degree to which one feels bad versus the mechanism by which you feel it is working

badly. And so, are these flat adverbs are they interchangeable with the sort of standard form verbs? Usually, like drive slow and drive slowly, they mean the same thing, but um there's some instances where they're different like with close. So stand close. You could say stand closely, but that sounds kind of weird. You could say look closely sounds more normal than like look close.

Like look closely at this p— this paper, you know, look close at this paper. Like they're not wrong, but we tend to use them in different situations. So much of grammar appears to be about feel, which is kind of unfair on learners really, isn't it? We've also discussed in the past that the ly ending that you see on many adverbs is cognate with the word like in English and other Germanic languages. So when you say Mignon phrased that cleverly, you were saying she phrased it clever like. Oh, nice. I didn't know any of you. Yeah, it's wonderful. It just is the word like,

which is fantastic. It's much more obvious in Dutch where they say like at the end. Let's shift a little bit. Um, I would love to know another another thing that like sounds weird or can sound weird if you use it wrong, so to speak, would be um we we have some phrases that sound like they're supposed to be in certain orders, like binomials like salt and pepper or macaroni and cheese, but pepper and salt and macaroni and cheese sound wrong. Why? Why do they sound wrong? Yeah,

cheese and macaroni sounds wrong. Yeah, I love this topic. Um, they're called frozen binomials. So there are these pairs of words we have like macaroni and cheese, salt and pepper. You can only say them one way. They they only sound normal one way. And linguists have been studying this for,

you know, at least 60 years, probably longer. I read one thing that said it went studying this went went back to like Samaria like like it's been an age-old question, but like studies have been done a lot. And linguists have come up with, you know, a lot of theories about what drives it that so there are exceptions to all of them. Um, but typically the shorter word will come first. So like salt and pepper. Salt is shorter. The person who has more power will come first. So often like

king and queen often that means the man comes first in a pair. But there are some instances where the woman will come first like bride and groom. And they're they theorize because the bride is the center of attention at a wedding. Then um the more common thing will come first. So, if you're talking about a horse and carriage, well, you know, we talk about horses more than we talk about carriages. So, the more common word will come first. You shouldn't put the carriage before

the horse, right? Oh, yeah. Yeah. I know it's cart, but that's what they say. The more positive thing might come first. So, friend or foe, friend will come first because it's more positive.

One thing that a lot of these have in common is that it's it's the word that's going to come to mind first when um you're trying to think of the pair. You know, salt is more than pepper. Oh, and with macaroni and cheese, that goes to the rule that where the main things comes first. So, it's macaroni with cheese. You know, it's ham with eggs. It's the thing that we think of as the

main part of the meal that usually comes first. We call it macaroni cheese in Britain. We don't call it macaroni and cheese. Yeah. We live out the and, but I it's sort of hinting at the same idea, right? It does the same thing. Or would it be cheese? No, cheese macaroni actually makes more

more sense, doesn't it? Some cheesy macaroni. Like a cheese sandwich. Yeah. So So linguists have been looking for patterns in why we do it like this. But I mean, does there have to be a pattern

necessarily? Could there not? Could these pairings I I like how I'm coming up with my own theory just in the middle of a podcast. But are they not just idiomatic pairings and that's why they sound more natural? We have started saying them a certain way and then we get used to hearing them a certain way. It's interesting they can be flipped for um like like in songs usually we say day and

night and oh and the order of events also like if something happens first then it comes first like kiss and tell. Well you have to kiss before you can tell. So that's the order of that. So like day typically we think of day as coming before night. So day and night, but then there's the famous song night and day. And then you know jin and tonic. Jin is the the main part of the drink

and the tonic you just sort of add like the cheese to the mac. Yeah. Billy Joel says tonic and jin in one of his songs, doesn't he? And it catches your ear. It's effective. Exactly. And so it's for the

rhyme. It can be said the other way, but we tend to stick with them because it just again kind of like I guess the the flat adverbs in certain instances it just sounds right. And sometimes that's just what's governing language. Sometimes it has to do with ablaut reduplication too, right? The like bing bang boom sound order sound, right? Not every time obviously the the

um it seems the rules that you've outlined here rules so to speak that you've outlined here take precedence over about reduplication, but you always put like you would say sing song and not song sing. Yeah, I think that's a little bit of a different thing cuz it's not like I I guess yeah, sing and song are both thing. Well, no, cuz sing is a verb. So, I mean, all the ones I'm thinking of are aren't they all nouns? Like, like the horse before the cart, horse and cart, salt and pepper, mac and cheese, all nouns. Well, live and learn would be live. Oh, that would follow that pattern.

That also has to do with order, right? Yeah. You have to live before you can learn. But Jess has mentioned ablaut reduplication. Can we talk about that? Can we Can we dillydally on that for

a while? Dilly. Yeah, there you go. Let's keep away from the prittle pattle. It was in order, right? It's of the sounds. It's always like tick- tock, uh, ding-dong, ping pong. Yeah.

It always has to be the ih before the ah. And for some reason, we've decided that's the case. And if you say dong ding, it sounds like a deliberate reversal. It's like I, A, O, and then I think you can put E after the I or before it because you get like bric-a-brack, chitchat, crisscross, pitterpatter. Just sounds more right. Speaking of things that either si sound right or wrong.

I don't actually know how to pronounce this. By the way, is it OSASCOMP? What is this? OSASCOMP. OSASCOMP. I've only ever seen it differently. I've only ever seen it written down. But this is about the

order in which we use adjectives. It's so wild in terms of like, you know, things that sound right because if you grow up speaking English, you just put your adjectives in this particular order. And the way I remember the order is is this. It sort of sounds like a word OSASCOMP and it's opinion, size, age, shape, color, origin, material, and purpose. So, you know, you talk about the young American singer. So, that's age comes before origin. So, young American singer. If you

say the American young singer sounds completely wrong. That's so strange. really like as far as I can tell nobody really knows why. Um there's some handwaving about cognition in the brain and the speed with which we process um different kinds of adjectives but but really it it like always comes back to it just sounds right to people this way. It is in our heads this order. We do not break it.

You do not hear people breaking it no matter their level of of you know education in the grammar of the English language. You either get it right or you get it wrong and and and it sounds wrong if you do get it wrong. And it's another place where I feel sorry for people who are learning English because it's another thing that they kind of have to memorize that we just do naturally. We create examples when they are tied to like storytelling and things like big bad wolf violates it. It als it it doesn't violate ablaut reduplication but it does violate OSASCOMP because bad bad is the opinion opinion. Yeah. So should he bad the bad big wolf? Yeah. Ah, yeah. Okay. All right.

I'll try that next time. Next time I'm reading it to my little girl. I've seen in other instances where sometimes abot reduplication can revert in other scenarios, too. Like the big ugly bear or something like that. Poor bear. I bet he's very handsome. The big handsome bear. There are also

times when it can the meaning because you're it can change the meaning. So, when I talked about the the green square tile, you know, if I have a wall full of square tiles, and I want to point one out to you, I would say there's the green square tile. But if I have a wall of green tiles, and they're all different shapes, I might say there's the square green tile. But depending on like what you're pointing out among a sea of something else, you can change the order to draw attention to the thing you want to draw attention to. So, like the rule doesn't hold up like all the time. time and sometimes it can change meaning, but in general people people do follow the rule.

You would say things like a pretty new red silk dress. That's how that that order would go. It's interesting because English is more flexible than a lot of other languages in how we order things in sentences. It's just on this is very picky. Like in in German there's this thing time, manner, place, and you're supposed to when you construct your sentence give those bits of information in that order. time, when it's happening, how it's happening, and where it's happening before you

probably get to your second verb at the end to try and surprise you. But in English, we can rearrange those things, and it's all right. So, it's it's bizarre that we have this prescriptive way of ordering our adjectives like this. It's bizarre. I just noticed that I just started doing Duolingo German and I'm like, what do you mean I can't put werk anywhere in the sentence? Like, in English,

I could put that anywhere. Imagine the Germans not being flexible. Oh no. Totally out of character. Ring the stereotype bell. [Music] What you were saying Mignon about whenever it's not flexible

it creates difficulties for non-native English speakers because there are a number of examples of like it for another example is collocation. We have collectively decided that it sounds right for certain words to stick together. And it sounds a little odd when you choose a different version. Like you would say deeply regret, happily married, woefully ignorant. And those words sound like they go together because we have repeated them together in media and in literature for so long. They they

sound functional. And we do it with simple verb phrases that include like do like do time or go astray or make a difference. There's no necessary reason why doing time should be the more common phrase than like spending time which we also do but you say do time in a particular scenario to indicate that you're spending time in prison. Yeah. Yeah, it comes up with prepositions a lot too for people who are learning English like am I in a restaurant or am I at a restaurant and it's like well both maybe sometimes it depends and there's something to do with like transportation modes of transportation like are you in a boat or on a boat and it depends on like what the boat is doing it's it's it's tough it's really tough I think a lot of learners would say that is the the major peculiarity of English is its use of prepositions particularly prepositional you know verbs where we we group prepositions to to differentiate them. Uh why why w why is to to

wipe up and to wipe out? They're very different in in vastly different things connotations. Yeah. I have a LinkedIn learning course on plain writing with plain language. And one of the um one of the pieces of advice is to try to avoid phrasal verbs because um ESL speakers um have a much harder time comprehending phrasal verb. So if you can, it's always better to choose the the action, you know,

the the one-word verb. One I always think of in when I'm playing these off against each other is is give up and surrender, right? Oh, there you go. That's a good one. Yeah. Yeah. It's easier to say

surrender than to say to to give up. But it only works in a certain situation. Yeah. Because to give out is very different. To give off is also very different. And you don't want to say I'm

giving off something. And it's because preposition use has been like so arbitrary for like its entire history. If you look back at like the earlier meanings of like at and on and by, they could mean completely different things than they do now. That kind of reminds me of on accident versus by accident. I feel like these are very interchangeable now. But some people are pedantic

about it. Right. I am. I'm not having on accident. Tell me that's okay. Really? That sounds wrong to

you? On accident sounds absolutely wrong. What I what I think has happened there is someone has thought of on on purpose and and you know these two ideas of it being accidental or intentional and they've just taken the on from on purpose and they put it before accident. That's what I think has happened. But I know this is this is something I'm going to have to learn to live with, isn't it? Well, this is actually really an interesting one, too, because there was a linguist who studied

this particular phenomenon and found that it was directly age related. So if you were born before 1970, you will say by accident. And if you were born after 1995, you will say on accident. And like in between those years, it's like you can say people tend to say either. Um and nobody knows why this happened. Nobody knows why young people just started saying on accident at some point. Um I I

really deeply in my heart I believe it has to be some sort of mass media phenomenon. there has to have been a cartoon or something like that that kids heard um around that time that caused them to start speaking using saying it differently because you will hear people argue that it's like oh well you know we're seeking parallel parallelism it's it's on purpose so then they're seeking parallel parallelism by saying on accident and it's like I don't know any six-year-olds who seek parallelism you know and why would they have just started doing it in you know 1975 you know so I just do not buy the the seeking parallelism argument about why it happened. Like it might be why it um persisted, but um I just think it has to be some mass media event that caused kids to start um saying it differently. Probably an American one because that sounds perfectly normal to me having been born in 1990 and Rob's a couple years older than me and British. So, and that sounds Yeah, I'm going to say I I don't think I've heard on accident out of a British mouth actually ever.

I think that's why it decided you're right. So strange to me. It was Barney. It was Barney. I I have no proof. It was Barney. But I I respect. Let's blame it all on Barney cuz I'm going to

fight back as a peaceloving guy. Speaking of of younger folks and their their terms. You reminded me in the the prep for this episode of one of my favorite internet isms and it's because internet, right? People actually think that might have started with Saturday Night Live. The phenomenon is you say like um oh my report's going to be late because because reasons. Because reasons. Yeah,

because reasons. Uh yeah, I'm trying to think of a good reason. Um because reasons. And you know, people didn't always say that. Like you might say because of reasons. That that was a way you

might have said it. And because is normally uh a conjunction. You know, you would say um I'm my assignment is going to be late because the dog ate it, you know, or something like that. And then you can say because of my dog. And now we just say because dog. When we do that,

we're doing it knowingly, aren't we? Aren't people doing it knowingly? It's still kind of a slangy thing. Yeah. It's not like you're not going to find it in an annual report for a bank, right? People know that they are flouting a rule and it's funny, right? It's a funny way to to to

to flout that rule. It reads to me as a Twitterism because I guess that's probably where I saw it. And it's also it requires fewer characters than adding an extra preposition or something. That's also the name of a wonderful book Because Internet by Gretchen McCulloch who is a linguist who studies the way people talk online, right? Yeah. Yeah. We probably all got one copy of it somewhere. Yeah.

Great book. Yeah. So, so people actually think um Neil Whitman wrote about this for me. A linguist name Whitman wrote about for me many years ago. I think like I don't know back in 2012 or something like that. And people think that it started with Saturday Night Live. They had a a recurring skit

where they would say um something about like I don't quite understand it but like if you're falling pretend to be a dummy because someone might catch you. Hey free dummy and somehow that that hey became a thing. So like when life gives you lemons, keep them because hey, free lemons, you know. And then it was like because hey. And then the thought is that eventually people dro dropped the hey. So now like you know if life gives you lemons, keep them because free lemons

and and so they dropped the hey. And so that the thinking is that like that's where it came from and that's how it evolved. And then and then yeah it's just fun to say and initially it also in a lot of times would have a sense of it being a bad reason or a ridiculous reason. If you say because internet you're blaming something far too big to actually be science right and but I think but I think it has like taken I think it's gone beyond that initial place where the the reason was always bad and now people just kind of use it with with any reason. So I think it's sort of expanding like that but it's still kind of considered slang. You're not going to hear a bank say, you know,

interest rates are up because inflation, which I mean, it's good good explan good explanation. Why not? That's a fun I I don't know, grammar twist that reminds me of nouning and verbing like nouning our verbs and verbing our nouns, which we talk about a lot. Obviously, this is a story of a noble tradition in the English language for Shakespeare has been doing this for many, many a millennia. He used ghosted, which I like. unfriend things like that which I guess that's

yeah to portcullis he used that as well to dog as well that's a Shakespeare back formations too are basically the same thing like when a we'll adopt a it's more likely to adopt a tion noun into English directly from French or Latin and then we reverb it um we make like evaluate regurgitate exploit destruct became English words after evaluation regurgitation exploitation and destruction my favorite back formation is edit We had editors first and then later we got the verb edit to edit. Same with babysit. We we initially had babysitters and then later we got the verb babysit. Oh, that's fun. But we're terribly resistant to these nowadays, right? I mean, people are terribly

resistant. I'm terribly resistant to them. I get very upset if someone says they're going to inbox me, for example. Or they're going to calendar something. They sound some of them sound like corporatisms nowadays. Maybe that's why it is. Maybe I because I only hear those in corporate

contexts, but it is a normal thing. And it's one that um you mentioned, Mignon, which is versing. I've actually never come across this, so I'm I'm not I don't have my finger on the pulse at all. You're not you're not a gamer, right? No, that that'll do it. Well, Scrabble, you're right. No,

it's so interesting. Like I started getting um you know calls from listeners who would be like my my they always thought their child had made it up right so say my kid made is using the word versing they just made it up with their friends but it it actually goes back to at least the 1980s and it seems like it probably comes from um gaming um computer games you know you talk about player A versus player B. And you know, if you think about it, like again, if you think about the grammar, like it kind of makes sense that kids would extend it because you might say like Sue dances with Bob, right? And then you say Sue is dancing with Bob. So if you're saying like player A versus player B, well then it makes sense to say player A is versing player B. Like it follows the same

pattern. And so so that's where it comes from. people think so it should be versusing then really if we're going to apply it right because the us at the end of verses is not the same as at the end of of dancers this is quite a common thing actually there was a TV show that was very popular called man versus food but in that they always pronounced it man verse food used to drive I hate that yeah I think that too yeah it's the name of the show you know just just you can't just knock off a couple of letters I don't know why but that is happening with with versing, right? Because it should be verses. It is. Yeah. And kids will say uh they will say I I'm I verse him. Yeah.

They will use verse without verses. And we got to get used to I mean I've never come across it, but it's going to another another place that comes up I' I've heard is in schools, you know, like if you're saying um as a substitute for playing our school is versing the other school in a spelling bee because you're not really playing a spelling bee, right? So versing also like fills this gap that kind of makes sense in certain situations. One of these a variation on a similar phenomenon that's been taking up too much brain space of mine lately is I've been writing for dictionary.com slang dictionary and occasionally they'll send me one that I'm like I haven't heard of before because it's like Gen Alpha slang. And the one I'm still trying to wrap my head around

a little bit is gurting. It means but it also doesn't mean to do something smart but dangerous. But it's often associated with memes of things that are don't seem smart but dangerous to me. So it's got like 10 different recursive associations with different memes. But ultimately it's a shortening of the word yogurt which was made into the sentence yo gurt and then gurt became a character and then gurting became a thing that character would do. And of course there's going to

be someone who watches this and is like that's not that's not what that means. But maybe I'll know next week once I finish writing this. Yeah, I haven't heard that one either. That's wild. [Music] Thank you, Mignon. This has been the funnest time. We're so excited to have had you on

our show. I am most delighted to have been here. Is uh Do you have any new books coming up? Would you like to plug your podcast? Yeah. Yeah. Check out my podcast, Grammar Girl's Quick and Dirty

Tips for Better Writing, with more than a thousand episodes. Anything you might want to know about language, it's probably there. And and we and we have a lot of fun. Grab the Grammar Daily. It's really fun. I've got one as well. This is Grammar Girls quick and dirty tips for better writing. If

you want to write better, she didn't ask us to plug any of this. I should point this out. We're doing it because we Yeah, man's here because we like what she does. and thank you so much for doing it on our humble little podcast. Not quite a thousand episodes, although I think we're around about 50 by now. Thank you so much once again for joining us. Ah, thank you. See you all next time.