---
video_title: "Why do we say 'bury the hatchet'?"
video_id: d2q4bBjWmtI
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d2q4bBjWmtI
video_date: 2025-12-10T06:00:40+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's explore some idiom origins! 🌏 And get NordVPN 2 year plan + 4 months extra ➼ https://nordvpn.com/unravelled It’s risk-free with Nord’s 30-day money-back guarantee! ✌
  
  In this episode, Rob and Jess explore the stories behind a host of common sayings.
  🪓 Does anyone actually 'bury the hatchet'?
  😈 Was there ever a 'devil's advocate'?
  🔫 What is a 'son of a gun'?
  🪶 Why would you have a 'feather in your cap'?
  These questions answered, and many more, in another idioms episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
Where are you starting if [music] you start from scratch? Did anyone ever actually bury the hatchet? And why would [music] you have a feather in your cap? Ride shotgun with us as we find out who a son of a gun really is, learn why things [music] go pear-shaped, and reveal the skeletons in the closets of common idioms on this episode of Words Unraveled.

>> [music] >> Welcome to another Words Unraveled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel Rob Words. And I'm Jess Zafarris, author of etymology books including Useless Etymology, and today we are back with idioms. This is a recurring topic for us, isn't it? It is, yeah. We like to

get to the bottom of where well-known sayings, proverbs, adages actually came from. It usually involves a bit of debunking, some false theories, and also just telling the stories of the origins of some of those things we just we just say some of the time. Yes, indeed. We have talked about food-related idioms. One of our more more popular episodes was about generalized idioms, and I brought a kind of a mixed bag here today. Yeah, mine is also a potluck of

sayings and proverbs. It's but but where do we start? I mean, let's go into this all guns blazing. Jess, cuz I've been >> [laughter] >> I hear you've got a few ballistic idioms for us. I absolutely do. I've I've a bit

of a violent batch of idioms here, and part of it is because I was on a Massachusetts radio show the other day, >> [laughter] >> and uh they they warned me ahead of time that I needed to keep it clean. So, I didn't I didn't bring that much naughty stuff to the to the table, but the the person who was interviewing me asked me specifically about the origin of the phrase son of a gun, and he had a common folk etymology explanation about this origin or about this idiom, but the actual explanation I think is pretty cool, too. Um so, the the supposed origin of son of a gun is that when women would accompany their spouses at sea with the Royal Navy, again, we usually start with the nautical origins, and some of them are true. People [laughter] are so desperate to attribute things to nautical life. Oh, I think I found it. It's a

>> [laughter] >> nautical term. I mean, I I I don't know why it's definitely the way in which things are most commonly falsely attributed. >> And to be fair, many idioms are nautical in origin, but they're not the ones with the like tidy personal stories, and this is one of them. So, anyway, women would accompany their spouses at sea with the Royal Navy. They'd be given a space between the cannons on a ship to give birth and rest with their child, and and this was repeated in the 19th century by naval writers including Admiral William Henry Smyth, who wrote in his 1867 Sailors' Word Book that a son of a gun is, quote, "an epithet conveying contempt in a slight degree and originally applied to boys born afloat.

When women were permitted to accompany their husbands to sea, one admiral declared he literally was thus cradled under the breast of a gun carriage." Unfortunately, the chronology does not track. Right, what do you mean? Dictionaries typically explain it as a minced variation of son of a Like it's that's probably it, and in some cases it might intentionally be used to imply a soldier's son, perhaps born out of wedlock while this fellow is away at war, but it might also just be that gun is a rough around the edges but still polite alternative for naughtier terms, and critically it rhymes with son. Oh, yeah.

>> [laughter] >> Yeah. Yeah. Never underestimate the power of assonance. You know, you get those two repeated vowel sounds, people will go for it. >> One of the earliest instances is in the humorous periodical The British Apollo from 1720s, and there's a little poem that goes, "You Apollo's son, you're a son of a gun, made up with bamboozle, you'll directly I'll puzzle."

And it's just it's in silly rhymes and things, and it and it may there may in many cases, and according to the Gentleman's Magazine in 18 1787, it could mean a soldier's child in some cases, but but probably originally it's just that it rhymes. >> [laughter] >> I have some idioms related to other weapons, but have you got any more to do with guns and the like? Oh, I've got tons. Tons of guns. >> Tons of guns. Ooh. I want to mention

this because someone will mention it if I don't. There's one more son of a gun theory that absolutely is not true, and it's that feudal knights would call people who used guns in the early days of firearms son of a gun as an insult because it was a less noble weapon, but we don't have any chronological evidence of that. >> [laughter] >> Another um actual nautical one, this one's relatively satisfying, is loose cannon. And this one you might be able to predict this one. When someone is a loose cannon, you're comparing their behavior to one of the more dangerous accidents that can happen aboard a warship. The cannons can

come unlashed and start bashing things around on rough seas. Yeah, presumably you don't want a cannon to be loose whether you're on a boat or not, >> [laughter] >> right? If it's Every time it fires it screws Victor Hugo was the reason it spread. In 1874, he published the novel 93, which contains an extended dramatic chapter about a cannon that snaps loose during a storm, and that probably transported it into the public imagination where it became this idiom that we use now. Jess, I have three more idioms for you.

Stay safe as houses, keep prying eyes out, and cover your tracks. And those are three things that you can do with the help of this video's sponsor, NordVPN. That's right. NordVPN enables you to change your online location, meaning you can surf the net comfortably reassured that you are not being tracked. This is particularly helpful, too, if you use unsecured public Wi-Fi like in a cafe or an airport. But of course, the extra big

bonus of websites thinking you're visiting from somewhere else is that they'll allow you to access things that aren't normally available in your actual location, and this includes being able to watch streaming content that's geo-blocked where you are. But NordVPN, despite the name, is actually much more than just a VPN. It is a complete online security package. Its brilliant Threat Protection Pro feature will scan any files you download for malware, direct you away from websites known for scamming people, and block irritating or harmful pop-ups. I have NordVPN switched on all the time, and I can protect my whole family with it as well by having it on up to 10 devices. If you want to

do the same, use our special link nordvpn.com/unraveled to get an exclusive deal with four extra months for free. There is a 30-days money-back guaranteed, so it really is risk-free. Go to nordvpn.com/unraveled with two L's and give it a go.

>> [music]

[music] >> One of my favorite things about idioms is that they are often it it's not too much of a mystery why they became commonly used and what they mean, but the way they entered common parlance is kind of interesting. Smoking gun is another one. It was originally the the literal image of the murderer standing over the body with the recently fired weapon, and uh Arthur Conan Doyle's story The Adventure of the Glorious Scott, where a shipboard chaplain holds a smoking pistol beside a dead man, is where we first get that. But then the Watergate scandal's idiomatic use of a smoking gun around Nixon is why we started using it more commonly now. And is there a similar explanation behind being caught red-handed to the smoking gun? The idea

is you turn up and you find the murderer with the evidence right there in front of them, either in the form of the the smoking barrel of a gun or the the bloodied hand. Is that where it comes from? Yes, and it's actually it dates back to the 1470s. The idiom caught red-handed comes from Scottish criminal law. Taken red hand appears in the 1470s, and then uh court records through the 1500s and 1600s repeated that phrasing for homicide and then for poaching and livestock killing. And then Sir Walter

Scott used red-handed, the sort of shortened form, to reach a wider readership in 1819 in Ivanhoe. I'm running with these. You need to take over after this, but [laughter] I'm enjoying them. Keep going. Keep going.

Fire a whole volley of them at me. >> I got I got more, but smoking gun and caught red-handed pair nicely, I think, with in flagrante delicto, which also dates back to medieval Latin legal discourse, and it means in blazing offense. So, rather than weaponry, we kind of have the notion of arson. Right. Yeah. What weaponry do you have

on hand? Well, I said I was thinking about having strings to one's bow, and whether or not it we're talking about I don't know, a violin bow, which has strings on it, uh or we're talking about a bow and arrow. And yes, we are talking about a bow and arrow here. But here's something interesting. What does the phrase to have a string to your bow, or another string to your bow, what does that mean to you, Jess? Cuz

I'm just wondering if I've been misunderstanding it my whole life. That's not an idiom that comes up that much to me. When I've heard it used, and when I've used it myself, it's been to mean that you've got another skill, right? You've got oh, there's another string to your bow. It's something else that you're you're very good at. And it

doesn't actually quite mean that. I it does nowadays, but that is an extrapolation from where it originally came from. That sounds like a violin to me. It's a bow and arrow because the idea that it's evoking is that you've got a second string on your bow, meaning that if your first string snaps, you've still got a backup. So, having many strings to your bow means that you have got many options. You've got many

backup plans, as it were. So, so rather than it being you've got many skills, it's more like you've got skills to fall back on should something go wrong with your you know, your main form of employment. Let me find you an example of it from the records. Yeah, okay. From 1524.

This is actually from the state papers of Henry the VIII. I think it's quite quite interesting. And it recommends having two strings to your bow, especially when one is wrought with a woman's fingers. So, basically the the idea is >> [laughter] >> that a woman would make a a weaker string and therefore >> [laughter] >> it's important to have the second string. It's an extension of the ideas.

It's that you need to have an extra string to your bow in case a weaker string snaps. And women make women make rubbish string. >> [laughter] >> That was That's what they used to say in Henry the VIII's day. It does take a lot of power to string a bow because you have to be able to bend especially a particularly rigid bow. Yeah, you've got to be you've got to be strong. You've

got to be strong. But that then I sort of was hopping around similar phrases. Another one is a feather in your cap, right? Which Oh, yeah. presumably you have heard. And you

know, it's again, if you someone says oh, there's a feather in your cap, it's it's what is it? It's as though oh, you've achieved something there that you can, you know, it's almost like oh, there's another thing you can pop on your CV. >> [laughter] >> Isn't it? It's how I think about a lot of these things. Uh and feather in the cap comes from a genuine practice across multiple cultures of putting feathers in caps as marks of achievement. But

specifically, one of the earliest, in fact, the earliest reference to it that I found was from 1599. So, that's a long time ago. In a description of Hungarian culture by a guy called Richard Hansard, who wrote it hath been an ancient custom among them, the Hungarians, that none should wear a feather but he who had killed a Turk, to whom it was lawful to show the number of his slain enemies by the number of feathers in his cap. So, to have another feather in your cap is to have killed another Turk. >> [laughter] >> And to be able to show that fact off.

But there are other cultures that have also shown achievement by sticking feathers in their caps. I wonder what the maximum amount of feathers allowed would be. Like when do you just start looking like a peacock? I mean, I'm staying away from the guy who looks like a peacock. Lest he slay me, too.

>> [laughter] >> And I you know, I was also thinking about all these things about having more or less of something. And what about too many irons in the fire? I was thinking, well, what what does does that talk about? Is Is it a pressing iron? No, it's not a pressing iron. It's from

blacksmithing. It's the idea of So, so you would put you could have multiple irons in the fire. So, you'd be working on multiple projects, basically. But [clears throat] if you have too many in the fire, one of them can get burnt because you can't actually burn iron to the point where it becomes unworkable. So, that's the idea of having too many irons in the fire.

And there's also, while we're on irons, strike while the iron is hot is also from from blacksmithing. Perhaps know this, but it's the idea that, you know, you need to hammer your iron into shape while it is still hot. And actually, the earliest citation in the dictionary for that is Geoffrey Chaucer, which is from 1405. And he wrote, "Right so as while that iron is hot, men should smite." So, the idea is smite when the iron is hot. That's neat. I bet there are a lot

more blacksmithing idioms out there. We could definitely do another episode where it's just idioms from traditional trades, I'm sure.

Your archery-themed idiom reminded me of loophole. You know, the original loophole. Have we talked about this before? No. No, we haven't touched Excellent. In Middle English, a loop was

a narrow slit, l o u p e, was a narrow slit in a wall, especially a vertical opening in a fortification that allowed archers or musketeers to fire at the enemy while staying protected. It's a Dutch-related word, so it's not um I was like, well, that sounds like wolf or something with loop. But the loop here is is a slit-like opening. And in Medieval Latin and Middle Dutch, we have other words meaning to peer or to look through things or slit-like openings. And the first fortification sense appears in 1591 with writers talking about defenders appearing at their defenses or loopholes during a siege.

And it was extended in a figurative sense relatively quickly after that, including like gaps in laws and contracts and obligations as early as like the 1660s, which I think is kind of neat. That is neat. That is going to change the image in my head now when I hear the idea of a loophole. So, essentially, what a loophole is is sort of a trace gap through which you can actually fire a shot. Yeah, absolutely.

The OED also has a moralistic example from 1664 that says leaving loopholes in your soul. Presumably some some moralistic gaps in your in your moral armor. >> [laughter] >> Yeah, through which someone can pass through. >> Allowing some sin to Yeah, exactly. I don't think we've done probably one of the more famous ones that people like to talk about. And it

does have the satisfying origin that everyone quotes. And it's a bury the hatchet. Right. Yeah, tell us about bury the hatchet. It comes from a real diplomatic custom practiced among some North American indigenous nations, especially within the Iroquois Confederacy, where presumably the record of this is very much oral. So,

whether this was actually done or not, it's a little hard to tell. But the notion is that warring nations might agree to peace by symbolically and physically interring war axes or tomahawks under the ground. I like that. Another one that I came across while I was researching, but I didn't go into too deeply into it, was the idea of flying off the handle, which does come from the idea of an ax head flying off its handle. I think it comes from a specific war. I can't remember which

one. Maybe the American Civil War, something like that, where they had particularly unreliable axes >> [laughter] >> that would fly off the handle. I don't understand it. I mean, so that that is the explanation, but I don't understand how you actually get from that idea to the idea of losing your temper. Do you know what I mean? Maybe you're so angry

that you're [laughter] just swinging an ax there. Maybe. Yeah, maybe. Maybe. More More exploration required on that one, I think. I've got one while we're talking

about military procedures, I suppose. So, I don't know how widely known it is that a muster, as in to pass muster, is a military inspection. Did you know that? I knew that passing muster meant an inspection of some kind. And muster also makes sense as a collection of That's what I would have guessed. I

haven't thought through this. [laughter] The actual idea of the muster isn't the gathering. So, we've extrapolated the idea of mustering people together because a muster requires you to gather people together. This word exists in lots of other languages, lots of other European languages. For example, in German, you have Muster. But in other

languages, muster does not mean what it means in English. Okay, it doesn't mean a gathering. It does not. It means a sample. So, for example, if I go to buy a carpet here in Germany, they will give me a muster, right? Which will be a

little sample of the carpet or anywhere you go. And in in most languages where you find a word along the lines of muster with the same etymology, it means some sort of example or template or something like that. And that's because it comes from the Latin verb for to show, the same Latin verb that gives the French word montre, right? Or montrer, which means to show, and from which we eventually get muster because in Old French it was monstrer, and then you end up with it yeah, in English as monster and then muster. So, yes, this is the surprising bit. It's that mustering together

is so called because a muster is a demonstration, not because >> [laughter] >> No, no, oh god, what have I got What have I done here? So, no, hold on. Let me get this straight. So, a must mustering people together is so called because at a muster you have to gather people together, not because mustering people together is what you do to do a muster. Oh, interesting. So, it's it's like kind of

reverse uh the reverse of what I would have assumed. Yeah, exactly. That's what I tried to get. Thank you, Jess. That's what That's what I mean. Explained it

clear as mud. >> [laughter] >> One of my favorite opportunities that anyone on TikTok ever gave me is they, you know, I get asked questions about specific words. Somebody commented, "Why is there a demon in demonstrate?" And I was like, well, there isn't a demon in demonstrate, but there is a monster in it. >> [laughter] >> I love that one. And it's because like

monster means like pointing at something and being like, "Oh God what is that thing? [laughter] Yeah, so you thank you. You've you've brought it back round to that that's another example of the use of that old French word that meant to show. And so yeah, made it into military circles. Not just military, just inspections in general called musters. Now because you you had to to

show yourself off. I feel like I should also here mention another idiom which is to cut the mustard. So here's the the interesting thing about that cuz I I mention it because a lot of people think that cut the mustard is a mis- understanding of cut the muster or to cut mustard. It is not. It really is about mustard, but it's not about the condiment the finished condiment mustard. It's about

the mustard plant. Oh. Yeah, the mustard plant when it grows very tall can be tricky to harvest. So to be able to cut the mustard is you know having the ability to to harvest this quite difficult crop. I never would have guessed.

>> it being used in No, exactly. So so 1884 it is difficult to find men tall enough to see to cut mustard. So you know, it is to cut mustard and then to cut the mustard that comes a little bit later. And by the way, one more mustardy one. Mustard strong. So

mustard strong comes from the same poem as another idiom that we have described in the past which was cool as a cucumber. Do you remember this story? There is this one poem called A New Song of New Similes by John Gay published in 1732 in which he just coined simile after simile after simile. And actually the very first one in that poem is my passion is as mustard strong. And that's where we get the idea something being mustard strong. And then

later on he talks about being cool as a cucumber. Mustard as we've discussed before is is named for at least that that ard ending which is an intensifier is named for its intensity of flavor. We need to some sort of ard bell for when these things come up because it's but it's it's so worth a mention, isn't it? Yeah, this musty fellow is a right mustard. The mustard bell. Maybe

we've just coined a new idiom. >> [laughter] >> Ring the mustard bell. I love it. Ring the mustard bell. What would it mean?

>> [laughter] >> Bring up that one idiom or that one ending. >> [laughter] [music] >> A food related idiom that also pertains to guns since I'm just firing them off continually. [laughter] Please do. Is that A fusillade. There we go. That's a that's firing a load of

things off at once. There we go. Have you come across the phrase guns and butter? Actually no, that's a new one to me. It was big in World War II era discussions and then thereafter too and through the Cold War as well. It's an

economic and political slogan. It's unfortunately it's Nazi garbage, but um it uh it comes from a 1936 speech by Nazi Minister of Propaganda Joseph Goebbels who framed Germany's resource choices as a trade-off between guns, military spending, and butter meaning civilian goods. And then English newspapers picked up the phrase the following year and LBJ used it when reporting on the state of national defense and the economy. So guns and butter is it's standard shorthand for government budgeting decisions that place the balance military investment with domestic spending. And it also inspired a macroeconomic model. The guns

versus butter model demonstrates the relationship between a nation's investment in defense versus civilian goods. So a little bit I don't know inside baseball on that one, but it does come up a lot especially at maybe maybe in maybe pertinent to the US military spending. I'm really glad you mentioned that one actually because it leads me on to another one which is a a thing and thing, a food and a thing to do someone harm with. >> [laughter] >> That is the phrase >> [snorts] >> carrot and stick. I think you can break the world up into people who think carrot and stick means one of two things, right? So

there are people who think carrot and stick approach is both beating with the stick and feeding the carrot to the donkey. The donkey's involved in both. And then there's others who think that it's about like sticking a stick on the donkey's head with a carrot on the end of it. That is my mental image, yes. Is that your mental image? That was my mental

image too. So we are wrong in so far as like the original idea of it. >> that you say it. Yeah. >> [laughter] >> Yeah, it does seem silly. So that's idea

of of you know, the stick with the carrot on the end of it. Yes, it comes from cartoons. You know, that that is where it cuz it goes back a long way. It goes back to the 1800s, but it is later than the you know, the origin of the idea of carrot and stick being to achieve something to encourage through both uh violence, but you know, sort of sort of force and you know, more benevolent coercion. And actually one of the best quotes to to explain it is Churchill and it's a real quote from Churchill for a change. Hey.

>> [laughter] >> Uh but again we're back in the Second World War. We're back with the Nazis and it's 1938 and Winston Churchill writes a letter that's become known as the rape of Austria because that's how he describes the Nazis marching into Austria where where they're welcomed, you know, and they managed to seize control of Austria with great ease. He's writing this in 1938. So this is before Britain joins the war. It's before uh the Nazis invade Poland. This is like

the a really big victory for them. And he writes in this letter, "Thus by every device from the stick to the carrot, the emaciated Austrian donkey is made to pull the Nazi barrow of an ever steepening hill." It's really vivid image. And it's about how the Nazis both suck up to the Austrian people, but at the same time they oppress them. Right.

>> Uh-huh. To to feed their own war machine. So yeah, carrot and stick. I still think I'm going to think of the the donkey which by the way doesn't work putting a carrot on the end of a stick in front of a donkey. Apparently the donkey ain't going to go nowhere.

Uh but Donkeys are pretty smart and very mean. So I think that sounds like a good way to just get bit. They work it out pretty fast, don't they? Donkeys are a really a real favorite etymology of mine by the way cuz it's one of these ones we don't know. And I don't know if we actually got round to mentioning it in our episode about Francis Grose's Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue because that's the first place that the word donkey is found.

And no one knows where it came from before that. It's one of these words he picked up in I don't know the criminal underworld, who knows? But he spells it d o n k e y, but it's pronounced it's believed dunkey. And he spelt it like that to reflect the spelling of monkey. Because the the leading theory as to where the word dunkey comes from or donkey indeed is that it's a diminutive it's a cutesy version of the name Duncan. Ah. Yeah, yeah. Because you

know, we call them jackasses. So jack is a name. They've been called donkey dicks. Um [laughter] And they've been called neddies. You know, these are all we like to call these hard working companions the names of people. So the the leading theory about

where donkey comes from is that it's a cute version of the name Duncan. And don- Duncan means like dark too which like to describe a donkey's fur as done would also make sense. Little done thing. Oh, that's interesting. Yeah, cuz the German word for dark is dunkel.

Anyway, that was a side step from the the carrot and stick. But anyway, you you wanted to go somewhere after your guns and butter. I have endless gun idioms apparently. I could really quickly fire off three more and then we can move on to less violent topics. Like this one's worth mentioning just because it's fun. It's probably pretty obvious

the idiom ride shotgun grew from a real frontier job in 19th century American Western context. Stagecoaches that carried payroll or mail or passengers usually had an armed guard who sat beside the driver with a shotgun or rifle. But of course how common that was maybe a little overblown probably by the fact that in the 1880s Western fiction started taking off. We've got these serialized frontier stories mentioning guards of the shotgun seat seat of stagecoaches and then in the 1890s more Western novels and fiction comes out. So then uh the shotgun seat became the seat of any beside seat of any car.

Another gun one which I think is kind of neat. Under the gun comes from poker where again I don't I don't know very much about poker. Do you know this? >> [laughter] >> Yeah. Wait, no wait.

We learned this from our episode about about card games and such that neither of us has got a clue how to play them. Did we talk about under the gun? No. Oh, okay, great. All right. Well, the

[laughter] poker. I'm going to say this and I'm going to hope it's right. The player who acts first on each betting round sits under the gun and the notion is working under intense pressure or expectation or scrutiny which is pretty obvious, but apparently it was popularized via poker. In that position the player must make decisions with no information which increases the immediate pressure. Right.

I haven't heard the phrase under the gun. So is that what it means? It means to be be under pressure. Like I'm really under the gun. Yeah, that's really common at least in the context that I Yeah, what would I what would I hear I've heard there's a similar one, isn't there? Um under the cosh is something

that we sometimes say which I yeah, I guess it's at risk of being punished, I suppose, in some way. That sort of pressure. The next level of intensity after under the gun would be under fire, where you're actively dodging problems as they come your way. Might have a sword hanging over you at the same time as well. Although we know where that comes from, that's from Yeah. Damocles.

Uh I do have a way to get us off of weapons now, and it's through dead bodies. Skeletons in closets. The idiom a skeleton in the closet came during the early 19th century as a way to talk about, as we know, a family secret without naming it. But the way it was popularized and the associations around it are kind of neat. William Makepeace Thackeray wrote in Punch, "There is a skeleton in every house." And then also

in his book The Newcomes, he expanded the phrasing to a skeleton or two in the closets. And this is the first recorded instances we have of that arrangement of words. But it's probably a callback to Bluebeard, which do you know Bluebeard's story? No, tell me. So Charles Perrault wrote the tale of Bluebeard in 1697, and it's about this man who kept marrying women and killing them and hanging their corpses on his walls in the closet or in a in a room. And the story is about one

of his wives who discovers the dead women. And the story was so popular that the OED and Merriam-Webster list a man who murders his wives as a definition of the word Bluebeard dating back to the 1700s. And bluebearding is listed in some sources as the crime of either killing a series of women or seducing and abandoning a series of women. And then of course the serial killer who is covered in Devil in the White City by Erik Larson was also called Bluebeard. Well, he killed a number of people, not just women, but some of his wives he would roast alive and [clears throat and laughter] uh and put in the wall.

Yay. We get back to weapons. >> [laughter] >> Yeah. No, no, no. No. Um

>> [clears throat] >> while we're talking about the underworld, you know, and nasty folk, can can we talk about devil's advocate? Cuz I wanted to look this up and see if they'd ever actually been like a a devil's advocate, a lawyer for the devil. And and it was I mean it is kind of what it means, right? So the idea of the devil's advocate goes really, really far back. I mean at least 1600s. You've got

he is like unto the devil's advocate, for he pleadeth for nothing but for the kingdom of Satan. That's a quotation in the OED from 1616. The idea there being that this person is literally the devil's advocate. And how are they the devil's advocate? Because they're advocating they are defending the indefensible.

They are pleading in favor of bad actions, >> [laughter] >> right? To put it in the simplest possible terms. However, the Catholic Church adopted in I I don't know I could only find reference to it from the 1700s, but I guess the practice must be maybe even older. It might even be where that apparently earlier meaning comes from. But the Catholic Church used to describe someone who argued against the canonization of a saint or argued against the validity of a miracle. They used to call those

devil's advocates. I don't know if they still do in the Catholic Church. [clears throat] It's probably from that idea that we get the modern meaning of, you know, deliberately taking on the opposing argument just to test, you know, the strength of an argument. Perhaps comes from this idea from the Catholic Church of having someone whose job it is to argue against whether or not this person should be a saint or whether or not this thing really was a miracle. There are a lot of devil idioms. Most of them are

relatively self-explanatory, like having the devil to pay and devil finds work for idle hands. And devil may care is a little bit interesting. It's the idea that the devil is a hypothetical entity who might care about consequences whether this the speaker does or not. Cuz the word devil, it doesn't necessarily have to mean the devil, right? A devil can can just be a sort of you know, I don't know, like a a pixie or something. You know, it's

it's a demon. In effect, it says that, you know, no one worth worrying about it cares at all in this situation, this hypothetical situation. Another neat one that I I hadn't really thought through is the notion of between the devil and the deep blue sea. It kind of has sort of a Scylla and Charybdis energy to it. You run into a dilemma where both available options are dangerous. And there are

also similar proverbs and things throughout history about like a precipice ahead and wolves behind. And the English version of this is the devil and the deep blue sea. In this case, the devil represents the devil, or does it represent like death? Anything very bad. >> [laughter] [gasps] >> Well, I and and also the devil pops up in a lot of places, as you might expect, in in other forms.

But, you know, in in words like references to Nick. We've talked about this a lot. >> Yeah. It tends to be references to to the devil, for example. So there are many more devil idioms than perhaps are immediately apparent. A lot

of them come from sort of using the devil or invoking the devil as an emphatic expletive, like the devil you will and the devil and all and a devil of a time. >> [laughter] >> You dirty devil. That's one. All right. Uh-huh.

There you go. >> [music]

[music] >> From the depths of hell, Jess, can you give us some heart with some heart idioms? Because you've been looking into those. Well done. Yes, I have. The the wonderful thing about heart-related idioms is that it keeps moving around.

It it shifts a lot. You can wear >> [laughter] >> Yeah, you can have your heart on your sleeve, right? Uh-huh. It can your heart can be in your boots. It can be in your throat. It can be in your mouth. It can

be on your tongue throughout history. So and it can be in the right place. >> [laughter] >> That's where it's best. That's where it's supposed to be. >> [laughter] >> Do you know why why it moves around? Do

they usually mean the same thing, more or less? Because it is treated as the seat of life and mind and will. And and in the past more intellectual power was associated with the heart as much as emotional power. It was often considered the seat of mind and will, emotions, character, courage, conscience, things like that. So we've got things like the courage failing, so the heart drops into your shoes. And when your fear is

rising, your heart climbs in your mouth. And it probably also it it echoes the the actual feeling you get in your chest when you're feeling afraid or When you say you've got your heart in your throat, I don't know, that it does feel like that, doesn't it? It feels like everything's [laughter] just sort of Yeah, and and yeah, you can literally feel your heartbeat. And when your your heart drops when you're afraid, it it almost feels like sort of that stomach dropping feeling, right? >> Yeah, or when your heart sinks as well.

You can really feel a sort of ah like your whole body sinks. It's just leaping around all all all over the place in there. >> Very very mobile organ, it turns out. When it's on your sleeve, though, that's you probably don't want that, but >> [laughter] >> um it's just outside of the body. But uh the earliest record we have, like the first earliest clear record of wearing your heart on your sleeve is is in Othello, as a matter of fact. I will

wear my heart on my sleeve for daws to peck at. And it does it conveys emotional openness and vulnerability, your feelings showing. But Right. instances, including Merriam-Webster, cites this as a possible actual origin is in medieval jousting, when you would wear a a token of your your lady love or who or a cause on your sleeve. You would wrap that scarf around your armored sleeve. I suppose that does help explain

why it's the sleeve of all things, because that Shakespeare phrase like, well, why why his sleeve? Realistically, I armored knights probably didn't say they wore their heart on their sleeve, but that's probably it is probably a later allusion to that practice. Even if it's romanticized. Yeah, exactly. But that's exactly what we have done with the Renaissance is romanticizing medieval periods. Yeah. Do

you know a word that means when something is heart-shaped? Like a heart-shaped box? Yeah, or anything that is heart-shaped. Yeah. So I'm trying to obliquely lead us somewhere with this.

>> Are you trying to get us to pear-shaped? I am. Good. [laughter] Let's get there. So so something heart-shaped is >> bite out of it. cardiform. Uh something

that is pear-shaped is pyriform. Actually, you know, I don't know why we're not using this more. I say, "Ah, it's all gone a bit pyriform." Sounds actually quite rather more sophisticated than it's all gone a bit pear-shaped. Yeah, so I had the pear-shaped one because you mentioned that you'd done weapons and then, okay, so maybe some sort of military ones.

Um And usually this one's thought to come from the air force, the British air force. In fact, it does come from the British air force. I mean it's it's, you know, it's 20th century. It's not so mystical where this idea of a pear-shaped comes from, but and if you look at it, you know, the early citations are in British air force, Royal air force, the RAF, in their publications. They refer to things going pear-shaped. What is

sort of not 100% is what they're talking about going pear-shaped. But the generally accepted idea is that it comes from the idea of trying to do a loop-the-loop. And if you do a loop-the-loop badly, what you end up with is a pear shape, right? Which you can imagine. You don't get a nice circle. It all goes a bit oh.

You stall maybe. You end up with maybe a little sort of peak at the top or whatever, an elongated thing. The idea of something going pear-shaped is yeah, while while you're while you're out trying to just do a nice neat maneuver. You it up a bit. And it all goes pear-shaped. The earliest citation, now

this interested me, in the OED the earliest citation for this is from 1983, which is really recent. Isn't it? >> Yeah. You think the idea of something going pear-shaped is oh, and it's probably that you know, there's there's surely nice RAF airman from the Second World War coming oh, everything all went a bit pear-shaped ended up in the drink. >> [laughter] >> But anyway, it's earliest citation from the 1980s. It seems unlikely to me that

you would go 40 years without anyone writing this term down. So maybe it is it is as recent as that, but that citation is there were two bangs very close together. The whole aircraft shook and things went pear-shaped very quickly after that. >> [laughter] >> The controls ceased to work. The nose started to go down. So actually what

that would maybe wonder about was whether or not the pear-shapedness was actually describing a stall. So you know how you could be you could be ascending, but if you stall, you then very quickly change direction and you go downwards in a curve. I was thinking that's actually a bit more sort of that reminds me of the top of a pear. Yeah, I can see that. Yeah, so it seems it can all go a little bit piriform.

You know, another origin another idiom that I discovered was a lot more recent than I would have expected is back to square one. Oh, so it's I mean is this to do with snakes and ladders? I just assumed it was. >> Yeah. >> [laughter] >> No, it is. It is. And I like I don't

know. I thought it would be a lot older than that, but the OED is like nope, it's snakes and ladders. How old is snakes and ladders? 1952 is the first time we have this. In the Economic Journal a writer compares a complicated argument to a game of snakes and ladders with the reader repeatedly sent back to square one. This fits in remarkably well

with something that I I was looking up as well, which was starting from scratch, right? Because that's what going back to square one is, isn't it? It's you have to start from scratch. Are you aware of this phrase to start from scratch? Yeah, wouldn't that be like baking? Go on. I guess it's idiomatic in

that case, too. So my my thought was like starting from scratch implies to me starting a recipe from scratch. In that case, it would also still be idiomatic because that doesn't explain the scratch part. Yeah, exactly. Right. So the

scratch >> is the scratch part? >> So it probably comes from sport. Precisely which sport is not that obvious because scratch has been used as the starting point in quite a lot of sports. It's been used in running races, so you'd start from scratch. Or for example, boxing matches start at a scratch. So scratch usually means that

it's just a line that's been etched into the the floor or literally like a scratch. There's also a in cricket what's usually known as the crease has has in the past been known as the scratch as well. But the idea and golfers will know this very well is that you know, starting from scratch in a running race, just as it does in golf, means starting without a head start, without an advantage, without some sort of you know, handicap. When you start from scratch, the idea is not that you're necessarily going straight back to the start. It's that you're having to start without you know, any advantage whatsoever, you know, without anything at all. So it's it's not quite the same

as going back to square one, whereas I think I would have used it to mean exactly the same as going back to square one. While you were saying that, I was thinking that up to scratch probably had something to do with this as well and it appears to have come from boxing when Yeah, when the the line was drawn on the ground and to be up to scratch you had to be you'd be ready to go and ready to fight. Which [snorts] is neat. Charles Dickens is quoted using this very phrase in one of his letters in 1843. Pray as a member of the committee come up to the scratch. So that is calling on someone

to you know, come into the ring, stand at the scratch with me because this is where the the bout is going to start. Come on, come and have a go if you think you're hard enough, said in Dickensian >> [laughter] >> verbiage. Well, having fired off as many idioms as we have in this episode, I think we are ready to come to a close. I was going to say something idiomatic and I just Are we are we square >> [laughter] >> 100 on the Square one. Square one on the on the snakes and ladders board? I don't know. This has

been a fun one though, Jess. And and every time we do these, they change the images in my head when I use a phrase or hear a phrase. And also they change how how I use them because once you know the origins, you know, sometimes you realize it's not quite the opposite image that you thought it once was. Strings to your bow, that one. That's that's changed something for me today. Everybody always

comes with the origin that they've heard in the comments, too. And I I like to read those. They're fun. I The ones that we presented here are the ones cited by the OED and Merriam-Webster and such. So they tend to be the ones with the most evidence behind them, but I also like hearing the the folk etymology versions, too.

Yeah, and I also you know, some of these the origin is not known. Maybe you hold it. Who knows? >> [laughter] >> Thanks for joining us for another episode of Words Unraveled and we'll catch you in the next one. See you next time.

>> [music]

[music]