---
video_title: "Why do news anchors all sound the same? | NEWS WORDS"
video_id: Q_A1OtVd8RA
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q_A1OtVd8RA
video_date: 2025-08-20T05:00:21+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's explore journalese and newsy language. And go to https://ground.news/words for a better way to stay informed. Subscribe for 40% off unlimited access to world-wide coverage through our link. 
  
  BREAKING: Rob and Jess uncover news clichés and weird journalistic words. In this episode our word nerds discuss:
  
  📺 Why do TV news anchors talk in that strange way?
  🗞️ Why do newspaper journalists spell lead as "lede"?
  🎤 Why do journalists use clichés like "on the rise"?
  🐊 What is a "knobbly monster"?
  
  These questions answered – and many more – in another hot-off-the-press episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #journalism  #news
---
Why do news readers talk like this? Why do journalists spell lede wrong? And what is a knobbly monster? We've got the scoop on news exclusive jargon, journalism, cliches, and more. Stay tuned on another Words Unravelled. Welcome to another Words Unravelled.

This is Rob Watts reporting live from Berlin. And this is Jess Zafarris on location in rural Connecticut. Very good. Very good. Right. So, so this is an episode about journalism,

the the words associated with it and the words used by journalists. I feel right up top we should just point out that we are somewhat experienced in this field because I think it's relevant, right? I for example have worked at many different news organizations. the ABC affiliate in Denver for TV, but mostly in print at the Denver Business Journal. I was the editor of several magazines and I teach a magazine course at Emerson. Yeah. So, where Jess has got print nailed down, I've got a

career history in broadcast journalism. Actually, I have a masters in broadcast journalism, believe it or not. And I spent what 10 years at the BBC and another five years working in television here in Germany. I've written an awful lot of news scripts down the years, thousands of them, quite literally. I've also had a thousand chips on my shoulder about journalistic cliches that a few of which I I'm I expect I will not be able to refrain from mentioning during the course of this episode as we take a trip to uh Fleet Street or the Fourth Estate is what we're visiting over here. Yeah. So,

why is it called the Fourth Estate? Hang on. I've got that here. By the way, I didn't notice. I I don't know if I made the connection that we both have masters in journalism. I wonder if

this is like is there is there a pipeline from journalism master's degrees to etmology? There is a thing about working with words day in day out and the correct deployment of them that does lead you to look okay so how has this word been used down the centuries and that inevitably takes you further back closer to to the word's origins I suppose is maybe not so strange you learn in in J school or when you are learning journalism as a practice you learn how to identify a reliable source which I think is critical like there is so much misinformation being able to quickly make a judgment on the credibility of a source is is a skill in in both of these realms. Yeah. And just the general practice of double sourcing as well, which is, you know, so many internet sources fall down on, you know, just find two reputable sources. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Anyway,

um, fourth estate, the term the fourth estate or fourth power refers to the press and news media in their capacity. The other three estates are the clergy, the nobility, and the commoners. So, this is originally a British thing. The OED is unsure but traces it without confirmation to Edmund Burke who may have used it in a British parliamentary debate in 1771 on the opening up of press reporting of the House of Commons. And I referred to Fleet Street which was just a street in London where there were a lot of print houses and a lot of yeah journalistic offices. There are

many fewer now, but you know, even in my lifetime, it was the the hub of British print journalism. It is kind of amazing how many journalistic terms have kind of entered common parlance. I'm not sure they're entirely divorced from it, but one of the more glaring examples is the way we attach gate onto any scandal as a result of reporting on the Watergate scandal. Fun rebracketing. Yeah, that's what it is. It's rebracking, right? where you take part of a word and you stick

it on the end of other ones. Even though it's not it doesn't technically make any sense to stick gate. I mean gate just means street in Watergate. We use it to mean any scandal. In fact, you can even refer to as a sca a scandal as just our gate which is remarkable really. Our

gate people will regularly use terms like on the record and off the record and things like that all the time. They these infuse I'm not sure everyone uses on background as much though in real life. What's on background? Is that when you ask some questions that are Yeah. aren't off the record?

I suppose not off the record. It means you can use the information, but you cannot site the source. We have something in Britain called Chatham House rules, which is a very similar idea. They'll tell you this, but Chatham Chatham House rules. Don't say who told you. Corporate America has stolen

that term, too, for like meetings where you can get together with executives and share information without attributing it to the other business. Right. Yeah. Chatham House is a place in London, by the way. So where should we uh dive in here on news? Should we talk about perhaps

different types of publications? Yeah, let's talk about those. Let's talk about different types of newspaper. In Britain, we used to divide newspapers up into tabloids and broadsheets, right? And people still talk in these terms. I think only one of the broadsheets is still

technically a broadsheet. They've all changed to a different format of paper now called a Berliner, right? Which is much smaller. They used to have these gigantic newspapers, right? They were humongous. They were called broadsheets, but they also happened to be generally the papers of

record, the sort of more reputable newspapers, I would say, and then the tabloid newspapers, which were smaller, easier to hold um were also the sort of tattlers, the the the peddlers of the more salacious stories. And the names here are just referring to the size. It's broad sheet because it's larger format. And that's also where we get above the fold, which refers to the top half of the broad sheet front page, what's visible when the paper is folded on a stand, which is now also used in web design and whatnot. And then tabloid uh was originally just a smaller size newspaper, 11 usually 11 by 17 and often poratively is also used to imply sensationalism, but it really was just the size at first. And it is named after uh a trademark name for a

small tablet of medicine for uh like compressed or concentrated drugs. It was a a hybrid form ostensibly from tablet plus the Greek suffix oid. So like a shaped tablet or tablet shaped, but it's said to be specifically a portmanteau of tablet and alkaloid for that original drug. So capital tabloid. And now we have tabloidese, which is tacking on an extra element to the end of the word tabloid. Is tabloidese is this a thing that you're aware of from reporting in the United States?

Because I tend to think of American newspapers as as being a little less less sensationalist than than Britain. We have tabloids. Certainly there's I would say more of a a gravitas to a lot of American reporting in newspaper formats. I know it's the other way around for it's more on TV your side of the pond but we also have tabloids too like we've got we also got rags you know well tabloidese refers to the unusual word choices that you find only in newspapers in tabloid newspapers particularly on their front pages right and it's usually it's driven by the need to save space so for example British newspapers on their front pages will often not use the word child they'll use the word tot instead. To be honest, this one's dying out a little bit, but you know, they will use the word romp, right? Instead of referring to having sex, for example,

they'll refer to a prisoner as a lag. They'll say a lag on the run. And they refer to experts as boffins. I'm not quite sure why they do that because it isn't any shorter, but also, you know, it's never an investigation. It's always a probe. It's never an argument. It's always a row. People

don't get criticized. they get blasted or slammed or wrapped, you know, and you don't have managers and executives, you have chiefs and bosses. This is all tabloidese. It's also journalese. You see it much more widely than that. Also, a lot of this is copyfitting, right? If you want to have

a giant headline across the top of your newspaper, then it has to be able to fit or or if you want to fit it in a little column or whatever else, which reminds me of one of my favorite topics, which is crash blossoms. Have you heard of a crash blossom? No, I have not. What's a crash blossom? You have seen a crash blossom, even if you don't know the name. So, a crash blossom happens when

spacing restrictions and character counts result in word and punctuation choices that make the headline ambiguous or nonsensical. And they're named after a 2009 headline in the newspaper Japan Today. Violinist linked to JAL crash blossoms. Just to rephrase that so you can understand it, violinist linked to JAL crash blossoms. So a violinist who was linked to a Japan Airlines plane crash is enjoying a successful career and then more of these are like missing woman remains found and which I mean some of these so sad laughing. Oh laugh that's just that's just

full on sad. He has one of my favorites is British left waffles on Falklands, which is the leftwing British leaders are waffling or flip-flopping on their position around the Falkland Island. They just left treats for the locals on where they departed. Another one, McDonald's fries, the holy grail for potato farmers, which is McDonald's fries are the holy grail or a huge sales opportunity for potato farmers. These are these are crash blossoms. I love these. These are

so fun. Can I counter with a term that you might not have heard of then? Oh, yeah. Are you aware of what a knobbly monster is? No, it sounds like the most British thing I've ever heard. Well,

so it comes from much like Crash Blossoms, a specific instance. There's a big pressure when writing either for print or for for television or radio or whatever to avoid repetition. Journalists will go to great lengths to find synonyms for whatever it is that they're they want to refer to twice in short succession. Right? You know, like a a really common simple one of these is journalists will constantly use the word blaze as the second reference to a fire when really it would make far more sense to just say fire again. No one calls a fire a blaze. Conflagration. Yeah.

Yeah. But really, they will resort to this sort of thing. um just to avoid saying fire twice because it's received wisdom that it's bad writing to use the same word twice in quick succession certainly not in the same sentence but even in consecutive sentences just thought it's bad it's bad form in the effort to avoid this repetition at its most extreme you get something called a knobbly monster and it is so called because this was an infamous second reference to a crocodile

cuz there aren't any like what are you going to say a river lizard? Yeah, but exactly. So they they could have said the the green scaly reptile or something like that. But instead they they went for knobbly monster and and there are so many of these that are really really funny actually. So I came across a good one uh the other day just on reporting of you know President Trump was in Scotland to visit his golf course. No, no, he was there on some sort of diplomatic mission,

but he did just so happened to to visit his his golf course. And there's an article about the security at the golf course describing this new technology they're using there called Daleks, right? And the quote is, "The Daleks, security devices that resemble Doctor Who's croaky voiced enemies, have been set up to deter intruders." You've got these croaky voiced enemies, knobbly monsters. There's Doctor Who's croaky voiced enemies, which is which is a choice. Not like

robotic enemies not like and you know there that one is is almost beautiful, right? And there's definitely some intentional creativity going on here because there's a very rich community collecting these things online. If you search for knobbly monsters, there's some great Twitter accounts and and I think KnobblyMonsters is a Twitter account or X account. There's another one called Second Mentions where you get very similar similar stuff. But for example, down the years, advent calendars have been referred to as the festive time markers, badgers as the monochrome plague spreaders, beavers as the furry tree munchers, and Darth Vader as the heavy breathing Jedi turncoat. Oh my god. Heavy breathing. I mean, it's not wrong, but yeah, I'm scared. I

was good. At least they didn't go with wheezing. Yeah. I mean, the thing is though, a lot of this repetition is is simply avoided by using the word it or they. You don't actually have to refer to the same person twice. You say a fire broke out at the city secondary school. The blaze is one

of the worst ever to hit the region. You know, you could just say it was one of the worst ever to hit the region and that gets you out of it. For some reason, we journalists go to great lengths to to find an alternative way of expressing that that same word. Sometimes it is also a function of not writing the same story over and over again. Like in uh I I have edited and written a good amount of stories about like programmatic advertising and upfronts and things that happen every year.

The Super Bowl. I've written a lot of Super Bowl stories. you just get tired of saying like the ad over and over and over again like the so we've got like the big game spot alterations on that and and it's it's sometimes it's a function of not just like I've written 10 of these and I don't need to say the same thing four more times. Yeah. Well, exactly. I mean, when writing about word origins,

Jess, as we often do, I how many different words for word can you think of? Because otherwise, you just find yourself saying word over and over and over again, right? Book titles. Coming up with a book title and a a subtitle for your book is it's difficult to not say word in both of them. I have a book that I just finished coming out next year called Into the Words. And for the subtitle,

I ended up like I got stuck for a little while because I I didn't know how to not say like words for animals and plants. Like yeah, you have to resort to terms or something, right? The an etmologist's field guide to natural uh naturals, plants, and the natural world. Oh, well, I mean that's just elegant. That's very nice. That's just nice writing. Now, while researching this episode,

I found it extremely easy to analyze the language used by news organizations all over the world because I used this video sponsor, Ground News. Ground News is a website and app that brings together news sources from around the globe so that you can compare coverage and get the full picture. Yeah. Take for example the recent discovery of a radioactive wasps nest at a former nuclear site in South Carolina. Ground news shows more than a hundred sources reporting on that story and from across the political spectrum. By comparing reporting on these radioactive wasps,

you can see that left-leaning outlets frame it as part of the US nuclear program's legacy and an environmental risk, while right-leaning outlets emphasize the US government's assurance that the site is safe. It's never been more important, I think, to understand the biases and the reliability of where you get your news, and Ground News gives you all that you need to do that, including useful information on an outlet's reputation for factuality and who owns it. Plus, its blind spot feature is excellent for ensuring you don't miss a story that only one side of the argument is covering. Yeah. So, if you want to see how language shapes the news and stay fully informed as well, go to ground.news/words news/words or use the link in the description of

this video. Or alternatively, you can scan our QR code and that'll get you 40% off unlimited access to the Vantage plan, which is what we have. And that comes out at around $5 a month or whatever your local currency is. Next, I would love to talk about magazines. That's one of my favorite topics because I uh you know do this a lot. Yeah, you'll miss magazine. I I have worked in magazines for

like most of my career. And the word magazine is Arabic in origin. It means storehouse or depot and it was altered via Italian and middle French magaz you've heard of these I'm sure where a word that comes from the same source means two different things in different languages. In French magasin still means storehouse or store. Correct. It's a shop. Yeah. It's the basic word for a shop is a

magazine. So in English, magazine first appeared in the 1580s to describe a military storehouse for ammunition and supplies, later extended to the thing that holds the ammo on the weapon itself. And the gentleman's magazine was among the first to apply this term to printed miscellaney, trying to be a bit cute with the storehouse and military terminology. Magazine essentially became, as a result of that, shorthand for any periodical publication. It's a storehouse of information, you might say. Oh, that's nice. So, that's an easy easy way to draw the link between

the Yeah. the the magazine clip or whatever that you know you're carrying your bullets around with and the the magazine that you might be reading while you're waiting for your target in the car. Although the Gentleman's Magazine is was the first of what we would call a magazine today, there were periodicals and things uh at the time, usually like shorter form pamphlets and things and a lot of them appealed to both before and after the Gentleman's Magazine to women because they would be a little less hard news and a little more like interesting diversions. So, The Gentleman's Magazine is being a little bit masculine with its uh with its name, but then it was extended to everything else. Um, another cool one is Gazette. Yeah, there's something Italian

going on with Gazette, right? There is. There is. In fact, it's money. It's a The Italian Gazetta is a a Venetian coin which was the price of an early newspaper in Venice. Like a penny dreadful. Yeah.

Was a publication that cost a penny. A gazette cost a gazetta. I think this one's probably pretty obvious, but I don't know if everyone has thought through it. The fact that a journal is a daily. It is from the French for daily. Yeah. Yeah, it is. Someone actually, you know, when we did our

episode about time, someone made the comment uh that that we haven't incorporated the word from French into English, but actually we have it is in a journalist is someone who writes daily, right? Like a journal is something you write in daily. It is cognate with the word dal, which we borrowed from Latin. The French genal is from the Latin Dalis. And then originally from just the word for day in in Latin. Oh, right. Right. Do you I I just the D shifted to the J because it seems like

dal should mean Well, we know it doesn't. It means daily, right? But it feels like it should mean it should have something to do with two, but it's just daily. Can I talk a little bit about some journalistic cliches or journalistic formulations, you know, ways of writing that you only get in news reporting? Listen, I know we have addressed this before, but I love that you use journalistic cliches considering the source of cliche and like printing. Anyway, but yes, let's do it. Well, I

mean, I was thinking and this is this is something that whenever I was writing news scripts, I would have on my mind all the time was to avoid using certain set phrases or constructions that are very common in news but aren't true to natural speech. A good one of these is the way that you'll see in news stories the phrase set to be instead of will used a lot. Um here's one. Eurovvision 2026 host city is set to be announced on August the 20th. I mean it sounds okay, right?

But it's not how people talk. No, you'd say it's going to happen, right? If it is going to happen, you just say it's going to happen. If you're not sure if it's going to happen, you say might be or is, you know, scheduled to be. is set to be is a very journalistic way of putting it. When

something's going up, it's always on the rise. You ever noticed that? And here's one that journalists use all the time when they want to bring two events together, but either there isn't an obvious genuine link between them or uh they they just don't have the time to explain it. They will say this comes as or the news comes as. Are you aware of this one? Here's an example. This is from CBS

News. Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders is blasting US's efforts to provide more weapons to Israel for its war against Hamas in Gaza. This comes as more organizations accuse Israel Israel of carrying out genocide. Okay, it's a a very dark story, a very dark example to to use, but the this comes as there suggests a causal link between those two things without saying that there is a causal link between those two things. And it's quite I I I don't want to call journalists sneaky. You know,

they're very valuable. We're very I think it is intentional. I don't think it's I don't think it's being sneaky. I think it's being it's covering your ass a little bit in the same way that allegedly does. Like the one of the words you do have to repeat over and over again is allegedly or according to the police report or according to the affidavit. When working in TV news, man,

every time we got in a new report on something local that had happened, it was allegedly and you have to because if the person hasn't been charged, you more or less end up accusing them of the crime that they're being arrested for. Attribution is incredibly important. The word allegedly is not the cure all legally that we sometimes like to think it is. It certainly isn't in British law anyway, which is generally a little bit more restricted. I like like American law is very very Yeah, really hardcore on press press freedom. So, it does let you get away with a with a lot

more. But also there's stuff like use of the passive voice, you know, it is being reported, for example, or it's understood. This happens in um criminal stories too as well, like when when a crime is committed, it's a person dead, the woman was hit with the brick, you know. Sorry, I'm getting really violent here, but nice nice choice. just straight off the top of your head. But you

can't say like a person did that because they haven't been charged with that crime. Yeah, you're right. But it's it's generally seen as bad form to use the passive voice if you can avoid it, isn't it? I mean, that's just one of those things for general writing. If you can attribute something to someone, you should. And it's definitely used in PR to, you know, avoid apportioning blame or or,

you know, flagging up your own blame if you use the passive voice. exciting. Were there any other cliches that you wanted to cover? There's one that I've noticed in US newscasters that I haven't heard anywhere else. There is a construction a use of the gerand that only exists in newscasting in the United States. So, so, so let me give you an example, right? Actually, I'm going to play

you an example. Good morning, America. Air quality alerts. Smoke from hundreds of Canadian wildfires affecting major American cities and now moving east. Plus, breaking overnight, an earthquake rattling parts of the east coast. Sweeping new tariffs set to take effect this week. American

businesses and consumers bracing for the impact. So, did you notice how many ing words there were in there? And it was completely unnatural. For example, plus breaking overnight an earthquake rattling parts of the east coast. I mean, you know, normal construction would be an earthquake is rattling or has rattled, but I don't know if it's to sort of introduce an immediiacy where there isn't one otherwise. Sweeping new tariffs set to take effect this week. American businesses

and consumers bracing for the impact. It's completely unrammatical, but we're used to it. It's part of the the grammar of news broadcasting. And it's a bit like those unusual constructions in the print headlines. you get away with certain stuff like that. I think it's a vestige like a

a transferred vestige of like character count and and column width. Yeah, I think so. And it's it's peculiar to see words like row getting used a lot in broadcast journalism when they they're only in the lexicon in the way that they are to save column inches. But nevertheless, you know, they get used and it's because I'm I go off on a little bit of a rant here, okay? is because a lot of the time news broadcasters are putting on a news broadcaster voice. I mean literally sometimes

the news broadcaster usually talks like this just putting slightly too long a pause and that that is someone sort of faking it until they make it. Usually it's someone that's trying to sound like a newscaster because really what you want to end up doing is sound like a normal person talking. That's the ultimate goal of you know good writing and good presentation. And one of the things I found really difficult because occasionally I would be asked to try and train a new news reader because I used to read the news on on the the radio and you I did it for enough years they would occasionally asked me to train someone else on it and one of the hardest things was to sort of drain them from this voice that they've learned from watching the TV news or or or listening to the radio. is the the newscaster voice and there's a British one definitely there's an American one and they've got them all over the world and you'll notice it it's bizarre it's nation that is deployed you will notice that the very best people the people that really connect with you they don't use it I think it's about speed too like say if you're reading a teleprompter it helps you space out your words more easily um so that you can keep up with it because we we accelerate and decelerate our uh phrasing when we are speaking in more common parlance you know I think that's very fair actually and to be charitable to people who are reading off a teleprompter something that they haven't written themselves. I can understand why the speech can sometimes seem a little bit stilted

and also occasionally the intonation won't fit with the direction of the sentence because they don't know where it's going. Rob, you're stressing me out. Very genuine very genuine phenomenon. Let's see. Any other cliches off the top of your head? uh you know you get sort of couplets that

only appear together or or appear together in journalistic writing more frequently than they do in just normal everyday speech. For example, you know, crisis talks people don't talk about having crisis, right? We're having a crisis talk right now. No, you might you might have a crisis meeting, but basically, you know, just any sort of meeting where there is something bad going on, they got to discuss it becomes crisis talks. Reports are always damning. Debates are always

heated. You know, deals come at the 11th hour and people go on charm offensives. You these are these are phrases that you don't generally hear that often outside of particularly political reporting from yeah the television or or from newspapers. It's a an extension of the same thing we were talking about earlier where you need to find another way of referring back to something else where without using just a pronoun. It's in the same energy as like legalese has those anaphoric adverbs like herein and therein. And it strikes me as like an easy way to express

what's happening in a condensed collocative way. Yeah, you're right. There's a shorthand to it, right? So people know when you you're talking about crisis talks that, you know, the listener or the reader goes, "Oh, okay. Right. So there's some talks. They're doing this this." So yeah,

it is a handy it is a handy shorthand, but it's it's dreadfully uncreative. [Music]

Could we talk a little bit about jargon like like newsroom jargon? Yeah, I would love to talk about that. I think print newsrooms are particularly rich in this sort of stuff because of the you know the centuries long legacy they've got. I mean, we also have a lot of like written evidence for it dating back to, you know, X years because we have like edited sheets before something goes to print. Um, but like for example, we've got these little spelling oddities like lede and hed and dek and TK. Have you used these in other instances before? I have only used lede as in bury

the lede. Right. Mhm. and the odd spelling of of lede there that comes about purely for the sake of having an alternative spelling of the word lead which I think is is kind of amazing. It's L E D E. And this is the one that comes up. If you say bury the lede, you are you were referring to

the newsroom sense of it. And it is a deliberate respelling of lead. L E A D meant to distinguish the opening paragraph of a story from the metal lead and leading used in type setting which is the vertical space between lines of text usually measured from like baseline to baseline. We've talked about this in our typography and printing episode. But a lead could also refer to a slug or a piece of spacing material like the actual piece of metal. But that could also be a slug too. Like

in the realm of hot type printing, a slug was also a single line of cast metal type perhaps on the notion that an unformed one of those looks a little bit like a slug. And slug gets used quite widely in journalism as well to be like a one or two word phrase that's used as a shorthand for a story. So you might have US elects, for example, for all stories that are about the US election or whatever. And that that sometimes gets referred to as the slug, right? A slug is a little short label or code for a story that's in production. And it started in print, but now you'll see if you've

ever used a CMS to publish a story. You'll see the article's URL handle has a little like a slug on it, too, so you can keep track of the story and so that the URL doesn't change later. I think if we were creating that phenomenon today, we'd call it a tag. And there's probably a tie here with the slug to like a bullet also being a a lead bullet also being called a slug. Here we also spell the word hed funny. It's h e d. It's shorter because it's easy to jot in the margins. It reduces

confusion around words like headsh shot somebody's picture and uh prevents people from thinking the word hed needs to be added to the text. A subhed also uses the the hed spelling and that's a mini headline in the middle of a story dividing it into sections. Wow. My understanding is we have an transatlantic difference with the dek. D E K is how you'd spell that though you see it both ways.

A dek is the line or block of text below a headline, which often explains a little bit more about it. And it also ends up sometimes being like your social media copy that appears underneath the the headline um or gets pulled into other places like uh Google search and things like that. It can be like uh a little short intro and bolder italics before the story gets started. Another one is nut graf. That's the nutshell paragraph. You're familiar with reverse pyramid

style. Your lede starts out. I'm I'm going out of order here, but we've got our our hed, our dek, our lede, and then our nut graf. And your nut graf early in the piece explains the essential point or why of the story after you've done the who, what, when, where. Um, and the nut here is as in the like core essence of the story. And graph is G R AF, which is a shortening of paragraph.

The spelling is shorter just because it's easier to write and because uh it avoids confusion with things like insert a graph here. Very good. Isn't it funny how I think journalists often think of ourselves as protectors of the language here? They are playing fast and loose with spelling just for their own convenience. Makes sense though. It's pragmatic. TK is also one you'll see a lot. If

you've ever seen a public or if you've ever seen a story go live online with TK in the headline, it's because somebody wrote that story ahead of time and forgot to go in and fill it in. it it is short for to come but TC is more frequently found in words in English whereas TK is only found in a few common words unless you're writing about latkes for some reason it marks a thing you need to fill in later. So, if I write an obituary for someone who is not dead yet, but we know that they're going to die sometime soon, then we can pre-write the story about them, but we can say in the in the headline, so and so is dead at TK, and that's where you put the age at which they died um for TK reason, and you can easily control find and locate the TK's, fill them in. Um, but you may have seen them go live before uh on accident with I'm sorry, by accident with the

comments. By the way, have you ever thought through why we call text copy? No. It's pretty simple. Uh words submitted for publication and now in digital formats are called copy because it meant something that's reproduced widely as news. There you would make a lot of copies like it would

be it would appear in lots of places, lots of copies of that paper. Every sense of the word copy is from the Latin copia meaning abundance which means it's also related to the word cornucopia. A copious. Okay. Nice. And your copy editor goes through and makes sure that the copy is clean and

aligned with house style. They traditionally sat at the copy desk and you'd file your copy to them for copy editing. And today copywriters develop copy typically for marketing purposes. And the reason we call it that in that instance is because those words are meant to be used in affiliation with the brand across many different media. Your marketing copy will be used on your website and might be used on your social media account and might be adapted for whatever else, but it's approved by the brand perhaps developed by the ad agency. Are you aware of Betteridge's

law, Jess? No. Tell me. Ian Betteridge was and still is a journalist, a British journalist. And in 2009, he said that any headline that ends in a question mark can be answered by the word no. Have

you heard this? I now that you mentioned this, I do remember I do remember discussing this before, but I I I would love to hear more. Give me some examples. Well, well, so the reasoning is that if a journalist could stand up the statement, it would be a statement. They can't stand it up.

They put it as a rhetorical question, right? Ian Betteridge, he he quoted this this law that now has his name. It was sort of a received wisdom as far as he was concerned in an article. Well, it was actually just a a blog post. He calls it a throwaway blog post that he made back in 2009, like I said. And the headline that he was referring to was, "Did Last FM just hand over user

listening data to the RIAA?" So, it's a pretty dull, innocuous sounding headline, particular if you don't understand what on earth is going on about. But basically, it's quite a big claim by the website Tech Crunch uh about a website potentially sharing the information of its users, but it's been written as a question. And the way that Ian Betteridge criticized this was he said, "This story is a great demonstration of my maxim that any headline which ends in a question mark can be answered by the word no." The reason why journalists use that style of headline is that they know the story is probably BS and don't actually have the sources and facts to back it up, but still want to run it. We see this a lot in commentary, too, like uh op-eds, which by the way,

not opinion opposite the editorial. Oh, is it really? It doesn't stand for opinion. No, it does not. Oped means opposite. And the reason for this is you would put your like hard

news on the front and then opposite it would be a contributor article or something like that. Right. We tend to call them columns a bit more often in columns are different for me. Ah, okay. Go on. So,

an op-ed typically is an opinion, but it's usually by a guest contributor. A column is often by a recurring contributor. I know what you're getting at. And I think particularly explainers are very common these days. And often they will start with a question, right? And that that kind of makes

sense if the question that is the headline is the question that is answered. You know, the idea is, oh, this is what the the the the viewer or listener or reader might be thinking, so let's answer that. We're trying to put ourselves in in their place. But otherwise, you know, did scientists just find a cure for HIV? But you've written it as a as a question mark. No,

they didn't. Right? Because otherwise you say scientists just found a cure for HIV. ABC News ran one. Will the world end in 2012? Right. The answer it turned out was no. Anyway,

so Ian Better is still knocking about. So earlier on today I asked him about his law. Oh, lovely. Yeah. And he was kind enough to reply. I asked him how he felt about,

you know, his autonomy uh for the last, you know, 16 years. And he said, "I love the law because if it's improved headline writing even slightly, it will have made the world a better place in a tiny tiny way. What more could anyone ask?" And it has made a difference because I remember when I was at the BBC someone hammering this very thing into me. Don't use these rhetorical questions because when people hear it, they'll assume the answer is no. But there actually wasn't a US ruling on these

sort of questioning headlines back in 1913. The Supreme Court in Oklahoma made a ruling on this and it said, "A man cannot liel another by the publication of language the meaning and damaging effect of which is clear to all men where the identity of the person meant cannot be doubted and then escape liability through the use of a question mark." And now he's getting to the point of this same idea. Yeah. If it's very clear the assertion you're making, but all you've done is stick a question mark at the end of it, it won't protect you. Even in those very permissive laws,

it has the same energy as uh as I'm just asking questions, bro. You know, that's exactly what it is. Just just asking questions. Just asking questions. Well, you're not you're making heavy implications and potentially actionable ones. Bad faith. Logical fallacies all over the place. Yeah,

bad faith is the term for it, right? It's bad faith. Yes, indeed. Indeed. Another really good example of a of a headline with a question mark at the end of it was the New York World's question mark at the end of its headline 1918 the morning after the presidential election where its headline was Hughes elected in close contest. What a question. All the other papers were reporting

Charles Evans Hughes had won the election, but the New York World got a tip off that maybe he hadn't. And so they just added this question mark to the element. And lo and behold, Woodro Wilson had won the election actually. And so they were the only ones who technically weren't wrong, although they did show a picture underneath the headline of Hughes and it said President-elect Hughes. So, you know, they probably get away with it. No, it is. just write both stories for the outcome

and then run whichever one it is. That makes a lot more sense. A lot more fail safe. Of course, you can you can edit online now. So, that's a little different. Yeah, but there's still you

still got to get it right before you put the was it put the paper to bed is the term they use for sending it off before it gets printed. You know, there's still if you like in Britain, if it's printed down in London whopping or or whatever and it's got to get up to to Scotland for the first edition, then you've got to put that to bed good and early. But sometimes you will find like you get a less factual newspaper the further north you go in Britain because they've had more time to correct it the further down you go which is quite funny. Oh that's funny. Well it used to have multiple editions during the course of a day. My local newspaper used to have a a morning

edition and an evening edition. And in the end they got rid of the morning edition and it became the Derby Evening Telegraph and you only ever only ever publish once a day and and now they're not well they are still but a lot of them aren't published any law reminded me of a few different terms that have come from that have some kind of fun stories and people behind them. One of them being journalism styles like yellow journalism for example coined in the 1890s during the newspaper circulation wars between Joseph Pulitzer the New York World and William Randph Hurst's New York Journal. So uh the the term oddly enough do you know why where we got yellow for this one? No I don't even know what yellow journalism means. Oh okay. It's like sensationalist news. To say

something is yellow journalism is to be like it's it's it's similar to tabloides but it's not. It's it's more like it's any kind of sensationalism and it doesn't have to be in a tabloid and it's not necessarily qualified by certain um uh phrasing styles. It is named after the yellow kid which is a comic strip. The reason it became emblematic of sensationalism is because Pulitzer's newspapers added this as one of the first um like adult focused and and entertaining cartoon comic strips that was just there for entertainment and not for like a political cartoon purpose and it was intended to sell more papers. So like the whole reason it was there is so so the yellow kid became emblematic of this rivalry and alongside it they were also doing other sensationalist emotionally manipulative things to get people to buy papers. It also probably alludes to or

may have been perpetuated by notions of yellow as like cowardice and and other negative um connotations too around this era. At the same time if you said the term yellow dog you were probably talking about like a street mut. And so there are certain uh affiliations with that as well. And and that was where we got yellow dog Democrat for um in the 1800s uh when a southern Democratic voter would vote for a yellow dog before they would vote for a Republican. Yeah. This reference to

the street dog reminds me of the term gutter journalism as well. Right. Similar idea. Yeah, another one of these. And this one is like a very clear connection to a specific journalist.

And I'm sure everyone will know what I'm talking about, but uh Gonzo journalism invented by not invented by but made famous by Hunter S. Thompson. Specifically, his piece, the Kentucky Derby is decadent and depraved when he went and just talked about the spectators at the Kentucky Derby instead of reporting on the derby itself. And it's and Gonzo journalism is wild. It's subjective. It's

immersive. It's first person. It's sometimes fueled by copious amounts of drugs. Um, and uh, it it was uh, Bill Cardardoso who described Hunter S. Thompson's style in that way. Do we

know where Gonzo comes from? It was probably from Italian slang. Um, the term Gonzo. How was used in like that's a Gonzo something or other. I'm not going to come up with a good example sentence there. But to call someone gonzo was to call them rude in a loud or obnoxious way. Um, but it might

also have been and was used prior in jazz slang to describe music that's rockous and passionate. So, all kinds of fun stuff. And I love the notion of Hunter chasing a story like a trumpeteer or something. Um, the Italian term might come from a word for a goose, too. Oh, yeah. The way that

they trumpet. Oh, that's interesting. For a goose. Yeah. I'm just thinking about Germanic words for goose are quite similar to to the word gonzo. And they are similarly uh canankerous,

right? Yeah. So, impromptu goose impression. That was pretty good. Embarrassing. Um, by the way,

the Muppet character Gonzo debuted in 1970, which was one year before Gonzo journalism was named, but he wasn't given the name Gonzo until after it was applied to the journalistic style. So, it's probably an intentional connection there. I've got a knobbly monster, one of Gonzo's friends, Kermit Trog, being referred to as the famed amphibian. empathy. I love it. I love it. The the bard of rainbow connections. Love it. Fabulous. Another

one of these. Muck raking coined poratively by Theodore Roosevelt in 1906. The man with the muck rake. It's an illusion to pilgrims progress. Apparently, the notion here is uh is a journalist who can only see negativity. But this was adopted with pride by early 20th century investigative

journalists who exposed corporate and political corruption including Ida Tarbell, Upton Sinclair, and Lincoln Stefins. So what what about Pilgrim's Progress is he referencing that? The man with the muck rake in Pilgrim's Progress can look no way but downward with the muck rake in his hand. So like all he sees is filth. Oh, that's elegant. Uhhuh. Looking no way but downward.

As we draw this podcast to an end, Jess, I am reminded of one of the first bits of advice I was given when I started working in journalism. It was because I had made a report that I had ended in a very clichéed way. So, you know, when you when you do a report or any news story, you try to sort of create some sort of narrative arc with a beginning, a middle, and an end. Sometimes it's a bit of a chore. Yeah. And you're usually supposed to look to the future at the end

and you can't. So it's very tempting to just write and only time will tell. Which is exactly what I did in my very first report. And a very polite colleague said, "This is this is very good, but don't don't write that ever again. Take that red pen right to that sentence. Will we return for

another episode of Words Unravelled? Only time will tell. Oh, yes. Yes. Yes. Almost certainly.

God willing. But I've enjoyed this one, Jess. Oh, yeah. That that was a very nice kicker on this uh this tale. Thank you all for tuning in to another Words Unravelled. We'll see you next time.