---
video_title: "What does 'dinosaur' literally mean? | DINOSAURS"
video_id: y0Bv7Rt2L54
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y0Bv7Rt2L54
video_date: 2025-09-03T05:01:05+00:00
video_description: |
  Time to dig up some prehistoric word origins. In this episode, Jess and Rob unearth the literal meanings behind the names of the dinosaurs.
  
  🦖 What does Tyrannosaurus rex really mean?
  🦕 Why is Stegosaurus called the “roof lizard”?
  🐦 Are dinosaurs birds or lizards?
  🦴 Are dinosaur names Latin or Greek?
  
  These questions answered – and many more – in another monstrous episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  🌐 LINKS 🌐
  Charlie the Unicorn: https://youtu.be/CsGYh8AacgY?si=s0AwwpXqwB_1_GhX
  Rob's dinosaur video: https://youtu.be/7FOamlJf-28?si=sKbN6Bjw0s7LukG7
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #dinosaurs #jurassicworld
---
Were dinosaurs lizards or birds? Did Brontosaurus really exist? And which dinosaur has a thagomizer? We are traveling back to the Cretaceous, the Jurassic, and the Triassic to talk with dinosaurs on this episode of Words Unravelled. Welcome to another Words Unravelled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel Robs. And I'm

Jess Zafarris, author of the etymology book Useless Etymology. And today we are talking about dinosaurs. Yes, we are. We are. We're getting all Cretaceous, vivacious, Jurassic, Triassic classics. All the classics. I'm so excited about this. I love dinosaurs. Yeah. You,

I was being schooled on this last week by an eight-year-old. I just happened to go and visit a friend just outside of Berlin, and his eight-year-old had got his big book of dinosaurs, and he was talking me through it, and the amount of information that an eight-year-old can keep in their head about dinosaurs is extraordinary. This child knew more about dinosaurs than I have or ever will know about any subject. They are paleontological experts, and there's a lot of fun to be had with their names, which are all terribly literal, disguised in incomprehensible Greek, Latin, and increasingly Chinese. So we'll talk about this, but let's start off with that word dinosaur, where it comes from, means “terrible lizard,” which, you know, that's I love how wildly inaccurate a lot of these are, for example. Well, I mean, they are

terrible lizards in so far as they're not lizards. Therefore, they are terrible at being lizards. They are. That's, that's true. That's true. We've just reframed what we meant by that, or rather

what Sir Richard Owen meant by that in 1842 when he coined this word. Yeah. So, who is working for London's Natural History Museum when he did it, and it's from deinos from Greek, meaning terrible, and sauros, meaning lizard. And it's the sauros that gives us the saurus and saur at the end. Lots of us. Although that's Latin. You want to, a good, a good rule for whether it's Latin or Greek:

if it ends with -os, it's Greek; if it ends with -us, it's Latin. Right. This is terrible in the, like, awe-inspiring sense, because they're, they're gigantic. This period was the beginning of, well, about a decade before dinosaur mania, when so many fossils were being discovered and named and misnamed and miscategorized, and uh, and lots of misconceptions around dinosaurs at this time. They were kind of perceived as being, like, big and slow and lumbering and not, I mean terrible in the sense that they were gigantic and terrific and, and awe-inspiring in that sense, but, like, like, they weren't very sexy until later when we had sort of a dinosaur renaissance.

Yeah. Yeah. So, they were just a little bit terrible at life. They ended up getting themselves killed. All killed multiple times, it turns out. Yeah. And, and being terrible at being lizards, we

should explain. No, they're not lizards. Lizards are a different type of, of reptile. The way you can tell the difference is that lizards have a sprawling posture. Their legs go out to the sides, whereas dinosaurs all have their legs underneath them. They do. Some dinosaurs that we know of have

a lizard-like appendage. And then there are two different categorizations of dinosaurs, Saurischia and Ornithischia. And one of them has a forward-facing pubis bone like a lizard, and then the other one has a backward-facing pubis bone like a bird. Ornithischia like ornithology, study. And Saurischia, the saur- at the start of there is the same as at the end of dinosaur, and yeah, means lizard-hipped. So let's talk with, talk about the, this, let's,

let's, let's split them up in this way. The Saurischian and ornithischian, because that is a good way to separate your dinosaurs out. There is a, a deception in these two terms. Saurischia includes creatures that share a more recent common ancestor with birds than with Ornithischia, which includes creatures that have a more recent common ancestor with Triceratops. Exactly. Okay. So,

the bird-hipped dinosaurs are less related to birds than the lizard-hipped dinosaurs, which you can see. You can, you can see it in their feet. They've got these three-pronged feet. They're bird-footed. And also, something we absolutely should point out is that every time we just refer to what we're talking about here as dinosaurs, we're being a bit lazy. We should every

time be referring to them as non-avian dinosaurs, because birds are dinosaurs. They are considered to be dinosaurs by the scientific community. They're ancient reptiles is what they're currently categorized as, though that, like, all of this has changed dramatically over time, even within our lifetimes. We're dealing with non-avian dinosaurs. And there are other ancient reptiles that are not dinosaurs that we'll cover later on, but let's, let's stick with the dinosaurs, which are basically the land-based fellas, right? Who do we start with? I mean, I think we should start with

the fun, scary ones, right? Okay, let's start with the, the theropods. Yeah, exactly. The most famous being Tyrannosaurus rex. I, I, I slightly prefer Velociraptor, even though Velociraptor is not the, is not the dinosaur we think it is. Deinonychus. Yeah. Or Utahraptor. Right. It's a sort of,

the ones that you see in Jurassic Park are this sort of hybrid of Deinonychus, or Deinonychus, and, and Utahraptor. So, we have a note from Michael Crichton himself, who also talked to the, the people who discovered and studied these, and he said that it was Deinonychus. So, I'm going to go with Deinonychus. He intentionally changed the name of Deinonychus to Velociraptor. We've got notes on this and everything from him. He, he even, like, apologized to one of the

paleontologists who studies these. He was like, "I'm really sorry. I think Velociraptor sounds scarier, so I'm going with that." Even though this is Deinonychus. They don't look scarier, though. They're about the size of a, a turkey. A real Velociraptor. They're much less scary. Want

to get eaten by one? Like, that's how, that also doesn't sound fun. I just think you could give it a good sort of kick in the head and it would go away, though. That's how I would handle a Velociraptor. Velociraptor meaning “fast thief.” All, all of the ones that have got raptor in them,

that raptor bit means thief. It's from the Latin rapere, meaning to seize or to snatch. And it's related to words like rapture and ravish and rape and things like that. To be rapt as well, to be seized. Yeah, they're all related. It's a good one, actually. It's one of those

etymologies that comes up a lot is the shared root of raptor and, and rapture and various, various other words. Oviraptor, there's a good one. The egg thief, falsely called. Yeah. Yeah.

Yeah. Exactly. Let's write a historical wrong here and now on Words Unravelled. So they now believe that, so it was named the egg thief because it was always found around eggs and they assumed that it was preying upon these eggs, but it's now thought that actually they were not preying on them but were protecting them from whatever it was, I don't know, a volcanic explosion or, or whatever. They reckon that the poor was actually protecting the eggs rather than trying to nick them, which does make it really unfair to call them the Oviraptor, and actually it was James Gurney in Dinotopia suggested they should be renamed the Ovinutrix, which means the egg nurse, mosquito. That's much

sadder and sweeter. I did mention Tyrannosaurus rex. It's always obviously important to mention the tyrannical king. Mhm. I'd say probably the most well-known of the dinosaurs, but unusual in that we refer to Tyrannosaurus rex commonly using its scientific name made up of its genus and its species name. So, its specific and generic names. All the other ones, we're just referring to them

by their genus. So, their generic names generally. And then usually there's a second word to be more specific about them. So, Tyrannosaurus rex is a tyrannosaur. That's it. It's its genus, but its

species, its specific name, is Tyrannosaurus rex. By the way, did we address the fact that theropod, and we'll get into, like, sauropod and whatnot, means “beast-foot”? A lot of beast. Anything with a -pod on the end is talking about their feet. A tripod, right? Three feet. Yeah. Theropod,

beast-foot. There are some other really cool theropods that, uh, some of which appear in popular media right alongside Velociraptor, Deinonychus, Utahraptor, and Tyrannosaurus. And one of them which I, I did in my research this weekend while watching Jurassic Park III, very scientific, but, but actually, I shouted to an eight-year-old, “You watched a film.” You know, you know, this one actually isn't too bad as far as the representation in the film goes. Maybe not behavior-wise because it's just relentless. But the Spinosaurus in that film is at least

physically very similar to the actual Spinosaurus, which is cool. It's got this big sail on its back, like crocodilian head, fast. Um, they think it may have been a swimmer, but they're not entirely sure. It's super cool. I, it's like big, scary. I love it. I love it. Giant and scary. Really scary.

Although, I remember them. I remember drawings of spinosaurs when I was a kid. And I think our understanding of the dinosaurs has changed in recent decades, was of them looking quite sort of docile and not with these massive scary jaws at the front. These, you know, these fanged dinosaurs that kind of just hanging out with, well, anachronistically, various other dinosaurs. I'm sure we'll mention a few there. Another good one from the original Jurassic Park films is, uh,

Gallimimus, which is, yeah, the chicken-mimicking dinosaur. That's what Gallimimus means. And that's the one where there are a load of them in like a, a big herd stampeding, and then the, the T. rex jumps out and grabs one in his jaws and shakes it around. It's very frightening. I feel like

the coolest, I don't know, maybe not the coolest. I, I slightly prefer Allosaurus to Tyrannosaurus. I think they look a little more, like, sleek and awesome, but Allosaurus means “different lizard,” which is, uh, it's funny. It actually doesn't refer to the fact that it looks different from any other dinosaur on the outside, but because its vertebrae had hollowing unlike any of the other known dinosaurs at the time. This would be in 1877 by Marsh, which we should talk about Marsh, but maybe we should wait until we get to the sauropods because that's where the zaniness comes in. Okay, we'll get there really soon. We'll get there really, really soon. But it's funny how

some of these names are so dull that they're just disguised by these Greek and Latin terms, which, by the way, you know, these are borrowed from Greek and Latin. These aren't actual Greek and Latin words. We should point this out. Like, the, the ancient Greeks, the Romans didn't know about dinosaurs. They did not give them these names. These are just names that we've given them in,

in modern times in a sort of, I don't know, is it pretentious? Or maybe it's not pretentious to give them these Latin and Greek names, but it's something that we increasingly do. But there is a, a, a new naming convention, comparatively new, which is to give dinosaurs discovered particularly in China Chinese names. Yeah, there are a lot of really interesting Chinese names for dinosaurs. So the Chinese for dragon is long, and that is the common suffix put on the name of Chinese-discovered dinosaurs. I mean, because they are, like, the closest to, like, real-life dragons

we currently have. So, you've got, for example, the Guanlong, which is the crown dragon. You've got Mei long, the sleeping dragon. Beibeilong, which is a baby dragon. So, so cool, because it's only been found in an embryonic stage inside an egg. Still inside of an egg. And then you've got,

like, a Chuanqilong, which is the legendary dragon. I like these long, me too, dinosaur names. I've read that that long, that word is meant to be reflective of the sound of, like, a roar. Ah. Do you know the first dinosaur that was ever named? No. Megalosaurus. Before the word dinosaur

was coined. 1824. Wow. Uh-huh. It means “great lizard,” which, that kind of makes sense, right?

What is a Megalosaurus, Megalosaurus? It, it is a bipedal theropod. It is the same kind of thing we've been talking about. They were found in the late, late 17th and early 18th centuries at the Stonesfield quarries, sorry, Stonesfield quarries near Oxford. They were the first ones described, uh, by William Buckland, who was a geologist. Oh, that name came up a lot in my research, actually.

William Buckland. They were incomplete. So they were, when they were originally constructed, they were put together to be quadrupedal, lumbering reptiles, more like a giant lizard or crocodile. And that's been corrected over time. Posture of dinosaurs has changed, hasn't it? Like, the, the

T. rexes standing up like a begging dog. That's a thing of the past. The tricky bit was, like, how do they, how do they deal with their weight? Because they've got a big head, and then they have a long tail, and to understand, like, how the tail balanced out the head and how they achieved that sort of horizontal posture took a long time. Oh, I forgot to note on Megalosaurus one more. Uh,

it's mentioned in Charles Dickens’ Bleak House. Oh, right. Okay. Megalosaurus, 40 ft long or so, waddling like an elephantine lizard up Holborn Hill. Elephantine lizard. Mhm. That sounds like

that should have been a name for it. I mean, I feel like that makes more sense for sauropods, right? Ah, good point. Okay, let's, let's go there. Let's go there. Let's go to the sauropods,

who are also among our Saurischians. Our lizard-hipped, lizard hips. Oh, lizard hips. Ol' Lizard Hips, singer of the 1950s. And these are, like, our, these are our long necks and long tails and small heads. My first exposure to them was The Land Before Time film. Oh,

Littlefoot. Uh-huh. Exactly. And among the top names to spring to mind, I think, when people think of the long-neck dinosaurs is the Brontosaurus or the Apatosaurus, which we have to talk about this, don't we? Because they are, and they are not the same dinosaur, right? So,

basically, two discoveries around about the same time thought they'd found new dinosaurs. Both gave them competing names. Turned out they were probably the same. Yeah. So, the Bone Wars were the fiercely competitive fossil-hunting campaigns of the late 19th century waged between American paleontologists Othniel Charles Marsh and Edward Drinker Cope. Cope published a reconstruction

of an Elasmosaurus with the skull mistakenly placed at the end of the tail. Now, this is, this is a different kind of creature, but a lot of their discoveries were sauropods. Um, both of them had wealthy backers. They raced to name and describe dinosaurs from the American West. They worked very hastily, so there were a lot of errors in naming and descriptions. There

were parts of dinosaurs on other dinosaurs. And the naming is just all over the place. And one of them is Brontosaurus. So Marsh named Apatosaurus in 1877. And then in 1879, based on a partial skeleton lacking a skull in Wyoming, he described what he thought was a different sauropod and named it Brontosaurus, “thunder lizard,” by the way. And Apatosaurus means “deceptive lizard,” because its

vertebrae looked like marine dinosaurs. But then in 1903, Elmer Riggs re-examined this material and concluded that the two belong to the same genus, which, it gets weirder after that. But, um, but Apatosaurus became the then-accepted name of Brontosaurus. Yeah. Because Apatosaurus was named first, therefore it takes precedence. Now, modern paleontologists, a, a camp of modern

paleontologists, based on a study in 2015, have decided that Brontosaurus can be described as a separate genus, but also some people don't agree with that. So, it ain't over yet. The Bone Wars continue. Some of the nicer wars, I would say, some of the more hilarious wars as wars go. The mismatched skulls was a recurring problem. Like, many early mounts that were labeled Brontosaurus

were given Camarasaurus skulls. That means “chambered lizard.” And you can see that in the skull because they've got big holes in their heads, right? Whereas the ones that belonged on Brontosaurus were a little longer and narrower. Another controversial name is that of the Diplodocus, which is another sauropod. Mostly because I don't think anyone seems to know how to,

how to pronounce it. That's how I pronounced it. I didn't know that. So I pronounced it “dip-LOD-icus,” and when I worked at the, the BBC—I don't know why I do that, it is called the BBC—it was in the style guide. So, so when they sold, when the Natural History Museum sold Dippy the Diplodocus, this beautiful skeleton, I, not actual natural skeleton, like replica, um, I think we were told to say “dip-LOD-icus,” but I spoke to someone at the Natural History Museum and they were consistently calling it a “dop-lo-doh-cuss.” So that doesn't sound,

well. So diplo should be together because that is a unit of the name. So diplodo—actually, that, that doesn't quite stay true to that. But that is to, in some way, suggest that there is any logic, grammatical logic, to the names of, of dinosaurs. Diplodocus works for me. But I do understand why

“dip-lo-DOH-cuss” does make more sense because it kind of splits it up into its parts. Okay. By that logic, we would be pronouncing helicopter as “helico-pter.” Yeah. Well, we would, wouldn't we, if we, if we, if we thought we could, and we'll get, we'll get to that word again later, later on, won't we? Um, and Diplodocus. What does it mean? Double-beamed, or a double beam. They had these

paired chevron bones under their tail vertebrae, which Marsh thought were, again, here's Marsh, thought they were unique to this genus. And you've also got the Brachiosaurus, “arm lizard.” Yes. Although not actually called so because it looks like an arm, which it kind of does, but because it's got really, really long legs at the front. It has that sort of, like, sloping giraffe-like stance with the neck held high up, which is different than Brontosaurus and Apatosaurus, which had proportionally shorter forelimbs and more level backs. Yeah. I mean, these,

these are incredible, incredible beasts from when, from the Jurassic period, right, when there's lots and lots and lots of lovely greenery around for them to feast on and get nice and big. But not flowering plants until the late Cretaceous. Right. Dinosaurs are older than most flowering plants and angiosperms. So yeah, before we get into ornithischians, let's get into the time periods.

Paleobotany, it's something to get, get your head around. So we're talking about the Mesozoic period here. So meso means middle. Zoic, I guess, means animals, right? Um, so you have Paleozoic, which means older animals as well. Uh, but we're in the Mesozoic here, which is made up of the

Triassic, the Jurassic, and the Cretaceous. Yeah, exactly. Going back 250 million years overall, and ending 66 million years ago with a big bang, very big bang. Not the biggest big bang, not as big as the Big Bang, but a big enough bang to wipe out the dinosaurs. The divisions here are, are marked by, like, major die-offs that end up creating new species, but they're named a lot of the time based upon the, the strata of rock, the formations that they're found in. For example,

the Triassic, the German Trias. Yeah. Three types of rock they had there. I've actually got a list of those rocks, but their names are all German. They're called the Keuper—it's a description of a rock that I don't need to go into any more than that—the Muschelkalk, which means the shell limestone, and the bunter Sandstein, which means the colorful sandstone. And it tells

you a lot about where the, the discoveries were, were being made. And then the Jurassic, of course, which is named after Jura limestone. Yeah. From the Jura Mountains. Uh-huh. Along the French-Swiss

border. The limestones in this interval told us a lot about this era. Yeah. And, uh, Cretaceous just means chalky. It's just from the Latin for, for chalky, amid the chalk. Yeah. And dinosaurs

that you'll commonly see depicted living side by side did not. For example, the Stegosaurus and the Tyrannosaurus did not live in the same periods by any stretch. Tyrannosaurus rex, which was around when the asteroid came, lives closer to us than it did to the Stegosaurus. Somehow, InGen in the, in the Jurassic Park books, didn't think through the fact that putting animals from different eras might not go super well, or different continents, like Spinosaurus and Tyrannosaurus are in completely different continents, and let's put them on a tiny island in Costa Rica. Well, this is one of the key differences between the time periods. So in the Triassic you've just

got Pangaea, this one massive land mass, and then in the Jurassic you've got it, you know, split off into two, and you've got the North Atlantic forming, and then, yeah, eventually it starts to take shape into the world that we have today. Also I really shouldn't, I, I mean anytime you're watching a Jurassic Park film, the, the exercise is suspension of disbelief. One really must, one really, which I love those films. They're some of my favorites of all time. So, I mean, it was my favorite film growing up without question. Jurassic Park. So good.

As promised, onto our bird-hipped friends from way back when, the Ornithischians. We've got some cool, like, armor puppies in here. Yeah, these are, these are some of the really quirky-looking dinos. The Stegosaurus, for example, we already mentioned, the “roof lizard.” So cool. More accurate than some of these. Really? Yeah, it is. So, so the,

you know, the slates that go, the plates that go all down it, down its back, they look kind of like slates. I think they originally thought that maybe they could have been actually covering over the, the Stegosaurus, rather than just sort of sticking out upwards. Exactly. This is the sort of bit of geeky knowledge that I bet you do have, or I'll be surprised if you don't. But do you know what the spiky bit at the end of the tail on a Stegosaurus is called? Is it the thagomizer? Yes,

it is, the thagomizer. Do you know why? I do. I do. I know. This is from the Gary Larson Far Side

comic. It's so good. It's a complete invention, just from this one comic, where some cavemen are being lectured about the dangers of dinosaurs, and their cave lecturer points out that the end spiky bit is called the thagomizer, after the late Thag Simmons. Do you know, I, I, I Googled, who was Thag Simmons? Is he some, like, I don't know, some American baseball player or something like that?

I don't think it's anyone. And I think it's just anyone. It's just, it's just a theoretical dead caveman who presumably met his end at the wrong end of a Stegosaurus. But then paleontologists, who do have a sense of humor occasionally, were like, “That's what it's called now.” And so it stays the thagomizer. It's so good. So the Stegosaurus is what's called a Thyreophoran,

or a Thyreophoran—you know, again, pronounce it how you like, so far as I can tell. Uh, another one is Ankylosaurus, which is, again, a really charismatic-looking beast, “stiff lizard,” “fused lizard.” Yeah. And it's kind of disappointing, because there are two ways to interpret that, ankyl-o-, and one of them is “crooked lizard.” But, so, so that would mean it was related to words like angle, but I, I think that's not what's intended. It is, it is fused,

isn't it? Fused lizard. Yeah, they're really cute. And we have some really cool fossils of the, the armor on their heads, ‘cause they, I mean, they, they've survived the era, and they've got those big, like, striking tools on their tails. I don't know what that one's called, but it's not a thagomizer. I call it a club. It looks like a club to me. Smack-omizer.

Why don't we just, why don't we just call it the, the Zafarrizer, after you? There we go. I love it. See how much of a sense of humor the paleontologists have really got. There were a few different variations. One of them is called Saichania—I might,

might have the wrong pronunciation there. They were a smaller version of one of these. The name means “beautiful one,” from Mongolia. Oh, even smaller. I, so a lot of dinosaurs found, so, so a lot of the early discoveries are around Europe, but now lots of dinosaurs being found in Mongolia specifically and China specifically, just because the, the conditions there, so good for, for preservation. What should we talk about next? How about the ornithopods? So we've talked

about having birdy feet, and that's how they're, they're described. Some of them look a bit like the theropods, like the sort of standy-uppy ones, but they're munching away on plants. They're not, they're not, they're not going to hurt you too much. Things like the, you know, the Iguanodon. Yeah. Which had teeth like an iguana. Is Ducky in The Land Before Time an Iguanodon? No,

she is a—hang on. I have a note on this. Ducky is a hadrosaur. Oh, yeah. Hadrosaur, right? Yeah,

the duck-billed dinosaurs. And that includes the ones with the swoopy thing on the back of their head and the pointy thing on the back of their head, which is the Saurolophus. And then Parasaurolophus. Parasaurolophus. Parasaur—there you go, there we go. Much better. Saurolophus.

Nearly—Saurolophus, that one means. So it's like the Saurolophus, but it isn't Saurolophus, but it's nearly a Saurolophus. She's a Saurolophus because she's the one with a little, like, a pointing, pointy thing. Yeah. She's got a bit sticking out the back. She's one of the OG

sauries. Mhm. And then they found Parasaurolophus, which has, I think, the more distinctive head, like they're, they've got the, like, swoopy, they think it's a resonating chamber coming off the back of their head. Okay. And Saurolophus means “crested lizard,” which is what they are. And the

hadrosaurs are these thick—yeah—bulky lizards. And did I get confused and say it was an Iguanodon? Yeah, they're really cool, too. It means “iguana tooth.” Yeah, it does. If you hear -don, then

it means they're describing the tooth. Although there's one of them—oh, okay, so, this is—we'll get to this later, but Pteranodon, right? The pter-, we know what that bit means. Yeah, we know that one. The wings. The -no means “no” in that case, and -don means “teeth.” So that's actually

the “winged no-teeth.” Oh, that's funny. But we shouldn't be talking about those. We should get, get to those in a minute. But, uh, but I would like to. They're amazing. Oh, yeah. We, we really,

we, we really should. Even though this episode's about dinosaurs. While we're on the topic of that -don ending, my favorite not-dinosaur that is dinosaur-like is, it's the Dimetrodon, which there's a really cool, like, nearly complete specimen of this in the Field Museum in Chicago, which otherwise just has an excellent collection, including Sue the T. rex, but it's, like, alligator-sized and has a sail on the back. I guess I just like sail dinosaurs a lot. Maybe I

just like the way the sail looks. Um, but they're, um— You should go to a regatta. You would love it. Um, the theory behind the sails, it's kind of in question. It may have been for thermoregulation, to, like, disperse heat. It may have been a sexy thing, or it may have been, like, species,

like, like, recognition, or it could have been intimidation, like you turn to the side and you look a lot bigger. This is part of my discussion with the eight-year-old, actually. What was the, the fan on the back of, um, who were we talking about earlier? Spinosaurus, which is unrelated, like, dramatically unrelated. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. But why, why, why is it there? Why

does it look like that? And he was not having it that it was to, to attract a lady. You don't like that idea? No, it's not. It's got some fun for something fun. It's not for something, something

soppy. That's hilarious. I mean, I, I think it could probably do both. If you've got that thing, why not use it? Oh, yeah. Sure. Sure. I mean, it's not unusual for birds, so avian dinosaurs, to have

certain appendages or flourishes that are there for only one purpose: attract the ladies. Think we could have done without me saying it like that, couldn't we? No, no, no, no. We have to keep that.

[Music] Let's talk about the ceratopsians. Yes, they're fun. Yeah. Well, they're part of the cerapods group, actually, which is interesting because that is a portmanteau of ceratopsians and ornithopods. So, how is that? I didn't know that. Yeah. Yeah. So, it sounds technical, but really it's

just a mashing together of two terms, knocking off the end of one and the start of another. The ceratopsians are the horny dinosaurs, since we're on it already. Yeah, that's, they are the, they are the horny ones. The horny-faced ones. Yeah, the Triceratops, which I think is probably the most recognizable. Again, thank you, Land Before Time and, and Jurassic Park. “Three-horned

face,” the -ops on the end means face, like optics. I mean, it could, you know, it could mean sort of eyes, but in this case, it does mean face. And the kerat- means horn. It's also what we find in keratin. Keratin. Exactly. Which is found in hairs that make up horns. Excellent. It took

me until adulthood—I am so ashamed of myself—to understand that the Triceratops in Land Before Time is named Cera. And it is not spelled like the person's name Sarah. It is spelled like the cera in Triceratops. Do you know what age I found that out? I found that out at the age of 37.

Never once did that occur to me. I, I like, read it and I was like, “That wasn't her name, was it? It was Cera.” Oh, that's how you say that. And, and her ancestor would have been the Archaeoceratops, which literally means “old horn face.” And they're, they're, now they are

adorable. They got three horns at this point, but they're, they're cuties with their one horn. And then also you've got the Styracosaurus, which is the, the “spike lizard.” And you can see why if you have a look at one, big sort of crest covered in spikes. Yeah. Another cute one is, um, the

Protoceratops, which is, was a little guy, like a little, like, like you could, you can even make friends with one of those little guys. They're very cute. And then Torosaurus. There's a—do you know about Torosaurus? I got to guess that it's got something to do with a bull. It actually—so

this is the other thing. There are a couple fake-outs here. Um, first of all, Torosaurus is sometimes mistranslated as “bull lizard,” but it is much more likely to be described, or be, to be from the Greek verb toreo, which means to perforate. And they have these openings in their parietal frill, which is the big thing that extends out of the top of their head. And it was one of a few horned dinosaurs named during the final years of the Bone Wars, which is why we have some confusion around it. Yeah, why don't we know? I mean, it's not that long ago. These shouldn't,

these shouldn't be etymologies lost to the mists of time. So, if you are sitting here thinking, wait a minute, in 2010, I read an article that was titled “Triceratops never existed.” There was a mistaken era in which we thought that Triceratops was a juvenile specimen of a Torosaurus. That is now known to not be true. It is a really common thing, actually, that what are thought to be genera or species turn out to just be younger or older versions of other dinosaurs. Much in

the same way that birds look very different from their younger forms to their older forms, there's, there's a lot of change in growth, especially when you are a, when you are a megafauna. Yeah. And I think they just keep growing, or at least some of the dinosaurs just kept growing as well. So to, to—it's not like a human, where you reach kind of adulthood and then you, you peak at a certain point and then you're just sort of getting worse at being an adult. I have a 16-year-old red-eared slider, who I've had since he was a baby. He just gets bigger if I put him in a bigger container.

Oh wow. His name is Artichoke. Oh. He's very—we come with excellent names. I mean, I think we come by it honestly, right? Yeah. But I would honestly prefer it if you'd named all the dinosaurs rather

than all of these sort of cryptic terms that we've got now. Oh, that would be fun. A whole, like, project where you rename them. They'd all just be puns. I know they would. [Music] So, let's

talk about the ones that aren't dinosaurs. They're really fun, and they, they, they need a mention. The pterosaurs, we should start with them, because they're fun and they fly. They do. And that's—and what, what more is there to say about them? Pterosaur means “flying lizard.” There's some

confusion here, because they were some of the first not-dinosaurs, but what we popularly think of as dinosaurs or, or prehistoric creatures. They were some of the first ones discovered, like, they were, or described by naturalists. 1784 was when the first pterosaur remains were described. They thought at first that it was an aquatic creature with flippers, not a flying creature. Now, you can see why you would think that, wouldn't you? When you look at them, they've got these sort of

limbs with fleshy bits joining them up, a bit like webbing. It's also why it took a long time for us to realize—I mean, it's the opposite problem—but why we, it took us a long time to realize that a lot of theropods in particular are quite feathery, because you look at that, and it looks like, you can't see the feathers until you take a closer look or find a better-preserved specimen where you can see the little, like, what do they call them? Quill beds. When we're talking about whether a things are dinosaurs or they're not. I mean, it, it, it needs to dwell on land for it to be a dinosaur. That's, that's the point. So, the—it needs to spend most of its time on the land. So

the pterosaurs, their main thing is being up in the sky, right? Then you've got the ichthyosaurs, which, you know, which are fish lizards, hang out in the sea. Before we move on from, uh, pterosaurs, could we address, like, I feel like the size is kind of the coolest thing. Pteranodon is, like, wingspan of 6 to 7 m, but could fly over the sea. And then there was the oh-no of flying animals, which was Quetzalcoatlus, which is cool. That one's named after, um, a coat—yeah,

it's an Aztec god, right? Exactly. They had a 10 to 11 m wingspan. They were as tall as a giraffe. Can you imagine standing beside one of those things, giraffe-sized? It's extraordinary, isn't

it? That's way scarier to me than a, than a T. rex, ‘cause I'm like, well, you know, it already, it's already got scary teeth, but this is a, like, it's giant bird thing. And funnily enough, the T. rex would be more closely related to a bird than this giant flappy thing that you're standing next to, because they are not the closest relations to the birds. Giant chicken, which,

I mean, chickens are pretty scary. So, yeah, it depends how angry it is. But if you throw, like, bones to chickens, they just disappear them. It's terrifying. What do you mean? They'll eat

them. Like, they eat, they will eat flesh and bone if you feed bones to chickens. Why are you feeding bones to chickens? You can feed a lot of things to chickens. I don't have chickens. My,

my mother-in-law has chickens. Hi, Marie. Um, and, uh, they're lovely and adorable, but they will, when you put food in their, uh, enclosure, they will disappear it, no matter what it's made of. Ichthyosaurus. Let's talk about the fishy ones. I mean, I don't have anything more to say other

than that they're really scary, snappy, a bit fishy things. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They're,

they're more like dolphins. Imagine a nightmare dolphin. There you go. Ichthyosaurs. And then I was going to jump straight on to plesiosaurs, or plesiosaurs, however you like to pronounce it, which means “near lizards.” Um, because their bones are actually more like lizards than,

than dinosaurs’ bones are like lizards. They're underwater reptiles. They're all really cool. Yeah, they're very cool. Some people reckon that the Loch Ness Monster is actually a plesiosaur rather than, you know, just not existing. Elasmosaurus, I feel like, is the one that people

hear about the most. The cultural touch point that introduced me to plesiosaurs, aside from, like, natural history museums as a kid, was the Charlie the Unicorn video, which involves a Liopleurodon. Did you ever watch this video? This is, like, this is early millennial Flash videos, and it's about—what was the name of the video again? Charlie the Unicorn. “Let's go on an

adventure, Charlie,” and they go after, and they, they find a, a magical Liopleurodon. Oh god. What is that? It's a Liopleurodon, Charlie. Magical Liopleurodon. That phrase,

“Magical Liopleurodon,” has just rung a big bell in my mind. Now you're going to go watch it. It, it has a terrible ending, too, but I'm not going to spoil it. Please don't. No spoilers from, what, the early 2000s. It's a fever dream of a Flash video, much like most of them were when we were

kids. And what did, what did we decide the name meant? Uh, oh, Liopleurodon means “smooth-sided tooth.” Oh, okay. They're smaller than we thought they were. They're, like, six to seven meters

long. But when they were first—like, BBC had that wonderful series Walking with Dinosaurs—they depicted it as, like, 25 m long. So, that is not the case. But other pliosaurs, I believe, were rather larger. An ichthyosaur that is around that size—again, not a pliosaur, but an ichthyosaur—is Shonisaurus, which was a late Triassic one that was 15 to 20 meters in length, which is one of the largest marine reptiles we've ever known, from the Shoshone Mountains in Nevada.

So, there's another one with a non-Greek or Latin name in it, but it's cool. It looks like a whale with a swordfish kind of looking face. A little less pointy, though. I mean, I'm glad we're still getting to talk about these, because these are extraordinary animals, aren't they? Interestingly, still, as, as large as these are, none of them are, or ever were, as large as the blue whale, which is the biggest animal to ever exist. Yeah. So, the Natural History Museum actually replaced,

in their main hall, Dippy the Diplodocus with the skeleton—the true skeleton—of a blue whale. I would love to see one in person. I think my stomach would drop. We'll meet in London one day, and we'll, we'll go, and we'll have a look. Since we talked about my turtle, I would love to talk about my turtle's ancestor. This is pre-dinosaur, from the Permian period. The Eunotosaurus was a

proto-turtle. It didn't have a shell, but you could see where the shell was going to be, because it has kind of a big, flat widening of its ribs on its back. And its name means “good or true-backed lizard,” which is cool. He's got your back. Yeah, right. Eunotosaurus sounds like

an alternative punchline to the “Do you think he saw us?” Oh, yeah. Right. Oh, and we also, we haven't addressed, like, our favorite dinosaur. It has to be our favorite dinosaur, the Thesaurus, which is the most well-read of dinosaurs. This is true. Yeah. Not lizard-related. No, no, not,

not related to at all. It means a treasure trove, actually. Yeah, indeed. It's the same, actually. It's related to the word treasure. Mhm. The ending should be the, the Greek -os. It's been

conflated. I, I want to give one special mention to a dinosaur that needs a little more love, and that is Maiasaura, the good mother. Yeah. Which is cute. Which was the first dinosaur to be found with what was considered incontrovertible evidence of parenting. Aww, that's cool. What did

they find? They found a load of young ones near an adult one. Aww, that's really cute. And litter—wait, would you call it a litter if it's a dinosaur? I—no. I thought so. Besides,

litter was, was one of those, uh, Book of St. Albans’s terms. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's, like, figurative. We use it unironically now, but it was meant to be kind of silly then. Yeah,

indeed. So, what, what do you call, like, a brood of hatchling birds? I mean, that sounds fine to me. Brood. There we go. Maiasaura and her brood. Excellent. Or his brood—oh, we don't know. Well, it's

called Good Mother Dinosaur. Sound. I was going to say, I probably, they made some assumptions there. Not to be conflated with Littlefoot's mom, whose heart, who broke our hearts as children. Let's not end on that. Oh no. Yeah. Never mind. Too sad. We, we will,

we will end there, because I've certainly exhausted all of my dinosaur knowledge. We should have got the eight-year-old. He'd have, he'd have come and sorted us out. He'd got plenty more to talk about. Very nice. But he was, he was, he was, it was a joy.

Absolute joy. Thanks for this one, Jess. Really enjoyed it. See you next time. [Music] Walking with dinosaurs.

Walking with dinosaurs.