---
video_title: "Why is it called a 'cockpit'? | AVIATION WORDS"
video_id: v2pWWECvdvc
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v2pWWECvdvc
video_date: 2025-08-06
video_description: |
  Welcome aboard flight WU321 bound for Etymology Island. In this episode, Rob and Jess take to the skies and soar through the word origins of a multitude of aviation terms.
  
  ✈️ Is it an 'airplane' or an 'aeroplane'?
  🐓 Why do pilots sit in a 'cockpit'?
  🛩️ Why is English the language of aviation?
  🔠 How did the NATO alphabet come to be?
  
  These questions answered – and many more – in a high-flying episode of Words Unravelled charting the etymology of flight.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
Is it an airplane or an aeroplane? How many aviation terms are inspired by the sea? And why do all pilots have to speak English? Fasten your affixes, stow your dictionaries. We are clear for takeoff on this high-flying episode of Words Unravelled.

Welcome to another Words Unravelled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel Rob Words. And I'm Jess Zafarris, author of the upcoming etymology book, Useless Etmology. And now that we've reached our cruising altitude on today's flight, what term shall we start with? Well, let's do what we so often do and begin with our theme, which is aviation. Birdiness. Birdiness.

That is what the word means. Birdiness. Yeah, birdiness. Avis Latin for bird. There you go.

Aviation. It is a cool riff on the word navigation too, right? Which means oceaniness. Yeah. So, a lot of these words is something that's going to come up to light is a lot of these words we take from French. And a lot of them we actually take from Jules Verne specifically. For example, the

word aviator. That's a creation from Jules Verne. It's a translation from 1887 of Jules Verne's Clipper of the Clouds. Mr. Aviator, you who talk so much of the benefits of aviation, have you ever aviated? There he's coining at least two terms. Aviating, which is not a word that we've taken on,

but aviator. Yeah, that's the first time we have it. And it comes from Jules Verne. And aviation itself was coined after the notion of navigation by Guillaume Joseph Gabriel de La Landelle in his book Aviation or Aerial Navigation. Right? Ah aerial navigation. So it's bird, it's birdie

navigation then birdie navigation birdie sailing. We have a a major transatlantic difference that we have to address up top here and that is with the words airplane and aeroplane because we don't call them airplanes in Britain at all. You've kept that more etymologically accurate I guess. I don't know. It depends on the time. So airplane is a deliberate altering of the French word aeroplane

or aeroplane depends on how you want to pronounce it but you know they kind of mean the same thing so it doesn't really matter and there was a lot of sense seen in calling it an airplane instead of an aeroplane for example during the first world war the British RAF were encouraging their pilots to call them airplanes not aeroplanes and at one point the BBC said yeah we should be calling them airplanes but it never really caught on in Britain we stuck with with aeroplanes instead. American English gets stressed out with that ae combo. Well, it seems like early on people were having a lot of problems with it. There are a lot of quotes that describe people pronouncing it as uh areo-plane instead of aeroplane. Ah, that's funny little metaththesis there. In the end,

that meant that it was changed for across American publications, but in Britain it was we're a little bit more stubborn and stuck with aeroplane. But of course we still use that aero in aeronautics and aerospace and I guess the more scientific end of atmospheric and space travel. In Britain we have adopted the altered airport instead of aeroport which it would be if we were again to just take the French word. If I could fly in like fly a plane I would do that. Maybe when I retire or whatever I will get a pilot's license. Yeah. My my my sister went up in one not that long ago cuz

there's a little airfield near where I'm from in in Derby and she just zipped up and around a bit with someone, came back down again. Looks like a lot of fun. A lot of people have a favorite plane. Do you have a favorite plane? I would really like to fly in an Airbus 380, which I've never done.

Oh, cool. Yeah. I think it's a magnificent feat of engineering. It's a beauty. The way that it floats like a butterfly but looks like a whale. I think that is very very sweet. What's your

favorite aeroplane, Jess? Probably the Sopwith Pup, which is a British single seater biplane, much smaller than your yours. It's a cuter version in my opinion of the Sopwith Camel, which is one of the better known World War II fighter aircraft, and it's also the kind that Snoopy pretends his dog house is when he's fighting the Red Baron. I probably should have said the Spitfire, shouldn't I? Particularly because it carried Rolls-Royce Merlin engines. And Rolls-Royce is

the big employer in my hometown. Rolls-Royce used to supply my school with stationery. We used to get little boxes of rulers and protractors and stuff. And they would have written on them. I remember this really, really distinctly because I had a childish mind because I was a child, so it's allowed. But they had printed on them the sort of unofficial slogan of the jet engine

industry, which is a description of how a jet works, but they know it sounds a bit naughty. They they like to repeat this mantra, which is suck, squeeze, bang, blow. They're like, "Let's give this to kids." They gave it They give it to kids. We got it on our desks. Suck,

squeeze, bang, blow. Suck, squeeze, bang, blow. And that's it. A little bit naughty. Feel like you undersold that one. Naughty. Do we mention the word jet from the French jeter which means

to to throw out because how does a jet work? Well, it works by throwing out either you know a liquid like a water in a jet ski or or a gas or or air to create thrust to to push you along. It is throwing something out to make you go forward. So, it's a jet. And to your point, I mean, I don't know if this is why you were connecting these two things, but in the in the spirit of suck, bang, blow, etc. Um, suck, squeeze, bang, blow. Jess, sorry. Yeah, forget the squeezing. You

can't just go straight from suck to bang. Oh, I made myself blush. I mean that like 25 years to prepare for this moment and it still makes me blush. Let me get this out because it's not going to make it better. The word jet comes from the same root as the word ejaculate. So

similar spirit. I mean basically aviation is full of like lewd humor. We have talked about the term screw the pooch which was an aviation slang term. The book The Right Stuff revealed all of like the machismo and dick swinging that came through with the early American aviation program and space program. By the way, we haven't actually said what aeroplane means. Well, it's a reference

to the shape of the surface that gives you the lift really. Although actually the the term was originally used to refer to to an airship that rather than in the standard sort of round shape had a flat flat surface instead. But aeroplane is yeah the sort of flat surface that's not flat anymore. It's curved because we we've worked out that if you have a curve to the surface, it makes the air flow a different speed above and a different speed below and that therefore gives you lift. But that's why an airplane is called what it is. Like you can also have a a hydroplane. You

know these these you don't have a hydroplane but you can hydroplane. And these are references to to shapes rather than the vehicle itself. You do have a sea plane though. You do? Yeah. There are sea

planes like literally outside right now. I live next to two big lakes and we have sea planes fly over all the time. Oh. Oh, that's exciting. I've never been on one of those. I need to make friends

with this the sea plane people. Just like show up at their door. Hi. Do you like words? Where I'm going next week, I'm going to go and stay in the south of France with my my wife's family. And they

have a lot of forest fires down there, but they also have a lot of big saltwater lakes, lagoons. They call them étangs, but those big saltwater lakes. And they put the fires out using the water from the lakes and the étangs. And they have these amazing amazing uh planes that that scoop the water. The artistry of these pilots as they get right down to not just to the water's, you know, edge to the surface of it, but dip enough into the water to scoop up a load and then they shoot off again. They're beautiful. These yellow and red red planes. When you see them training, it's a

beautiful site. When you see them actually in in action, it's incredible. But it's also, you know, it means it's something quite scary is going on. So it it loses its luster. Not that etymologically interesting though, I'm aware. Well, I mean, this is all this is connecting us neatly with

a thing that we've been alluding to, which is that a lot of aviation terms are borrowed from water activity like right terms. We've got like we mentioned aeronautics and things like that. And in the same way that we have like cosmonaut and astronaut and and aeronaut and whatnot, but uh also all the parts a lot of the parts of a plane are named after the parts of a ship, right? Like we've got aft and port and starboard and deck and rudder and bulkhead and such, right? Yeah. But you also have all these extra ones that are a bit more specific to aviation to

to airplanes particularly to commercial aircraft as well. Cockpit. I mean that's not not Oh, no. Well, that is one from that is one from well okay so not originally from maritime right originally a cockpit is where where you put cocks to fight yeah exactly but what was what was a cockpit on a boat so in the 17th century sailors were calling the area near the ship's stern the station of the coxswain the cockpit partially for its cramped like chaotic nature and then aviation inherited it in the early 20th century to describe the pilot pilots's control area, especially in open cockpit biplanes that were like exposed and and dangerous. Right. So again,

it's it's pretty much a first world war kind of term, isn't it, that they're using as they're flying the the planes over over the trenches over to the side. They're calling the bit that they're sitting in the cockpit. Hangar consider to be more affiliated with planes now, but it was originally a place where you would put your ships or other large equipment. It could be any kind of large equipment because it it dates back to middle French, right? I didn't know that it is composed of the same Germanic elements as home and yard like homeyard and then it went through middle Dutch as like hamgeard and then became hangar.

I did see a very dodgy ethmology of this that I I would say 95% sure is BS which was that it comes from the French en garer which means to station something but it doesn't I mean it doesn't so I I mean you just explain where it comes from it's older than that but you will see you will see that said we have records of like the middle French term hanghart or however you would say that in a middle French pronunciation but but it looks it looks It's like hang heart with hart being spelled like the deer. Okay, there you go. Proof and it's all muddled with muddled with Dutch. There are a lot of French words for parts of the plane. I mean, they've got pretty much a monopoly on it, more or less. But you know what the technical term is for the for the tail plane,

which is the bit at the at the back that kind of looks like its own sort of plane. It's got a a rudder and it's got the elevators. Those bit there's there's a a technical term for that bit of the plane. It's a French word. The word is empennage. It means the feathering because

it's named after the end of an arrow. So the pen empennage is the same word that gives us our word pen. The word pen being semantically identical to the word quill. It means feather first and then it means a thing that you can write with. But here's a link I wasn't expecting to find.

Penne pasta is so-called because it is shaped like little quills. So therefore the empennage is related to penne pasta. But that is not the only pasta that is lurking. The fuselage, right? Another that's a French word that people fusilli. Oh, that's fun.

Exactly. Exactly. They're all spindle-shaped. Correct. Uhhuh. That's cool. That's Yeah. So,

you've got at the back of the plane, you've got Yeah. some penne and and the main part of the Now, I want to make an airplane just out of pasta. Go back to our elementary school craft activities. Yeah. Yeah. So, fuselage means spindle. It does. And other spindle-shaped things have got related

names like that. The French for a rocket is a fusee which just means a spindle really. It also have a, you know, a fusil. Yeah. These all come from the same place. But we could also mention

another French term which is aileron. So you've got the wings. You also have as you you'll notice it before you take off. The wing changes shape. Well, so that it can vary its surface area. So it

can vary the amount of lift that it has. And the things that make that happen, they're called the flaps. And then you've got a which are usually sort of at the end on a commercial aircraft and they're making the plane do that. But I pronounce it in a slightly French way because it is a French word. And it literally just means little wings. That's adorable. I am I'm a huge fan of this. See,

there's a lot of cute words that have come directly from aviation rather than uh rather from the sea as well. But I'm going to do one more. Did you know? Okay. Did you know that the wings and the ailerons are not the only wings on a plane? Just say no, you didn't know. So I No, I don't.

I know this is going to be a dumb joke though. So it's not a dumb joke. It's not a dumb joke. It's just a bit convoluted. That's all. No, I didn't. Okay, tell me. Tell me. The other wing on a plane

is the aisle. The aisle running down the middle of the plane. That's cool. Yeah. So, the word the word aisle comes from the Latin for a wing. Mhm. The spelling of it is an absolute travesty.

Obviously, we spell it a i s l e. It comes from a Latin ala. There's no s supposed to be in there. ends up being spelled isle in English. I is SL E. The same as an island isle. Eventually to

differentiate it, we stick an A in front of it, which just makes it more of a mess because that makes it look a bit more like the French word for a wing, which is a A, I l E. Anyway, that's why aisle on a plane is spelled in this terrible, terrible way. But the original aisles were not on planes. They were the wings of churches, right? But the the aisle separated the like nave with a row row of pillars. Correct. Yeah. It's it's the sides of a church. A ship also had an aisle which

was like the side too, right? Ah no, I didn't know that. And then armies also had a aisles which were like wings. Um but this is from this is like old French stuff. My point about planes having an extra wing on the inside that still stands. I mean if you count the cockpit then there's a

couple more too. Oh yeah. Yeah. Actually, there's got to be at least four in there cuz you can't have a cockpit with only one cocks in it, right? I need a couple of I need a pair of cocks. Why am I

blushing? I've got another one that might make you blush. I don't really want it, Jess. Go on. Well, this one's fun, though. The notion of being pooped out and being tired in aviation to you would say

that an engine pooped out. The idea is it it died mid-flight, but it was it's also a maritime word, too. So, the poop on the on a ship is the deck formed from a the roof of the cabin built on the stern or the rear, right? Usually the highest deck and a ship was said to have pooped um when crashed by a wave from behind. To say you are pooped out is to be like a an overwhelmed ship or a a plane that's not working. That's great. I mean, I never would have guessed that. So, if I say I'm pooped,

that's what I'm evoking. Yeah, you're you're referring to your poop deck or the uh or the engine of your flight having died. This seems like a a rich vein that we should be able to go down some more idioms from aviation that might might surprise us because you've talked about balls to the wall before, which I really enjoyed as an explanation. It is originally an aviation term. Starting around World War II, military planes were designed with ball-shaped grips on engine controls, particularly the throttle. To get maximum power, you would push it all

the way forward toward the front of the cockpit. And then to go into a dive, you would push the joystick all the way forward to the firewall. The fire resistant bulkhead that separates the engine compartment from you so that you don't go up in flames. Every time I say that, someone's like, Well, I'm gonna nitpick this slightly, so like, please do because again, I only know so much about planes. Another one that comes from the cockpit is flying by the seat of your pants, which I know it sounds it sounds obvious because it's got the word flying in it, but it does indeed come from the idea of flying. It's flying without instruments, basically. It's flying on feel and

instinct alone because maybe your instruments have failed or whatever. You're literally fly flying based upon the vibrations from, you know, the airplane itself that you're feeling through the the seat of your pants. It's actually a very vivid image. In World War I dogfights, which had like an 11 day pilots in World War I only survived like an average of 11 days, you you kind of had to like your instruments were definitely not I mean state-of-the-art for the time, but not by today's standards. So, you kind of had to do a lot of stuff on feel. I mentioned dog fights. It's kind

of the same idea as the cockpit. It's just it's an intense, tangled, ferocious, close quarters fight in the air. Gotcha. A couple other terms first used in a aviation. None of this I don't think will surprise anyone, but but roger that. I think that has extended past aviation, but it's saying

you've confirmed receipt of a message and it's from the phonetic alphabet, which we'll get into in a little bit. Uh where R was rendered Roger to signify received. Now, the phonetic alphabet uses Romeo. Oh, I'm really looking forward to us getting into phonetic alphabets. I went down a rabbit hole on this one. Let's let's let's tick off some more aviation terms and then we'll we'll

get stuck into that a little bit later on. Have we talked about Mayday before? We haven't talked about it. Let's talk about it now. It's the French for mid. Like, help me. Mayday. Yeah. I It's

deliberately chosen because it means something to English speakers and to French speakers, you know? I mean, I don't know. To English speakers, what does it mean? like a bank holiday in May. But yeah, French people it means help me. But both can get their their lips around it and it

sounds kind of the same in either language. It was coined as a distress call in the early 1920s by Frederick Stanley Mockford who was the officer in charge of radio at Croydon. Um and he he was asked to think of a word that would indicate distress and could be understood by everyone. And much of the air traffic at the time was between Croydon and Le Borchet airport in Paris. Yeah. It's often

forgotten that Croydon was like the big early airport because it's it's kind of a nondescript part of the southeast of England now. Yeah. People don't get too excited about Croydon because it's not I suppose it's not that far from Heathrow really. But yeah, Cudon airport was the was the big deal. Have you ever wondered why it's called taxiing on the runway? It's because you're like

cruising around looking for fares, right? Like that's the idea. No. Well, but I mean ultimately that No, it's not that. It's not that. I did look into this one. It's originally comes from a train

a training aircraft that was used in Yeah. the sort of 1910s there thereabouts. I think the earliest reference to is that I could find was was actually 1909, but it would have been used in the 1910s. And it was a little aircraft that they used to call the taxi. And it was an aircraft that you would train on the ground with. And the reason it was called the taxi was because this sort of just

hopping in it, going around on the ground and then hopping out again was thought of as being a bit like taking a taxi ride rather than Yeah. rather than soliciting fare, I guess. Well, I mean that's not quite what I meant, but yeah, absolutely. Go on. What did you mean? I didn't mean necessarily

that you like the plane was looking for fare. Just the notion of it moving around like a taxi is the idea. Oh yeah. Well, I mean that is what Yeah, it does come from that, but it doesn't come from the plane that we're talking about taxiing moving around like a taxi. It comes from a plane that they used to call the taxi. It was moving around like a taxi. Called a taxi. Exactly. But that sold

something for me because I I'd wondered that for a long time but never quite got to the bottom of it. But I did a bit of reading about that today. Got there. I read that the term rat race was first used in aviation around the 1930s through this the spectacle of aviation training like trainee pilots were made to follow their leaders through loops and rolls and turns each tighter than the last and by the 1930 late 1930s the term had wriggled down to describe this like grinding competitive churn of any other kind of daily life. It is also originally just racing rats. Like we've also

got records from that. What's with all of these nasty animal sports? Animal sports. I'm glad we don't do that as much aside from that. Racing rats fighting dogs and cocks What do we like? No fun.

[Music] Can we briefly touch on some other aircraft? We did give a helicopter a mention before which you actually turned me onto the sort of bizarre way in which we nowadays interpret helicopter. It's the best example of rebracketing in a like in a surprising way I think because it is easy to take the second part of the word helicopter and tack it on to something else. Make a a gyrocopter or whatever else which happens. that happens. But that's a a mistaken

rebracketing because the first the elements we're working with from Greek are helico spiral and tur or wing. So it's related to words like pterodactyl which means finger wing and things like that. So I think it's just an excellent example. You mentioned the clipper of the clouds earlier and we have an interesting connection here too. I mentioned that helicopter means spiral wing. That

doesn't make as much sense now because helicopters do not have spiral wings. Um but they used to uh and some of the earlier prototypes had more spiraliferous wings and one of them happened to be one that was designed by Gustav De Ponton D'Amecourt. He was an expert in coins. Yeah. Okay. He also coined the word helicopter. Basically, he dabbled as an inventor with his

friend Gabriel de la Landelle and they invented mini helicopters called spiralifers due to their spiraliferous air propellers. And so you can see how now they're like more obviously designed to achieve lift through like spiral motion than today's helicopters. But Jules Verne was a big fan of these guys and he helped popularize the word helicopter after learning about Gustav's inventions and they inspired him to write the novel The Clipper of the Clouds. Someone once asked me, "So, should the word helicopter be pronounced helicopter?" Because we've got that tur that we also have at the start of pterodactyl, but we just pronounce it t. And the answer

is what what would your answer be? My answer would be well, no, it should be pterodactyl, not it's the pterodactyl that we need to pronounce differently, not helicopter. We're talking about phonotactics here. So, we don't start words with in English. That's why we say pterodactyl. That's

the only reason we say pterodactyl. That P is not intrinsically silent. It's just, you know, in English, we don't pronounce them when we see them like that, right? When we have a word that begins with PT like that, we just don't pronounce it because the rules of English phonotactics make it, we feel weird to say. Yeah. We can't make one syllable out of out of that terror with a

pur at the start of it. We have we would have we would have to go pterodactyl. But in the middle of the word, we absolutely can. So, helicopter makes perfect sense. So, it doesn't need to be hel We don't need to be calling it a helicopter. It's okay. Do you know the name of the like the

I mentioned Clipper of the Clouds, but the the Clipper of the Clouds is not a helicopter. It is a multi-rotor gyrodyne or a compound helicopter and it's called the Albatross. Oh, and it achieves it achieves lift using vertical air screws. Okay. Did you know that the Confederacy also had a helicopter with spiral wings? What do you What do you mean? There was a there was a helicopter

invented in 1863 that was intended to bomb the Union's blockading fleet at Mobile, Alabama. Intended to, but fortunately, like the Confederacy in general, it didn't really take off. Wait, we should talk about Zeppelins. Yeah. Right. Because think about I'm thinking about the the

Hindenburg disaster, right? Which is obviously is that's very sad. Yeah, very sad. And part of American history as well as German history. The Zeppelin is is named after Count Ferdinand Fon Zeppelin who supposedly perfected it. Although if you do watch the footage of the Hindenburg,

you're going to see something that's less than perfect. Oh, the humanity. But the like umbrella term for what we also call airships in English because zeppelin is obviously just a German word. So Zeppelinschiff was what it was originally called. But they're also called dirigible which is a really satisfying word. It comes from the French word for to direct.

So it's dirigeable in French means to direct and is directly related directly related to the word direct as well. So a dirigible is a directable airship. You know it's a montgolfier. It's a Oh, we should say where that is. It's named after Yeah. the Montgolfier brothers who invented the

thing because you can direct it because it's got a rudder on the back and you can rather than you know you get a hot air balloon, you just hope it takes you somewhere that isn't going to kill you when you land. Whereas whereas yeah, dirigibles you can actually direct them. A couple things here. One, I it's I think it's no secret that I worked in B2B media for quite some time. So I wrote about advertising and whatnot. And most of the people that I interacted with in that space

did not care that much about etemology despite my persistent um desire to make them aware of facts in that vein. So I would occasionally everyone into etymology you would think. You would think but apparently the CMO of Pepsi did not think so. Um anyway I did make a joke one time. I was I I was a director at one of the organizations at several of the organizations I worked at.

I referred to a project one time as dirigible and no one no one thought that was funny. Oh, that's such a shame because the word does have currency or has had currency in English in the way that you've just used it, right? Something that is dir— It doesn't have to be an airship, directable, something that's direct. It's something that we can steer. Let's try to make that more frequent, that usage of it, because I like it. One of the reasons I made that joke initially is because

we were talking about blimps as an advertising function. And again, nobody thought it was funny. No, I mean, that is funny, Jess. That's funny. Don't let anyone tell you that's not funny. That's

funny. But do you know why blimps are called blimps? Because this is cool, too. I haven't got a clue. This is a theory. I hope it's true. Um, but it's that the prototype's nickname was the type B

limp in the sense of a thing without an internal framework as opposed to the type A rigid. Oh, I see why that one may be suspect because I don't know that I would call it limp as opposed to any other name for unstructured, you know. Good point. Yeah. So, we ra we raise an eyebrow, but I do like the explanation. I would like that to be true. I hope it is true, but I also can't

find any like I can't find a prototype that says B limp on it. So yeah, if someone sent you that explanation on blue sky or X or something, I'm not so sure that I was that was a a what we call a turbulent word origin journey. Turbulence. Yeah. Also got an interesting etymology. Means like a

crowd or confusion. it like violent disturbances in the air. It's actually very hard to describe what turbulence means without using a derivative of the word turbulence because because we say disturb which comes from the same Latin root as turbulence. we say perturb they all come from yeah this same idea of yeah a a disturbance but then there's also this sort of rotational quality to to the Latin word as well which is why we have turbo and turbine as well which do come from the same place but mean something slightly different but it's not really that big of a stretch is it to go from the idea of disturbing something to also the idea of kind of stirring it [Music]

Can we talk about body parts found on planes? I beg your pardon. So, okay. So, which part of the body is a pilot related to? They're related to it. So, am I looking for a common etymology

between the word pilot and a body part? Um, skin, hair, like peel, like the it's feet. It's feet. It's from the same root as uh as all the words for for you know, peds and and pedes and whatnot. So, um, okay, this the the word pilot is is also I mean, we've talked about our our nautical terms, but it is also originally a nautical term. It is from a medieval Greek term pedotes. Ultimately,

it's gone through Italian and French and a number of other things in order to get to today's spelling, but it was a word for a rudder or a helmsman, particularly a a steering ore, and it was perhaps said to be like the foot of the ship, which is kind of interesting. I don't fully understand the logic here, and I bet somebody knows too because it it had to have pertained to either the comparison to the rudder or the person using it. Another body part would be the throttle, which we've talked about, I think, briefly before, which would be the throat. Any kind of throttling is like a narrowing of a passage, which also suggests throttling a person's throat, right? And it's related to the word throat. And then one other one, a more modern term. Do you know what

a dead head is in aviation? No, I don't. It is a crew member riding as a passenger, um, reporting to where their next needed, but not working on that flight. And it is also originally from the theater, not from ships as much. A dead head was someone given free admission like a seat that generated no revenue but filled out the crowd. That's all I have on that. I like that though. The

the the pilot linked to the feet. So that means you know usually on a commercial aeroplane you've got a pair of feet at the front as well, don't you? Because you've got two pilots. Can I talk briefly about what language they're most likely to be speaking? Oh yeah. when they encounter air

traffic control. So the official language of international aviation is English. It just is right. It's the language that the International Civil Aviation Organization has decided that everyone should be using. And if you want to be a pilot or air traffic controller anywhere in the world, you have to have proven your proficiency in English to ICAO's. So ICAO is how you pronounce

the ICAO uh initialism. So it becomes an acronym, I guess. Thank you for explaining that. Yeah. Yeah. It comes It's really annoying that it's a four-letter thing, ICAO, but they've pronounced it

ICAO, which just sounds like three other letters, which seems kind of right. I have heard the term before and I have seen it written and that those dots didn't connect until way too late. Well, anyway, they've decided you've got to have level four English. This is a level that they have set. There's there's I don't know what levels one and two are, but level three is you're not good enough to do it. Level four is you're just good enough to do it. Level five is your English is pretty good,

and level six is your English is really, really good. They call it they call it expert. But I was reading a bit about why they decided that everyone needed to be able to speak English because basically the the the rule is that you communicate in English between pilots and air traffic controllers unless they have a language in common in which case they can communicate in that language if they choose to. There's there's this myth that I must admit I believed um but but I have now been disabused of that French air traffic controllers are the only air traffic controllers in the world that don't speak English. This is not true but it does seem like they don't like it.

So what it is is if you go to the the busiest airport in Europe, Charles de Gaulle in Paris, if you fly in there and you're a pilot and you don't speak any French, you can get a little bit confused because there is a lot of French flying over the the radio waves because they're speaking to other French pilot, sorry, French air traffic controllers speaking to to French pilots in French. And that doesn't happen everywhere. For example, in Japan, it doesn't matter if air traffic control and the pilot are Japanese. They'll speak to each other in English, which is kind of amazing really. But in the year 2000, Air France tried to make air traffic control and pilots at Charles de Gaulle airport speak English to one another. The policy lasted 15

days when the unions for both the pilots and the air traffic controllers. And if you ever tried to fly over or into France, you'll know that the air traffic control unions have an awful lot of power there because apparently on strike they said nah. And so anyway, from that we get this idea that oh French air traffic control don't speak English, but they do. Their proficiency maybe isn't as high as it is in other countries. I think that's a fair criticism. That was one of the reasons they

said that it didn't work at at at Charles de Gaulle proficiency. Yeah, exactly. But yeah, I mean they did site like you know we're very proud of our our language. Yeah. But we also don't want planes falling out of the sky and this is this is what ICAO says you know when they put forward this this policy it it's directly related they say to a a terrible terrible crash above Delhi New Delhi actually in 1996 the worst civil aviation disaster in history you know in terms of just you know only planes being involved. You obviously got things like 9/11 where obviously many more lives

were lost but you know three hundred and forty nine people were killed when a Saudi aircraft that was taking off. It was a 747. It was a jumbo jet crashed into a Kazakh plane, a much smaller one that was descending and it had descended further than it was supposed to have done as per the instructions of air traffic control. And one of the reasons that was given why that might have happened was that they did not understand the English of the Indian air traffic controllers, the Kazakh pilot. Now the Kazakh authorities say, well actually we're not sure about that because this pilot was teaching other Kazakh pilots how to speak English, which is either a good defense or really really worrying. They cite that as the reason why it was necessary to have a single

language for air traffic control all around the world and for for pilots to all be using English or if they share a language and and have it marked on by the way it has to be marked on your like your little card know your certificate that you have the language standard to receive and uh receive control or or you know to to um give it in that language. I just went off on a bit of a rant there. I realized No, no. I'm I'm glad you did though because this relates to kind of one of the solutions to this problem which is the ICAO or NATO phonetic alphabet. This is the alpha bravo charlie delta echo box drop golf. I won't I won't do the the whole thing which has been like a work

in progress for the past century. Right. I don't think it's changed much since like 1956 has it. Right. We've got different waves. So like the the first ones were place names. Argentina, Brussels,

Damascus, Oslo really. And then there was a shift to uh personal names like Baker and Charlie. A lot of this, you know, influenced by American and Angloization. Um but then the test case for these is like whether it's easy to pronounce across multiple languages. And there's also a focus on the vowels like the vowels can't be too different. I mean you of course there are exceptions like

Delta but like alpha and I want to say Romeo was chosen over some of the predecessors because the vowels were a little too different. Yeah. One of them was Robert, one of the predecessors to to to Romeo, which is mine. Yeah. And William was also in uh Robert and William. Sorry,

William's my middle name, but they were both in the the World War I Royal Air Force. Their little version of the phonetic alphabet. It was a lot of actually it's really quaint. Can I just mention a couple of others that were in there because it it started with apples butter which I think is adorable. But also in there you've got pudding. You've got Queenie which I think is very cute.

And you've got monkey and nuts for M and N which I like. And yeah, Y was a cricket reference. How about that? I bet they were all playing cricket before they were going out in their planes. And zed was zebra. But of course, now it is it is Zulu and and Yorker is Yankee. That's one of the ones

that was changed because of the vowels and because zebra versus zebra is pronounced differently. And then Juliet has two T's because French speakers would not pronounce the T unless there were two. Yeah. And alpha is spelled with an F in the the NATO alphabet rather than a PH because well it's it's obviously a bit complicated to spell it with a with a PH, but they were particularly worried that Spanish people would pronounce it alpa which you know is I don't know for some reason that is really bad. By the way, I mentioned the World War I one for the British. There's a really nice

one for the Americans that they were using in the the Second World War that's actually much better known. It was known as the Able Baker alphabet. I don't know if you've heard it this obviously started Able Baker. It's Able, Baker, Charlie, Dog, Easy, Fox, George, How, item, Jig, King, Love, Mike, Nan, Oboe for O, which is a spelling pronunciation nightmare. Peter, Queen, Roger, Sugar, I don't know why they go for a sh for a for for sugar. The same in that it was the same

in that British one as well. Tare, Uncle, Victor, William, X-ray, Yoke, and Zebra. I feel like that would make for a very fun party. Yeah. Yeah, it does. Just a list of Yeah. A shopping list or

a rider. I want an Able Baker, some Charlie, a dog, and an easy fox. Another variation of this was proposed by the ICAO South American Regional Office. And it has words like Coca, Elsa, Fiesta, Gateau, Ombé, and Maestro, and things like that, which maestro also shows up in a couple variations on the alphabet, too. But it also has like Peru and Rosa and Santa. Yeah,

they've quite deliberately chosen some words that do exist in English but are foreign words like Sierra and tango and alfa etc. I was looking at some of the old NATO communicates on this actually some declassified NATO documents. I went really deep into this rabbit hole I was telling you and I saw one that was the last changes that were made to the NATO alphabet before it was said right everyone start using this thing now. Well, the very very last one that was changed was the word for N, which now is November. Yes, there we go. There we go. Before it was nectar. Ah, which

is interesting. But there was an understandable worry that it would be confused with words like vector and sector. So, and also it's a little bit difficult for for foreign speakers. But you also you also mentioned one which was changed very late in the day which was Coca was changed to Charlie Extra was changed to x-ray. So the word for x didn't originally begin with an x but what else are you going to put? We had to wait for the um technology to catch up with that one. Yeah. Then

you had metro that ended up being changed to mic and uniform was previously union. The first X in the alphabet when it was um locationbased, it was Xanthippe. Was it Socrates's wife, which I guess that's not location based. Is that also a place? It's not very helpful though, is it?

If it doesn't, the sound of the letter that too. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, yeah, it's hard enough, right? You've got to come up with a Greek pronunciation for a start. I would love the average I I don't

know. This is the stereotype that comes with the the book The Right Stuff, but like the the meathead pilot pronouncing and spelling Xanthippe might have been a Can we just take a different plane? We just take a different plane. Since you you mentioned there there are different levels of proficiency in English. It's like what what level is your average English speaker at? What

level is your your super proficient speaker at? Are we on like multi-dimensional English level since we're getting all meta with it? Yeah, maybe. Are we finally at level seven? We're uh we're level pi. At International Airport, they developed their own sort of carve out for

the NATO alphabet. They had a problem with the letter D there. So, their runway D was known as runway Dixie. We can talk about why it was changed, which is pretty recent change. But could you guess why they didn't call it runway delta? The presence of the delta nearby. I'm not

ah that I did read one thing that says they don't use delta. They say Dixie around the Nile Delta to avoid confusion. I don't know. Or the Delta the Delta Airline perhaps. I don't know. There

you go. That's what it is. Okay, there it is. Delta International Airport is the is the Yeah, it's the hub for Delta Airlines. So they called it runway Dixie. They now call it runway D. Actually,

it's taxi way. Sorry, taxiway Dixie, not taxi way, not runway Dixie. But okay, just imagine I'd said all the way through taxi way instead of But why why did they change it from Dixie? Its affiliation with uh our uh our nation state that didn't take off. Yeah, exactly. So, Confederacy rears

its head. Again, I won't apply any adjectives to there. Yeah. So they just called it taxiway D, but that's what taxiway D is called at every other airport, so it's not such a big deal. Can I just quickly touch on the numbers from aviation as well? Sure. They're a little bit

different. Obviously everything the point is you're supposed to be able to understand what someone is saying over a dodgy radio connection you know where it's all a bit sort of fuzzy sounding and things that sound similar it's just not helpful but also sort of slightly awkward English sounds aren't very helpful so for example in aviation you won't necessarily say three you'll say tree instead four becomes fower as in to rhyme with lower spell it out fo w E R though you wouldn't because these charts all have like the very clear pronunciation guides, right? Here's an understandable one. Five is not pronounced five. It's pronounced fife, And that is for the same reason as you skip the number five when you're doing a countdown in a lot of circumstances.

It's because it sounds too much like fire. And there's a danger of someone shooting someone, I think, rather than the danger of people thinking there is a fire. But nevertheless, and the other one that's different is nine, which sounds an awful lot like the German for no. I read somewhere that that was the reason that it's been changed. I'm not totally sure about that one. I have a theory on that actually when I when I like my phone number ends with the number nine.

And when I read it out over the phone, people can't hear it. Sometimes they're like eight, which is my own or any other number. Well, I thought it sounds like five, doesn't it? It's got the same vowel sound as five, so maybe it's that. But anyway, you're supposed to say ninerh over the airwaves. There are some even madder ways of of doing the numbers though that have

been tried out. This is one that's uh used by international telecommunication unions. It's basically only used in sort of some maritime circles. But instead of saying zero, you say nadazero. Instead of saying one, you say unaone. Two becomes bissotwo. Three becomes

terrathree. They basically have these ways of saying the numbers where you incorporate two ways of saying the number into a single word. But it means obviously it takes twice as long. The best one is six though, which is soxisix. Amazing. Said with a shimmy. And with that, I think it's

time we make our final approach towards the end of the podcast. Let's uh bring it in for a landing. Though uh we've really enjoyed you uh joining us on this flight today. If you'd like to join our frequent flyer program, if you've enjoyed this ride Etymology Air, we recommend that you join our membership program on our YouTube channel. There's a button that says join underneath the video you are watching right now. Or if you're not watching the video and you're listening to the podcast,

if you go to the description, you'll see a link to the video. If you click on that, you'll see the join button there. Or if you go to youtube.com/@wordsunravelled, you can also find it there. Click the join button and you'll see the varying degrees to which you can sign up to join our crew as Jess put it. We'd

love to have you on board. Till next time though, take care. See you then.