---
video_title: "Does English use the wrong word for clouds? | WEATHER WORDS"
video_id: JC79Go-MmaE
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JC79Go-MmaE
video_date: 2025-07-23
video_description: |
  Jess and Rob have got their heads in the clouds, exploring the origins of our words for weather.
  ☄️ Why don't meteorologists deal with meteors?
  ☁️ How are we using the wrong word for 'cloud'?
  ☔️ What was the original 'raincheck'?
  🤬 Why does Jess hate the word 'petrichor'?
  These questions answered, and many more, in this etymological meteorological episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  🌐 LINKS 🌐
  Our games video (re: chess): https://youtu.be/vBa8CIltJ24?si=BxcDAYTk7yLYq5ja
  Our Christmas video (re: reindeer): https://youtu.be/9A0hAxeFyo4?si=ECL0SFZJUcKUo50L
  Rob's video about ugly and beautiful words: https://youtu.be/hh5yEKPNEtM?si=LMvCxuv7KvH4E23T
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
Do some cultures really have hundreds of words for snow? Why don't meteorologists study meteors? And who was the first to take a rain check? Whether your weather is cold or whether your weather is hot, we'll word together whatever the weather, whether you like it or not, on this episode of Words Unravelled. Welcome to another Words Unravelled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel RobWords. And I'm Jess

Zafarris, author of the etymology book Useless Etymology. And today we are waxing meteorologic on this weather themed edition of Words Unravelled, which I'm very excited about. It's It's also like I think it's a good time to do this because much of the world is experiencing like extremes at the moment while we are filming this. Yes, we're not hope we're hoping we're not going to delay publication of this too long, but but both Europe and the United States are currently gripped by a heat wave. Yeah, I know. I don't flourish in the I don't flourish in the sunshine

at all. I'm my wardrobe is designed for colder weather. I'm much happier putting layers on than taking them off. I'm satisfied in the sun, but I would like that sun to not get above like 80°. Well, whether you enjoy sweltering in the heat or snuggling up in the cold, we're getting down to the meat of some meteorological terms in this episode. All about meteorological meteorological.

Really struggle with that word. What does it literally mean? It means the study of things that are way up in the air. High things. Yeah. This is a fun one too because like a meteor is

not what is studied in meteorology today but that wasn't necessarily always is always the case if you look at these words like meteoron this is also the the people who have visited Greece will know that Meteora is also a place where there are monasteries up on on these beautiful gigantic rock formations. So it's places that are high up in the air. But in the 15th century English and prior meteor could refer to any atmospheric phenomenon vis visible from the ground. We also that could also include meteors right or shooting stars. So it has in the past it has meant the study of of space as well as the study of just the stuff that's going on high up that is affecting what's going on down here. But is yes high and so we talked about in our space episode so we won't go

into it too far. You got meteors, which are these days they're delineated, aren't they? A meteor is sort of something from space that comes in through the Earth's atmosphere and you see it because it's bright. When it hits the ground, it's a meteorite. Then you've got a a meteoroid, which is what it is uh before it enters the atmosphere. In early forms of meteorology, there were different kinds

of meteors. Aerial meteors, this is kind of like elemental takes on on science, but aerial meteors included tornadoes and other windtorms. Aqueous meteors included water-based atmospheric phenomena like rain, snow, hail, dew, frost clouds. And then luminous meteors were auroras, rainbows, things that looked like light in the sky. And igneous meteors were fiery looking things like lightning and shooting stars. Wonderful. And you mentioned all manner of weather phenomena

there. We will get into the origins of those words too. But we should also mention the word weather itself. Weather is one of those really old English words, right? If you if a word can be old, it you know it's in old English. The Anglo-Saxons are using the word wider, right? Which is basically

the same but with a D, we change the D to a th sometime in about the 15th century. But as far back as you can trace the English language, you get a something that sounds a bit like weather. I've read that it was theorized or it has been theorized that that that switch to the sound is uh is even perhaps earlier before the spelling reflects it too. A similar thing I think happened with the word father if I'm not mistaken. Right. That would make sense. Yes. Faeder isn't it? Yeah.

So that's an interesting little thread that I'd like to to pull on on Words Unravelled and that is Anglo-Saxon words for for weather. Just briefly, the words that are in Anglo-Saxon that are very similar to our words today do show us a lot about the history of the people that eventually would be speaking the English language but were speaking the languages before and you know way back thousands of years. I think this is really interesting because the words that were still in our language or the languages that became English all that time ago must tell us what weather the people were experiencing and tell us about the climate that they were living in. The theory is that people speaking protoindo-uropean are living somewhere around sort of the Black Sea. And the climate you're going to get around there is sort of wet words and sometimes windy but also sometimes very dry as well. So you can see words in old English for example like rain hasn't

changed that much. It was regn but the with a g in it but that pretty quickly becomes a sort of rain sound. Snow is in old English. Sun, wind, drought, storm, cloud. All of these words have not changed very much since the Anglo-Saxons were talking about the weather they were experiencing and presumably the people back over on mainland Europe before the Anglo-Saxons came over to to Britain were experiencing as well. In old English too, weather means meant air, sky,

storm or breeze. It was it was more windy types of of words and that's also like what the root means. So it's also the root of the word wind and the word vent and things like that. Yeah, there's a word in German still that is gewitter, right? And the witter at the end of that is related to our word weather. And the g the front of it, this thing existed in old English too where you put G

before something to just kind of turn it into a a sort of a noun, an expression of that thing. So gewitter is another word for for weather. And an old English word for bad weather was ungewidre which means unweather. But I love it. But you're just using un to mean bad unweather. Yeah. And I

think in German you can have ungewitter as well which is also a little counterintuitive because like the Indo-European root here means wind. So unweather would imply like no wind. Yeah. Exactly. But they're just actually trying to augment the badness of the situation — WIIND — where and then in Latin and Greek a lot of words for not a lot of words the words for weather were uh time based right tempestus comes from tempest and time and then Greek had a few different words for that implied weather but one of them was kairos which is seasonal time or weather but it is interesting that our words temperature and tempest they are related and that's because in In Latin, you have this multi-purpose tempus word that can mean weather and and also time. And those

concepts kind of do come together in the idea of, you know, the changing of seasonality, right? Seasonality. There we go. Seasonality. That's a good word for it. I believe the um let's

see, Irish, Polish, and uh Serbo Croatian also have timebased words for weather.

So, should we talk about some more up to-date weather words in the Anglo-Sax saxon, ancient Greek and Latin that we've been talking about? Let's do it. So, I think I need to point out that in England, in Britain, we have an awful lot of words for rain. Like before we talked about us having an awful lot of words for being drunk, but we have a similarly large number of words for rain. Different types of rain, one might say, precipitation of various kinds. Yeah,

indeed. Yeah, you can have mizzle, which is sort of it's almost like a sort of misty rain. And then you've got loads of other words that are sort of regional. For example, you can have dibble, which is used in Shropshire. You can have drizzle, mizzle, hemple, henting, hosing, which is a Cumbrian word, pouring, pelting, plothering, slattering, softish, which is a a nice northern English word. There's a quote from 1894. We've had nobbut softish weather all the week. There you go.

I didn't get the accent quite right at the start, but I more or less got it by the end. And there's a really good Scottish dialect word as well, which is feechie, which means when the weather is feechie it means it's kind of gross, but it also means Yeah, I was going to say that sounds icky, but rain can be a little gross sometimes. Yeah, absolutely. But in Scotland, they have a lot of really good words that just sort of they just sound like what they mean. And feechie is definitely one of those. And then of course in the opposite end of Britain down in London,

they have the term Duke of Spain meaning rain, which of course right cockney rhyming slang. Excellent. Very nice. But I did come across while doing research for this another nice word for rainy that we don't use very much anymore that but I would like to hear us using a bit more and that is pluvious. Pluvious England is a very pluvious country and you can see that comes from the the French word for rain which is well to rain is pluvior. This is reminding me of a related word.

I've heard like pluvial before too I think which see means something similar. That's nice. Have you ever thought through the different meanings of the word precipitation in general? Uh, no. So, like I feel like I should have now not necessarily. I mean, you obviously gave it a lot of thought

just then. I was thinking about all the different thoughts that were precipitating through my mind. Oh, there you go. There you go. But like, okay. So, so we have like three main meanings. We have

precipitate means to fall or happen suddenly. to throw violently or to bring something about. Precipitous means things like abrupt or sudden or sheer or steep like precipitous ledges and occurrences. And then we also have like rain. It means rain. The root of all of these words is head

which is like that makes your head hurt a little. The Latin components give it the literal meaning of something that happens or falls head first implying charging like headlong into something. So it describes sudden decisive headlong action or literal falling in some sort of unstoppable way. And oddly enough the meteorological sense is one of the most recent definitions of the term like late 17th century whereas everything else dates back to the 15th century. I like this idea. So

rain is water that's sort of falling headlong to towards you. So you got the pre which is the the the in front and the cipit bit is that the sort of caput head the head from from Latin. Oh, that's good. That's created a lovely new picture in my mind as well. Another thing that led to that like mental image and the the frequent usage of it is some of the earliest references in English are about acts of God like sending things down to earth during creation and the casting down of evil angels from heaven in particular the the precipitation of the fiends is found uh in early works. So you'll see it describing downward growth too, like so like rain is like an act of God.

But then you'll also see it in writings about like roots growing down into the earth or even like like there are very early references to like prolapsed uteruses just like precipitated uterus. Yeah. Yeah. Basically. But I also like that when we use precipitate as a word for say like starting a fight, precipitating violence, it literally means like to throw down. Oh, nice. more like

to go head first into something. Oh, that's very good. That's another excellent case of where the ethmology really helps you out with the meaning of something. It does. And like that one's like on on their face, they don't feel like they have much in common, but they all they unite and come to a head together. Can I talk about one of the more extreme examples of precipitation, which is

the monsoon? Oh, yeah. because it's an unusual looking word, isn't it? And there's a reason it's unusual. It's because it's just a total mess, right? It is an Arabic word that has gone through

like three different European filters and come out as as monsoon. So the Arabic word is mawsim, which means season. Nothing more complicated than that. But the Portuguese get hold of it and they turn it into morcao. And the Dutch have a version of it which is monson. And those two merged together

bring about this English word monsoon which means massive flipping rainstorm. This is the same. Well, it's similarly meshed up in the word typhoon too, right? Like we've got like the Greek typhon which is the mythical father of monstrous storms. We've got an Arabic word meaning a deluure great storm and then maybe like a Cantonese word meaning great wind. Taai Fung. So Right. Exactly.

It's possible that those two words have influenced one another. We don't know. But this sort of bears out in the fact that we talk about typhoons is only really happening in the the seas around China and and and around India. You know, that's where those words were being used. Yeah. The

Arabic word appears in the Quran uh describing like the flood of Noah too. Oh, really? Oh, okay. And then it was adopted by Persian and Hindian Udu speakers as well to describe these like cyclonic storms. Speaking of which, should we talk about cyclones? Yeah. When I was a kid,

like that was like weekly for some summers like go hide in the bathroom. This is a normal occurrence. We wait for the weather to go out. We come outside and our neighbors house has no face anymore. Wait, so to you, what is a cyclone? I usually refer to a tornado as a cyclone. But is that what everyone

calls them? Because I think a cyclone to some people is equivalent to a hurricane or a typhoon, right? Just hurricane is an America's. Oh, you're right. It looks like in many cases cyclones are are also simply hurricanes. Cyclone and tornado in my childhood were colloquially used

interchangeably. This bunch of words between them, they're really fascinating. And it's interesting that you associate cyclone and tornado because there's something similar going on with those two words, right? Cyclone is obviously you're thinking of something that is cyclical that is spinning and tornado you think ah it's something that is turning you would think so you would think so go on tell us about it Jess this is a really good one so tornado appears in English by the early 1500s from the Spanish tronada meaning thunderstorm and tonar in Latin the reshuffleling of that O and R in English was probably from influence from the word tornar meaning to twist so we got this little metaththesis here because they rotate, but they're named after thunder ultimately. The key point here is the word tornado is not a Spanish word. We invent it based based upon existing Spanish words,

but it is not a Spanish word. But now it is a Spanish word because they borrowed it from English. The original Spanish word was a word for a thunderstorm, not a tornado. Yeah, exactly. We'll get into thunder later. Let's stick with these big storms. more Spanish shenanigans kind

of. Yeah. So, what I found interesting is that we used to call hurricanes furcaanes or furicos, which is kind of kind of cute. And this is a word that's a little bit Spanish, a little bit Portuguese. Am I right? Yes. But ultimately, it's it's probably from an indigenous word,

right? Yes. Okay. This is it. So, that's right. So, those early versions I'm just remembering my

own research here. So those early versions are our attempts to sort of write down the Spanish and Portuguese words, but actually the word we're using now much better reflects the carib word that the Portuguese and the the Spanish were trying to say. So yeah, it was what's the carb word? Oh yeah, it's huracan, which is why hurricanes happen around the Americas. Typhoons happen in the sort of Indian Ocean and around China. And then cyclones, they have their source in the sort of

South Pacific uh yeah in Oceanania, that sort of space. Before we move fully on from uh hurricane, you mentioned that it's uh it has variations like furacan, right? And this is actually pretty frequent for Spanish to change F and H together. um like uh like related words to the Latin facare now start with an H in Spanish. I'm just thinking about forno and horno. So forno is

the Italian I think for for an oven and horno is a Spanish for an oven. Facienda and hacienda. Oh yeah you're right. Yeah sure. So one of the facienda is where you make something right?

Is it a well rather facienda and then hacienda. Yeah. But faciando and is is related loosely to to fabricate. All of these words coming back to the Latin word for like making and doing. Can I mention another windy word? Yeah. Do you know what wind is

measured using? Do you know the name of the device? I was going to say knots, but that's not what you're talking about. If I No. No. So, not the Yeah, not the measure,

but but what it's measured with. It's called an anemometer. Anema meaning move, life or spirit or breath. Yes. So, no, it's animo, but that No, no, no, no, no. You're not

wrong. You're not wrong. You're not wrong. So, it shares the same Latin root as anima, animus as well, but it's anemo. Anemo, and it means wind, right? This comes from a Greek word for wind.

Did you know that an anemone, a sea anemone is ethmologically speaking a daughter of the wind? Oh, that's lovely. I think I had come across that before, but I forgot. But again, I think look all flowy. For our podcast listeners, we are dancing like jellyfish. Not one for the

podcast listeners. They're actually better to not have to watch my hourglass figure sliding around. Um uh but I think anemone is one of the hardest words of the sea. So um now I know that anemo anem Oh no. I thought I'd solved it. An anem anemmo means wind. Yes. Anemone. Cuz

people say anenomy. They say anenomy. But it's nice. Anemone. When I hear anemone, I think see anemone. But there is also they're named after a a plant like a land plant, right?

An anemone. There has to be a if we put C in front of it, there has to be. It's like an urchin. Yeah, hedgehog. Yeah, exactly. A hedgehog. That would be a revelation to anyone who hasn't heard animal.

It's a big one. Sea urchins are sea urchins because land urchins are hedgehogs. Yes. And uh and urchins like child street urchins are are named after the the notion that they're little rodents. A I didn't know that. Did we say that before? I think so. Scurrying around at night.

Oh, that's sweet. Should we I think we should move to to hit some some thunder or rather I mean maybe we should start with lightning because almost disappointing uh etymology for lightning is that it is just the word lightening. So it's the a lightening of the sky. We very cleverly dropped the e from the middle just to help us differentiate those two words, but it's exactly the same concept. for I I swear to God for a while I kept seeing people use the e in the middle of that word and and this stopped happening which I'm happy for because you don't really pronounce it. I still think it's pretty common for people to write lightening instead of

uh lightening but it's not unreasonable. I don't think it's unreasonable because it is what it is, right? It is a lightening of the sky. There is an extra syllable in lightening versus lightning, but you know, I think people probably do pronounce those two things the same. I remember when I was in the Everglades when I was a kid and the weather was too bad for us to go out and look at look for alligators. And the person that was supposed to take us out kept saying, "You hear that? That is

lightning." And I remember as a nine-year-old thinking, "No, it's not. That's thunder. I was right. Right. Right. And thunder, of course, is it it's what it sounds like. Yeah. It literally

means loud noise. It's like all boom. Related loosely to words like tone, right? If you go back far enough, it's got a common answer. Here's an interesting thing. So, the old English for

thunder is thunor which is also the Anglo-Saxon name for their god equivalent to Thor, right? So Thor is literally the embodiment of thunder, þunor, which means we've talked in the past about Thursday being named after being þunresdæg in old English, right? Being named after the god th or thor. But it is actually perfectly legitimate to say that Thursday is thunder's day as well because these excellent two things are one and the same. Can I do some related words to these like thematically and and etymologically? Jess, this is what we do. Yes, you can. For thunder, one of my

favorites is blunderbuss, which is from the Dutch dunderbus, meaning thunder gun. And then obviously we have things like detonation, which literally means like to thunder down almost. By the way, we should mention again that donder, right? The Dutch word for thunder is is donder and blitzem as in the thunder and lightning. The reindeer the reindeer nowadays donner but originally donder and blixem because now we for some reason started using the well there is a good reason but it's a long story again it's in our Christmas episode. Go watch that. We we now have sort of a word inspired

by the Dutch word for thunder donder and blitzen which is the German word for lightning. Look at us doing Christmas in Julyish. Yeah, Christmas in a heat wave. Whoop. It's like being an Australian.

Amazing. Another one for lightning though is this is not related except thematically. Uh but the word fulminate means to explode or to express a vehement protest and it is from the Latin fulman meaning lightning bolt. Oh wow. I I really like that. The word coruscate means to flash or sparkle

like the light was coruscating from the walls and that's from Latin glitter or vibrate and is often thematically connected to lightning. I guess that one's a little weaker though. Coruscate is one of those words that's used a lot by journalists who don't necessarily know what it means. The abuse is with excoriating all these different words. Yeah, there's another good uh Latin word for a downpour or uh you know a strong shower. Nimbus. Let's do that one. I need to talk about this. We got our

head in the clouds now. Yes, indeed. The Nimbus clouds. Well, actually, I don't know. Is Nimbus a type of cloud or is it a description of another type of cloud? Do you understand what I mean here?

I understand what you were saying and I have a lot of information about different types of clouds. Me too. Let's share. Let's do it. Should we start at the low level or at the top level and work our way down? We should start with the word cloud, I think. Oh, yeah. Yeah, sure. It's one of those

old English ones, right? Yeah. But it doesn't mean cloud like it means like rock. Yeah. Yeah.

It means a heap, right? Yeah. In old English, it meant like a massive rock or a hill or a craggy outcropping and and then it was extended to like the hill-shaped stuff in the sky. Yeah. And we should not have that as our word for a cloud. It should not be. Our word for a cloud should

be wolcen which is related to the west Germanic words. In German it's Wolken means clouds. In Dutch it's spelled the same as it is in German but I think it's pronounced wolka or something like that. You don't pronounce the n at the end. We should be calling clouds welcan but uh we don't. We call them clouds. We've named them after Yeah. a sort of rocky. You'll also catch Welin in

Shakespeare, right? You do. Yes. Make the Welkin ring. And And Welkin here meaning the firmament or the heavens. Exactly. So Welkin is Yeah. A developed. So Wulcan in old English is W L CN. And

then you get this more poetic version. Welin that Yeah. being used into the 19th century in a poetic sense to mean the heavens. Actually, really nice. I really like that word. Welcome. Yeah. Speaking

of words for cloud that mean, you know, a heap or a pile or something. That's what cumulus means, which is one of the lowest levels of cloud. Fluffy cloud cumulus. All of these we we got all these words cirrus, cumulus, stratus, and nimbus. And these all are all named by British I read amateur meteorologist Luke Howard in 1802. I don't know the degree to which he he was an amateur. I

should read. Well, I don't know how you are a professional one in those days. Not they didn't have weather forecasts. I mean I don't know. We were in scientific modernity at that point.

I feel like something something counts there. Anyway, I think he's earned his crust by now. We also have like hybrid forms of these, right? So we have cirrostratus which uh by the way cirrus it means curl of hair in Latin. So spready curls of hair for serratus. And then cirrocumulus is

like a heap of curls. And alto stratus is high up like a high up spread of clouds. Altocumulus is a high up heap of clouds. Stratocumulus is a spready heap. And then cumulonimbus is a heap of clouds.

Yeah. The way I've always remembered it is if you see sort of streaky sort of stripey sheety thing and it looks kind of straight then there's stratus clouds or a variety of of stratus cloud and then the cumulus yes like a actually related to the word accumulation directly right and that's the sort of fluffy ones but I was talking about nimbus being this Latin word for a downpour so if you see nimbus in one of the names of a cloud it means it's a rain cloud so you have cumulonimbus which a really big sort of tall stormy cloud. If you ever fly above one, it's absolutely terrifying. You see the lightning sometimes flashing around it. But you can also have a nimbostratus, which is a sort of thick overall cloud cover that Yeah. usually means rain. You can't see the sun

through it. Interesting. And I feel like that happens a lot. Not in your neck of the woods, but where you used to live. Yeah, that like perpetual. We do have a lot of rain there. [Music]

So, let's talk about words for extremely cold rain or snow. Can we talk about this whole thing about um certain cultures having dozens and dozens of different words for for snow? Yes. Yes. In in the Arctic regions, indigenous languages, which of which there are many, have a very rich vocabulary for the world of ice and snow. Sometimes you'll see it simplified.

They'll say that like Inuit people have x number of words for snow. The truth is there are language families that do have hundreds of words for snow, but there like individual ones have different different words for snow. But there are some really interesting ones too. And and it makes sense that you know if we have as many words for rain in British English, we should have any place that where snow is a fact of life most of the year would also have many words for the different types and the way you interact with them. And it's the specificity of all of these words that means you can end up having so many of them. I mean there are words for you know snow that you sink into

for example you obviously it makes sense to have a word for freshly fallen snow because it has a completely different consistency and you have to approach it in a different way. So it's not peculiar to have different words. I don't know why I'm sounding so angry about about this like like because people do say oh it's amazing that they've got all these different words or is it not just obviously they need lots of different words for this stuff if you're going to accurately describe if you're going to tell someone right if you're going to go to the shops today you need to know that there is the sort of snow that you're going to sink into just in front of the front door. Th this is this is why I mean a I think both can be true. I think it can be magical and wonderful that this happened and it can be pragmatic much like my favorite Terry Pratchett quote it doesn't stop being magic just because you know how it works. Yeah, it is lovely. I mean I let

us celebrate diversity within this language and the specificity of these words. It is lovely. The fact that I have to say snow that you might sink into is clearly inferior to just having one word for it. Over the last winter, we had a snow that fell and then the top of the snow turned into like a thick ice sheet. So like my dogs went out and started just like sliding across the hill and like I had to go and like stomp through the snow to to make a path for them to to you know do their business and whatnot. Then it happened again and again and again. And it kept getting that top

layer of ice kept getting thicker and thicker and I'd have to use like a tool and I want to know like was that two different types of snow or was this like a progression of a sing singular type. Yeah. If you do know of a word that describes Jess's specific snow. It was awful though. Like Yeah. I mean really when snow turns to ice doesn't get any worse. you have that initial excitement

of the snow very quickly depending on what the weather does over the next few hours can turn to just a nightmare. I'm also just like woefully inept in my physical embodiment of myself. So I fell down a lot. I moved from Britain where we don't have an awful lot of heavy snow to Berlin where in the winter is common that you do. Right. Continental Europe has much more extreme weather

than Britain does. Britain just has just sort of wavering around the sort of middle point. It's it's it's rained. Sure. In the summer it's raining. You know, when it gets hot, you know,

it never gets as hot as it does here. Although, again, recently it's been it's been pretty hot. But I've been completely lost in the snow. I don't know what I don't know what to do with myself to handle it. It's embarrassing. I'm never well dressed. Everyone says, "What? That is not a

coat for wearing in the snow, Rob. Dressed like a like one of the presenters of top gear. What we're learning is that you are a creature of temperate climes. I am. I'm better off in the rain than in the snow. That is for sure. We're not totally bereft of words for snow and ice. And we have a

couple of really interesting ones that I think are cool because that come up poetically at least. And one of them is rime, which is a white crystalline frost that forms when water vapor freezes on cold surfaces. And I think that kind of speaks to uh the seafaring nature of many of our our ancestors, too, because rime tends to be affiliated with like the rime of the ancient mariner. And hold on. So is the rime they're talking about in the title of that is it ice, not the fact that it's a poem? I

mean, that is what we call a double entendre right there. But no, the rime of the ancient mariner is spelled R I M E, not R H Y M E. And they're referring to the frost. Are they really? Yeah.

Oh my goodness. Why did that not come up when I studied it? I don't know. I feel like that's the first thing we learned. Insanity. Maybe I I might have I might have been asleep during that

bit. To be fair, I was in a lot of my lectures. I I definitely appreciated that story more later in life. Like in high school, I was like, I don't care about the albatross. But now I'm like, okay, that's pretty cool. I can't believe that because they did spell rhyme as in like poem R I M E in

English as well. It's just a pun. It's about a terrible frosty rainy wet sea voyage. Anyway, we also have hoarfrost, which sounds [ __ ] but isn't the [ __ ] one. It means I actually really like the origin of this one. [ __ ] means this type of [ __ ] means grayhaired. It It looks like gray

hair that has collected on top of grass and things and branches. We use the word hoary to describe, you know, someone with a big sort of gray beard. Gandalf is hy. It has that like feathery frost, things like that. So yeah, we've we've got we've got a few little words for ice and snow. You know,

something there was a revelation for me, just an aside while researching this. Uh I found out where the term rain check comes from, which is, you know, very American. If anyone ever says, "I'll take a rain check in English. They have to put on an American accent to say it." But I didn't I didn't know before researching this what a rain check actually was. Is it broadly

understood in America where that term comes from? Well, tell me because I think I know, but maybe you're about to surprise me. But it's a ticket that you're given at a baseball game if it gets called off because of the weather and it entitles you to come back another day. I Okay, so I I assumed it was more broad than that, but like any kind of outdoor event. Yeah. Yeah,

absolutely. It doesn't have to It doesn't have to be a base It doesn't have to be a baseball game. But no, look, I am I am seeing that it, like you said, originally described right now baseball games. Huh. I knew some of that, but I did not know that it was specifically baseball. It also makes perfect sense that it would be baseball. That just happens a lot

around here. Yeah. I think the confusion for me comes from the spelling of the word check, right? It's a sort of it's a slip that we would spell in English. Ch. Sorry, that we would spell

in British English. Oh my English arrogance coming through. Um, c h e q ue e, not c h e c k. So, I don't know. I I suppose I thought they were going to check whether there was rain and get back to you. I have no idea. Anyway, that was a revelation for me and I hope it's a revelation

for someone else, too. You should watch our our games episode because we go into detail about the different spellings and the origins of the word check and its relation to chess and checkers and everything else. I think to quote you, every reference to a check is a reference to chess. Every single type of check is from the game of chess. It's fun. Including a rain check indeed.

I've got a couple of slangy weather terms to just briefly mention. Have you heard of brass monkeys? I have heard of brass monkeys. I think my first initiation to this term was probably via the Beastie Boys, but I am familiar with other references to it as well. still tell me because I feel like there's more to the story than I know. Well, if you say, you know, the

weather is it's brass monkeys outside, it means it's really, really cold. But I want to do a bit of a brass monkey debunky here because there is a a theory behind why that is. That is, you know, almost certainly false. So, it's short for cold enough to freeze the balls off a brass monkey, right? And people don't want to accept that that might just mean a brass monkey's testicles, right?

Which is what it does. We say cold as balls over here like that's really. Yeah. I mean as balls. I mean at least I have said such things. Maybe I am. I mean I feel like as balls is also you've said

it. Listen as balls is a thing that you can tack on to basically anything to cause it to intensify. At least among millennials slang this part of the world. Breasters. He's not suggesting that balls are cold. It it is it is an extrapolated sense of the same thing. Cold enough to freeze your balls

off, things like that. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And brass is is it can withstand even colder temperatures. So if the the balls are falling off your brass monkey, then it must be really

cold. No, but the the theory I wanted to debunk is the idea that a brass monkey was a contraption for storing cannon balls. And if it got really cold, it would contract and the balls would fall out. No. Yeah. This is a theory. This is a theory. you will absolutely find no evidence for

it whatsoever that there was such thing as a as a brass monkey. And and unfortunately this you know you know sometimes with idioms and we go into this in our idioms episode all the time people just gone so far out of their way to come up with with an explanation beyond the obvious. And this is one of those um and as satisfying as that theory is, it's horse horse poo. Well, okay. So why is the monkey brass? Do you know? Well, yeah, because it was quite common for people to buy, you know, the

sea no evil, hear no evil, speak evil to buy Yeah. brass models of those on trips to the Orient, for example, places like that. People come back to were monkey shaped people had brass monkeys. It's not it's they were a thing trendy. And the other one I wanted to mention was a pea souper, which is a term we like to use in England. What the hell does that mean? Yeah. Yeah. So it means incredibly

dense fog or more specifically smog which is you know smoky fog the term that's used to describe the fog that descends on industrial towns and before the clean air act that made London's air cleaner although it's still pretty dirty. It wasn't green but it was thick you know thick like a pea soup. So we talk about a pea super. You might still talk about a really really foggy day in England as a pea souper, but less since they they cleared the smog. I think that we should mention before we go a couple of words that like maybe not everyday weather words, but I think that people will affiliate weather with these words. And one of them I think is is everybody's favorite

word for some reason that I have particular beef with. I don't have beef with it. I don't feel that strongly. You don't need to tell me what this word is cuz you've talked about it before and I know what it's going to be. Mhm. Yeah. It's petrichor. And my my thing is like everybody's

like I love I mean I do I do love the smell like walking out into a a dense beautiful rainy day. Like it smells wonderful. It's intoxicating. It's delightful. And and it means like beautifully like rock plus the ethereal fluid that float in the veins of the gods. My beef is that if this were

a word for something gross, no one would think that word was pretty. Like if petrichor were were it it's rock snot. It means rock snot. Like and if if if it were a word for like goo or a slime mold that grew on rocks, which would also make perfect sense, then no one would think that word was pretty. Yeah. I mean, it is very difficult to divorce a word from its meaning. I recently did a

video about the ugliest and prettiest words in the English language, which everyone should watch over on Rob's YouTube channel. It's a good video, but I fundamentally disagree with the conclusions. Yeah, not yours. The the ones Yeah, the thing people really struggle to to to separate meaning from uh from the words from the sounds. I think the prettier word for the thing that causes petrichor is actually I don't feel like we've quite nailed described what petrichor is. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I

mean, exactly what it is. I know it's a nice smell after rain, but is it sort of is it the rain that's kind of given off by the tarmac or the this this is what I'm getting at is the thing that causes petrichor, which is the smell that the way it smells when it rains outside. It is caused by a geosmin. I think that's a cooler word to some degree. Maybe not less less mythological, but it's a bacterial compound released from soil into the air by the force of rain hitting porest dry earth, which is why like a fresh rain smells better than it's already been raining for days, you know. Geosmin was the word. Yeah, I believe so. Mhm. Yeah, I like that one more. Okay.

Petrichor, although I understand why people like petrichor. It's always it's one of those ones. Oh, there's a word for that. Unless you're into words, people don't know the word petrichor. Another one that I do really like, I think is a great word is uh spindrift. It's weather and ocean

related is the wind blown spray from cresting wave tops during high winds and gales. So, you know, ocean rain that smacks you in the face. Um, but I love that word. I feel like it's fun. Spindrift. Yeah, it's fun. One of my favorite wines is also called spindrift. Oh,

do you think that might be why you like the word? No, because I liked the word before I tried the wine. Did you buy the wine because the word was on the bottle? Yes. Yes, I did. I buy wines. That's as good a reason as any. I buy wines and not because I know

anything about them, but because they have owls on them and because they have cool wines on them. Yeah. I used to work on the the wine and spirits section of the supermarket and they had a wine that was just called white wine and it had a picture of a scooter on it and I thought, who is going to buy this? Sure enough, one day guy just picks up a bottle and takes it to the till. like there's a brand around here called Good F____ Wine and I've absolutely bought it. I didn't agree

with the assessment on the bottle, but but I like the I like the bottle. I like the the name on it. This is the second time in a couple of episodes where we have diverted onto talking about booze when we should have been talking about something else. I feel it might be a good time to draw Yeah, maybe we maybe we go, you know, to a close, part ways and and toast to something else. Enjoy the calm after the storm. Thank you very much for watching another episode of Words Unraveled. Uh

if you enjoy what we do here, by the way, another mention that we have a membership scheme here on YouTube. If you click the word join underneath this video, there's a button that says join, you can choose from various tiers with various perks. And we'd love to have you on board. Yeah, we have some uh some fun things planned for our members, too. So, uh, we we would love to, uh, chat further with you. Take care. We'll see you next time on Words Unravelled.