---
video_title: "What was the original \"blockbuster\"? | MOVIE WORDS"
video_id: wtOpyi_xjKw
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wtOpyi_xjKw
video_date: 2025-06-11
video_description: |
  Lights, camera, action! Rob and Jess are discussing movie and TV terms in this filmic episode of Words Unravelled.
  🎥 Why do Brits call movies "films"?
  🤷🏼‍♂️ Why has Allen Smithee directed so many terrible movies?
  🙀 Why is there a "dead cat" on every Hollywood set?
  These questions answered, and many more, in this episode crammed with film and television etymology.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on Blueky: robwords.bsky.social
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
Coming to a screen near you, a language and etmology podcast critics are calling absolutely fine. Rob Watts and Jess Ferris star in Words Unraveled. [Music] Welcome to another Words Unraveled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel Rob Words. And I'm Jess Ferris, author of the etmology books Once Upon a Word and Words from Hell. And today we are

rolling out the red carpet. And we are talking about movies, film, and TV. Isn't that right? Yes. Lights, camera, action. It's everything to do with the

silver screen and whatever the television equivalent of that is. Fabulous. Nailed that. Good. So, where do we start with this one, Jess? I think we should start with the

basics. Like, we've got some cool cool words here. I mean, it took me like way too long in life to like really connect the dots that like the word movie is just named for things that move and and like which is wild because I understood that that's what talkie meant like in film mystery. Yeah. It is the next step.

But I was like 10 before I was like, "Oh yeah, a movie is is named because it moves." Yeah. Yeah. So you had talking pictures and then you had moving pictures and movie is a shortening of the phrase moving pictures and also motion pictures is around about the same time. You've got that too. Whereas in

England we're generally still calling it a film rather than a movie. If you say movie you sound a little pretentious, a bit like you're a bit too into it to be honest. Oh. Oh. So you sound like a like a Hollywood hustler or something like that. Yeah. Yeah. really the the words

film and movie in terms of uh their age could not be more different because movie you know is barely a century old I mean a little bit more than a century old whereas the word film you can trace back as long as the English language has existed which I think is quite surprising actually it's like any membrane right like anything has a film on it that's right you have the old English filer which yes it could be a membrane or a tissue of a a plant or an animal it did also have another meaning Jess that I'm not going to spend too much time on, but it did very specifically mean foreskin as well. I didn't know that. That's great. Yeah, I have before me an old English description of circumcision. And there it is.

Fabulous. Anyway, moving on. Do we need to explain why it's we say something different in Britain to in America? I mean it's it's it's it's kind of hard to explain precisely why that happens other than just sort of habit. I think it's just different industry terms, right? I

mean because like it the British film industry and and the Hollywood West Coast film industry have rose up not contemporaneously but close enough and had so much in common but also had their own lingo and jargon which we'll get into a lot of the jargon. Yeah. And I think people will be surprised by how much of the jargon actually is British because I was surprised to find out how much of it was. Oh, I'm interested to see how we differ, too. Um, another cool one before we move on from the basics. I

just like the notion of cinematography is kind of beautiful as a spin-off of photography. Photography is drawing with light, literally given its Greek elements. And so, cinematography is drawing with movement. Yeah. And did you know that an early term alternative to cinema was the more Greek inspired? So

it's kinema. It looks like kinema. It's spelled same as cinema with a a k, but it's pronounced kima. That was just as commonly used as the word cinema in the early days of cinema. And actually links it to a lot of other words for cinema. Like here in Germany,

it's kino, right? Which is a cute way of saying basically the same thing. That sounds to me like a mythical creature of some kind. Yeah, it doesn't it. The kind little chimera, you know. Actually, that

reminds me of the Chiron, which is something that we should come to a little bit later. Televisionual industry term. Television. We're going to cover some television as well. This falls under one of your pet hates, doesn't it?

Exactly. Well, see, I I love them, but a lot of people don't like them. Okay. It is a hybrid word because it combines the Greek ta, meaning far, and the Latin vision, meaning seeing. It means far seier. What I think is most interesting

about the word television is that it is older than the television. So right, there are mentionings of the idea of a television. So in 1900 they've already got the telephone, but they're talking about one day we'll have this television and we'll be able to see each other as if we were in the same room. And then the television as we know it, the first live television broadcast doesn't happen until the mid 1920s. John Loi B credited with it. So building on other people's

works, but absolutely there. And he called his machine the televisor rather than the television, but it is the television that catches on. Early in this in this same period like pre-T television uh other proposed names for a similar technology were the telephoat and the tele Vista which we still see Vista in a lot of like movie and TV terms and brands. It's all about seeing things isn't it? I'm sure you've heard of the network called the Nickelo or Nickelodeon right? I have. Yeah. It was

one of those channels that you had to pay for on UK cable and my parents were never willing to. So, I was always very jealous of all my friends who had Cartoon Network and Nickelodeon available to them. One of my favorite aspects of film history is the original Nickelodeon, which I I'm sure you're familiar with. It's a It's a place where you can go see films for a nickel. The last little bit is a Greek element meaning like a roofed over theater. So,

it was a a theater where you could pay a nickel. We still have Odon branded cinemas, right? It's also it's all of these are modeled after a Paris music hall called the Odon. And then there were like dime museums called melodians that there was like a a music hall with that name in Boston. So it's fun to look up old photos of Nickelodeons because they they were both opulent and kind of uh accessible at the same time. There's

some fun old words for for movies as well that didn't catch on that I should mention. They were known as living pictures, animatraphs, picture plays, photodramas, bioscopes, which was a word that really caught on in South Africa. is a bit antiquated now, but yeah, bioscopes was a word over there. Flicks. My grandma used to call them the flicks.

She used to say she was going to the flicks, which I always think. I mean, you know, you still sometimes hear the word flick used. We still get it in Netflix. Yeah. There you go. Precisely.

And finally, moon pitcher, which is MO picture. Like a Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Like a, you know, like a glass jug. A

picture. Yeah. Moon pitcher, which is obviously just a cute way of saying motion picture. You said animatagraph. Whoever came up with that one was so proud of it and so mad that it didn't take off. I guarantee it.

The animatraph. [Music] So good. Cuz they're getting exactly the same idea, aren't they? Drawing the movement. But nope, not this time.

Speaking of which, um, do you know why we call cartoons cartoons? No, I don't. It's named after heavy paper or paste board on which the preliminary sketches for artwork were made. And obviously cartoons don't have to move. Political cartoons and caricatures are much older than moving cartoons. Um but it was uh

applied to animation around 1916. Though before that it it was probably um punch that popularized the word cartoon in refer in reference to editorial drawings. But animation as we see think of it today began with either the invention of the magic lantern or with the development of the camera obscura which this was this little pinhole camera and the animation pioneer and newspaper cartoonist Windsor McKay led people to apply the word cartoon to these early animated films. Um and he made the famous 1911 film Little Gertie and or sorry Little Nemo in 1911 and Gertie the dinosaur in 1914 which you can still watch. I like the sound of Gertie the dinosaur. It's very cute.

It's a dinosaur film I've not seen. Yeah, exactly. You have the Zoe the Zoey trope as well, which was that that spinny thing that's usually just a horse galloping round and round and round. Zoey trope. That's another also derived from a word meaning movement, right?

They really really really tried out all of the possibilities. We sure did.

One of these cinemas might be showing a blockbuster. Can I take us to the origin of that term? Mhm. So, a blockbuster is a a literal thing. It's a World War II bomb used by uh the British as a quote from 1942. Several hundred of Britain's

Lancasters and Halifaxers pounded Berlin with blockbusters, the two-tonon bombs which shatter a city block. That is much worse. Yeah. Yeah. But immediately, and in a way that to me strikes me as sort of bad taste, but this is in the depths of the Second World War. And I suppose

there's a sort of dark humor to it. But it's it's immediately used to hyperbolically refer to something that is a smash, a success, right? In 1942, you can see the annual report can be a blockbuster, but frequently is a dud. Um, and then the first film to be called a blockbuster is a film called Bombardier. Oh, that's that's nicely serendipitous.

Yeah. Well, is it serendipity or is it a nice bit of creative writing? And I suspect that's what it is. Deliberate punning on this new bomb that that they're dropping over Germany, but then it catches on as a term for a film or a creative work that performs really well. That's fabulous. I grouped that word

with barnstormer which also came up when I was looking through a book of Victorian slang as as one often is uh in the theatrical section. I don't know if you know what a barnstormer the original barntormers did. No, actually I don't. I mean I've heard the term and in other contexts but always metaphorical. So the barn is real and the barntormers are actors, touring actors who would, you know, arrive in very small communities and often would be performing in a barn. You know, they

would have to rearrange off a barn and and hooray, they've got a a stage. And that word comes to mean a second rate actor because I guess they're not sending their best people on tour necessarily. Usually sort of over dramatic actor. Uh but it also starts to mean other touring groups like politicians get caught barntormers as you know as they go to give their stump speeches around an area. You can have musicians who are barnstormers, sports teams who are barnstormers or even there's a type of barntormer that is a a pilot who travels around giving informal displays.

So they were called the barntormers. Interesting. So, this all does ring a bell. Now that you're saying it, I'm like, "Oh, yeah. Of course, that's what that is." Because like you could still

go to like local impromptu concerts host and and performances hosted in a barn. The latter version of that, the the Barntormer is a pilot, is interesting because there is a roller coaster, a kitty coaster at Disney World called the Barntormer, and in it, Goofy flies around in a a plane that crashes into things. I'm a I'm a big roller coaster enthusiast, so I'm happy to happy to break down any of the the more famous ones sometime. Okay. Now, no, no, no, no. Movies now. I do want to, but let's

Okay, we'll stick to movies. Yeah, Barnst is an American term originally. So, and it is much it all of this extra currency. It doesn't really happen like that in Britain. You have the actors called that, but you don't have um these other people called Barntormers really.

This brings up a notion, I think, too, that like the the idea of of barntormers being like lower grade actors, the film industry wasn't considered high art in its early days. Like, it was kind of looked down on. It took it took a while for it to be a respected art form. And some of the earliest silent films in particular were what we call melodramas, right? Which are are dramatically older than cinema. But it was because you

could view and understand the story of the movement without any of the words or with just the little like quoty title cards in between. And melodrama means like music plus action. Ah, so it's a I actually didn't realize that's a port manto on melody and drama. You could argue that it's straight from the Greek element or you know, but yes. Oh, okay.

Yeah. Oh, right. Okay. No, I didn't pick up on that at all. But yeah, melodramas have existed since like the 1700s. So,

it just means you added music over the top of the performance. Yeah. And we've got other terms that carry over into modern day television and film from obviously historic theater. Another good one is is corpsing. You know, when an actor starts laughing. So, I that term

has been around for an awfully long time. It was in the same uh Victorian slang book that I mentioned a few minutes ago. And why is it a corpse? Well, I mean, you can imagine that a corpse laughing is about, you know, the the least appropriate person that could be laughing. But the the term does not originate in the idea of of an actor laughing. It's just the idea of a l an

actor coming out of character, breaking character, particularly in a way that disturbs the other actors in a really bad thing, really selfish thing to do. And it particularly, you know, it refers to to a corpse doing that, you know, someone playing a dead body to do that. then it means anyone that that breaks character and now it's actually so so after broadening is sort of narrow now and it we only really talk about corpsing as being when someone laughs but historically um it would be anyone who like just you know forgot their lines or did anything or just suddenly sneezed or something that would be a corpse because you don't want a corpse sneezing on stage either right uh the more intentional version of that you might say is breaking the fourth wall which is also from theater too right the fourth wall being Yeah. You know, the the barrier between the imaginary barrier that hides the audience behind it. Yeah, indeed. Yeah.

Sort of postmodern ideas aren't so modern after all.

What other movie terms do you have? Well, I've got another one that comes from British slang from from a long time back. Really long time back, actually. Gaffer. you know the gaffer which is I think usually like the lead engineer on a set if I'm not incorrect often in the lighting department I think but that word goes way way back actually Shakespeare uses the word gaffer he put it in front of a description of someone so he says a gaffer vicar but you could have you know a gaffer whatever and it means a senior sort of to be respected form or whatever you've put you've affixed the word gaffer to uh it's one step down from a master. So if this

person is senior but you know not someone you would call their their master, you want to pay respect to them. You call them a gaffer. Then over the centuries it comes to mean someone you sort of respect and then the foreman at work and then when the movies come around it becomes you know the lead engineer but it's still used quite commonly in Britain particular if you watch football soccer footballers are always talking about their their manager as the gaffer referring to them. I know you're the gaffer says blah blah blah blah blah. I don't know if that gets used as much uh in the United States still. Definitely on film and um theater

sets as well, but I mean I think one of the the like pop culture terms that a lot of Americans will also know is um Sam Wise Gamji and Lord of the Rings. His his father is called the gaffer in the Shire. Oh, is he? Oh, okay. I missed that one. And then so the person who

reports to the gaffer, a couple people report to the gaffer. they have on on a film set, just to be clear. Not not in a hobbiton garden. Um, but uh the key grip or the grip receive instructions from the gaffer. That can also mean a stage hand and has since like the 1800s. A uh dolly grip is a

person who operates the dolly, the sort of railroad style cart used to capture tracking shots. The best boy is the assistant to the gaffer, particularly when working in electric. And then the origin of this is a little unclear. It might just be from a term for like a favored apprentice or stage hand. Early call sheets would would label the assistant the best boy and it stuck and you still get that name regardless of gender sometimes too.

Yeah. And it's it's one of those things is a bit more senior than it sounds as well, right? Like showrunner. Really really important role. Super important role. But if you talk about a TV runner,

that's someone who fetches the cups of tea in a TV studio in Britain. Anyway, uh-huh. By the way, I mentioned a dolly. Do you I This goes far beyond um film, but do you know why dollies are called dollies? I don't know why they're called dolly. So, a dolly shot is one is is is

what is that? And so that's where it's on like a trolley, right? A moving track. Yeah, but all dollies, every kind of dolly, like if you're using it to move or if you're if you have a device at work, like in an industrial environment that's called a dolly, all of them go back to various devices that have arms and legs, like a child's dolly. Like the first one ever is the dumb Dolly, the name of an 18th century washing machine device that had wooden legs to agitate the clothes and two arms you could use to turn it. And from there

it was extended to basically anything else that can move or turn things or has arms or sticks or legs or round things with a with a that look like a a head like a roulette dolly. Oh, okay. So, there's like a an anthropomorph an anthropomorphizing of all of these different dollies. Nice. And they are So, so yeah, the dolly shot and the Barbie doll are related. Nice.

Mhm. While we're on the the the uh topic of roles on set, uh do you know what a crafty does? No, I have no idea. They work for Craft Services, which is an onset food service for the casting crew, the people responsible for film craft. Do you know what the taco cart is? Uh is

this some sort of some sort of menu? Uh well, the craft while craft services is for food. The taco cart is not for food. It's a grip cart loaded with flags and stands and apple boxes and seaands. And it's jokingly named for its resemblance to a metal taco holder. So,

it's a cart. Taco cart or cart? Cart. Cart. Gotcha. Do you know what a gobo

is? This is not a person. I I think we're we're ultimately getting to the conclusion that I don't know an awful lot about what goes on in the film. So, I got I got a bunch of these. My mom is actively working on a TV set right now. She's working on 911

Nashville. do just explain what your mom does because if it bears repeating. She is a a tailor or sometimes a cutter draper on film sets and movie and TV shows. So like most recently she worked on a a Nicole Kidman show called Scarpetta that's coming out soon. And now she's working on 911 Nashville which is like a it's cops and fire people and and whatnot. Um doing dramatic stuff in

Nashville played by country music stars. Um, so that's a good one. And then she she's done this for movies like The Notebook, Castaway, 42, The Help, things like that. So if you've seen if you've ever admired a dress or um a suit in those films, or even the jersey that Jackie Robinson's character wears in 42, that's her work. Amazing. Amazing, Jess.

But she also sent me a list of like obscure set terms to quiz you with. Okay. Tell me about the gobo, then. A gobo is a stencil or cutout placed in front of a light to cast shadows and shapes. Oh, okay. Okay. And that rings a

bell. Now, a lot of these people like don't know exactly where they came from, but the theory on this one is it means like goes before the optics, but that might be like a reverse engineering of it. Let me mention another reverse engineering that we should also avoid, and that is that's a wrap. So, yeah. Yeah. It's sometimes said that rap is

wind, reel, and print, right? Which one might want to shout at the end of shooting a film, but except actually you print pretty much every day of production. You don't do it right at the end. It just isn't that. Basically, it's from it's probably just from the idea of wrapping up. We use it all the

time to say to say the end of something. So, that's where that comes up. But, I just thought I'd nip that little backronym in the bud. A cool one with some older technology is the the boom, which this isn't just in film and TV, but it's named after a nautical boom on a sailboat. Oh, that makes sense to because they're both big long masks of some sort. Big might whack you in the

face if you don't duck in time. Yeah. Watch it. Watch it. Yeah. Then you put a

microphone on the end of it, right? Do you know what a dead cat or a dead kitten is on a film set? I So I know what a dead cat is. It often gets used in sort of political rhetoric to refer to a distraction. A very deliberate distraction. Yeah. Okay. I I know what

you're talking about. Oh, wait. Hold on. Hold on. Is it the thing that you cover a microphone with? That's right. I I

thought you might know this one because it's also just an audio term and you know your audio stuff. Yeah. I should mention I I my I mean I I've been working I've worked in radio most of my my career, but my job before I made YouTube videos was here in Germany. I presented on the television. I did business news. That's why I'll be a bit

more comfortable when we're talking about television than I currently am talking about. Excellent. The reason it's called a dead cat or a dead kitten is because it is furry and because it mutes the wind essentially. Dead meaning like dead in the sound. Well, it also just it doesn't it doesn't move, does it? I mean, just

just looks like it's dead. A we used to call it a wind sock more commonly when we didn't want to evoke the idea of, you know, a fallen feline. Have you heard of the term MOS for filming without sound? And do you know why? Right. So I know the story about

this and it's it's based around the idea that a German person got the phrase wrong. Right. So it should be W without sound, but supposedly this German fellow says MIT out sound, which is a bit odd, but is that do you think do we think that's true? It's it appears to be a recurring industry gag that there were a bunch of German directors who came to Hollywood in the late 1920s. It kind of reminds me of uh Spaghetti Western as a name for western movies made by Italians. Is that why they're called

Spaghetti West? Yes. [Music] Should we talk about Alan Smithy? Oh, yeah. An old friend is right.

One of the most famous people in Hollywood. He's done so much. Yeah. But weirdly, he's so difficult to track down. Yeah. I'm We don't have any

pictures of him. Like, what? Who Who is this guy? Who is this Alan Smithy? So, Alan Smithy, the is the officially sanctioned name that directors can use, and they don't tend to now, but did until like as recently as sort of 2000, if they want to distance themselves from the film that they have directed. So if they don't want to

appear on the credits, the name that goes on there is Alan Smithy. And this has been an official policy of the Director's Guild of America since the 1960s when there was a film called Death of a Gunfighter, which came out in 1969 where one of the actors was clearly really pulling the strings and quite literally pulling calling the shots is what I should have said. he was calling the shots and arranged for the first director to be sacked brought in another director. The second of those directors has told the story and he says that by the time you know the film was ready about half of the shots were done by him and about half of the shots were done by the original director even though the original director had actually done quite a lot more filming. It's just the more sort of important shots been during his time but neither director wanted to be associated with the film. And so they

went to the director's guild of America and discussed what they could do about this. They concluded that they could put a fake name. The first name they went with was Al Smith. Problem with that really common name probably people called Al Smith working in Hollywood. So they go for Al Smith instead and then they think still a bit. So they settle

on Al Smithy. And ever since that has been the name that has been used by directors that want to distance themselves from their own work, but they're not they're not just allowed to do that off their own back. They have to get the agreement of the Director's Guild of America. They have like a sort of a series of questions. And if the answer to every one of them is no, questions like, "Were you consulted about every creative decision?" If the

answer to all of those questions is no, then they are allowed to do this. They're allowed to have Allan Smithy put on the credits instead of their name. But they are never allowed to discuss their experience, particularly the experience of the questionnaire with the director's guild of America. And they're not supposed to ever acknowledge that they were the original director of the film. So Alan Smithy has been prolific down the years, although it doesn't tend to happen much these days. I think the

most interesting one of these is probably it was one of the cuts of David Lynch's Dune, which he had already put his name on for the theatrical release, but when it was edited, I believe for like extended and edited or something like that. Someone else is going to know this who is a is who is a Dune buff. He didn't like the way it was edited, so he went with um the Smithy for the directing credit. Yeah, they have to really prove that they didn't have sufficient creative control over the finished product. They can't just say, "Oh, this is oh, I've done a done a not a very good job here." Uh, and and just

bail out. Nowadays, I feel like um it's more common to just release the like director's cut. If you have enough clout in the industry, you can release a new theatrical version, but that's that's pretty rare. A couple of more things named after people, if I may, but real ones rather than Alan Smithy. Ken Burns.

know about the Ken Burns tech. I sure do. Yeah. So Ken Burns, American documentarian, spices up a lot of his documentaries by when there's a still image, having either a zoom, a slow zoom or a slow pan across the image and doing that is now known as a Ken Burns in the yeah AV industry audio visual particularly the visual industry and then Foley speaking of audio we've talked about Foley audio which is sound effects basically specifically it's not actually the recording of the thing that you want to have the sound of. It's recording something else to sound like it. You know, instead of having

recording someone being punched in the face to get the sound of someone being punched in the face, you Yeah. You smack some leather together or something like that. Or you snap a carrot to get the sound of a breaking bone. That's called Foley and it's named after Jack Foley, who was active in the silent movie era, funnily enough. But the second sound was available, he was all over it and was a leading sound designer for Hollywood and you know such was his prowess. people

said that he would make a movie sound better than real life and to this day we call sound effects recorded and but you know do you think everyone knows I'm not sure that almost none of the sounds that you hear in a film you know are the are the sound of the thing that you're watching happening they're almost all imposed on top because it's very hard to record a set you need to focus on getting right is the voices of the actors right you need to keep them miked up you can't have mics everywhere picking up every the sound of everything else that's going on. So, it's almost all superimposed on top. It's almost all Foley, I suppose. I would assume most people know that, but I also grew up with like more than your average exposure to film industry magic and behind the scenes stuff. Um, that's called what is it? Diioetic and non

diioetic sound. Is that what that's called? Those are new terms to me. They sound great. Diioetic is sound that exists within the story world like the character dialogue versus sound external to the narrative like voiceovers and the music score. So that's a different thing

entirely because you can have both as um as external stuff. Yeah. But they're extremely good at matching the sound to the action that's going on. It's a whole art form. We come to expect it, right?

Like because punching someone doesn't actually really make that sound. Like it's more of a splat, you know? And then uh and then like every every sword in a movie goes. Yeah. And and and and there's not a single car in the entirety of America that so far as I can see that doesn't screech when you apply the brakes.

The amount of movies where a car like tips sideways as you go around a corner. Like that would be a that would be a problem. But we need this stuff. We need this stuff. My favorite for this is for at least the like action and chase sequences is the American TV show The A Team, which I have seen more than six times all the way through. It's one of

my favorite shows of all time. Right up there with Frraasier. Wait, wait, sorry. You've seen the show six times through. Yeah, I have. Not just the film. You

mean you've I've all Yes. Jess, what's going on? Listen to years of your life. What? Have you not watched a show multiple times all the way through?

Yeah, I have. But I mean, how long did the A team run for? Five seasons. Six seasons. Five. Five season. And those

are long American seasons, right? Not like six episode British seasons. Each episode only has like 15 minutes worth of content in it. Like the opening sequence is like 3 minutes long. I've done the same with Frraasier and that one has 11 seasons. I've watched all of

Seinfeld through at least twice. There you go. Seinfeld supposedly popularized the term yada yada yada. Yeah, that's okay. So, so I I I looked into this because I was like, I want to make sure that I am correct on this and I found I I I read it and I only saw it on one source and then I was a bit like it sounds like it it should be I don't know some sort of Yiddish offshoot to me. But

oddly enough, it seems to be not Yiddish. There are versions of the word yatterder dating back to 1825 and they're not Yiddish. They sound Yiddish, right? And I think it's because of the the associations there, but it most sources point to a northern English dialect. But yada yada yada leads us quite nicely to Wala Wala. Are you aware

of Wala Wala? Only as a place in Washington. No. So walla. So wala is a term an industry term for background noise, ambient noise usually in a room. Sound

of background chatter. And wala wala is a phrase that people were told to say if they were if they were being a background artist, they were being an extra and it needed to look or sound like they were making speech, but you know, you didn't want to distract people with actual words. So it's wala wala. And then the other famous example is rhubarb, rhubarb, rhubarb, rhubarb, rhubarb, rub. That's what they're all saying in the background. And the soap offers like

East Enders. They're all just saying they're all just rhubarb. As a theater kid, I was told to say watermelon. So that that makes sense. Watermelon.

Watermelon. Watermelon. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I'm I'm actually more on board with watermelon because I was thinking wala wala. I see what what languages do

those look like? And I think watermelon looks like English. The sort of movement that stuff's going on. Whereas rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb. I mean, you don't look that much in rhubarb.

Rhubarb. Yeah. Apple pie. Apple pie. Apple pie, macaroni, cheese. We got that one. That

might actually work. Yeah. Some other film and TV invented terms that we now kind of use either more generally or just to talk about movies. A lot of people know the term mcguffin. Are you familiar with this term? I'm not. It is

a plot device that motivates the characters but is ultimately unimportant to the plot like the briefcase in Pulp Fiction or um in the Maltese Falcon we have our McGuffin object. Alfred Hitchcock loved these, but it was probably coined by screenwriter Angus McFale, whose whose name may have contributed to the structure of the term McGuffin, which the the guff in there, it's supposed to mean like nonsense or or unimportant stuff. So, your mcguffin is your your thing that sends the characters off on their adventure, but the but it's really about the, you know, lessons we learned along the way, right? Or the people we shot along the way and things like that. And then of course we use Macgyver as an all-purpose verb too. Do you also use MacGyver as an

all-purpose verb? No, I No, I don't. No, it's not. It's not one of my allpurpose. It's a zerorose verb. So if you need to

like fix something in your house, but you don't have everything you need to fix it, you like maggyver a solution to it. Much like the TV show character who could invent tools and solutions out of chewing gum and duct tape. Yeah. I only know of MacGyver from I think the Simpsons. I think I think Margger's sisters are a fan are fans of MacGyver.

I'm not even sure it ran in Britain. Yeah, we call that bodging. Podging. Oh, okay. All right. I'm so glad you brought

up the Simpsons because there are a couple of words that The Simpsons have popularized three or four as a matter of fact. Yeah, we of course we have, which is like, you know, people will say that now anytime, but that's the obvious one. The other two are chromulent and imbigans. Embigan. Uh-huh. So, in chromulent.

Yeah, I can hear Mrs. Krabuple saying that one. Ambiggins. Hm. I never heard that word before I moved to Springfield.

And Miss Hoover says, I don't know why it's a perfectly chromulent word. There we go. That was it. It was Miss Miss Hoover. Yeah, Hoover. I glued my head to

my shoulder. I have a couple of like kind of funky like not nobody else's theories but mine about this word. So, you know, in context, cromulant seems to mean like acceptable or satisfactory. And the joke, of course, is that neither am I in big normulant at the time were commonly accepted words, though both are now in use and appear in dictionaries thanks to this episode. Improper dictionaries, right? Well, okay. So, ambigans

ambigance is found perfectly unironically in many places now. Okay. Not okay. But you don't like that. Did we Did we already go on into my dislike for winningist? I think in big

That's why I don't like winningist because it sounds like an imbigans style word. I don't know that we actually talked about it on the podcast. I think we were just chatting about it. It's cuz I I did a I did a blue sky tweet, whatever you call one of those. Uh getting upset about winning Gist. So I

Yeah. SK. Okay. because I worked at a a sports radio station for five years and we survived five years of talking about people winning things without once using the word winningest. And then I post so I see this NPR article and it's in the headline talking about the winningest jockey. And I and I'm just thinking,

well, that looks like a child's made that word up. Is this legit? And then plenty of Americans get in touch to tell me, yes, it is. And why shouldn't it be? And I really struggled to say why it shouldn't be. It just shouldn't. I

always heard it applied to Pat Summit. Um because I was a a UTS fan as a a child um University of Tennessee Volunteers. Their Lady V's basketball team made Pat Summit into one of the winningest coaches of all time. Now, as a result, they're starting a WNBA team in Tennessee called the Summit, which is very cool. It's a nice nod to her. So,

but yeah, winningest was was typically applied to in my in my imagination. And it sounded perfectly normal cuz I've been hearing that for a long time. Why don't I like it? I get it. I understand why because it sounds like biggin which which now sounds more normal but is Well, I was saying that I think the correct construction if we're going to use it should be winniest or winist.

Right. That does the most ah no I'm falling down. This is why I can't explain it. But can we just stop using it anyway? I think you're correct though because it like M is a it's another it gets some weirdness because it has some hybrid elements to it like M as a as a prefix is Germanic but it's also French and it also has like it it doesn't appear on big that much you know where it's like big. But the reason I like

cromulent though is I do think it has some logic to it even though it is a nonsense word. Like the the Latin ending ulentus means full of or with an abundance like in the word flatulent or fluctuant. And then uh the crom element is meaningless but you could reverse engineer an etmology if you wanted like if if you wanted to use like a Welsh word for a stone megalith you could say that it means you know something like crooked or bent because that's what that root means. So cromulent could comply could imply a crooked smile or something abounding in ry humor. No, I know we like to be chat. I'm making up here.

It's got to be we got to draw the line somewhere.

We have a lot of these others that came from movies and TV shows, right? Cuz like we use jump the shark more generally after its use on Happy Days when Fona literally jumps over a shark. It's a phrase that I think is more alamod now than it ever would have been when Happy Days was on the air, right? Which is funny. It's just it was particularly popular this phrase jumping the shark. It's when a show goes off uh

takes a a sharp downturn in quality. And the note is that on Happy Days, the episode in which he jumps over the shark was the first of many terrible episodes that made the show tank in in quality and eventually go off the air. Another one, red shirt, which we see in in movies from um Star Trek, right? Or it's generally on TV. A crew member or a character wearing a red shirt in a lot of TV shows is more likely to die than others because that was that was standard on Star Trek.

Is that because it was are they low ranking officers on board the start of Enterprise? Is that right? A character who's like introduced just to die. episode. They don't have to be wearing a red shirt. Like somebody who just shows

up and then dies by the end of the episode or or within the first few minutes could be termed a red shirt whether they're wearing one or not. But a lot of shows will also put those people in red shirts as a nod to Star Trek. Very good. Yeah, you get these little sort of in jokes. Some that have are in like popular lexicon is like catfishing is from the TV show catfish which is about couples who have formed online relationships but have never met in person. and catfishing is using a

false online identity to deceive someone into a relationship. So, how did they come up with the name of the series? It takes its title from an almost certainly apocryphal anecdote about fisherman putting a catfish in the tank with a shipment of live cod to keep the cod active in transit and tastier at the table. See? Okay. All right. This is one of

those ones like bucket list, right? People for some reason don't believe that the phrase bucket list when people talk about it. are referencing the film bucket list whether they like it or not. I hate talking about this one cuz people get so mad. They get so upset about it.

It's it the term kicking the bucket is much older. I think that's the problem is like people would make lists of things to do before I kicked the bucket. But people are certain that they had like a diary that said bucket list and that it's like this term even though it was widely known and widely used never made its way into any written recording before 2006 which is just wild. find their diary with bucket list written in it, right? People are like, "No, I'm certain. I use this all the time. People

said it. They just never wrote it down." Which like the more you learn about these kinds of things, the more you realize that's wildly unlikely. Um and and like even the OED is like, "Yes, it is from the film The Bucket List." It's a Mandela effect, isn't it? It's a a

collective misremembering. Another one that um I mentioned on Blue Sky the other day is the term like we're toast. like it's the we're toast or he's toast. We had idioms like served on toast or like to serve someone on toast as to like beat them up or whatever back to the 1800s, but similar like you're toast. The just that construction is first found in Ghostbusters. Really?

Yeah. Like Bill Murray ad liibbed even in the script the the line was I'm going to turn this guy into toast. Which that's not unheard of either, but Bill Murray adlibbed this chick is toast. and uh from that scripted line and uh and now we say we're toast and it's everywhere. So, Bill Murray getting the recognition he deserves in the dictionaries. Hopefully, he deserves it.

I love it. Um I'd say there are some others like dark side. We'll use that generally. Red pill and blue pill, those have gone off on their own horrible adventure in some ways. And then people use the term the ending seption as a weird rebracketing to mean like nested because of the film inception like to do something within something else like the movie Inception when they have they infiltrate other people's dreams and dreams within dreams. The real word for

this is called recursion. It's in like computer programming and a lot of other disciplines, but it's also in linguistics. In linguistics, recursion is the capacity to embed linguistic structures within other structures. So in the phrase Rob thinks Jess is silly, Jess is silly is itself a sentence embedded recursively into the sentence Rob thinks. And the cool thing here is you could go on basically infinitely like Rob said that Jess said that Henry thought that Marjgerie said and like follow the verb with these endless strings of self-contained sentences. And

what's this got to do with Inception? In the film Inception, it's like multiple layers. It it what they are doing is called recursion. And people are using the ending seption because of the name of the movie to describe recursion. Things within things within things within things. Exactly. But inception

means a beginning, of course. Oh, okay. Okay. So, it doesn't mean that at all.

Can I bring in a couple of sort of transatlantic differences from TV sets? Let's do it. Do you know what a a Chiron is? I do. I would say it's not that common of a term. Yeah, I don't think

most people do know what one is necessarily, but you know when uh so it's also sometimes known as a lower third, but you know any graphic that appears on top of say on the news, the news is covered in blooming chirons, the thing at the bottom that says know the name of the person speaking or the little the news stuff. They're all called Chirons and they're named specifically after the Chiron Corporation, which was a leading producer of of TV graphics in the early days, but they're not called Chirons in Britain. They're called Aston. And that's because we had a company called Aston Broadcast Systems that provided all of ours. So, excellent. Yeah. So,

when I came to Germany and started working in in television and people were using the word Chiron, I was thinking, what what's going on here? because actually the the you know the American industry had had influenced the newsroom I was in more than the British one and another one and I now found find myself saying this I use the word teleprompter instead of auto quue which is what it's typically called in Britain because ah yeah because the company that tended to provide the teleprompter and the the device is called a teleprompter right the company that invented the teleprompter was called teleprompter and yeah the company that provided them to the likes of the BBC in Britain was called AutoQ. So, they've got different names, but the original Auto, the original teleprompter, it worked with paper, right? It had a roll of of paper that that would revolve and it would be just above the camera. So, like I'm doing now, people would look like they're sort of looking at the camera, but not quite. And it would be strangely

sort of uncanny as they read through. Now, actually, I've got one. I've got one here. I don't know if everyone knows how one of these things works. This is the one I use for my my videos, right?

This is a obviously a mini one. And I pop a little my phone here. Hold on. Give me a moment. I love this demo. O.

So, you can see that my phone screen is reflected. Stop. Don't try to read it. my phone screen is reflected even though my phone is actually down there because what it is all it is is a piece of angled glass in front of where the camera is which is at the back of there and uh it's remarkably clever and it's very similar to a magic trick or or when they they claim that they're doing like a hologram on uh a theater stage. What they're actually doing is they've just got a slanted piece of glass at 45° and whatever they're showing is actually happening at a 90° angle below the stage. That's how Yeah. teleprompterss

or auto cues as they're called in Britain work. Excellent. That that's cue, right? Cue E. Yeah. And to cue

someone in in television is to tell them to start. Allegedly from the Latin quando, right? Meaning when when really? Yeah. Yeah. Say when. Yeah. Yeah. And

it's very similar to prompt. You know, to prompt is to tell someone to do something. Excellent. Uh, cut, check the gate. Is that a wrap, Jess? I think that

that is a wrap. Um, we won't leave you on a cliffhanger. I think we've we've covered a good amount of terms here. We could probably do more of this in the future and then connect to theater. We've had a couple people ask for theater terms and uh there's some cool overlap here. So, I look forward to

talking more about this in the future. Um, and in the meantime, if you're just finding us for the first time, please hit that subscribe button. We'd be so excited for you to subscribe. You know, if you're just finding us for the first time, I've been looking at the data. Most of the people watching our videos are not subscribed. You've watched loads

of them. You haven't subscri hit subscribe. It does. I mean, it basically, yes, it gives us a little boost, and that's that that's nice, but it don't really come at any cost to you. Hit subscribe. But if you do for

whatever reason wish to throw some pennies our way, you can also sign up as one of our members. If you come to this YouTube video, if you're listening, you go to our YouTube channel, you can find it. Obviously, it's youtube.com/wordsunraveled. But if you're already watching this on YouTube, just have a look below this video. There's a join button. We have a

variety of different levels where you can get a variety of different perks, including having your name in a few seconds appear on the screen. We're also planning some other things, you know, pending for our members in the coming weeks and months. So, uh, stay tuned. Take care.