---
video_title: "How did currencies get their names? | MONEY WORD ORIGINS"
video_id: iUnj_TSLqgw
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iUnj_TSLqgw
video_date: 2025-07-30
video_description: |
  In for a penny, in for a pound: Rob and Jess discuss money word origins in this episode of Words Unravelled.
  💰 Where did the dollar sign come from?
  💷 What is the British currency a pound of?
  🤑 Which goddess is all money named after?
  These questions answered – and many more – in a financially sound episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  🏆 VOTE FOR US 🏆
  The British Podcast Awards listeners' choice award: https://www.britishpodcastawards.com/voting
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #english 
  0:00 Intro
  0:25 Award nomination gloat
  1:59 Podcast resumes
---
What's so sterling about the British pound? Why does the dollar sign look like that? And what is the true meaning of money? Join us to be penny wise and pound also wise because we'll take a globe trotting look at coinages of all denominations on this episode of Words Unravelled. Before we get started with today's episode, we have some exciting news.

Yes, we do. We have been nominated for a British Podcast Award. I'm so excited. Me, too. We're up for the Best New Podcast category because although it feels like we've been doing this forever, Jess, we actually haven't. It feels It feels so natural and so much fun to do this every week. And we're

so excited that everybody tunes in and listens and watches on YouTube. Thank you so much for being here. Yeah, if you weren't watching and listening, then something like this wouldn't happen. and they look and they see whether people are engaging with what we do or we're just sort of wittering into the darkness and they see yes people are and they're enjoying it hopefully and we get a little nomination like this and we get to put put on a frock on a Thursday night. We are a team of three over here. It's not just the two of us. Uh Martyn Williams is our editor and he wrote and performed

our theme song and he's just a wonderful part of this and it wouldn't happen without him at all. So thank you so much Martyn. Enormous thanks to Martyn. And if you want to give us another reason to thank you, there is a Listeners' Choice Award. All you have to do is click on the link that we'll provide in the description of this podcast slash video. Click on there,

search for Words Unravelled and and and vote for us and you know it just gives us a chance at another award. Two categories. Excellent. On with the show though and back to our episode of monetary etymology, an episode of our award nominated podcast, Words Unravelled. Welcome to another Words Unravelled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel RobWords. And

I'm Jess Zafarris, author of the upcoming book Useless Etymology. And today we are getting a sense for dollars and cents and pounds and yens and guineas, aren't we? Yes, we are. We're going to be exploring the origins of all manner of currency. So you you can separate your rupee from your rand and your ruble. But we're going to be talking

more broadly about yeah financial terms and and not too like sort of geeky financial more more like you know the stuff you hold in your hands the money the moolah the spondulix the wonga. We'll get into some of those kinds of terms as well. Welcome to words invested. Oh yeah. Yeah. We're today we are your finance bros, but uh bro, I've never called it bro before.

Okay, just let's start as we often do with the you know the word that is our theme and where it comes from. Money. Money. Where does the word money come from? Ah okay. So this word existed in Old English

and we have relatives in Old French but ultimately it's from the Latin Moneta meaning a place for coining money a mint but it has this wild history behind it because there's nothing inherent in the word that implies cash or money or anything. It's because it is from Moneta which was a title or an epithet for the Roman goddess Juno and there was a temple to Juno on the Capitaline Hill where money was coined and precious metals were stored. So, and like it probably means something like to advise or to admonish. In fact, it's related to the word admonish as well as all of our words for thinking like mental and memory and amnesia and mantis. Wow. So, there's money in admonishment and

in mentality. Also, there's there's thinking and and prudence hidden within money itself, whether you use it wisely or not. And so, Moneta, the name of this god, well, I say a name of a goddess, the goddess is Juno, right? the same one and one one and the same. We get that word from the fact that at their temple you've got this this money being produced or being minted. Minted. There we

go. It's exactly the same origin. The word mint comes from Moneta. The old English predecessor to the word mint was also used to mean coin or coinage or money because the word coin didn't exist in Old English yet. Yeah. So you've got this one word that means both of those things in Old

English and then hooray here come the Normans and they bring their version of the same word which is monet or modern French is also monet but it's spelled slightly differently and that gives us a different word for us to use for money for to mint but things that are minted are money so you know it's a bit messy still in my mind a mint nowadays kind of implies the motion of uh minting a coin. It it has that sort of tactile feel if even if it doesn't have that literal sense. But the word coin actually has that literal sense. Right. Yeah. So tell us more about the etymology of coin itself.

It's from the Latin cuneus meaning corner. When it first arose in English like 14th century it meant wedge but it also adopted the sense of something stamped or a piece of money after the dies used for stamping metal which functioned like a wedge and in some cases were shaped like one. It's basically just implying something stamped or a piece of metal stamped. You know, this is something that is going to come up again and again during this episode is is, you know, a word. It just means stamped or it just means round or it just means piece of thing. And a lot

of monetary words uh are yeah really really vague. They're just in different languages. So we end up with absolutely loads of them. How about some examples of those? Oh, of currency. Yeah. Let Yes,

please. I've got a whole I've got a whole list of them here. Do we do we start with the the greenback with the Yankee dollar and I mean dollar is also not just the United States. Like we've got Australian dollars and Brunei dollars and Canadian dollars and Eastern Caribbean dollars and Hong Kong dollars. Hong Kong dollars. Yes, indeed. But they all have the same origin. And

that is not in the United States by any means. No, it is in a Bohemian valley. It's crazy that this word came from Joachim's Valley, right? Yeah. Yeah. So, it's Joachimsthal, right? Is

is the place Joachimsthal. But if you are from there, you are a Joachimsthaler, right? And coins that were produced from the silver mines in that valley became known as Joachimsthalers. But then they dropped the Joachim just for expediency. And that word thaler, which by the way still exists in Germany. Weirdly, my little Kiez here, Kiez means a neighborhood here in in Berlin, you can get or

if you were like um like elderly or whatever, they have a special scheme where you get tokens and those tokens are called thaler, right? Which is the same word. But anyway, dollar is just an anglicization of the word thaler. This is like the the most dramatic rebracketing we have in English, right? Yeah, of course it is. Yeah. And it's uh it's kind of kind of messy, but that's how

we get it. And I I believe the American dollar is ultimately named after the Spanish dollar. That's right. The we've talked about this before, but we can go into it again, is the the piece of eight or the Spanish dollar, the real de a ocho. I'm bad at pronouncing Spanish. The English picked up dollar

via Low German which was well before the US uh existed but the American dollar was later named after the Spanish dollar. We should talk about the dollar sign as well. But I wonder do we do that now or do we get into some some monetary symbols a little bit later on. Yeah, let's let's address that in a moment. Let's keep going with the names that we have. Okay. So So what other ones have we

got? Well, we've got the the pound which sounds like a weight and yeah, that is what it is. was a pound of silver originally. The pound sign, I'm already ruining this. Well, having said we were going to do what the symbols are later, but it is an L and it's it's relevant that the pound sign is an L because it's from Libra or uh Libra pondo. So, Libra we know as the the scales,

right? It's the star sign. Libra is Latin for a weight. So, Libra pondo is a is a pound weight. Question here on pound. It was originally one pound weight of silver which was what 240 pence.

Why do we why sterling? Ah okay. So so so this is a really good question. So we do call it the pound sterling and that's it's a nice way that we like to differentiate the pound from from other pounds that might exist. There are a couple of theories where the word sterling comes from in this case.

One of them is that there was a Norman coin that had a star on it. And so it is a a starling a little star. Ah, could be that. Another one is that it's from a coin that had birds on it, right? That makes sense, like a starling. The starlings. We don't know which of those it is.

It seems more likely to be that it's related to the the first one, the idea of a star, because if it was related to the idea of the birds, then it would be spelled S T A R more likely than S T E R. And that's not just my reasoning. That is the reasoning that etymologists have have come to. So yeah, it's likely that that's where sterling comes from. Is that the logic behind like every kind of sterling silver? Yeah. So I guess it must be right. I we talk about sterling silver pound

directly relates to a certain weight of silver. I couldn't find anything that suggested that wasn't that wasn't where the link is. But you know it's not obviously not the only currency that refers to weight in the Americas. You have an awful lot of pesos around the peso which literally means peso is weight. So it's peso de oro or peso plata which is a weight of gold, a weight of silver as well.

And funnily enough, the peso was also a term for the Spanish dollar. And again, that is going to come up when we talk about where the dollar sign comes from, which I mean, maybe we should just do this since part of the one of the theories has to do with the shape of that PS symbol, right? And I said earlier the the American dollar is named after the Spanish dollar. It's not. It was the the coin idea was adopted from it, but not the word. The benefit of the Spanish dollar, which was first

minted in 1497, was that it it was trusted for a very consistent silver content and could reliably be divided into eight bits, hence that pieces of eight element. And now one of the theories for the dollar sign, the more credible theory out there, though some of them are unsatisfying no matter what. They're all they're all rubbish. I don't like any of them, Jess. We need to find another theory for where the dollar came from. All right. Well, this theory, should you choose to accept it,

is that it is abbreviating pesos as PS and then gradually superimposing the S over the P. And a key figure here was Oliver Pollock, who was a merchant who helped finance the American Revolution from Spanish New Orleans. And he merged PS supposedly in ledgers from around 1778. And then this was adopted by financeier Robert Morris, who officially began to use it in US correspondence. That's the more credible theory and and I can see okay so the the reason I will lend this one credence is because I have seen the many shapes amperands can take and the closeness with which they are to the the original Latin elision of ET. It's clearly the best theory,

the most likely theory, but let's just state the obvious that the dollar sign does not look like a P on if you look down in the bottom right hand corner, you can kind of see a P because the line extends down. Otherwise, it's it's an S with a line through it. Can we explain that, please? It more looks more like a uh a musical symbol than anything else. The other big theory that you'll see quoted frequently, which probably is not true, is that the design of, I believe it was the Spanish peso, had the pillars of Hercules wrapped in scrolls with a globe, which symbolized Spain's reach across the old and new worlds. And some have suggested this imagery inspired the

dollar sign with the pillars forming the vertical lines and the scroll in S. But like, it's not a horrible theory. That one actually looks like what it's talking about. Yes. So the pillars of Hercules are what the Greeks called the entrance to the straight of Gibraltar. So, you know,

the bit where you pass between Africa and Europe into the Mediterranean where, yeah, the pillars of Hercules and they're a symbol of Spain. And either you see them sometimes, you know, wrapped in a a scroll maybe or or or a ribbon. So, you can kind of see how Yeah, maybe it's that. Maybe it's that. I'm not sure why that one's considered unreliable, but I'm pretty sure it's chronology is the problem. That makes sense. One that I quite like is the idea that so we go back to the Bohemian

Thaler that gave us the word dollar. Well, some of the original Bohemian Thalers, the Joachimsthalers did feature a serpent on a cross. Now, if you can imagine a serpent wrapped around a cross, you can see how you get something a bit like an S shape with a line through it. So, I I think I quite like that idea, but people are sort of you can see how people are just sort of grasping for any story from anywhere that could kind of explain this one. There's another one that says like the U in the US moved over the like this one has I hate this. So, so Ayn Rand. Yeah. In Atlas Shrugged,

one of the characters in that um says that Yeah, it So, this is specifically the the dollar sign with two lines through it. That the two lines are somehow a squashed U. But in what world would you write a U without joining up those two verticals? I I don't know. That one also chronologically doesn't make any sense because like people weren't referring to the US as such at the time like no no the sign predates the 1770s. So yeah it wasn't called the United States even then. So I mean what

do we conclude here? We don't really know where the dollar sign came from. No one does. [Music]

We did manage to explain the the pound sign accurately though, which is that this L for for Libra pondo. The euro sign as well. Nice and easy. That's the Greek character epsilon, but they stick an extra line through it. Why do they do that? I think it it's supposed So they say it's

to represent stability, but I think it's just to make it look like a more that way. You think so? I think so. I think so. Um, another interesting one is the the rupee sign, which people might not immediately be able to to call to mind, but what it looks like is a capital R without the vertical line and then with another horizontal line that's just intersecting the the round bit, right? And

that has only been ex in existence since 2010, surprisingly. No kidding. Yeah, absolutely. And it it's the result of I would say a competition but but they they garnered suggestions from ordinary Indians in India. The Indian government did and this is the the design that they settled on and they explain it as it being a Devanagari letter representing Rah crossed over with a Latin R without the vertical line and then these two lines it says represent A the Indian flag and B I don't know why I'm representing letters with my fingers here. podcast listeners, apologies. A A they

represent the Indian flag and B it represents the equals sign for an equal society. I smell bull, but whatever. It's a surprisingly new sign. We do seem to have a habit of retconning our our uh our currency lore. Yeah, absolutely. Well, it's because they become important national symbols,

right? As well as we have to give them feeling. Yeah, it's true. You know, there was so much faff when it came to coming up with the European single currency around what to call it, as you might imagine, because Europe is so brimming with different languages and varied cultures who don't necessarily share an awful lot in common. And so the original idea for the Euro was to call it the ecu, ECU, which is the acronym for the European currency union. But the problem

with that was there was there's an old French coin called an écu. And so they're like, "Oh, that's oh no, we too specific." Yeah. So what are we going to call the euro? And they decided all of this in 1995. There were various suggestions. The Brits suggested the florin because at various

times lots of European cultures have had a florin. Interesting to know that the Brits did not adopt the euro. So what they think doesn't really matter what we think. Not much weight or pounds behind that opinion. Oh, very good. Very good. Um, other suggestions were the ducat and the the

couronne because actually there you know and there remain lots of European currencies that mean crown which I'm sure I will mention later. Crona Swedish and Norwegian and yeah exactly so to call it the Kuran English currency used the British currency was had a had a crown as well and you know often there's a picture of someone wearing a crown on a coin that's why but no they went with euro the credit for the idea has often gone to a Belgian esperantist huh yeah called uh Germain Pirlot but uh the Italian federalist movement suggested the name in the 1960s. So what 30 years before this Esperanto enthusiast did. So you know the idea was clearly floating around. The French didn't like it. They said Euro was maladroit. It was clumsy maladroit. Uh and the Germans didn't like

using the word euro as a noun. They wanted they wanted to use it as a a prefix. So they wanted the Germans to use the euro mark, the French to use the euro franc, the Italians to use the euro lira. But anyway, eventually they did settle on just calling it the euro. It is amazing that any consensus was achieved whatsoever. I I I honestly I have so I've discussed with friends here the

fact that there is no nickname for the euro. If I want to talk about you know in a casual way I have to say quid or if I'm want to make the most of my international crowd I might say bucks. I feel terribly clever saying bucks. Um, but there isn't one, right? The Germans for a time used to call it the Euro Teuro. Teuer is the German for expensive. That is not a nickname. I mean, it is a nickname,

but it's it's too many syllables. It's not a nickname. And the problem with coming up with a nickname is it's equally difficult to find a universal term. Basically, the only thing that I could think of that European countries have in common is the fact that they're in Europe, and they all call Europe something a bit like Europe. So that's how you end up with with Euro. But it's uh yeah, they solved it by by having this one this one word, but there is

no nickname for the for for the Euro. So I would encourage people to leave their suggestions in the comments. One entertaining thing about about the United States and uh its hyper capitalized society is how many words we have for money. Like you mentioned bucks, but we've also got clams, bones, greenbacks, beans, Benjamins, cabbage, you know, moolah, dough, bankroll, cabbage, bread, cheddar, big ones, dead presidents, bacon. Oh, we've got a lot of these. I found some as well.

We've got will-do-all, which means money, spanker, goree, mopus, ribbin, needful, which I like. Oh, haven't got quite enough needful for that. Steven Kelter dibs pewter mint sauce which I think is quite a cute one. nobbins coins collected actually that specifically refers to money that's collected by an entertainer after they've performed. They were called nobbins. I really like that term.

Spondulicks was coined in the US in the 1800s. That's a very nice word. Yeah, but apparently it's just sort of an arbitrary just someone just came up with what sounded like a funny word for for money and used it which is really annoying. Wonga has a has an actual proper interesting etymology, does it? Well, it's from the Romany word for money or for coal as well, which tells you a bit about the historical value of coal, doesn't it? Which was wonger. So, it's Wonga with an an R

at the end of it. Bees and honey, Cockney rhyming slang for money. There's a lot of these. Oh. Oh, here's another good one. Ooftish. Have you ever heard of dish? Oftish. That sounds like something

you would say in the Midwest when you stub your toe or slosh your water on the floor. Yeah, it does sound like I mean and and it is um well, it's an American coinage as far as the English language is concerned because it's from Yiddish, right? And so often Yiddish words tend to enter English in the New York area there or thereabouts. And it's from the Yiddish afn tish, right? Which Germans will recognize as sounding quite a lot like their phrase auf dem Tisch, which means on the table. So it refers to money on the table. Yeah. Yeah. Which I like.

Yeah. That's all the ones I've got for you. Excellent. Well, that was a delight. [Music]

Should we talk about I think one of the more universal pieces of currency would probably be the penny, right? Not universal, but it occurs in many places. Yeah, we've got it. You've got it. Where does it come from? It has meant that for a long time. Yeah. The first true pennies were

minted in the late 8th century and were inspired by Carolingian silver coinage. And they were these light, wide silver coins. They were one 240th of a Saxon pound and each one weighed exactly 1.46 grams and it's a thoroughly Germanic word is penny. It seems like it's a word with a suffix at the end of it. You've got that -y at the end of it and it's Pfennig and you got you know -ing at

the end of a lot of the Germanic words that are equivalent to penny. So, you know, where does the pen bit come from? And one of them is something that we've talked about before, which is that it might be related to the German word Pfand or other Germanic languages have the word pfant or pant, which you find on cans that you return or bottles that you return as a deposit scheme. You know, you get money back. But we also discussed how that word is related to the word pawn as well. So, it

may be that a penny is actually a pawning, which is kind of kind of cool. That's very cool. I like that a lot. Yeah. But but again, no one's quite sure because it's it's just one of those words that goes back so far. There's no obvious so long. It's just Yeah. It's just meant what it means for

so long. Sometimes words just mean what they mean. But it it does have that that ending in basically every Germanic language that it's related to. So that that tracks Yeah, it really does. Yeah, I like that one. At this point, can I bring your attention to the utter insanity of British

pre-decimal currency, which does not sound that exciting because like the decimal currency was like surprisingly late, like 18th century, right? No, we we didn't decimalize until 1971 in Britain. Eurgh. Seriously, my parents grew up with this mad system of currency that was based around a pound being 20 shillings or 240 p. A pound was 240 p. We've been talking about this like 240

is like segments of 240. It goes back to the 12 base or base 12 counting system, right? Yeah. It's sexagesimal or what's the other one? Duodecimal. as a result of its easy divisibility, they needed

lots of terms for the various different divisions of it. They couldn't just call it a quarter or an eighth or whatever like that. So, let me just tell you, starting from smallest to biggest, these these are all genuine denominations that were used in Britain before 1971. So, we only got rid of them half a century ago. So, to start with, you had two farthings to a ha'penny.

Obviously you had two ha'penny, half pennies to a penny. You had 12 pennies to a shilling and uh three pennies to a thrupenny bit. Obviously two thrupenny bits in a sixpence. Two sixpences in a shilling. Five shillings in a crown of course. And then you've got two crowns in a 10 shilling note

as makes perfect sense. Two 10 shilling notes are in a pound note because a pound is 20 shillings. Uh, but of course you could also have two shillings to a florin, 10 florins to a pound, and two half crowns to a crown. I had a cheat sheet on this in high school when we were reading various books. They never attempted to teach me this at school because it's it was so so preposterous.

The closest we got was a performance of half a sixpence as the school play one year. Yeah. Well, it comes up so frequently in literature. It's nice to at least be like, "Okay, all right." Yeah. I I

suppose it is, but I've had it explained to me a million times, and even though I've just read all of those out to you, they haven't staked in. 240 pence to the pound, but but people got by and it worked. But I I don't think anyone would choose to go back to it. I can't imagine so. Yeah. And

shillings another very old word actually. It perhaps goes back to the same root as words like scale, shale, shell, words that mean sort of fragmented or or cut up. The bizarre thing we did in Britain, by the way, was to to opt for the plural of pence more over pennies. We don't really talk about pennies. And we even use that with one pence, which is barking and you know, but it's the same the same source, right? Yeah. Etmologically, pennies and pence mean the same thing. It

dovetails nicely in the sense that rhymes with cents, right? Which which the origin of that is pretty obvious. It's 1/100 hundredth of a dollar. But the scent was born in like 1793. I'm talking here. Uh we had the chain scent which was like a copper coin that no one liked or used and it

wouldn't be called a penny until about 1889 which borrowed the like the early the the notion of one 100th of a dollar based on the idea of because the word cent is from the Latin centum meaning hundred but it didn't mean 100th of a thing until we sort of connected to the notion of percent like per when we do that we are saying per 100 every time. Like per mille is another thing you can say which is per 1,000. People don't say it very often but per mille is another thing where have you ever seen how that's notated? It's with you know how a percent is actually a tiny zero a slash with a tiny zero at the bottom but you add an extra tiny zero for per mele. I think I have seen that.

That's cool. I didn't I didn't make the connection though. Yeah. It's not not used all that commonly. But you you got into other sort of types of coin and I'll drag us back to currency which is something we're going to talk about some some world currencies because I mentioned that a few of them are named just after weight like the peso which we also talked about the shekel as well.

Shekel is just Hebrew for weight as well which I think is really quite interesting. And then you've got other things like rouble means to cut. And originally a rouble was a denomination of another currency called a grivna which sounds an awful lot like the current Ukrainian currency which is the hryvnia which means neck. Do you know why it means neck? Is it the shape? No. It's because

right so have you ever seen coins with holes in them? Yeah. The old like Spanish peseta which means little weight by the way. Well, so you could wear them around your neck on a string. Oh, hey, that's cool. Yeah, it is cool. And this goes right back to the Kievan Rus, the 11th century. The the

hryvnia does that gives the same kind of energy as like wearing your wealth in jewels. Yeah, that's what it's all about. It's it's just a little shadier. Yeah. Well, it's also just a very sort of I someone's really got to get to you if they're going to get something off your neck, aren't they? As well. Drachma. You were going to tell us a bit about Drachma. I was. Okay. So among

the first standardized silver coins were obols and drachmas which emerged in like Athens and a number of other Greek locations obol is from the Greek obelos meaning spit or nail but is also related to the word obelisk. It uh originated as a metal rod used for trade with six obols making up a drachma which means a handful and it's also related to like the Moroccan currency dirham. These were sort of a a shift from barter to this like measured unit of exchange and actually it's linked to an English word as well that's worth a mention. I don't know if you've ever been offered a whiskey and been offered a wee dram. A dram. Yeah, that comes from the same source because actually the

Armenian currency which is the dram is essentially the drachma as well. A dram for a dram. Yeah. But I it's one of those words drram you would never trace back to Greek logically. I don't think when you're in the Scottish Highlands. I don't know if we briefly want to address the fact that like

Korean, Japanese, and Chinese currencies basically all mean like round coin. They talk about the shape. That's right. So yen is Japan, one is the Koreas, both of them. And then you've also got the the yuan renminbi, which is the Chinese currency. The renminbi means people's currency. So ren is is

Mandarin for people. And so, yeah, they've all got the same meaning, which is kind of amazing because those three countries or four countries, they don't speak the same language, right? But actually, but the word yen is is really a sort of anglicization of well, actually, so we're going to get technical. It's a Portugueseization of what the currency was called in Japanese and then ended up as an English version, but it's actually much closer the original Japanese word for it to one. It's a W sound, but Portuguese doesn't deal with was very well. So, we ended up with a Y sounding

currency instead. Yen. Very cool. That's very nerdy. Very, very nerdy. No, no. I like uh any

other world currencies. So, the South African rand is named after Witwater's Rand or Witwatersrand. I'm not totally sure. By the sounds of it, it is an Afrikaans place name, but it's a gold mining region. So, they've just taken the rand off the end of that. I really like uh the Bulgarian Lev,

right, which they don't have anymore. They got they got euros mean lion. Oh, that's cool. And and okay, so like the first coins that we know of in human history had lions stamped on them, too. Ah, there you go. The Romanians also had a leu, which also meant a lion as well. And just sort of it's

it's kind of happen stance, but Sierra Leone's currency is called the Leone. And ultimately that means I mean that makes sense. Lion. Yeah. Because the name of the country is Lion Mountains.

This is kind of cool. By the way, the the Lydian Electrum coins or Lydian lions are Lydian lions or widely considered the first minted electric coins dating back to like the Iron Age, I believe. Uh also I think the the first one we found is like 7th century BCE. They are called electrum coins because they're made of electrum which is a naturally occurring gold silver alloy which as we know from one of our earlier episodes is named after amber because of its color the Greek electron and the word electric and all things related to electricity are named after amber because it was observed generating sparks when you uh when you frictioned it. Um, but this coin friction thing, talk about verbing nouns. I I like how I like what you're getting into here, which is

some proper sort of historical numismatics. Yes, there we go. Numismatics is a word I only just learned when the YouTube algorithm served me up a channel entirely dedicated to poking old coins and collecting them and talking about them. Yeah, it's from the Greek Nomisma. The reason I know this and have for a long time is I used to be the editor of well a couple of publications. I

was the editor of a graphic design magazine called How and uh I was the content director at Writer's Digest. Um and one of our sister publications basically owned by the same media organization had a numismatics magazine that still exists and is now in different hands. So I was I was friends with the editor of the numis the numismatics magazine. I really do see why people get into it. I watched one half an hour long video with the guy sort of fingering his, you know, Anglo-Saxon, his Roman and his Carolingian coins and thought, I want some of those because they do say so much about the culture and like particularly in Rome, right, where one of the best ways you can get a message out from Rome to everyone in this vast empire of millions of people is to print it on the currency because that soon starts to spread around and most of the time most people most Roman subjects citizens citizens of Rome would not have known who the emperor was and it wouldn't have any impact on their life. It' be far too far away. The only way they would know is to have a look at

the coin and it would tell them who the emperor was which I absolutely absolutely love as as as just a you know a fact of the importance of these these little things other than just that they are currency. I do wonder to what extent the presence of American presidents on currency has influenced the presidents that your average kid or person knows the most about. You'll sometimes run into people who think that Benjamin Franklin was a president because he is on money. I accidentally put that in a newsletter. Oh no. A few weeks ago. Oh yeah. And I got hundreds hundreds of

replies putting me right. I mean quite rightly as well. I was just I mean on another day I wouldn't have put it but on this day I I really did put it to that. Also in your defense Ben Franklin is objectively the coolest of the founding fathers. He was so cool. Oh man. Yeah. I He's I've got a

whole thing about his um attempt at alphabet reform. He's he's one of my faves. He's a riot and so funny and just shenanigans everywhere. He's one of my favorite historical figures.

We talked about currency. Another revelation for me in researching this is that the current of a river and something that is current as in nowish. Yeah. It flows. They're the same thing. Yeah. They are things that are currently in circulation. So when we talk about currency,

it literally just means something that is in circulation. That is in the current current. What makes me so like the first time like this was like years ago when I was I think I was writing my kids book or like prior to that just like doing etymology tinkering um and I was like oh so bank must be like a river bank and it's not it was oh but that it is too convenient an association isn't it so when people talk about a word having currency it means the same as you know a coin that is inflows currency it's in circulation it is a word that it usage is current and yeah which uh yeah that was a big deal for me. Also I'd looked up the word fiat. I don't know how widely people are aware of this sort of term fiat currency. It's particularly relevant now when we've got

cryptocurrency. What we're talking about so far in terms of currency names, they're all what you would call fiat currency. They're currencies that are usually overseen by a a central bank. You know they're somehow sanctioned. And actually the word fiat is the Latin for for let it be done. But in

practicality it means something that is officially sanctioned. And actually that fiat is related to fakeri which we've talked about before which means to make or to do which gives the French and yeah the Italian fare. I mentioned bank and I told you what it doesn't mean but I but bank is uh is from the Italian bench and the notion is these are the benches. at which money lenders sat because you know there was handling money at throughout certain points in especially European and and western culture has been kind of frowned upon. There's also the the word bankrupt means a broken bench and it's probably figurative but you'll also see people saying that it's because if you were like did a bad deal or didn't uh pay your debts then your bench would be publicly smashed.

Um which more more likely figuratively. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. But but you weren't so wrong then when you equated the bank with the river because they are the same word like it does also they they are it just the currency does not connect to bank because it is flowing past it and through it. Yeah. And bench and bank are the same word as well etymologically speaking. Retail has kind

of a cool origin. I know this is like a little bit I don't know it's related. Retail means like the selling a cut of something basically a tal. It's it's related to the word tally which was a a cut stick that you would cut grooves into. The the lender would have their version of it and then the uh borrower would have their version of it and they would match and it would be a symbol of o owed money basically debts and payments. You'll know more about this than I do, but in 1834, tally

sticks ended up causing quite a disastrous fire and destroyed the palace of Westminster because they were trying to get rid of of a bunch of like we had then stopped use the using the tally system. Unfortunately, relatively recently, like early 1820s or something and needed to get rid of all these like useless meaningless tally sticks that were stored there and a blaze got out of control. I did not know about that actually. Oh, really? Fascinating stuff. Yeah, they were I mean

the idea was that they were like fraud resistant because it was a physical stick with like physical grooves in it that were hard to replicate. Well, I do have a tally fact and I'm doing air quotes because it's it's not a fact. It's a conjecture. But if the the French hadn't given us the word number, we would probably be using the word tally for for number. It's it's cognate as people like to say in the business. It's directly related to the German word for number. Zahl.

I've loosely addressed this, but it means to cut and it's related to words like tailor. In retail, there is tailoring. Yes, retail implies the re in that implies um cutting a segment of something. So, you're selling when you sell retail, you are selling a smaller cut of something, a smaller amount of it than you would for wholesale. Oh, so that that does directly contrast it with the the phrase wholesale. Yeah. Now that is that has just like made a connection in my brain that is not

going to to go away. So yeah, retail wholesale. One is selling the whole, the other is selling the parts. That's great. That's very fun. I've worked in B2B media for so long that I feel like

I I played around with these words while I was running parts of like Commerce Week and things like that. I should have a load of these in my back pocket because I was a business reporter here in Germany for a very long time. You can go down the the finance route and I'm sure there's plenty of interesting ethmologies in there, but really it's the stuff that people hold in their hands that I think is just the most I think so too. Fun to talk about. Should we briefly talk about just mention the origin of the word finance? Oh yeah, do it. It means end. It's fini. You know,

it's the light and finis. Same with finite and everything else. the notion that a payment that settled a debt was the original sense of finance from the concept of like finalizing accounts that came from the realm of finance encompassing management and investment and money planning. This reminds me a little bit of the origin of mortgage which I think we might have talked about before which is a mortgage which is a a a death payment but it's not referring to the death of anyone involved. It's referring to the death of the deal on the payment. So either the payment doesn't get

made and the deal dies or the full payment because originally a mortgage you would just pay it all at once is made and essentially yeah the agreement dies. The agreement is finito. Yeah it's funny to say that like your mortgage is this death pledge that's like something you you take on until you die. But uh that's not unfortunately that's yeah sort of a half remembered explanation of it is that yeah you're signing a death pledge which you sort of are but but not in the way that you should be frightened of. more in the like oh darn dad humor kind of way. Yeah, exactly.

I'm sitting here in Germany. I haven't talked about the mark. Oh yeah. Well, we have to do that. We do. The Deutsch mark was the currency in Germany before the euro. You

might have heard of the Reich mark as well. It had marks all down the centuries. And the word mark is just a really really old Germanic word and is directly related to the English word mark because the original marks were cut from an ingot that had been stamped that had been marked. Voila. So that's how you end up with mark originally being a weight. So the weight of that ingot and

eventually the weight of the currency. You see how you got the same story. Isn't it amazing how in all these different cultures and languages you have the sort of same progression from because we talked about the the word talent in our episode about uh the Bible blew my mind. Yeah, that is amazing. So a talent was originally a weight and well not originally originally but let's skip that bit was originally a weight then it was a coin and then there is a parable that involves rightly or wrongly investing your talents from which we get the idea of someone being talented. Mhm. It all comes down to like the tactile feel of interacting with these things,

which I mean we've also addressed with uh the word check, which we've addressed a bunch, so I don't want to belabor the point, but every notion of the word check is from the game of chess, and all of it comes down to like the checked board being used for accounting. I'll throw one more currency your way. We mentioned the symbol for it. We didn't actually say what it meant, but while you're talking about, you know, how things feel, the word rupee is actually from Sanskrit, rupia, which means a shaped thing. Very nice. I mean, as as promised at the start, vagueness of plenty

when it comes to the names of coins. I think it's fun to talk about the word nickel, which I think we addressed in other contexts to to a degree, but nickel is from the German coup fornickel, meaning copper goblin. The notion being that nickel is this coppered colored ore that yields no copper. So, it's less valuable than copper. So, you know, if you find it, it's this nasty little thing that lives in the in the mines and makes you do all the work for it to get it and then it ends up being less valuable. So, why is the coin called a nickel? Is it is as obvious as it sounds? The US

needed durable coins during and post civil war made from base metals and that that weren't very expensive and nickel filled the void. A lot of this came to came down to Joseph Wharton who had nickel mines in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. And he was an industrialist and he lobbied aggressively to make the nickel a a coin basically, right? It meant just not just the the metal itself, but but also then the the five cent coin after that. 5 cents. And then before the nickel, the

US had the half dime, which was a tiny silver coin with silver in it. And supposedly the first one of these was struck in 1792 with the silver donated by George Washington himself, which is pretty interesting. No way. Silver coins started being like hoarded and that was that was a problem. So that So that was a half dime. Mhm. Where does the word dime come from then? So dime means tenth.

That's pretty pretty simple. It's from the old French deem which we have a modern French word for as well and ultimately from the the medieval Latin decima pars a tenth part of something. It also is the same root ultimately as the word tithe a tenth owed to the church and decimal. Oh wow. So the dime was one of the original denominations authorized by the coinage act of 1792 and it but at the time it was pronounced or it was spelled d i sm. It was pronounced to rhyme with team. So it

was a deem just like the French term. I see. So that's pretty cool. That's nice. What it's nice that in those names of coins, you've got a little bit of German going on. You got a little bit of

French going on. You got a little bit of English going on with a quarter or or whatever, which is kind of a good reflection of I suppose the well, yeah, the European influence in America. All kinds of fun history, lots of politics involved. Oh. Uh oh, one more fun thing about the quarter, which that's a pretty obvious origin. Like that that should be pretty obvious to anybody,

but the term quarter actually for a coin dates back to middle English because a farthing was sometimes called a quarter in middle English. And then the Latin quadrans was a Roman coin worth 1/4 of an ass. It's kind of weird to have a quarter coin, you know, in a decimal system to have a coin for I know 25. Yeah. It's I mean it's just it's not it's not round enough. I think it's

because like you know you can do half or a half of a half. Yeah. Exactly. But that logics to me a little bit. But one of the things that I wanted to mention about the quarter as it stands today in 1965 when silver prices were rising the quarter was replaced with a copper nickel clad composition that had two layers of 75% copper 25% nickel with a pure copper core in the middle like an Oreo.

And because it happened during LBJ's presidency and under his reforms, it is called the Johnson sandwich. No. Yeah. So the the um the quarter as we know it today is called the Johnson sandwich. I am not offering anyone a Johnson sandwich. I don't care how I mean LBJ LBJ would think

that joke was hilarious. So Okay, good. Yeah. I suppose his initials are quite funny as well. Oh, and he loved it. It's still pretty expensive to produce quarters. I want to

say as I looked this up, so if it's more updated since then, um maybe that's changed, but in 2011, it cost 11 11.14 cents to produce each quarter. Yeah, it'd be dreadful if it cost more to produce than it was worth. Well, that's happened before, which is why we've resorted to things like nickel to make them. There are two very different types of coin historically, aren't there? are the ones

that you know their value is directly related to their weight and that's why so many of them are named after weight and then there's I suppose the more symbolic currency like you think about a note a note is is essentially a promise right it's not and it is money but at the same time what it really is is I think is it British notes that says I promise to bear the holder of this note £10 for example signed by the governor of the bank of England you know it's it's promise of the money that the note represents, but it's not the money itself. If we're going to be pedantic about it, I think we do like to be pedantic sometimes. So, oh, of course we just a little bit. I mean, we can make fun of pedants while also being a little pedantic ourselves. We can You know what I um didn't mention while we were talking about dollars is the fact that I'm wearing a dollar sign. Yeah,

look at that. In my very nifty words unraveled, what the bleep is a growix. Yeah, exactly. So, if you don't know, agrix is this here, this collection of symbols which includes a dollar sign and what you in the states I think would call a pound sign. Mhm. Although these days maybe more

like a hash or something. Yeah. I do wonder if like more I mean I would call that a pound sign, but I don't think that anyone born after me would. Well, I think a lot of people would call it a hashtag now, which I've always kind of annoying. It's only a hashtag if it's got something written after it. It's a tag with a hash at the start of it. It's got there are loads of different

names actually for for that that symbol. Or the one that looks like a knots and crosses. Oh, you call it knots and crosses in American. We don't. But what did what do you call that game?

Oh. Oh, tic tac-toe. Tic tactoe. We're talking about the same thing, right? The board. Yeah,

we are. Yeah, you're right. Yeah, exactly. X's and O's. Yeah, we call it ns and crosses, which actually sounds incredibly British when I say that that. Anyway, this t-shirt

available in our shop, as are many other great designs that have been selling remarkably well. join the the latest fashion trend which is some wordy nerdy merch. If you want to check out like why grows means that we've got an earlier episode on what was it about? That was our swearing episode I think. No, it wasn't. Was it? It's one of our earlier episodes. Go listen to

all of them. Listen to all scavenger hunt activate or we'll work out which one it is and we'll leave a link below. One of one or the other. But I think that about wraps us up for this. Yeah, let's let's call it money ccentric episode. This was money and time well spent. Very good,

Jess. I I really enjoyed this one, particularly going through all of those names, the currencies, and the old coins that you told us about as well. A few revelations in there that I am not going to forget. Thanks, Jess. And thanks to you for watching slash listening. See you next week.