---
video_title: "Is English really a Germanic language?"
video_id: DSD_kMu1INk
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DSD_kMu1INk
video_date: 2025-11-26T06:00:13+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's explore English's Germanic credentials. And start speaking a new language in 3 weeks with Babbel 🎉. Get up to 55% OFF during Babbelʼs Black Friday sale! ➡️ Here: https://bit.ly/WordsUnravelledNov
  
  It's sometimes said that English has taken on so many Latin and French words that it is now a Romance language. Rob and Jess believe this is false, and in this episode they explain why.
  
  Join them as they explain just how similar English is to its siblings Dutch and German and its cousins Swedish, Danish and Norwegian. Learn about the many words borrowed from other Germanic languages. And discover why English has Germanic DNA.
  
  Enjoy another wordy, nerdy episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
Is English really a Germanic language? >> Which terms did we get from the Vikings? >> And what do fairy tales [music] have to do with the way we say words? >> We'll dabble in Dutch, noodle on Old Norse, yammer about Yiddish, [music] and more on this Germanic episode of Words Unraveled. [music]

Welcome to another Words Unraveled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel Robords. >> And I'm Jessa Ferris, author of etmology books, including useless etmology. And today we are discussing how Germanic English is and what Germanic languages contributed to English. >> You might wonder why we are raising the question, how Germanic is English?

There's a good reason for it because there is a school of thought it's not a very academic one it has to be said that English has somehow become a romance language because we say so many you know French derived words and Latin derived words indeed you know if you look at the overall English word hoorde the majority of words in English are not Germanic however the most important ones are [laughter] right >> right the foundational ones >> exactly so what Jess and I are going to try and do here because we both agree that English is a Germanic language and we're going to explain to you what a Germanic language is and why English fits in with that because it's it's fascinating. It's really fascinating because it tells the whole story of our language and it tells you something about the heritage of of of we who speak it. But yes, first first off just explain to us what a Germanic language is. >> These are the the Germanic languages are a group of related languages that form one branch of the Indo-European family. We talk about protoindo-uropean roots a lot. Protogermanic roots also led to

often old English, old Norse and other Germanic words that we now use in modern English. And all Germanic languages are descended from protogerermanic languages which was spoken in Iron Age, Scandinavia, Northern Germany, the North Sea, the Baltic coasts. And it was like these other languages. It's a reconstructed language that has been put together through comparisons of these descendant languages. And that there there are three branches. West Germanic

which is the source of languages like English, German, Dutch, Africans, Fian, Yiddish, Lowsaxon and Scots and then North Germanic which is the Scandinavian languages, Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Icelandic, Farohies, uh, etc. And then East Germanic, which is now now extinct, but once included Gothic, which is the most heavily attested one in writing. And today we have we'd say like 26% of modern English words are derived from Germanic sources, but they are our grammatical and structural backbone. >> Yeah. If you look at the the 100 most common words in the English language, like the ones we use the most, you know, just things like the a stuff like that, 98 99 of those 100 are Germanic derived words. And and if you look at old

English in particular, Old English is undeniably a Germanic language. >> A lot of people who read Old English and are otherwise unfamiliar with it, but are more familiar with like Dutch and Danish are like, "Well, that looks really familiar." >> Yeah. And also what a big thing about Old English is it has three grammatical genders and it has four grammatical cases. If you don't understand what those are, don't worry about it. It's

not important. But the point is that German also has three grammatical genders and four grammatical cases. And do any other languages? Yes. Icelandic and Farohies. That's it. Other Germanic

languages. And that's why English [clears throat] is so very clearly in its DNA a Germanic language. As far as Germanic contributions to modern English go, a 1975 study looked and found about 33% derived from Old English, 5% from Old Norse, and 1% from Dutch. So, there are some different there's some variations and and some disputes about how much exactly came from these languages, but they are the mo most common ones we use. The fact that English has all of these Germanic influences actually means that we have a bit of a head start as English speakers when trying to learn other Germanic languages. For example, the

Swedish for I am hungry is yo hungri, right? And that air there is directly related to our word are because we borrowed the word are from the Vikings. So there you go. Because we speak English, we have a free verb. It's a freebie. And I've been finding out about

loads more of these relatives between Swedish and English thanks to this video's sponsor, Babel. >> Babel is one of the top language learning apps in the world. Its intuitive lessons help you learn a language through real life conversations. And I've been using it to learn a little [clears throat] bit of German so I can go visit Rob and his family in Berlin. And also brushing up on France. I've found that I can make

fast progress because the conversational exercises are really intuitive and useful. And it starts you with phrases that you can use right away in everyday conversation. >> Yeah, I found the same thing. And I've been using it to dabble using babble to dabble in Swedish because uh you know Sweden is gorgeous and I would love to live there and to do that. I've got to learn a little bit of Swedish.

>> With Babel you can set yourself a goal and it'll give you all the tools to meet it. Live teaching sessions, flashcards, podcasts, games, which I love. And of course, lessons you can do whenever and wherever you like. >> So, click on our special link and you can get lifetime access to Babel for $199 during Babel's best sale of the year. And also, it's worth mentioning there is a 20-day money back guarantee. And you

can learn a lot in 20 days. So, I would say give it a go. [music]

The major Germanic languages that influenced English of course are old English which forms the base of our language and it was introduced by the Anglo-Saxons in English from the fifth century onward. And it was spoken across England and then parts of southern and eastern Scotland between the 5th and the 12th centuries. And the people who spoke it were Germanic settlers called the Angles, the Saxons, and the Judes who migrated to Britain starting around the mid 5th century and brought with them West Germanic dialects that evolved into old English. >> What's quite interesting about their dialects as well, if I might just jump in, is that they're what called lowger German dialects, right? Because that has to do with >> Yeah. Yeah. That that is to do you're

you're right. That's to do with altitude rather than how high up Europe you are, right? Because funnily enough, the highger Germanic languages, high German is from southern Germany. Modern German is high German, right? The thing that when you speak German, hello, right?

That is high German. Uh, but it comes from actually lower down in the continent in what is now sort of southern Germany and English is a low German and there's there's low German dialects still in Germany. Germany uh has lots of different dialects of German. is just high German is is this sort of dominant one. English is low German as as are Dutch. So you can break

up the West Germanic languages into high and low as well. Anyway, sorry I interrupted your >> Oh, no, please. That was a good stopping point because I was about to go into the fact that we have our Northgerermanic languages as well. So, a bunch of old Norse words entered English during the Viking age from the 8th to the 11th centuries when Scandinavian Nor-sp speakaking settlers invaded, raided, colonized large parts of eastern and northern England called the Danlaw region, which is part of England. >> Yeah.

>> Yeah. It becomes the Dan law, right? They strike a deal basically with one of the uh Anglo-Saxon kingdoms and the the Danes get their own little area which is where I'm from. Derby for example that is in in there. So we have a like the name Derby is a Viking name anywhere ending with B is is an old Norse derived name as are so many other suffixes from basically this big sort of strip down the east of England. Um but before the D

law happens there are still Vikings all over the place. You have the heathen army led by Iva the Boneless who people will know from the Viking series as the son of Ragnar Lothbrook and just for you know several centuries before the Dor actually happens a couple of centuries the uh Vikings are still just sort of terrorizing the coast. [laughter] One of the interesting things about old Norse words is they displaced native old English equivalents and then they became kind of a standard part of our English vocabulary. Like sky replaced the old English equivalent heaven which we still have in different contexts. That was a word for cloud but also sky. And then

knife replaced the old English seox I believe which was a Germanic short sword and and window. We've talked about this one literally wind eye replaced the old English word which meant eyehole. There's another good one and this is such a fundamental words to us. It's one of the few certainties of life and that is our word die, right? To die. The verb

to die. That's a word that we got from old Norse. If we were still using the word that English was using before the Vikings arrive, we would be describing all death as starving. The German word for example for to die is which is directly related to our word starve. But so that actually that's an occasion where the Norse term did displace the English term, but instead that we niched down on the the original old English verb and it just came to mean, you know, dying of of lack of food.

>> I was reading that it's it's typical for languages to not borrow words for like central life experiences except for words meaning die. probably because they needed like a euphemism for uh superstitions around the dead. So like old English like in addition to the the predecessor to starve, swelter or literally waste on dead like to to become dead was used more frequently until the old Norse die became. >> So they're just looking for anything to avoid saying their actual word for we use the word that they use. There was also fourth fen which meant to cease living but like to to go forth kind of.

[clears throat] >> Yeah. Yeah. Literally to ride forth. Yeah. [laughter] There are other ones where um it's quite interesting to see how English diverges and I don't know if you maybe about to get to this one but for example the word take. So the other West Germanic

languages German and and Dutch have words that are along the lines of non right which means to take. They don't have a word that sounds like take at all. Whereas the Scandinavian languages have words like taka or ta which mean to take. And our word take is given to us. We took it from the Vikings. [laughter]

So So I mean there's a like a entirely Viking phrase you can say which would be they are taking their eggs because we got the words the word egg from the Vikings. We got the word uh take. We got the pronouns they, their, and them from the Vikings as well. Uh, so yeah, they are taking their eggs is an entirely Viking phrase. >> One of my favorite words, it's ultimately came via middle Dutch, but the word tackle is ultimately from that same root meaning to take. The first

meaning of this word was not necessarily an apparatus for fishing, but any kind of rigging. like it was the it was a thing that could grasp or seize ultimately and and for some reason that was translated to rigging perhaps things you can hang on to or or use or manipulate and then extended to fishing and it's also the root of the word tackle [laughter] >> like to tackle somebody like it I well I guess same word but tackling somebody in like football >> a difference between the the West Germanic so including English and the North Germanics that I always like to mention is that we use the word speak. German, for example, uses, right? But the North Germanic languages use words that are related to our word talk instead, except they also have another word for speak. I think they use this quite a lot in Norwegian that is along the lines of I'll be pronouncing it wrong, but it's it's like snacker, right?

>> And it means to talk. It it's exactly it is related to our word snack because it's all about just like moving your [laughter] your mouth up and down. Yeah, I really love that. Like if you want to say I speak Norwegian, you say I snack Norwegian. [laughter] >> That's fantastic. I think we've

mentioned this one before, but one of my favorite like grammatical vestigages we have of Old Norse in modern English is ado because it it uses the old Norse infinitive form to create the word ado. So in English, we pair unconjugated verbs with the word to to create the infinitive form to walk, to go, to speak, to do. And the word to usually acts as a preposition, but in infinitive phrases, it's a it's a particle. And the particle in many in some Norse languages is at. It's the equivalent of the English word at. So ado means at do, but

it means the same thing as like todo essentially. So a big to-do and a big ado. >> That makes so much sense. From my babbling, from using my babble, I noticed that the infinitive form in Swedish, it has at the start. At Oh, okay. So that's what that is to at do.

>> That's great. That's a real gem. And if we'd have more influence from more grammatical influence from old Norse, then we could still be using a variation of at in our infinitive phrases instead. >> English is unusual as far as Germanic languages go in that it does have this big influence of both the West Germanic and the North Germanic languages. But also we should mention that even the French that gets brought over by William the Conqueror in 1066 is a version of French that has got a lot of Germanic influence in it as well.

It's a sort of a Germanic sounding French because the Normans were themselves Vikings that learned the lingo when they got to France. So there's like three major influences in English and the words that we're saying right now that are Germanic and makes it you know it it just it's Germanic. English is very Germanic. [laughter] We have some interesting words from Frankish, which is a West Germanic language influenced indirectly through French and Latin, but words like warden and guardian, which means to like direct your gaze, and then beet, which is from a Frankish word meaning lump or bump. And then heinus, which is from a Frankish root meaning hate, I said very cheerfully. [laughter]

>> And so Frankish is is a is a Germanic language that's spoken in what is now France, right? And so that means that the Normans, for example, had got a lot of Frankish words in their language, their version of French. And that's how you end up with them. Yeah. So you have this guardian and wian. So one of those

is one of those is Norman and one of them is sort of central French, right? And and you have a lot of couplets like that that I always talk about, don't I? Guarantee warranty guil waffle and go, which is the [laughter] the French for a waffle. Excellent. A little later, some of our Germanic influences come from Dutch because during the 17th century, English and the Dutch Republic had several Anglo Dutch wars in which English sailors and merchants borrowed many Dutch nautical terms during this period, which is why you see a lot of nautical terms from Dutch, including skipper, yacht, deck, dock, buoy, keelhole, uh, boom, freight, avast, and many others. And yet at the

same time, Dutch also became a mocking or like an ironic or or maybe not ironic, but a a an insulting label in English for things viewed as foreign or orthodox or unorthodox or morally suspect. Like Dutch courage is bravery from alcohol. Going Dutch is splitting the bill each person pays for themselves. And then Dutch talent is shoddy workmanship. [laughter] >> That's right. Yeah. We alternate between

blaming them on the French and blaming them on the Dutch. >> [laughter] >> Yes. >> Yeah. Because I think Oh, yeah. And the Irish get a hard time as well. But then

like the French and the Dutch I don't know about the Dutch actually, but the French definitely have terms that relate to the English in a very similar way to we we you know we talk about syphilis as the French disease, right? We don't now I don't think but historically we have done. Um which is yeah basically a slight on your enemy. Should we address why Dutch means like it's so closely related to like things like Deutsch and it meant Germanic? Actually, this is essential to discuss because it goes to the question of whether German is more Germanic than the other Germanic languages. The answer

to which question is no. Because the only reason that the words Germanic and German are similar is that the English language has chosen a stupid word for Germany. [laughter] >> Yes. >> The the the idea of the Germanic shared culture is the northern European shared culture. That's Germanic. Germany is

something else. Germany is well what Germany is, right? And German is the language that is just it's just the language that is spoken in that area that where they call themselves the Dutch the Deutsch where they call their country Dutch land Deutsch land. Right. [laughter] But what what have we done?

What have we done? Oh, we we've decided to call the people of the low countries of the Netherlands the Dutch. Not helpful. English not helpful. [laughter] >> Not helpful at all because Dutch originally meant Germanic but not specifically from the Netherlands. High

Dutch once meant German while low Dutch meant Netherlandish. >> Yeah. [laughter] >> Yeah. Dutch essentially means Germanic language speaker basically. So that's the thing that obviously all of the the Germans shared all these this sort of confederation that is Germany of all these different smaller states what they have in common there. Well, they had

their language in common. So it makes sense to to name themselves under that that umbrella. And it's also why Pennsylvania Dutch, right, is German, not Dutch. >> Yes. Absolutely. Descendants of

German-speaking settlers from Rhineland and Switzerland whose language Deutsch was misheard by English speakers as Dutch or not misheard, reworked. >> So if we were clever, we would start calling Germany Dutchland and the people of the Netherlands Netherlandic. I'm proposing that now if we if we wanted to start a grassroots movement, let's do it. >> Make the change. >> [music] >> Let's talk about Germanic features in English. The things that make English

Germanic and it has in common with other Germanic languages. >> Because it's not just the words that we say that make English a Germanic language. There is all sorts of grammatical stuff going on, but also the way in which we say those words that mean ah yeah, okay, English is a Germanic language. One of them is that the English language shows evidence of something that's known as Grim's law. It's named after Yakob Grim of the of the brothers Grim, the fairy tale writers, Jacob and Wilhelm, right? You

know, they were collecting those fairy tales so they could essentially analyze the language in them. And what Jacob Grim outlined is that all of the Germanic languages. So basically the their common ancestor protogermanic as Jess was talking about what made it distinct from the other Indo-Uropean languages was that it went through a consonant shift. We started saying or our ancestors way way back started saying letters differently to everyone else but they started doing it in a consistent way. So where actually the easiest thing to do here is to compare the Germanic languages with like Latin, right? Because Latin did not go through

this change obviously because it's not a Germanic language. For example, a lot of Latin words that begin with a P have a Germanic relative that begins with an F. And a lot of Latin words uh with a K sound, a C, have an English equivalent with a H, a Germanic equivalent with a H. So for example, that's how you end up with the Latin for dog being canis, but the standard Germanic word for a dog being along the lines of hund or hound, right? Because the c sound becomes a h sound in the Germanic languages. It's one of

those shifts. It's why our word father and the Latin pa or pater are directly related. They're the same word. All that's the difference is one of them has gone through Grim's laws shift meaning that the P of the Latin has become a F in English and the T of the Latin has become a th in the English and anyway the fact that we pronounce father father not patter is evidence that we are a Germanic language. >> Another example that I like to cite is unicorn versus one horn and cornucopia versus horn of plenty. the C to H sound.

>> We take a unicorn from non-Germanic languages, right? But the Germans call Yeah, exactly. The German Germans call a unicorn and einhorn, which is just by the way, that's something else we should mention that that English does that is very Germanic and that is create compound words in exactly the way the the einhorn, which means one horn in German does. So for example, we we have a mouse pad for example or we have a toothbrush, a railway, a cupboard, a keyboard. We make new words by slamming two words together. A lot of other

languages don't do that. That's a it's a very Germanic thing to do and particularly the order in which we do it. So if you take the word skyscraper, right? If you look at the Italian, Spanish, French equivalents of skyscraper, they call it a scrape sky. So that order of having the noun followed by the adjective is a Germanic way of putting it. Again, just another

example that we're still now when we're coining things now, we're doing it based upon Germanic rules. >> A couple other examples from Grim's law since you mentioned it is voiced stops became became voiceless stops. So the protouropean B sound became in protogerermanic a P sound which is why we have the Latin labium versus the English lip and same with protoeuropean D to protogermanic T. So decim versus 10 and um another one is a G sound to a K sound. Well which ultimately became knee from Genu but um [clears throat] yeah >> but is now knee. Another feature that we

have is Germanic words typically emphasize the first syllable which later causes later sound reductions in unstressed syllables. So we can we can attribute amic pentameter in part to dramatic influence. >> The problem with English in that one is that we've borrowed so many words that you absolutely cannot predict from an English just by looking at it where the emphasis is. If it is a Germanic word then it tends to be the emphasis is on the first syllable. But if we, for example, hotel, right? That's hotel.

Emphasis [laughter] stress on the second syllable. It looks it's a very English-looking word, but we actually know that it comes from French. But if you don't know that and you think, "Oh, I'll apply the Germanic rule to it." You're going to say hotel, and you're going to sound odd. >> Yes, indeed. Um, another one is the

Germanic. Another feature of Germanic is the I mutation, which is when a vowel, it's a vowel change when vowels were fronted or moved toward the I sound or e sound produc producing like foot versus feet and mouse versus mice. >> Yeah, this is all linked in with umlout, right? Which is a thing that German does. Now, if you pluralize a word like foot, for example, in German, what you do is you put an umlout, so there's two dots above the vowel and then you in the case of foot, you put an e at the end of it as well. And that changes the way

that you're pluralizing it there is to change the vowel sound in the middle of it. And that is something that old English also did. And that is how you end up with foot and feet and mouse and mice. It's Yeah. Samel thing that that German does. loud is a as well as it

being those two dots, it is a phenomenon. >> Apparently, Germanic languages also have unusually large sets of vowel sounds like Swedish has 17 distinct vowel sounds depending on how you're counting and there are like 19 to 21 in English depending on how you count. And then we also have a simplified tense system. So, Germanic language has reduced the Indo-Uropean tense system to two main tenses, present and past, with other forms like future, built using helper words, which the funny the the $10 word for that one is paraphrastically. [laughter] >> Um, that is something that blows your mind when you first realize it is that English does not have a future tense.

English doesn't have a future tense and that is a very Germanic thing. We have to like you say hash together a future tense. I will is that is present tense. I will do is present tense with another verb stuck on the end of it. I am going is present tense. I am going to do that

expresses the future but it's not a it's not the future. We don't have a way of making our verbs future like all the romance languages do. For example, >> it's why we get all these complicated ones like future perfect tense which is will have had. [laughter] >> Yeah, that's messy. Can I mention something about will? By the way, uh

because English stands out as the only one of the Germanic languages, I think that uses the word will in that way. In almost all of the other Germanic languages, their standard word for want is along the lines of will or will or something like that related to our word will. is the idea of uh you know willing something to be whereas our word for want is want and is based around the idea of lacking something I want of something right is where it comes from it's whereas the others are saying I you know I I uh endeavor to make it happen I will it [laughter] whereas we're saying I lack something I actually can I mention a couple of more of these because these are another phenomenon that I I it's it's not an argument for English as a Germanic language. It's just how English stands out from the other Germanic languages because English developed on an island remote. You know, Africans is very different to other Germanic languages because you know it's developing very very far from the mothership and English is quite far from the mother ship. So for example, just like I I was

saying then about us using want instead of will, we also are the only ones to use a word like write for when you write something. You know, all the other Germanic languages use something along the idea of scribing something. So you know scratching something. Whereas our word for write is related to the idea of you know a right or rotting something. Rotting obviously you can't rot. You can

rot something. You can't be rotting, can you? I don't know. I don't know. Uh, but yeah, ours comes from the idea of of of sort of fashioning. And also our word

read as well. Like Germanic languages have words like leen, you know, these L words for reading, whereas English has a word that is based upon an old English word for for being advised, for taking advice. So when we read, we we gain knowledge. We talked about this one before in a recent episode, but I I think it's kind of interesting that English sticks out in this way. There are just a few places where we've applied a different English speakers of old applied a different logic to come up with very very standard verbs and we're still stuck with those logical ideas.

>> Beautiful. [snorts] Another thing that's worth saying another thing that's worth mentioning, but there's loads of things worth mentioning on this about English that puts it alongside all of the other Germanic languages is that it was written in runes, right? Old English was written using runes, which is a Germanic way of writing things of, you know, etching things, you know, scribing them, [laughter] inscribing them. And and that's how, you know, Yeah. Oh, is old English a Germanic language? Yeah. Yeah, it is.

It's it's written in runes and looks good. And you've done a whole episode on that, right? >> I have. Yeah. Uh because we've talked in the past about those wonderful letters that we've lost from English, like thorn, a character that used to express what th expresses for us now. And that

was a rune. There was a rune called thorn that expressed the th sound. And then when we applied the Latin alphabet to the English language, we thought, "Oh, no. The Latin alphabet doesn't have a letter for the th sound. What are we going to do? I know. We'll get that rune

that we were using for the th and we'll just make it look nice and curly so it fits in with the Latin ones because obviously runes are made using straight lines because you're just sort of scratching them. Whereas thorn, which I see if Martin can can draw a little thorn here where my [laughter] my finger is. But I've got to do it the right way around if I done it the wrong way around. Sorry, Martin if I have. [laughter] But it looked like a it looked like a P and a B on top of one another. But also

there was this other character, this other rune called win, which represented the W sound that actually is rare in Germanic languages. I don't know if I genuinely don't know if other Germanic languages have a a W sound at the start of words like English does. Um, and we had a rune for it which looked like a P. Looked far too much like a P. If you read >> Bearwolf, if you attempt to read Bearwolf, good luck to start with.

[laughter] But you'll see there's a load of what look like P's, but they're also P's and uh it's very confusing. So, I can see why they've brought in the the Latin way of making the worst sound with those two U's or two V's. Anyway, that's a welltrodden uh rant by me. Uh but I would love to bring back Thor. >> I agree. No, it's we have so many uses

for it. And it looks distinctive enough that that it's easily recognizable. >> Yeah, I think wind has fallen by the wayside. >> It might be a little tough. You know, we can leave that one with the medial medial s. [laughter]

>> There we go. There we go. And I didn't even mention e. E and thor both still in use in Icelandic, an even more remote language and therefore very conservative of, you know, old Norse. I think if you want a good idea of what old Norse is like, I think you need to look at Icelandic. But anyway, they they

still use that thorn letter I was talking about for the th sound and they use the e sound for the >> the >> voiced version of it. The although I I believe they also they can be interchangeable to some extent those those two letters like the e doesn't always make the voiced. It sometimes can also be a I think I think >> you think. [laughter] [music]

>> Could I talk briefly about linguistic purism and inkorn terms? >> Yeah, I love this. I love this [laughter] because there's this um modern movement called the English movement. >> Yes. >> You're aware of this? I I did a video

about this a while back and the idea is uh [snorts] shunning all non-gerermanic words in the English language and replacing them with Germanic equivalents and and it relates to very closely to a a genuine movement I because I think the English thing is is is definitely tongue and cheek but >> it's a little yeah but there's a genuine movement right in the in the past to do just that >> from a modern perspective there's also and I think better intended is the plain English movement which isn't about eliminating classical words necessarily, but avoiding rare words and uncommon euphemisms and unnecessarily plural terms, some of which were introduced via Latin. >> Yeah. And that is much closer to what were referred to at the time as inkhorn terms, the thing that you mentioned, inkorn terms being unnecessarily complex borrowings from from Greek and Latin from you know what the enlightenment I suppose that sort of period. >> Yes. So the incorn controversy occurred in the mid6th and mid- 17th centuries when English writers debated how far the language should absorb classical vocabulary. So Sir Thomas Elliot, George

Petty favored extensive borrowings from Latin to enrich English and give us more vocabulary. Opponents like Thomas Wilson and John Cheek said that it should remain pure and unmangled with borrowings of other tongues. And one of my favorites, which by the way, Inkhorn is from a small portable inkwell made of a horn used by scholars. And the association is with learned writing. It implies uh pedantic expressions or the the opposite of pedantic expressions.

>> There's some debate about where where inorn comes from. But a theory that I like even more than that, although that is a very pragmatic one, is the idea that um these words are all so long, these borrowed Latin and Greek words, that you're constantly having to redip your quill into the ink horn to to continue writing. >> I believe that was the notion in the original work in which that appeared, which was Thomas Wilson's The Art of Rhetoric. >> You mentioned John Cheek as well, who attempted to rewrite the Bible. >> Yes. without using any know Latinate

terms or Greek [laughter] terms. I think some of the terms have caught on and we wouldn't even know it. Like some of the the alternatives, but some that haven't are, for example, the opponents of the Inkhorn terms wanted us to start using witchcraft instead of the word knowledge. My favorites of these are by William Barnes who in the 19th century proposed a revival of Germanic terms which he called strong old Anglo-Saxon speech. And this person was very well-learned. He was fluent in Greek,

Latin, French, Hebrew, Hindi, Italian and old English and tons of other languages. But his logic was so that grammar and vocabulary could be better better understood and remembered by English speakers who don't have a classical education. Or at least that's how he framed it. So it wasn't it wasn't a sense of like this is better than others though he did he did really like the the strength of Anglo-Saxon terms and he used in in his book an outline of English speechcraft which I recommend looking up because the whole list of words he recommends changing are really interesting. He mentions speechcraft is an alternative for grammar. He says the

word grammar itself seems a misused word for grapho is to write and graphma worn into grammar means a writing and the word grammatica in with the Greeks meant book lore or literature in the main and not speech teaching alone. He also recommends bendum for flexible, welen fire for meteor with welkin as we've said being from the old English for cloud or sky. Fuldum instead of democracy he said fuldum word building instead of etmology or word shapening. >> Shapening. Come on. [laughter]

All of the like the scientific disciplines got new names like star lore, time lore, bird lore for astronomy, chronology, ornithology, wart lore for botany, and matter lore for chemistry, which is interesting because matter is Latin derived. >> He's so ahead of his time, though. I mean, everyone's sticking lore on the end of everything now. It's happening. It's Congratulations.

[laughter] >> This is the the YA fantasy girlies are all over this right now. One of my favorites in the book though is he he kind of has some funny ones in there like he instead of the word apherism he suggests thought cullings. So the idea is like calling them oversimplified brainless cliches [laughter] like that. Don't bother thinking just just use a cliche. >> Right. [laughter]

>> And George Orwell got into this a good bit in the 1940s too. He thought ameliorate extraneous and clandestine were unnecessarily Latinate words. And he's been used to like fuel the plain English movement that we mentioned >> as is Winston Churchill. One of his most famous speeches, large passages of it, we will fight them on the beaches are made up of, you know, mono salabic or duosabic Anglo-Saxon terms in the main. There's that section of that speech where the only Latin derived word is surrender.

Um, but elsewhere in that speech, he does use plenty of Latin derived words. It's worth saying, but he has been quoted saying he would rather use a short Anglo-Saxon word than a, you know, a long frilly one. Uh, and and I don't know, I do feel like they hit different. >> They do. And and in the interest of say like William Barnes saying that that some of those words might be better understood and remembered by your average person, as a public servant, I can imagine that that would be perceived as less pretentious.

>> Yeah. >> I say using mostly Latin words. [laughter] >> Pretentious. >> Understood as less snoody. >> Oh, [laughter] I like I like understood is good. You do want to be understood.

And if you're going to use complicated words, this is goes back to our journalism training, right? If you're going to use complicated words where simple ones are available, then you're basically you're just being self-indulgent, aren't you? You're showing off your own knowledge, your own learning, your own witcraft at the expense of the person that you're saying it to. >> Absolutely. I I was reminded when because we mentioned understand, that's a neat old English compound because to understand something implies to stand under it, right? So why does it mean to

to thoroughly understand it? And it's because under originally it's it's related ultimately to the word inter. So it means standing among something. So you have such a thorough and literally immersive understanding of something that you are standing within it which is kind of neat. >> Yeah. Because actually the German for to

support is untoen right which which is literally the idea of being underneath it and supporting it. But but it can also be figuratively supporting something. >> Old English also had unken which meant to examine or closely investigate something literally to seek among things. And then under thinken meant to think critically or consider something carefully literally meaning to think between or think among. And then unmann meant to receive something from someone else but literally to take between two people. these uh compounds like you say

a verb with a preposition very Germanic more common in English now is to separate the verb and the preposition you know to take over to go under rather than to although actually we do say undergo don't we but it means something different um but whereas actually in Germanic languages you would have you know the preposition essentially is a a prefix on the verb but it but the point is we're still doing the same thing we're just formulating it slightly differently. But it it's a very Germanic thing to do. >> Yes. >> Repurpose the same verb just over and over again with different prepositions. Not very creative. I mean, basically the

story of [laughter] story of dramatic languages is not terribly creative. We like to borrow. We like to borrow. Although, you know, English is very versatile in that we can borrow things and we can verify them and nounify them and objectify them as much as we like. English is good like that.

>> I mean, one of my favorite things about it and one of the things that makes this podcast possible is the ability to explain what words mean in lots of different ways. >> And and what is that? Is that a product of us having a a wide vocabulary influenced by different languages that has allowed us to take synonyms but sort of allocate them their own little niches that are ever so slightly different. We can also drill down to into a lot of specificity with our words, which I mean lots of languages can do this, but here I am just being excited about English. >> Yeah, I I often wonder if we're just being like arrogant when we speak bad about English in this way.

>> Many words. [laughter] >> We got so many words. You haven't got as many words as us. But I do I I think English does demonstrabably have more words than, for example, Spanish. Like quite a lot more words than Spanish has.

I mean, it's really hard to tell because we've talked before about how aglutinative languages you can basically make an indefinitely long word and it's a whole narrative. >> Oh, that's a real faf that it's a thing in old English more than in modern English is where you change words to reflect gender and uh case, etc. or or their relation to another thing, whatever. You end up with these really long words. It's why well actually it's not so much why German has lots of long words. German has lots of

long words because they don't bother with the spaces where we put spaces in. That's really why that happens. But yeah, old English used to be like that. It's very very hard to learn languages that are like that. Old old English is hard. I mentioned earlier that we got

they and them from the Vikings. Well, one of our words for the what are now the the sounding pronouns was was him. So, actually, it's it's quite good that we took on the old Norse pronouns, those plural ones, because using him as a plural pronoun, and you imagine how wound up people get now about using they as a singular, even though it's a perfectly natural thing to do in English, by the way, >> right? [clears throat] >> Imagine if we're also having to use him as a as a plural. No.

>> Oh my goodness. Go look at a table of old English pronouns. They're they're [laughter] >> complex. >> [music]

>> I want to talk about another thing about English that is very Germanic and it is our numbers because there's something odd about English numbers. I don't know if you necessarily noticed it but our teens start at 13. Why don't they start at one teen and two teen? Why do we have different words for 11 and 12? I don't know why, [laughter] but all the Germanic languages do.

Probably because at some point way way back in the history of Germanic peoples, the number 12 was important and it seemed more important to have basically you know how we count to 10 generally, but like your default would be to count to to 12. A way you could do that because you think, well, you haven't got 12 fingers. But what you have got is, you know, on your hand, you've got 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 if you count between like your little knuckly bits >> there. Perhaps that was how they they were counting. But yeah, it's the Germanic languages all have an equivalent of 11 and 12, not a one teen and two teen. Whereas non-germanic

languages generally start their teens at 11. One teen. >> Amazing. >> You know, it's not base 12 counting. It's just 12 appears to be important because we then obviously do have decimal although we've talked about it before the decimal counting.

>> No, Jess. No. uh [laughter] is common in appears to have been common in Germanic languages. In Danish, I think they still do counting base 20 counting sometimes, but so do the Celtic languages. So does French sometime. You

know how 80 is 420. So that's not that clearly isn't a Germanic thing. That must have been something later. But counting 1 to 12 is you're still smirking about vagessa. [laughter] Shut up.

[snorts] >> It's never not going to be funny. Sorry. >> [laughter] >> Jess, I I tell you what you're really good on. You're good on modern borrowings from the Germanic languages. Can you tell us?

>> I just think they're fun. >> Yeah. [clears throat] Well, tell us about about some of those. >> Well, we didn't mention that Africans is a a daughter of the Dutch language that's was developed in South Africa and I get some cool words from Africans. You would be I'm sure not surprised to find out that words like apartheid is one of those but it is a it is from the Dutch Dutch pieces meaning separateness.

Another one is like arvark. We get some animal names meaning earth pig and boom slang which literally means tree snake very venomous tree snake. but also like the vel the the open grassland uh trek meaning to draw or pull originally in Dutch entered English in 1850 in the 1850s which I think is interesting because we use tre a lot >> and that's related to the word drag is related to the word track it's related to the word train as well >> we've got some modern borrowings I love modern borrowings from German because we always pick up like the most interesting compounds and things like kindergarten meaning children garden. [laughter] >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Let's see. Noodle was borrowed

from modern German borrowing. It's original. It meant dumpling in German or or noodle. Because that that's interesting. But then has German borrowed the word noodle back because German refers to pasta as noodle plural of noodle. But they still have nerdle

which is something else. In fact, it's kind of annoying. They'll call spaghetti noodleon noodles. Spaghetti is not noodles. It's something different.

You've got to differentiate between your noodles and your spaghetti. But actually in German they don't. >> Anyway, uh also fun things like dappelganger, which means double walker or doublegoer. It's a lot of fun. Poltergeist, which we've discussed before means knocking ghost or noisy ghost. Zeitgeist, of course, is time

spirit with that same piece. A couple of modern Scandinavian terms that we've gotten from like Norwegian. Fjord is a pretty obvious one. Uh flow for ice. Krill is from Norwegian. The little

planktonic crustaceians. Lemmings. Skiing. Slalops. It's pretty it's predictable to see which words come from which languages. But I also enjoy it.

>> It must be quite difficult to identify in some cases whether a word has come from Norwegian or Swedish because they are really quite similar. They might use certain words in different ways, but they are >> absolutely >> you know in certain places I'm I'm certain that they're sort of mutually intellig mutually intelligible. >> Yes. >> I might get a load of people getting very upset saying that, but I think they are. >> I can go on for a while on this.

>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, also we we have only briefly mentioned Yiddish. I think you mentioned it early on as as a a West Germanic language, but um you know, if you if you understand German, you can actually pick up quite a lot of Yiddish. I I I know Yiddish has a lot of variance, but there are certainly like the Yiddishes that I've come across um which I guess is heavily European influenced ones. I could kind of

understand some of it because it's very similar to German. But a lot of words that seem like they came to us from German are actually from from Yiddish. For example, like the word mench, you know, to refer to a person as a mench. Well, that actually does happen to be the German word for a for a person as well, but the word is borrowed into English probably in New York somewhere like that. Uh to mean, you know, a good a good guy, right? A mench. Uh but it's

from the German for person. >> You see a lot of these in New York slang and then it's it's extended out from New York slang from there. Kutzbah, schmuck, vet, schle, maven. >> I think we've covered the Germanic languages pretty well. and made very clear.

>> Yeah. And we've made English's position, I think, in that Germanic family very clear. But feel free to take us to task on any of it in the comments on YouTube. Um, actually, yeah, just do it. Just go over to YouTube if you're listening [laughter] and have a go. There's not a good way to

comment on a podcast yet. They haven't worked that out. [laughter] >> You're welcome to email us at wordsunraveledpodgmail.com, but we are really bad at checking that email, isn't it? >> Yeah, you can. You can't, but it's Yeah,

it's like shouting into the abyss. >> We'll see you in 3 months when we empty out that inbox. [laughter] >> Thank you so much for watching. This has been another fun one, Jess. Thank you.

>> Yeah. See you next time on Words Unraveled. [music]