---
video_title: "The origins of the alphabet"
video_id: EqaYS3vWKGY
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EqaYS3vWKGY
video_date: 2026-05-20T05:00:19+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's explore the mysteries of our weird alphabet. Rob and Jess are joined by Danny Bate, author of Why Q Needs U, to discuss where our letters came from and why they make the noises they make.
  🅰️ How was A originally an ox?
  𝑄 Why does Q always appear with U?
  🦓 Is it ZEE or ZED?
  These questions answered and so many more in an alphabetically astounding episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  📖 Buy Danny's book, WHY Q NEEDS U: https://geni.us/WhyQNeedsU
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
What animal [music] is the letter A? Do we really need the letter Q? And does the alphabet end with [music] zed or Z? We'll get into the minuscule and maguscule of the alphabet with Danny Bate, author of Why Q Needs U on this episode of Words Unraveled. [music] [music] Welcome to another Words Unravelled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel RobWords.

And I'm Jess Zafarris, author of etmology books, including useless etymology. And today we are here with Dr. Danny Bates, author of Why Q Needs U, a history of our letters and how we use them. Excellent book. Hello. Uh, I'm Danny Bate and I'm happy to be here. [laughter] Thank

you very much for having me. That's how every guest should start. [laughter] I'm delighted. But we really are delighted to to have you on because this this book is is not just about the history of the alphabet, but it's about the history of the English language in its entirety. But let's just get sort of straight into it. You aim to tell the story of the English alphabet, the

alphabet that we use for English. But the English alphabet, I mean, how English is the English alphabet? Not very would be my answer to that. Um, it's it's it's older than the English language. And I do appreciate this question because like in so much in our beloved field of linguistics, we often have to unlearn as well as learn. And the thing that I encourage people to unlearn is that

English equals writing. Of course, English is written, but it's also spoken. And there is a time when English isn't written down, when English hasn't met the alphabet yet. So English speech comes from one direction in one part of the world, and English uh English's use of the alphabet comes from another part of the world. A very long story going back millennia. And I think it's helpful to

think of it in terms of like a big family tree of writing that's passed through many different kinds of spoken language. And English is just one little twig on one part of a branch of the overall tree. You mentioned in your book it it addresses it's broken down by letters. So we've got chapter A, chapter B, chapter C, and we learn about each of those letters throughout. But throughout this you're also charting how these letters got their shapes. You're also charting their significance as

they develop through history. and you have a few accounts and examples of how different letters in English came to be shaped the way they are, which I really enjoy. Can you give us a couple of examples of that? So, if you were writing the alphabet and starting off your ABCs uh when the alphabet is first probably launched about 4,000 years ago, you wouldn't really write ABC. you would write ox head house stick because to begin with ABC and all of the letters that are part of the original gang so many have come and gone many have been altered but nonetheless there's a core that goes back that go back to that moment of creation to begin with they look pretty different they look like things because at least in terms of their physical appearance they are modeled on existing Egyptian hieroglyphs I make the point that all of this does need to be caveed by saying all of this is based on a a tiny bit of, you know, collection of archaeological evidence, a single new find could upset the story that I'd like to tell you today. But that's

that's for the moment. For the moment, I can say this much. I'd like to say it's not quite true to say that the alphabet comes from hieroglyphs. It's kind of like an offshoot or a a new tree that sprouts in the shadow of Egyptian hieroglyphs, uh, which are about a thousand years old by the time that our alphabet is invented. And as I mentioned, they look like things. Uh, so our letter A to

begin with is an ox's head. And if you take capital letter A, and you turn it upside down, it kind of a little bit still looks like that. You have the legs of A, which are actually the ox's horns, the point of A, which is originally its mouth. It's lost tremendous detail. It's changed in so many ways, but there's a hint of that earliest alphabetical history in the letter A.

I think the letter M is a fun one that you talk about as well because the shape of the letter M looks a bit like what it used to look like and what it used to look like looks like what it meant. Yes, exactly. It's water. So, it's originally an Egyptian hieroglyphic depiction of water. And if you wanted to write out the Egyptian spoken word for water, if you wanted to represent it in writing, you do sort of three wiggly wavy lines. They're meant to look like waves or let's

say troubled water. And uh you take one of those lines, you shorten it, you trim off the edges, you make it simpler, and that's not a bad thing. That's just the alphabet becoming more used and more efficient in the process. Eventually, you will end up with a capital M. That's excellent.

And you also mentioned what letter is it that became the Greek sigma and looks looked a bit like an M originally. So that's S. So that's all to do with S and it's it's it's it's probably a bow. it's some sort of composite bow, but there are alternative theories that it's a certain part of female anatomy. I've read that theory. I've also read the theory that it's a it's a

[laughter] Sorry, D. I'm sorry. You're a guest. I shouldn't treat you like that. The [laughter] the upper bit the upper bit of female anatomy that that we men don't possess. [laughter] Uh yeah,

it's boobs. It's basically, let's put it like that. Uh, we're all we're we're all grown-ups here, [laughter] but but that that's I've read so many theories. The problem is is like the the bow theory is maybe the strongest, but we're working with pretty complicated evidence. It's we're looking at these earliest examples of alphabetical writing, squinting sometimes at these marks and scratches on bits of pot and you know occasionally cliffs in Egypt and things like that and saying this hieroglyph was probably the prototype for the the letter whatever it happens to be and in the case of S to begin with is probably um it's probably a bow and then becomes a tooth. But it's all debated. People will know the alphabet as the Roman alphabet or

the Latin alphabet. So we can pin it to we have you know it doesn't it isn't from hieroglyphs but hieroglyphs inspire some of the early shapes right and then we've got the Romans later on using it. what happens in between those two epochs. If I can stick with my metaphor of the family tree, Rome is a very significant branch. Um, but nonetheless, it is not the ultimate route. That

would be that uh moment of creation in probably Egypt, uh, the middle kingdom of ancient Egypt. And from that base, from the Nile Valley and especially the Sinai Peninsula, the alphabet seems to be spread in a sort of anticlockwise motion up the coast of the Mediterranean until you arrive in what is today Lebanon. And in Lebanon is this uh civilization, culture, for one of a better word, called the Phoenicians. They're awesome if people haven't heard of them. and from the phoenetians being super impressive and this this real nexus point in the family tree because it's from the Phoenician kind of standard version of the alphabet around about a thousand BC you will get the Arabic script the Hebrew script but crucially for our purposes the Greek script and in a westwards direction the alphabet reaches Greece again highly debated but let's put it at something like 800 BC I'm sympathetic to the idea that it was even earlier than that but 800 is when we get our first sources and it's the Greek Greeks who we can be more sure of pass it on to Italy and there you find the Romans. So it's it's making its way around the Mediterranean. But what's

confusing here is we know that the Greek alphabet itself is different to the alphabet that we use. How does that happen? There's two big themes. One is that when the alphabet uh you know is is given as a gift uh you know they say you should be aware of aware of Greeks bearing gifts but the Romans didn't in this case. They were very happy to to take on board the alphabet. um via other

peoples of Iron Age Italy. Um when that happens actually back in Greece as well as politically but also alphabetically Greece is far from united and so there are different versions and sort of vague uh trends in how you're using the alphabet and one version particularly a western version of the Greek alphabet is what understandably or you know unsurprisingly gets transported to Italy. That means that there are some differences already because um the standard Greek alphabet that you'll learn in in Greece today or in your Greek lessons is actually based on an eastern version of the alphabet. So that's a couple of differences there. Secondly, then letters back in Greece can just drop out. So our Roman version of the alphabet includes the letters F and Q. They are there

in the archaic Greek alphabet, but they're not there now because the Greeks, for very sensible uh phonetic or phmic reasons, don't need them. So, they've uh fallen by the wayside. So, that will mean some differences between the let's say niece and and auntie or whatever the relationship is, you're going to see some differences between them. You are a fantastic writer. I enjoy the the comedy that appears in this work as well. And uh you mentioned common sense a moment ago and uh

in your chapter on Q which is a fantastic chapter. It's it's also where the book gets its title. So uh appropriately so you describe the letter Q as the English alphabet's greatest absurdity and insult to the effic to in efficiency and common sense. [laughter] And you point out that in uh old English words like queen and quick they were um I quote very sensibly spelled with a C. Yeah. You

also said it was that most useless of Roman gifts. I don't know what was cute under. [laughter] There was there was some vehements there there. I suppose it's maybe it's kind of emblematic or um it's symptomatic of the fact that we we really don't think about the alphabet as much as the ancients did and we we we could we really could prune some of the dead weight from the alphabet. I don't know where this is coming from. I I wrote that book under quite pressured circumstances. I

just finished a PhD. Then [laughter] you need to be very sort of impassive and neutral. You show no personality and maybe this was me, you know, cutting free a bit. We obviously do need to do something about it. I I think because we've got three letters that make a C sound. So, and the

question I put to you is the question that you put to everyone who picks up your book, which is why Q needs U. Why does Q need U? It's a big question. Um, and what's really nice is that Q thankfully comes later on in the alphabet. Um, so that I have had time to set the scene. I don't

need to throw all the necessary information at my dear reader. Q has been fairly useless in most, if not all, branches of the alphabets family tree for quite a while now. To begin with, it actually deserves to be included. It stands for a specific sound. Um, it's actually a sound that's quite hard for me to replicate, but it's a kind of cut sound with added uh glottalization. It's

what's known as the emphatic consonants or one of the emphatic consonants of ancient Semitic languages because all of the alphabet I should should um say is coming from a context of Semitic speech. Um so related to Hebrew and Arabic and great things like that. Jess was trying to teach me this this precise sound a couple of episodes ago when we were talking about Arabic. Do it again, Jess. the C sound [clears throat] as in kaha it has changed and it's gone different ways but crucially in kind of the in that Greek branch quite quickly it stands for a kind of plain old C- sound there is a couple of really interesting bits of information that um that indicate that uh maybe the Greeks used it for a kind slightly different type of C- sound what's known as an alophone but it's a flimsy argument basically by the time we reach uh recognizable ancient Greek. It's a C now and it continues with that sound into Italy into

the hands of the Romans. And the Romans are ruthless with the alphabet. They they really prune letters if they can't be assigned to one sound of Latin. However, great news for Q, they think of a kind of C- sound, what's known as a labiovea, lips and the veum at the back of your mouth. They think of that as a separate sound from C. So consequently consequently

it can keep its distinct spelling. It can keep its own way of spelling and there's indications that they were thinking about giving this sound to Q alone which I think would be very sensible but they don't take that step and they just you use quu or it kind of looks like a Q capital V. Um and that stands for Q. K by the way is God. They basically purge that from Latin because they don't need it. C is triumphant at this point in time. Uh but Q because of that slight phmic

difference in the minds and ears of the Romans can keep its uh distinctive spelling and can limp on. It's doing something else as well, isn't it? That that I hadn't spotted until you mentioned it. But at the end of words when we have qu u e to make sort of an eek sound like in technique for example, it's not making a qu sound at all. I mean how did that end up happening?

uh French. That's how that ends up happening. So saying technique at some point [laughter] was someone saying technique way. This is a French technique. I can't think of a better word for it. It's it's a French technique of spelling. And what you've got here is the qu sound. As I said,

this labiovea sound, it merges in everyday Latin speech. It becomes a plain old C. And you see this in the descendants of Latin. So you'd have a word like I don't know um uh quis in Latin meaning who in French it's just ki it's gone from qu to c and I think I mention [clears throat] this uh in the book is one of my favorite inscriptions which we have from the I think it's the 4th century is a guy confusing c and q because he's confusing the c- sound with theq sound because they are falling into one another. They're merging. He writes quad c o d like cod and then corrects

himself later on and spells it correctly um or at least conservatively. Um uh but the thing is I will just mention that for many languages that continue to use QU in the Latin manner like French and Spanish it's still useful and there's a weird kind of trend where when speech changes we might expect writing to lag behind and it often does but often it can spell very convincingly whatever has occurred in speech whatever's happened next. There's a kind of um strange sort of parallel innovation going on there. There is an aversion to K in the romance languages isn't there? Never really thought about it, but there is. And that's a hangover from literally the Romans having

no truck with K. I enjoyed that you included Ben Franklin's suggestion that we get rid of Q and X entirely because you can do everything they can't they do in English with a K and an S. And Rob recently performed at the Bloomsberry Theater a a performance about how to fix the English language, which he's also covered on his YouTube channel. You also suggested at least consol consolidating some of our C- sounds. I do think that we should just give the C job to K. Let C be ch and maybe

we we we keep q to be a qu sound or we replace it with a you know some something new. Talk to me about the way we deal with the h in like ph and th and ch and why that happens in general. Absolutely. Yeah, I will just say, Rob, that like I feel like you might be somewhat sympathetic to that view of English or that proposal cuz it's not a million words away from German in that you're using [laughter] C for something different and you're using K. Um, yeah. So,

it's something that uh may take off. I don't know. I'm in favor of it. I'll just put it like that. The letter E allows us to spell more vowel sounds like your kind of magic E at at the end of I don't know, a surname like Bate. But credit is also due to h which I think is the consonant workhorse.

Um it allows us to spell more consonant sounds. Sounds that crucially weren't there in Latin. They don't have sounds like th and sh and ch. These are either later innovations in the descendants of Latin or these are sounds in just other languages that have very little relationship to uh to Latin. So what are you going to do about it? Either you can embellish your letters with what we call

diarrretics or accents like little marks above or below. So this is the preferred route of my local language which is Czech or you can combine letters into what we call diagraphs and trigraphs where it's multiple letters standing for one sound. And H is at least in English it's the combiner par excellence. This is actually not specific to English. It's really old. Um, I think in the

alphabets family tree, it goes back at least as far as the Greeks. The Greeks are the first people to realize that our Greek language can be can be made to fit or the letters can be made to fit spoken Greek really well. But nonetheless, there's a couple of maybe R like sounds as in, you know, R, not back, not the vowel, but the, you know, the R sound. Um, probably R for the Greeks. We need to combine it sometimes with an H to indicate a kind of voiceless, maybe breathier R sound.

This then is carried on to the Romans. The Romans maybe pick up on this idea. So they're combining H with P and T and C to spell Greek words. That's why today we still spell words like I don't know um photo and theater and orchestra. You see the phth that's ind indicative of a Greek origin.

And after the Romans, this just explodes like this really snowballs in that H really does become the default combining letter. It's what you use to spell more consonant sound. That's probably given a boost by the fact that the simple sound on its own, that H sound that H stands for is actually probably it's dropped. It's dropped from spoken Latin. Um this happens in London English to this day. It's very typical of lots of dialects of English.

Happened in ancient Greek uh even before the Romans. It happens again for the Romans. This letter just just clearly doesn't want to live or the sound doesn't want to live. It keeps being dropped over and over again. And that means you got you have a letter going spare.

And ever since H is uh it's the ultimate combiner. It's the workhorse of uh of the alphabet. One thing that you mentioned about H that came as a complete surprise to me is that it's a descendant I don't know if that's the right word to use for it of the Russian E letter that backwards capital N because that's one of the fascinating things is you this this letter is related to this letter in this alphabet blah blah blah blah blah. help us get our heads around how a letter in the Russian alphabet that makes an E sound can end up being a letter in our alphabet that makes a H [laughter] sound. That's a fun one. That's a really fun one because you think

come on and firstly it looks like a backwards N doesn't come from an N. The cerillic script which Russian is written in goes back to Greek as does the English script. So that's a kind of nexus point even though as I hope I got across at the outset it's passing through very different spoken languages the writing the kind of strands of writing do meet up uh you know somewhere else in the family tree and somewhere else in Europe and Greek is their common departure point the Greeks specifically one group of Greeks uh people we call the Ionians they lose the H sound so this means that the letter which is again one of the earliest members of the gang It's right right there in the Phoenician alphabet and beyond. It's it's going spare. They don't get rid of it. They think, well,

we actually have this really common vowel. Well, why don't we give it its own letter? And so, hata becomes a it looks like an H in Greek to this day. So, I'm almost there. Bear with me.

That's how you kind of get from the English bit to the Greek bit in that you know you have English, it looks like H and it is H to begin with and then it becomes a vowel letter. But then at Greek it's undergone this incredible change in vowels called um eeticism or ioticism where all of these vowels of spoken Greek are merging in pronunciation. And so we go from toa and then from toa it's now standing for an e sound. And from this with with this value this particular sound it the the letter leaves the Greek orbit and will become cillic. So there you go we got there in the end. [laughter] While we're sort of floating around

hes as well, you also revealed something that I hadn't thought about before, and that's that we think we we're using just one type of H sound. But then you pointed out that the way we say house and the way we say human, we're actually doing something completely different with our our mouths to produce those two h's. Yes. I love that. I I really I'm so pleased that you mentioned this. Um

and I have got a little bit of backlash from this. Um, what's happened is that H is originally, it's in your larynx. It's a kind of it's it's barely a consonant. It's a kind of breathy sound. Because in English, we have lots of words that are immediately followed by what's known as a yud sound, like a very quick like a y sound and then another vowel. It brings this this consonant out

of the throat and into the pallet of the mouth where where y is produced. If you say yo-yo, you can you can feel it with your tongue towards the roof of your mouth. So we go it would have been pronounced surely in let's say early modern English it would have been human but we have a a merger a fusion of the h and the invisible y sound let's say the the h and the y into a kind of which is a palatal sound so human humidity humility things like that for me these are all palatal sounds just as you you Rob would speak every day in a word like ih in German it's again a palatal sound with it in German has been brought brought forward in the mouth. Um, perfectly natural change. Uh, just totally unreflected in our spelling. That

speaks to ydropping, doesn't it? Yard dropping is a a phenomenon that maybe separates I don't know, perhaps Danny and I from how Jess pronounces some words. For example, we would say news. And Jess, you say news. News. News. [laughter] Dropping that sound. Ydropping absolutely varies um across

English. Um my home region which is East Anglia in the UK actually takes yard dropping to an extreme. So actually it really is it's human. You are a human if you come from Norfol. Yeah. So the so

the big the most famous arguably company from uh Norfolk is Bernard Matthews the turkey farmer. And what did his slogan used to be? Beautiful. [laughter] Beautiful. Beautiful. Yeah, there you go. Extreme. And which Jess, you wouldn't say beautiful. It's beautiful.

Right. Beautiful. Exactly. Um, but this this does remind me too in the other direction. The H is often dropped in some American dialects. You'll hear human or famously at the moment huge.

Yes. Instead of huge. Before like ease and things, we tend to not um not include that that yod sound. Another [snorts] revelation for me, Danny, right at the top of the book was that a started out as a consonant. It did. It It actually did. Um, and it's a consonant that is uh super

common in spoken English today and yet has no letter. It's not right to say it's gone full circle, but we have ended up in a strange position where we have a and it doesn't represent the sound that maybe it it really could and we could benefit from. A to begin with starts with a glottle stop. It's this uh kind of a brief closure of your lingial uh folds in your mouth. It's a it's super common glottle stop. Glottle stop. Right. But [laughter] I mean I just you said in glottle stop

there. I just then immediately said it in right. I'm not pronouncing as right. It's right. You know it's very very common in English. In fact most words in English that start with a vowel sound in

isolation may well actually start with a glottle stop. you know that I will say things like, "Oh, I'm going to buy apples." There is a subtle stop there. Um, string it together. I'm going to buy apples. It's not there, but it may be there in isolation. The Semitic speech of the alphabet's

inventors 4,000 years ago um has a series of consonants, and they assign each one to um a particular hieroglyph based on their word for that hieroglyph and what consonant that word starts with. So if you have a a cow, a cow starts with a glottle stop. It's alp in their language. And now a picture of a cow stands for a glottle stop. I mentioned [snorts] consonants there to begin with.

The alphabet is purely consonental. I never know where to put the stress in that word. It's it's just consonants to begin with [laughter] because consonental consonant tell I I don't really know. Um okay. [laughter] Um but to begin with uh the it's all about consonants as it still kind of is with other members of the family tree which have continued to write down smitic languages. So

Hebrew and Arabic for example constants are very much the basis. There are letters for um that can serve vowel sounds. You can also add additional marks for vowels as well. But consonants are really the basis and have continued to be since the earliest days of the alphabet. The Semitic language or dialects at this really early point in time have very few vowels, very few vowel sounds.

So when you're writing, you can just in you can like infer what they are. You you know because you speak the language, you know what the vowels are going to be in the written word and you say, "Aha, I recognize that this is, you know, this particular word." Secondly, people who know or speak Semitic languages will know and maybe love this. It's a great feature of the Semitic language family as a whole. Consonants are the bit that tell you the meaning of a word. Yeah. Right. So

you have your sort of what's called the root and template structure. You have your triadical roots where you have a series of three consonants. These in the abstract refer to something or some concept or feature or activity. They're the the lexical bit and you slot vowel sounds in between them to maybe express features of grammar or something like that. You get your meaning of the word from what it's what the constants happen to be. So, what I'm getting at here is that consonants are

the stars of the show. They have many of them in relation to vowels, and they also are what you need when you're going to be writing down the language so that people know what you're writing about. And if this sounds confusing, if I may share something, which I'm quite proud of, I'm allowed um one uh stroke of brilliance per day uh as a writer and everything else is just awful. Um, [laughter] there is a super common word that by accident, by total accent, kind of works a little bit like a Seemitic three consonant root in that you change the vowels in between them to change the grammar. It's not universal, so not all English accents have this. I believe

Canadian English, for example, tends not to. I mean, I'll put you out of your misery. It's not particularly obvious, but it works in my English at least. Any guesses? Uh, [clears throat] no. Uh,

no. No. I was thinking words that are subject to like initial stress derivation like permit and permit. This is something that works in sort of southern English, southern British English. Is that what we're talking about? I was trying to narrow it down. Does it work in

my slightly northern [laughter] equivalent of it? I believe so. Please put us out of our misery. Uh, woman. Oh, yeah. Okay. Mhm. Go on. woman, women in my English. So, the consonants stay

the same and there are three of them. The vowels in my English change between singular and plural. I have also noticed that people on the internet are are largely very poor at at selecting the correct plural of or plural or singular of that word. It's mixed up frequently. I see women plural [laughter] presented as woman singular very frequently, which is odd. And that has to be

part of the reasoning behind that. I think what you are referring to there is a kind of merger in the singular and plural. So I have one friend who's a a native uh I mean he's a native English speaker from um British Columbia and for him the singular and plural sound exactly the same. It's just woman really. So it's it's it's a mess. It's English. It's not very helpful, is it? [laughter]

It's not very helpful. And that O sometimes makes like an I sound almost too like women. This reminded me of Danny's recent discussion online about the word English and why it's why it's spelled with an e instead of say an i. I think it's the only example of an ing making an ing sound. Except for what is it? Is it penguin is also one too? No,

but penguin. I'm not having penguin. Penguin. Penguin need to grow up. That's [laughter] not how you say it. There. There's your sound bite right there. [laughter] There's your sound bite.

I've actually just been researching the origin of the wordin the word penguin. There is just no excuse for it being penguin whatsoever. I if indeed it comes from the Welsh penuin, meaning white. I have to make myself say it penguin. Like that's that doesn't feel right.

Everything about that word is ludicrous. It doesn't look like an English word. And that is why people have say it in so many different ways. I mean, have you ever seen there's a clip of um Benedict Cumberbatch and it's from a BBC nater documentary where he's he's calling them ping wings. He's calling them ping wangs. He's having [laughter] absolute shock over the word

because it looks so foreign and it doesn't doesn't. All right. Okay. Fine. Penguin as well.

Talk about English and and English. [laughter] Yeah. Or English. English, which again, like if you happen to be a, I don't know, a citizen of Germany or Austria, English is absolutely fine. It's just your name for the language. Uh, so it it's perfectly possible. There's nothing

about this uh s sequence of sounds that the human mouth can't produce. I'm going to have to exclude penguin uh on the grounds that if you pronounce penguin as penguin, you absolutely can, but that's part of a much broader change. That's the pin pen merger which is going on in North America. Okay. So pin and pen. It might happen in New Zealand. All right.

I'm not telling the entirety of New Zealand that they [laughter] grow up. People do say pin when they mean pen in some dialects here. Yeah. I was This is complete aside, but I was in um a lecture or a talk once when somebody was uh basically showing how you can really with great accuracy map vowel positions in the mouth, right? where you're producing the vowel, what height your tongue is.

And they had this data from su successive generations of New Zealand speakers with the specific vow. With future generations, it's on the move, so it'll become something new. And it was uh it was weird. It was like seeing a vow change being born on the graph in front of us. So um maybe this will not become sort of, you know, the characteristic New Zealand uh English forever. I

I don't know. But nonetheless, in North America, we have the pin pen merger. And because of that, because of this huge mass of words which where the I and the E vowel are becoming the same before nasals, um, you have things like penguin. English, the word English very appropriately is just this total outlier. It's always been this outlier, especially in accents that don't have the pin pen merger, like mine and like yours, Rob, where English it starts with an I. And this is because there was a sort of precursor to

the pinp merger in late middle English, early modern English where the e vow is being raised in the same environment before a nasal. It's being raised up to become it. It's going from e to i when it comes before a nasal sound. So a word like uh uh linger is originally linger that. So there's things like that are going on and we can see that all of the words that are affected have their spelling updated going being written from with an E to an I except for one English and it's really really hard to explain. And in my little piece I I basically speculated what on

earth could be the reasons. It's not linguistic reasons. It it's it's sentimentality. We don't like the look of English with an I. Um, and consequently, English with an E is is really old.

It all goes all the way back to to the old English period. It's been spelled this way for so long. And we've never made that leap. People have that. We absolutely have examples of people spelling English with an I. But standard English has settled on this unique piece of uh conservativism

for reasons of sentimentality. So before we go, I wanted to talk about your in your book, you address how lowercase or minuscule letters came to be as opposed to maguscule letters. And I laughed out loud at the passage that described all capital Roman writing as looking like angry shouting. Yeah, it always looks peculiar embedded in a page of normal English text, doesn't it? So So what is the relationship between lowercase minuscule letters and magiscule? the the capitals.

Yeah. So, it's like a relationship of offspring um in the the capital letters of the older ones, right? They're the ones. Yeah. The kind of Yeah. So, the lower case of the babies, the

[laughter] lowercase letters or minuscule letters emerge over the course of the Roman Empire from the magiscular ones. as people in the Roman Empire are becoming ever more literate and they're writing on all sorts of materials, they're writing private documents, letters to friends, um many of which I should say actually come from the UK, the surviving ones that we have. And that it's amazing. Um and this kind of everyday cursive develops. This simplifies the letters. It makes them quicker and easier to write. And the process of curs

is very straightforward like a capital S. it's it's so curvy already it just can remain a very curvy letter. Um letter C for example likewise just gets shrunk a bit but others through this process may end up being reduced in complexity. So I think that's certainly true of what would it be something like um I don't know Q R is R is a good one poor R gets dismembered. It [laughter] really does it really does dismembered is actually the perfect word because R is a head originally.

It's a kind of pictographic or hieroglyphic head. So decapitated decapitated [laughter] sort of just has awful things done to it. And I I think that's a really good shout out because I think it it does suffer the worst in and we can really see this in the centuries of the Roman Empire. So that's the first few centuries AD. You can see people starting to sort of unravel unravel. It goes from being I said the thing I said the thing you know

um so something [laughter] Martin can flash that across the screen um it is unraveled as a letter because um because we see it go from let's say the the stalk of R and that sort of a bump and then a leg sticking out from it and the bump and leg just come to rest on top of the stalk if that makes sense. It's sort of, if I do it backwards, like a that shape and then a stalk and then a that. It's sort of a bit looser and looser until it's really just no more than just a kind of bended stalk. And that's a lowercase R. That's where we get it from. And it suffers really badly. Um, and others

like A. A finds one of the legs of capital A looped back until you create something that looks like a lowercase A. And D gets reversed. you know, the bulge of a capital D points in a different direction to the bulge of a lowercase D because basically the bulge of the lowerase D, the round bit was the stalk, the stem originally and it's been curved. So, it's all a process of Roman cursivization. And let's say to put a rough date on it, let's say by the year 400, the lowerase

letters are in place. And from this point onwards, the the uppercase letters will won't go anywhere, but a kind of rule book for when to use each one will gradually emerge and we'll end up with upper and lower case. We started by talking about A right up top. So, let's finish by talking about zed. Put this one to bed for us. Is it zed or is it z? [laughter] [gasps] Well,

I defer in all things to my personal hero uh Dr. Samuel Johnson who says that it's is [laughter] good. Do you like Is maybe maybe the great doctor can provide an end, you know, a resolution, an armistice for this particular conflict. Um it it's both are correct. Both are correct and both are not just correct but backed up by good working principles. So Z is harmonious

with it rhymes with other letters of the alphabet and zed honors ethmology in history in that the letter name of the letter zed comes from zeta in ancient Greek and it's passes through French and you end up with zed at the end of the alphabet. It's put there by the Romans having originally got rid of the letter. They then reluctantly bring it back to spell Greek words and the isizard that Dr. Johnson refers to which is completely fallen out of fashion is probably a kind of um confusion of French AZ. So ending the French alphabet as is at the very end and this becomes isizards. Um I just

say that like our kind of tribalism are you know we we we stake our our allegiance in the sand and we say I'm team Z. I'm team zed. It's so modern. It's so recent and it it's indicative of the letter's kind of marginal status slowly being put to use. I mean Shakespeare in one of his plays, he calls it a useless letter cuz it's really [laughter] it's not. And so there's a little

bit of, you know, variation about it. And I can find you British writers calling it Z. I can find you American writers calling it uh zed. Uh and I [clears throat] think it will be resolved someday. I just I won't make any firm predictions how this conflict will be resolved. I do wonder

if the song won't settle it because there is something wrong with going T U V W X Y and Z [laughter] doesn't solve that problem either. You had to go with Z for your show so it would work. I did. Yeah, [laughter] I did sing that song and and I did converts to a Z. It's it's tough but we can do it. And like I don't say Gen Zed. I don't say it's Gen Z. So it's little this is

how it creeps in. And uh and also when I say Jay-Z um referring to Jess Zafaris uh then I always say can I can I make um a point just a slight point in favor like a really nerdy one in favor of zed the letter names what we call them which we we it's so unusual to see them written out I mean like the letter I don't know D and it's written out D E E we we just don't do that we write the single letter but they have names and these are not like accidental things these are not inevitable things they're products of history, the letters get renamed from alpha, beta, gamma when the alphabet lands in Italy. It's probably the Romans who do the renaming. And the system goes that if the letter is a represents a stop consonant, so like where you're stopping the airflow like D or T, the defining sound comes first. Hence d T B. Whereas if it's a different kind of sound,

a different kind of consonant, if uh it's a fricative like f or s or if it's a liquid like l or the defining sound in the name comes after the vowel. So l m n, they're coming second in the name. And with this logic, this ancient logic, we could call it arguably that speaks against Z because it's not a stop sound. It's a fricative sound. Actually, it speaks in favor of e to match ez. Yeah, that's fun. [laughter] Oh man, that empowering thing we're gonna say if Thank you very

much, Danny. This has been an absolute absolute pleasure and I would highly recommend if you're interested in the history of the English language, not just the alphabet. Y needs you by Danny Bate. We'll stick a link down below and you can buy it from your retailer of choice. Thanks for joining us, Danny. Thank you very much. We'll see you next time on Words Unraveled.