---
video_title: "Words for sex down the ages"
video_id: 3bvK3bz_AlY
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3bvK3bz_AlY
video_date: 2026-02-18T06:00:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's explore some sexy words. And boost your relationship with 25% off on a yearly subscription – only 29,99 USD for yearly access to Paired – by clicking our link https://www.paired.com/partners/words25
  
  Jess and Rob are discussing "the shaking of the sheets". Join them to explore the origins of words for 'doing it' and a host of historic terms for firkytoodling, quiffing and dancing Moll Peatley's Jig. Welcome to a very sex episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
Hello you, I've just watched through this week's episode and I feel I do have to warn you that it's sexy. It's one of my favourite episodes ever, but it's really sexy. One for just the adult, I'd say. Enjoy. What part of you is your bugle boo? What does romance have to do with the Romans? And what do you call someone who isn't a virgin? Gird your loins and grab your comma sutra because we're playing at hot cockles and discussing the shaking of the sheets on this definitely not safe for work episode of Words Unraveled All About Love and Sex. Welcome to another Words Unraveled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel Rob Words. And I'm Jess Ferris, author of etymology books including Usal Semiology and more pertinently for this episode Words From Hell because we are talking about romance and sex and stuff. I'll tell you what, I've not been as worried about an episode as I am as this one since the swearing episode. I know this is going to be a blush fest. I was blushing while I was doing my research, but the aim here is to talk about love and sex. You know, what one tends to lead to the other, not necessarily. They are themselves bad fellows. You don't have to blow it out in the direction. So let's start off with the words that's what we're here to do. Weird thing is we only really have one word for love. We have a lot of words for sex. English is not unique for that necessarily, but one thing that's unique about Arabic poetry, for example, is that there are many different words for many different types of love including physical and romantic ones. And I didn't bring them with me, but it's very beautiful. And we tend to have one and a lot of other ways of describing it that are less direct. We just have this one, earthy, Germanic word, love. It's very similar across all of our Germanic sister languages. Although if you trace it back far enough, you find an ancestor that is shared by the Latin libido as well. Absolutely. And also, by the way. So libido means like desire, but there's this Sanskrit word which is love, l-u-b-h. And that means confusion, which I think is really telling. It's related to love. Right. I read into that what you will. Another one we have for love in general, kind of, or the state of being in love or the state of pursuing love is romance, of course. Which we talk about the word romance a lot because we talk about romance languages a lot. So what's a romance languages and rom-men things have to do with romantic things in the Levensek sense. This is a little bit circuitous when it first entered English in the 13th or 14th century. It only had a 10-genual connection to Levenseks. Its first sense in English was that I have a hero's journey especially in nights. That's what a romance was. And the sense and the word in general came to English from Old French and it was a word for a verse narrative. Which is, you know, we've also got our romantic poets, right? Yeah, and the French word for a novel is Romain. Right. Basically all novels are romances in a way. The coming of age story is also called a building's roman, right? Yeah, it is. Very good. The secondary meaning of the French word originally was the vulgar or vernacular language. And the idea, the shift from Roman style writing to chivalric tales was due to this medieval era popularity of stories about extraordinary journeys and heroism that were shared among common people in contrast to more dry religious legal less fanciful Latin texts. So like the stories of the Roman populace rather than Latin formal language. And this was translated through like the stories of knights and their fair loves and things like that. And so we ended up with romantic tales being love stories. Okay, so that does explain why you see you interchangeably sometimes the use of the phrase vulgar Latin and romance or these romance. Because they're both talking about just a sort of people's version of Latin rather than the classical one. Vulgar not in the not in the sexy sense here too. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's rude sense. No, both forms of vulgarity are going to come up. We'll talk about our favorite book, the dictionary of vulgar tongue as well at some point is certainly certainly going to come up. Let's just get on with it. Let's talk about sex then sex, sex, sex, sex, sex. I'm just bugs. I've just bugged. But hey, that's relevant. See, because this has to do with the same root as the word insect, right? Right. Yeah, we borrow the word sex from French. Of course we do. Are you interested in what the word for sex was in old English? Did you already know this? Tell me. It's yamanna, which means a thing shared. That's actually kind of nice. Yeah, it is a euphemism of sorts. Right. And basically all of our words for sex are euphemisms. In fact, you can say that the word sex itself is euphemism. Although what's interesting about sex is that it doesn't mean the act of sexual intercourse until way more recently than you might think. That's like an 1800s thing having sex. For that, it exclusively means you know, your bits and what categories the nature of your bits put in. Right. These sexes. Yeah, exactly. Tell us about this link within sex. Well, okay. So you mentioned that the old English word has to do with together time. This is kind of the opposite of that. It's related towards like, section and sect. And it implies a division between the sexes. Sex is a differentiator basically, which kind of makes sense. By the way, some other really old words for sex used to be called fellow red. I don't know if you ever heard this. So fellow red is like red is a suffix that you could use as an alternative to ship. So basically sex was called fellowship. One of the turns for it in middle English. And another one was swive, which I really hate. To like to swive someone is to have sex with it. That's used by Chaucer. He writes in the Miller's tale. So the Miller's tale is basically a tale of adultery, right, of an old carpenter whose Mrs is sleeping with the lodger. Right. And so at one point Chaucer writes, thus swived was the carpenter's wife for all his keeping and his jealousy. Swived. Not into that at all. I've got quite a big list of old words for sex. Do you really want to hear them all now? I do. So seduce me, which means literally to lead away someone with these words for it. It will be a diversion. And then they are diversionary in themselves in Sephora. As I mentioned, they're euphemistic. Like there are lots of sort of fun old euphemistic phrases for having sex. You've got at the service of Venus. I love that one. You see, read all these old texts to say the guy is knackered because he's been at the service of Venus. There's a popular term for the 1600 and 1700s. It's sort of a brief candle, not used much after that. But it refers to as the shaking of the sheets, which was literally a dance, became a term for having sex for obvious reasons. It kind of evokes the beast with two backs and the black ram and the white you kind of thing. Basically means to play at hot cockles, which is another phrase from the set of tricks. Very nice. His gentle woman has been at hot cockles without her husband and he's horn mad pont. Oh no. A quote from 1687 for you there. The notion of horniness then is quite old, even if we didn't quite use it that way. Yeah, this guy is absolutely furious about it. From the 1600s onwards, you might have heard this. This sounds like a way I would refer to it, but they just could call it to do the other thing. And one that appears in Francis Grocer's Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue. This is this book that tries to document and perhaps also made up some sort of London slang, some dockyard slang from the 1700s. Describe sex as doing mole pretli's jig. Who is that? Yeah, well, so mole pretli, also known as mole peatley, is a fabled, excuse my use of the word, a fabled whore. I think we would say a sex worker now, but the kind of the whole point of it is that it is supposed to be pejorative. And this is quite common. There's quite a lot of citations in the dictionary for dancing mole peatley's jig or mole pretli's jig. As Grace paraphrases it, a rogering bout. That's what it means. But there are some just really horrible old words for it, like, quiffing. I really don't like quiffing. Poop noddy. That was at 1600s. None of these are better than the word, like, any of the actual words for this. What about you, my light this one. This is one for the Victorians. A furkey toodling. I like that one. It's a furkey toodling. To mess about, to take liberties, to furkey toodle. But you also have wopping, niggling, wantonizing, belly flopping. And this is actually my favorite, miss kissing. Like, you just slipped. Oops. Whoopsie dosie. That's my trip to Fallon. Turns for sex from down the ages. Not one of them really hitting the nail on the head, as far as telling you what's going on. I do like that we use, like, even the word quotas, which is probably the more clinical term that you can use for this other than, like, intimacy, which is definitely euphemistic. Even quotas is euphemistic because it means a coming together. And not, I mean, yes, that too. But, but also. But what are we hoping for from a more precise term? Like something. Very. Like, penny cunis or something. I think, you know, I think it's something that refers to those two bits. But they don't necessarily, I mean, that's not it. It's not necessarily those two bits have to be involved. Oh, my goodness. Listen to me, not daring to say the words. I think we're both by the end of this. I think we'll have said them. Now, speaking of romantic partners, my husband Drew and I are both workaholics. He runs his own business. And I have a bunch of clients that often require 60 plus hours a week of writing and attention in addition to a bunch of, you know, word podcasts and word books and things like that. But we sometimes don't make the brain space as a result of all this to reconnect and refocus on each other rather than our various screens. But this episode's sponsor paired has been helping with that without making it feel mushy or forced. Yeah, that's right. The paired app is a relationship app that's built for couples who want better communication without turning it into a whole production. You spend five minutes a day and that's it. Just answering a question, doing a short activity or participating in a, you know, a guided conversation or something like that designed by relationship experts and backed by actual research. The way it works is you both answer first separately anytime, whether you're together or apart. And then you see each other's responses and you talk and the activities cover everything from everyday logistics to intimacy, to conflict and money and all the stuff couples tend to avoid talking about. But it also doesn't make it awkward. Yeah, I tend to avoid just talking about that stuff to God. Except when podcasting, of course. Anything that can make that a little bit easier, I appreciate. And paired has had more than 8 million downloads now. It won a Google Play Award for personal growth and studies have shown that 89% of users see positive changes in their relationships within three months according to PAD. Now, there is a free version of it, but one yearly subscription gives both partners access to it, which feels refreshingly sensible. If that sounds like a nice way to get closer to your lover, your spouse, or your situation ship, you can use our link in the description to get 25% off a yearly paired premium subscription, bringing it to 29.99 for the full year for both of you. Use our link so paired, it knows we said to you, try it free and see how it fits your day. That's the paired app back to the sexy words now. A euphemism we still use today is the birds and the bees, right? Which, you know, that's both a euphemism for sex and for having babies as a result of sex. Yeah, explaining the nature of sex, right? And of course, birds and bees are associated with spring and spring is associated with life and procreation and of course, birds lay eggs and bees pollinate things. And then we have an additional layer of gendered and reproductive association, the idea of the, like, birds and bees being a metonymic device for spring and therefore for sex. This has been around since the 1600s, but there is also an 1825 poem by Samuel Taylor Colbridge that may have helped popularize that in this sense. He says, all nature seems at work, slugs leave their layer, bees are stirring, the birds are on the wing, the winters slumbering in the open air, wears on his smiling face, a dream of spring, and either wild, soul unbusy thing, nor honey-make, nor pair, nor build, nor sing. So it's like I said, everybody's having sex but me. He's just jealous of all the horny little animals. I think the most literal term that we have for asexual act has to be kind of lingus, right? But it's literally just, yeah, yeah. So that's why I was invoking when I came up with my honey-cunies. Right, honey-cunies, yeah. Because that does literally mean vulver-licking. In 17th century English, they just said, lick-t-what. You know about this. I don't even think we covered that word in our swear word episode. But in the north of England, that word is way more offensive than it is. Yeah, sorry. South of England. It's almost up there with the Seaward. It's very, very closely matched with the Seaward. British Prime Minister David Cameron famously said, too many tweets make a twat on the radio. Just all of Northern England dropped their morning cups of tea. You guys say that on the radio? I think that in my accident sounds less offensive, just because it's not a word that your average American uses that much. Yeah, and also just the vowel pronunciation in the American way of saying it. It's like twat. It's like, I don't know. I shouldn't point this out. So my name, right? It's got... I mean, you did introduce yourself as Rob Twatts in an earlier episode. There might be a reason why I go by Rob, rather than Robert. If you've run the two words together, you've got something in the middle that means it sometimes can't be accepted as a username. Can I talk about one of my favorite sexy words, by the way? And probably... Yeah, you're not going to get another opportunity than this, go on. The older one than you would think is the word dildo, which... Did we talk about this one? Yeah, we did talk about this one. Oh, it's very funny. It's a bute and it's well with... It's probably from an Italian word meaning delight or something like that. But another less elegant theory is that it's a corruption of the English dildo, which might be right. Prior to it's used as a word for a sex toy, it's in bellads and madrigals and plays, especially like the frolics and ones as a nonsense word along the lines of fa la la, which was also used as like... They went rolling down the hill, fa la la, and the fa la la is the implication that something else happened afterward. But my favorite part is that is one of the first poems that it first appears in with this word is Thomas Nash's poem, The Choice of Valentine's or The Mary Ballad of Nash, His Dildo. And it's about this man who is rumping with a prostitute and they have a big orgasm together, but she is still horny. And he finds that his fainthearted instrument of lust, falsely hath betrayed, are equal trust. He can't stay hard. So he hands over his trusty dildo and describes her launching into a lengthy and bittersweet ode to it as she joyfully gets herself off. You're talking about this sort of song stuff. I did notice when I was looking through the historical Thessaurous Oxford English Dictionary, which is very good if you want to look at historical synonyms for things. Among the words for vulva, they do have the term nonny, nonny, which is another filler phrase from music of old, right, with a dildo and with a nonny, nonny, popular in the 1600s. Oh, actually, it was in this dreadful quote. So John Floreo, very famous translator of a lot of texts into English. We have much to thank him for. But he also, he gives us a translation of, I think the Italian fossa. He describes it as used also for a woman's pleasure pit, nonny, nonny, or palace of pleasure. Pity, pleasure, pit. Pleasure, pit. I've got some more historical synonyms for vulva, if you like. Excellent. As well as nonny, nonny. You've got from the 1200s, womb gate. Oh, one's quite. womb gate. Sort of literal. I suppose. Yeah. From the 1600s, your bugle boo or bugle bow, depending on your preference, a poem here called, Loves of Hero in Leander. One hand he put upon her toe, the other on her bugle bow. Romantic. Oh my goodness. And then the Victorians would call it your front parlor. Front parlor, I like that one. That's good. Front parlor. And your location here, front bottom. As for Willis, just to show both sides. Of course. The old English word for a penis, you know this, was a pinto. That's right. Yeah, the ola at the end of that, you know, and in a lot of Germanic words, means little something. Exactly what a pint is, is not totally clear. It might mean a pin. Like, it's your little pin, not something like that. Which is sort of sweet. In the 1500s, they would just call it a ferret. Right. They would call a penis a ferret. But in a lot of the quotes where they're talking about it, they trade it off with the idea of the lady's bits. Or whoever. Being a conie. So a conie being your rabbit. Right. It's the idea of the ferret going down into the Warren to hunt out the rabbits. From 1599, they put ferrets in the holes, five, five, and they go up and down where the conies lie. Eight sexy poetry. Eight sexy poetry. And so, the conie have long been used as you've ever seen for, for vaginas and such. Yeah, because you have this similarity between conie and the Latin conis for, that means that bit. Also, because rabbits are quite prolific in the sexual department. Apparently, apparently so. That's also, we've discussed, that's why the clap is a, an STD because a clapper was a, both a word for a word. For a rabbit's Warren and a word for a pleasure house and, uh, and you might acquire the clap there. Thank you. And your regular reminder that conie island is named after rabbits. There we go. They were called rabbit used to mean a little rabbit. Now it means all rabbits. Right. Used to mean a little chowney. Bit better way to put it. 1600 is quite common. Apparently to call, um, your cock and balls, your bagpipe. Which, that's great. Yeah, I mean, yeah, makes sense. Yeah. Or alternatively your, your tally wag. So this is what I put, I spent part of my day doing this today. Like, like, like a part of my day just scrolling through, hoping no one came in. List. And there's other stuff that I've been looking up as well. I don't, I mean, I, I just, I'm just sat there blushing. I'm, I'm blushing less than I thought I would just because I, I've all blushed out from the research. Some more modern words for bits, by the way, boner, for example, was originally baseball slang for a gaff or a mistake short for bonehead. But of course it was extended for obvious reasons, bone associations and baseball, that associations to erect penises. Chode is a big one oddly from like the 1950s or so. And I don't know that I believe necessarily the explanations for this one because the two that we have are. That it's from the Navajo word Chode is meaning penis or from a Hindi or Bengali word for copulate. So I'm not sure there. Right. And the definition just a chode is a short thick penis. Yeah. Also, it's an insult. Shlong is supposedly from the Yiddish slang a word for a snake. Yeah. That makes an awful lot of sense to me. By the way, if you're interested in German, one of the most common words for it is, is shphants. It actually sounds quite similar to that, but that means tail. That's one of the theories about the, about the, well, probably the most likely meaning of the word penis itself is that it means something like tail. Uh, yeah. Great. And then a couple of great. A couple of modern vagina terms. Kuch and the earlier kuchi were popularized by Willie Dixon in his 1954 song, kuchi kuchi man, which is rich within you endos and an earlier variation with a K, kuchi kuchi is recorded in the context of the 1893 World's fair where dancers performed a belly dancing inspired number of that name. And then inspired by a performer known as little Egypt, the weather she was actually there is debated and then the name of the dance may have been influenced by the stage name of the minstrel show performer named huchi kuchi rice. Who or from the 1950s song, the ham fat man, which includes this includes the phrase huchi kuchi kuchi. And the notion here is it's sort of one of those, hey, not, not, not, not, not, eight type of songs. And these redufly cognitive terms like rumpy, pumpy stuff like that, right? Speaking of which, how, how vulgar is the word naf? It's not vulgar. And not vulgar at all, actually. It is a backslang shortening of fanny. Oh, no way. Is that what it is? Yeah. Okay. So it entered usage. But I believe in England through Polari, which we talked about before, the gay slang, right? And a theory that is not true. I didn't know that the actual one was backslang, but it's not this. But it's one of those backerenims that's formed from it, right? The idea that it is not available for fing, right? I don't think that's what it meant. That's if something was naf, it was like that. But you know, the word naf is introduced to the British public by the radio foreshare round the horn, which featured a lot of Polari to a public who had no idea that the gay slang was being used. I don't think they knew. And words like naf got adopted. I think the first use of it is a description of a naf, little gnome. Which I like, a garden gnome. Yeah. So no, it's not vulgar at all. Oh, excellent. Good. I mean, you've mentioned Fanny. We should mention the key difference where you are versus where I'm from in the meaning of Fanny. That's its back versus front. And it's also not vulgar at all over here, generally speaking. It's one of the milder ways that you could refer to it in British English, right? I mean, Fanny. It's probably a name euphemism, right? Kind of like Johnson for a penis. Yeah. I guess it is. Yeah. I don't think of it as that if I use it or if I hear someone, it is the kind of word that you would hear, like someone from the older generation using in quite a sort of non-sexualized context. Right. I don't know. It's got a sister word in French, by the way, that I just discovered, which is Foufoune, which in French from France, that means your front bits. But in Quebec, it means your back bits. So they got exactly the same... The dynamic, yeah. That's the same transatlantic dynamic going on with the Foufoune as we have with our Fannies. Oh, speaking of which, we should talk about pussy because there is a myth about pussy that comes up a lot. Many armchair etymologists out there, which I guess, you know, here I am being one. But some people have speculated that... A economic chair. A economic chair. I have speculated that pussy is somehow related to the temptingly similar term, pusillanimous. And that is a myth that you are unrelated, much like the English word, the Latin word that pusillanimous is from, which means cowardly. Yeah, it means cowardly, right? So how do people make that link between... Oh, you mean someone being a pussy? They think it's true. Yeah. So someone being a pussy. But really, it's just like... It's just sexist. That's what it is. Like it's... We'll see. So that's people trying to say that it's not transferred from a vulva reference, whereas actually it is. Yeah, it is. Which in turn is transferred from a feline reference for some reason. Yeah, small furry animals. The earliest... The oldest meaning of pussy is a small furry animal, a cat usually sometimes a rabbit first recorded in the 1500s. It's thought to be imitative of like... That kind of sound. Yeah. And then the metaphorical link between women and girls and cats started in the early 1600s. We also have words like, catty and cat fight, which appear in reference to women cats or small and soft and cute. And also females have really loud sex. So maybe there's that. But as such, pussy spent a century or two attempt to decide whether it was a compliment, meaning small and cute, or an insult meaning unpleasantly cat-like, and also became a word. It maybe also influenced by words like, like Old Norsehead, Puss meaning a pocket or a pouch. So maybe we have some of that going on as well. You know, if you call it someone a pussy cat, that would be very different to calling them a pussy. Right. Right. One of them is almost a compliment. And the other one is definitely not, but they're both saying the same thing. Should we talk about some taboo things? Well, I think by definition no. I was thinking we should talk about kinks. Okay. Okay. So the word kink is first recorded, of course, in relation to like, rope and hair and strands and things that really a bend. And it's used figuratively to describe deviations of other types. Like Thomas Jefferson, for example, who although no stranger to hanky-panky, meant kink in that kind of mental sense when in the 1700s he wrote, should Congress reject the nomination of judges for four years and make them during good behavior as is probable, then should the judges take a kink in their heads in favor of leaving the present laws of Louisiana unaltered that evil will continue for their lives unamended by us. This is the kink in your head was a mental deviation. It's a bad idea. So it is the sort of sexual use of the word kink. Does that mean a deviation? Yes, that is the idea. Okay. That's where you've led us. And this shows up in the early, the mid 1900s and a little bit earlier, we had some kinks of these sexual variety that were dubbed paraphealias by sex solvers. Sexologist Friedrich Salomon-Kross in the 1980s, the American Psychiatric Association added paraphealias to its diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders, which effectively made it a more clinical and neutral term than it was originally. But anyway, some of the more imaginative kinks, either generally or etymologically speaking, would include forna-phelia, which is turning a human into a piece of furniture, which means like tying them up and sitting on them. So the kleptophelia, which is a sexual attraction or sexual pleasure derived from stealing, there's also macrophilia, which is an interest in gigantism or excessive stress growth. Sex or genres. Yeah, exactly. And then there's also a microphilia, which is small things. There's mechanophilia, which is cars and machines, and metrophilia, which is poetry, which I think is kind of healthy. Okay. So the London underground, that's great. I like narrative philia, which is an interest in obscene words, which, you know, might be your jam if you're here right now. It takes your jam. You want to get this book right here, just the Pharisees' words from hell. I have a whole section on sexy words and things like that, including more of these kinks and paraphealias. So parapheria, by the way, so the parapheria is, I guess like we get in paranormal, right? It sort of means running, or in deep parallel, right? It means running alongside what is... Yes, so... Although, or an indeed parachute, right? It sort of, it has this sort of feeling of being alongside, but also against some things. Outside the norms. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Also, we have fetishes, right? Fetishes weren't originally sexual, much in the same way. Kinks were not exclusively anyway. In addition to being another word for a kink, a fetish is still any object or charm that is thought to be imbued with supernatural powers, or to represent a god, and therefore be worthy of worship. And it's from a Portuguese word meaning charm, or sorcery, or allurement, or as an adjective, it can even mean artificial. I had no idea about that. So, you obviously can't use fetish in English in any way outside of the sexual. Well, no, because in like anthropological contexts, sometimes objects of value will be described as fetishes. Fetishized, yeah. The sexual sense was kind of transferred into the word in the 1800s, largely by Henry Havillock Ellis, which I mentioned several times in my books, because he wrote a lot of books about sex. He also was extremely problematic, so, you know, take with grain of salt. Do you know Ernst Grafenberg? I don't. I have never met him. Ernst Grafenberg is the man after which the G-Spot is named. He is the inventor of the inter-Uterine device, actually a fascinating man. But the reason I mention him is, you know, early writings on gynecology, exclusively written by men, right? So it's quite, it's quite, and reading the sort of the clinical descriptions they have is quite... Yeah, I love when it's like the people discovered the G-Spot or the clinics. Exactly. Meanwhile, no one knew it. You don't see me. You don't see me. Where the women could feel pleasure in a certain spot until the 1930s. Really? That was when men worked out. But the G-Spot gets named after him after his death. It gets named after him in 1981. He actually had absolutely nothing to do with that particular part of gynecology. He was concerned with a different branch of it all together. And he did, or develop the first inter-Uterine device, at least the first one that worked. Could for you, Ernst. Well, that you know what he called it? He called it the Grafenberg ring. So he was German. He did, he did, and I'm practicing mostly in America, because he had to flee the Nazis. So many Jewish scientists did. And actually had awful lot of sexual research was lost during the Second World War, because of Nazi squeamishness about such issues. And obviously there are a lot of Jewish people who are doing the research. IUDs are, you said it was a ring. Now they're like T-shaped. Yeah, yeah. I do remember that bit from school. I haven't actually had to use one. We should talk about the word orgasm. Yeah, that blush. We should talk about orgasms though while we're at it. Yeah. Orgasm. The word orgasm is from the Greek orgasmose, which means excitement or swelling, and was originally used in contexts like animals in the heat or ripening fruit, both of which are common in imagery connected with human sexuality and horniness throughout history. When it first appeared in English in the 17th and 18th centuries, it most often described weapons orgasms, which were the, as we've discussed, subject to both the ludicrous of poetry and medical writings at the same time. Am I right in thinking that a climax was originally like a staircase or a ladder or something? It means ladder. That's right, it's Greek for ladder. It was first used as a synonym for orgasm in part thanks to British author, Paleo-Buttonist, and women's rights activist Marie Stokes, interestingly enough. She was the first woman faculty member at the University of Manchester and she founded Britain's first birth control clinic. Very accomplished. The blushiest part of my day was looking through a Karma Sutra book. Oh, good, I love that. It felt relevant. Karma Sutra, by the way, it means thread of love in Sanskrit. And this book, the Karma Sutra, written in, they think, the first century. So it's 2000 years old by a guy called Vatsya Yarmna. Right? And it's not just a book about sex, okay? It's about how to acquire wealth. It's about how to acquire religious merit. It's about how to acquire also love and sensual pleasure, right? But there are things in there like how to train a parrot to talk or what furniture you should be adorning your house with. There's a really run of the mill stuff. But there is also, you know, dozens upon dozens of sex positions. Beautifully illustrated in the original editions. Yeah, I didn't look at it. I really, this is a bit, well, I really didn't want anyone to come in. I was looking at one from the 1980s and it was photos. But in the whole book, the whole book, you don't see a single penis or vulva. In the whole book, it's got amazing. I feel like that was kind of the point of the original edition, right? It's like the mechanics of how they put together. I mean, a lot of the sex positions look very, very similar to one another. If you don't see sort of up close, I would say. Like the, well, for example, let me talk you through some of the sex position names that caught my eye. These must be English translations, obviously, of the original with a bit of license from the translator. But you have the yearning position, which is what I'm pretty sure I must have given someone. I thought that would over here. Yeah, the con. The congress of the crow. That sounds cool. That sounds like a thing that witches do for fun in the woods. Yeah, well, the snake trap, the silkworm spinning a cocoon, the splitting of the bamboo, which is horrendous. That sounds horrible. I don't think that's how you're supposed to do it. The transverse loot, the late spring donkey, and I'm so sorry about this one, driving the peg home. I mean, that's pretty standard. It's a fascinating book that only becomes known in the English-speaking world really from a translation from 1883, right? So this is 2,000 year old document that someone gets around to translating and explaining how to do all the sexy bits. It's really the sexy bits that catch the imagination of English speakers. And that's why we think of it as this guide to sex, which is part of it, but it's not all of it. Have you explored the lexical gap that the word virginity creates? The lexical gap that the word virginity creates. A lexical gap is an instance where we have like a concept that doesn't have a word, right? But it is hypothetically allowable by our language. So there is no specific singular English noun for someone who is not a virgin. Now, obviously like the concept of virginity is a social construct. People are not fundamentally altered by the union of their naughty bits with someone else's. But if we're going to persist in using the word virgin, the concept of virginity is going to remain a thing. So what word would you use for a non virgin regardless of how much sex that they have had? So there are lots of words to describe people with an extensive amount of sexual experience, like slut and lecture and harlot and things like that, which by the way, slut was originally used for dirty men and then was transferred to sexual women. Some of the American graduateory, we got playboy and playgirl and stud and cassinova and dynamo. And then we've got some that are in between like make and liberty. But after the first time you have sex, what do you become? Are you like what is the word there? A legend. I propose copulous. A copulous. Does that sounds a little more professional? I am a proficient copulous achieved copulous status. If I can take us back to love briefly, I had a realization when I was in France recently. And that is that English doesn't have a word for people who are getting married. Betrothed. And yeah, engaged. We don't have a word. That's not it. That's not quite it. At the wedding, what do you call the bride and groom collectively? Oh, I see. The happy couple. It's because French has Marie, right? The people getting married. The marries. The marries. Yeah, but I don't think English has a word. It just means the two people. We do all this fath for the wedding. But we haven't bothered to come up with a name for a name for the two people that we're doing it for. That's another lexical gap too that we have, right? Is we have bridal, but we don't have groomal. And the reason we don't have groomal is because bridal was a compound noun originally. It meant bride ale because you could tack ale onto a word to make it into a party. Like, sigh the ale was a harvest party. So you couldn't. Something to do relating to the groom can be bridal in theory. Right. Because it pertains to the party that is related to the bride. Lexical gaps. There's a gentler episode that we can do in future. Yes, indeed. Okay, so actually, because I did try to stick to the brief of doing some sort of love words as well, Jess. I feel like we've abandoned that someone but someone. But you might have come across this peak because this word has taken on a sort of popularity in the English speaking world as a result of the rise of K-pop and J-pop. But Japanese has the word skin ship, which means skin ship, right? It's spelled S-U-K-I-N-S-H-I-P-P-U. But it is just a Japanese rendering of skin ship, which obviously is not an English word. So does that mean people you were touching skin with? Yeah, it is. I mean, it's gentler than that. It's like your sort of close physical relationship with someone. And it can be sexual. But primarily, it's not really. It's like if you've got a friend that you enjoy touching, that kind of thing. Yes, it's just good. Friends with benefits, that kind of thing. No, it's not really. It's not like that. It's not like that. It's more effect. It's more akin to affection. Oh, you're cattle, buddy. Yeah, and this is why it comes with a lot of... Because K-pop's not that sexualized. Right. It's a bit more about friendship and hanging out and stuff. And so this word skin ship now is in English. But it's come from... Because there's a Korean version of it as well, which I'm going to mispronounce. But it's also like, so kids ship. Right. It's come from an invention in Japanese of an English word. There's then also traveled to Korea and then has come back into English. But it was never in English word before that. That's really fun. We have a lot of ships right now. And I think part of it is because the fanfiction crowds started using shipping characters that they were into back in the day. And now so we have... The ones that I've heard lately that the kids are using other than relationship are flirtation ship. You're just flirting and you don't go beyond that. An attraction ship. You have an attraction and you don't communicate it. A solution ship. You go to each other for problem solving. Ambition ship. The idea is to fix the partner like I can fix him. A transaction ship is... You give something to get something, of course. And then a vacation ship is someone you only get involved with on a vacation. It doesn't feel like any of those electrical gaps. I bet we can find a word for all of those. Oh yeah, for sure. But I didn't spend too long on the skin ship. I have to say before falling down a German sexy rabbit hole. Because there's a fantastic German website. Let me find the name of it. It's called Shbrach Noodle. Shbrach means language. Noodle means well. Noodle. It's like a really good German slang website. If you ever fancy exploring some German slang. And if you look up... So the actual... Well, this is a sort of technical term for sex in German is Gischlecht's Verkehr. Which means gender transport. So they're equivalent of intercourse. Beautiful. Sexual intercourse. But they... And I really wish I had a look these up. Another term... I don't know how widely used they are, but they're in this slang dictionary. I know the fancy finger u-bong. Which means the 21 finger practice. Which means sex. I see. Yeah, okay. It's like... Where's the extra finger coming from? Yeah, there it is. There it is. You have noodle air wall beak. Which means noodle aerobics. Which is quite cute. I like the 21 fingers. Because that implies we're doing more than just involving genitals. It's nice. It implies a full scale, complete experience with lots of workplace and other things. Good. Yeah. Good. I'd like to like it. How do you like raw felagon, which means pipe laying? We also use that one in English. Do we? I mean, not maybe I don't, but someone does. I guess we could do. Okay, this is the most German one by far. Worst Vippen, which means sausage rocking. That's fun. At least one's very German in a different way. Intravaginala, Kromosormen, appliqueciorn. You lost me like halfway through it, but I got the first couple bits. Intravaginal chromosome application. Yeah, that just sounds... That sounds so medical. Yeah, yeah, it does. They also have Knusperhutenvazer, which means gingerbread house walls. Wait, why are you gingerbread house? I have no idea. I didn't interrogate any of these. That's where my research stopped, actually. That was where I went off and made a coffee and said, that's enough. By the way, on the more romantic front, the reason we use the word erotic, of course, is from the Greek God of Love, especially carnal love arrows. It entered English in the 1600s, but it really took off in the Freudian era when psychology turned sexy. The ancient Greeks had multiple words for love as well, and divided them into four categories. Erau was a word for like passionate physical love and desire. Filio was general affection. As we've seen in other words, like Filia Agapo was for content happy affection, and then Sturgo was typically love with power dynamics, which sounds bad, but it could be applied to things like the love of a parent or a ruler for a subject and things like that. These all make sense. They do make sense to know there's different forms of affection, but they almost parallel those various ships that you were talking about. Yeah. Actually, don't name different complexities, the different dynamics that drive our affections. It can't all be lust. Give us some surprisingly sexy words to give us a surprising ending to this surprisingly sexy episode. So there are a number of words in English that have a connection with sex or sexual organs that you might not expect. One of them is the word furnace, which is hot in more ways than one. It has a lot more to do with sexy architecture than you might expect. Sexy architecture. Sexy architecture. A furnace isn't just physically hot. It's also hot. And you can guess why the word furnace is a bit naughty by looking at its Latin source, which is for news, which meant an oven or a kiln. And it is related to the word fornicate. And both furnace and fornicate are ultimately from a root meaning to heat or to make warm. But funny enough, the word fornicate doesn't derive from this word because sex is hot, at least not exclusively for that reason. And instead, it has to do with the Latin fornic, which is a term for an arch or a vaulted opening or a covered walkway, so named for its resemblance to the dome shape of a traditional brick oven or fornicate. And the part of your brains, by the way, called the fornic, is also named because it is arch shaped, but the Latin fornic was also a word for a brothel because the arches under the circus maximus and other large event venues were popular places for sex workers to hang out. No way. So fornication is like love under the arches, basically. Well, maybe not love, but definitely sex. It's trying to be nice. Okay, a sub arch transaction. Yes, another sexy f word, but not the one you might think is fascinate, which I guess this one's less sexy and more anatomical. If you were fascinated by something, of course, you are spellbound by it and it comes from the Latin word fast, you know, I'm meaning to be which or to enchant. And it was originally used to refer to the power of which is in mythical creatures to enthrall you and the more positive connotation to hold your attention in a delightful way didn't come around until the early 1800s, 200 years later, but if you look back farther, the origin of faskin array isn't 100% clear, but it's probably something to do with faskinium, which makes sense. That was a word for particularly the divine phallus, which was a symbol that appears all over Roman effigies and amulets and was meant to invoke the protection of the phallic god faskinus. They often have wings, though, that just if you look up faskinus, you will see or faskinium, you will see flying penises everywhere they they are all over the place and the word fascinate is probably related to this. So that's fun. So we should do a short or something on penises of the ancients because you've got those and you've also got the really graphic Egyptian hieroglyphs of penises, they've seen these but they've got like they're called like phallus and phallus within mission. And they look exactly like one 13 year old boy is drawing on his friends back with chalk. That's fantastic. Let's finish with penises of the ancients. Yeah, I'm showing off my shirt here. Hey, your emperors shirt. The new words unraveled, ambiground etymology shirt. I've got this and I've got a hoodie that I wore out on a night out in Berlin the other day. It's maroon colored with this same yellow. I was sat there very, very proud of it. Then someone shouted, Griffith Dorf. I didn't think about the colors. Very funny. It's available in the store. Click below and also do check out our special link for paired. We'll catch you next time on a slightly less r-rated edition of Words Unraveled. Yeah, I think this might get demonetised. Jess, we might not make any money from this one. If they pay for this episode, is it considered sex work? Oh, why not? Let's just dig them up. Why not? Excellent. Bye-bye.