---
video_title: "Sophomore doesn't mean \"wise fool\""
video_id: MDJQX8vYSes
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MDJQX8vYSes
video_date: 2026-04-06T13:39:34+00:00
video_description: |
  Despite a popular (perhaps intentionally humorous) etymology claim, the word sophomore has more to do with sophists than wise fools.
---
philosophy. So, the below is the love bit and then the softy. Well, it means wisdom. And it's the same that we see in softism. This has come up before because we talked about the word sophomore, which has a common explanation that isn't quite right. Yeah, remind me of that one, because we don't really use the word sophomore in Britain. Right. So that's your second year of high school or college typically. And if you're a sophomore in high school or college, you may have heard it said that the word sophomore is derived from the elements, softos meaning wise and morose meaning foolish. So you're a sophomore, you're a wise fool. That's funny and entertaining and very apt for someone who's in their second year of learning. But it's not entirely true. But the truth of it is also pretty cool, I think. It's that the first half of softmore is ultimately from so post meaning wise, but the second half is not from morose meaning fool. The first half is usually tied to softism more than general wisdom. Ultimately in many early colleges, especially in throughout Europe, your second year would be studying things like rhetoric and philosophy. And rhetoric is the piece that's connected to Greek sophists. Right. Do you think that whole interpreting the morose being sort of idiot or fool is just sort of transferred across from the meaning of oxymoron? You know, it's more probably. They really want this literal oxymoron, which is sharp and dull in the same word, right? Oxymoron isn't oxymoron. I don't know. It just feels like that. The etymology of one might have inspired the etymology of the other. I think it was originally probably a joke, right? And then people were like quoted it as truth. But a sophist in 5th century BCE Greece was a professional teacher who sold instruction in rhetoric, argument, and just civic behavior.