---
video_title: "The origins of common sayings"
video_id: tRR-DHzD7mw
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tRR-DHzD7mw
video_date: 2026-04-15T05:00:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Rob and Jess explore the origins of common sayings in another episode dedicated to the stories behind idioms.
  🐟 What was the first "red herring"?
  🪿 Is there a goose in a "wild goose chase"?
  👮 Why is prison called "up the river"?
  Find the answers to these questions and many more in another wordy nerdy episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
Is there a goose in a wild goose chase? When did we start saying 24-7? And who was the first member of the Mile High Club? We'll go the extra mile as we discuss the red herrings and true origins of common idioms, and even address the 800-pound gorilla in the room with some malafors and antiprovers on this episode of Fords Unraveled. Welcome to another Words Unraveled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel Rob Words. And I'm Jess Zafarra's author of etymology books, including useless etymology, and today we are back with another idiom extravaganza. Yes, indeed. You're going to be going the extra mile in this episode to explain the origins of some famous sayings. I certainly have an axe to grind here, so I'm looking forward to getting in full swing by any chance. Yeah, getting in full swing. Do you know, by the way, what is being swung in in full swing? Actually, I haven't got, very much now, haven't got a clue what is being swung when we're in full swing. Because of the frequency with which it is used, my first thought was sports, but it's like way older than that. That's probably the swing of a sword. The earliest instance of in full swings is in a 16th century text with a bunch of Protestant history and murderology by an English historian who wrote about the time of anti-Christ or the dissolution of the church whose full swing contained the space of 400 years. But because it's been around so long, it seems to have picked up the notion of other swinging things like bells in some case too. So when it's talking about the full swing of something, it's almost like the full cycle of the slash of the blade, maybe from start to finish. The earliest instances we have of swing as a noun tend to be around swords, like large long swords, and to be in full swing is to be in the full arc or motion of the sword. But there have been a bunch of like, there are a good amount of idioms from the same notion that could also apply to other things, like to have swing and sway was popular for a while, meaning to exert physical and social power over something, which sounds more like a bell to me, right? And then we've got like in a swing, which means the same thing as in one fell swoop or to bear the swing, which means to have full sway or control, and then to have one's swing, which means to have freedom of action or scope or license. Or there's just to swing, which is to be hanged as well, which is dark one. Speaking of another slightly weapon based idiom, I mentioned an axe to grind. Oh, yeah, we've had axe idioms before, haven't we? Because we could recently fly off the handle from those poor quality axes used during the American Civil War, homemade axes that were the head would fly off. Tell us about the axe you've got to grind. There's a frequently cited source of this idiom, and it is not considered correct. The most likely source is an American newspaper essay written in 1810 by Charles Minor, who was a journalist and a politician, and he wrote a short piece called Cool Turn, The Grindstone, and it spread very rapidly into school books and things, moralistic stories and whatnot. And the story goes that one winter morning of man is carrying an axe, and he approaches a young boy and asks whether his father has a grindstone, and he does. And, but he's not around. So the man compliments the child, says he looks strong, calls him a fine little fellow, and asks if you would mind turning the stone while he sharpens the blade. And so he agrees. He's like, yeah, I can do that. I'm so strong and he keeps going and going. And then his hand starts to blister. He realizes he's late for school. And then the guy's like, thanks, bye. And so the, the idea here is that if you have an axe to grind, you have an ulterior motive for your flattery or whatever else you're doing. And it was very immediately applied to politicians, right? Okay. So actually it has become a slightly removed from that idea now. Now it's sort of like having a chip on your shoulder or something. Another phrase we've got to have to look up now. There are plenty of people who say that it is being used incorrectly because when people say, like, you know, you've got a grievance of some kind, that has nothing to do necessarily with the original story. And it should be like a hidden agenda for what you do. Exactly. And it is used that way sometimes, but often with that sort of trip on your shoulder thing. Now, the thing that I would note here is that somebody in the comments is going to be like, actually, that's a Benjamin Franklin story, but it isn't a lot of quotes end up, of course, Mr. Truby did to Ben Franklin. But this is actually pretty fair. So Charles Minor, who published the story, published it under the pseudonym poor Robert the scribe, which looks a lot like Franklin's persona poor Richard of the poor Richard's Almanac. So it was mixed up just a little bit, but the story was published after Ben Franklin passed away. Debunked by Jay Z. Where should we go next? We could go up the river. So this is, I don't think we use this phrase actually very much in the UK, but I came across it. I thought it was an interesting trade off with the phrase, sell down the river, which we'll also talk about. But of the river refers to sing, sing prison. And that's why, you know, to go up the river or to be up the river is to be in jail and sing, sing is up the Hudson River from New York City. And I was looking, well, firstly, I was looking at why sing, sing was called sing, sing, it was strange. Now, it comes from, actually, I'll, I'll, I'll read it from their own website from the, the museums website there. Sing Sing comes from the name of the synths, a Native American people who inhabited this area for thousands of years. It roughly translates to a stony place. And so actually, it was the name of the village in which the ground, in which the grounds of the prison, which was previously called something else. Yeah, it was called Mount Pleasant State Prison before it's called sing, sing, but they started calling it sing, sing. But actually, the village isn't called sing, sing anymore. They changed the name of the village in 1905 to dissociate it from the name of the prison. And obviously, the place is still there. It's called Ossinning, which means also something very similar to what synths, synths meant, but synths, synths with a, with a people after which the area was named. But on their website, sing, sing prison, late claim to two other idioms as well. The big house, probably because sing, sing prison was a, you know, a big building with a lot of prisoners in it, rather than sprawling. And it also lays claim to the last mile, which is interesting because that's a phrase that is used in telecommunications to refer to lengths of the last mile of cable, the final connection being the most difficult bit. It's used in other circles as well, but also it was used a long time ago to talk about pilgrimage and how the last mile could be the most difficult. I read some lore about it, you know, people taking their shoes off for the last mile, I don't know if that's actually true, but in sing, sing case or in, you know, in the case of prisons where the death penalty is carried out, the last mile is the final walk from your cell block or wherever I don't know, which you go straight from your cell to the chair or to wherever, you know, the sentence is being carried out. Yeah, that's the last mile. Fortunately, I don't know. Yeah. And very few people who've done it are available to tell us that's the last mile. And then you got the green mile, by the way, I was thinking, the green mile did that phrase exist before the Stephen King book of that name and the film based upon that book. But no, it didn't. No, the green mile is about the Linoleum floor in the prison. Yeah, the floor is green. Yeah, in the Stephen King book, the prison's called Cold Mountain Penitentiary. It's fictional in the Louisiana. Great to see you. Yeah. And that final walk along that green Linoleum to the electric chair. Yeah, I, after looking at the mile as a green mile and the last mile, I ended up looking at a load of other mile based idioms, which I'll, I'll get it. I will force you to have to listen to me talking about them. I've got, I've got, I'm excited about it. Mile high club and go the extra mile, both of which have got really interesting origins. But we should talk about sell down the river now. I've talked about up the river. This one is also quite dark. Yeah, it's, it is very dark. It refers to the practice of slave owners selling troubles and slaves further down the Mississippi river where basically that's further south, you know, the more, supposedly more cruelly slaves were treated. So it would essentially be a punishment to be sold down the river. My understanding is it's also in real life, it was the Mississippi and the Ohio River, but it's often affiliated with the Mississippi in particular, thanks to Uncle Tom's cabin, which was the most popular, the best-selling American novel of the 19th century. And the phrase is in there, is it? Yes, absolutely. They specifically, it is about cruel slave owners. It's a, it's an abolitionist novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe. I see. Yeah, so we've got down the river and up the river. You don't really want, you don't really want either. You are a marathoner, right? You ran one recently. I know, I haven't done one for a while. I've not done one since I had, since I became a father and I've been out on the pounds basically. I've just sat at home eating and cleaning up mess. So I haven't done any big runs for a while. Last time you were at my house, you looked like you were, we went running and you looked like you were ready for a race. Actually, we had got half marathon scheduled, but I managed to duck out of it by going off to a race. Oh, I see. That's what I think we have. I did not do it. And she had a horrible time with it as well, because it was in the south of France and it was very windy, very, very cold. The go, the extra mile is from the Bible, specifically it's from a passage of the Bible that has given us lots and lots of different phrases, because it's from the sermon on the mount. Oh, interesting. Yeah. I didn't realize that. No, I didn't realize it either. This is why I thought I'll mention it because it's quite surprising. So I'll just read a bit from the, this is the King James version because the phrase goes back to about the 1600s. So it's nice to use a historical version of the Bible. And it's Jesus saying this is it's sermon on the mount. You have heard that it has been said an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, ding. There's one. But I say unto you that you resist not evil, but whoever shall smite the on the right cheek, turn to him the other also, ding, turn the other cheek. And if any man will sue the at the law and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also. We haven't hit you mind to that one. I don't think maybe some people say that. But then and whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. So that means is go to miles. And it's a reference to a practice among the ancient Greeks and the Romans of compelling civilians to carry soldiers equipment or officials equipment, right? So at any one moment of room soldier can say you there, carry this. And the sort of story that gets told is that they could compel them to carry it a mile. A Roman mile being a thousand yards. And what Jesus is saying here is if you're ordered to carry someone's stuff, a mile, carry it too. And there's whole passages all about it's sometimes called antithesis. This whole piece is about Jesus contrasting his maxims with the actual law and saying this is what the law says you should do. This is how you should actually behave. And it's produced to all of those idioms. Idiomatic Jesus. Yeah. I feel terrible about going from that origin story to the next one I'm going to go to. But I'm going to have another dark one. It's a mile high club, yes. It could be dark to give someone turns the lights off in the tone. Certainly. Exactly. All right. So when did we first start saying this? Obviously after the invention of airplanes? Yes. But, okay. Hold on a second there though. Yes. Oh, yeah. I'm battered. So the phrase takes off, if you will, in the 1960s. So yeah, with sort of widespread use of commercial airplanes. But potentially the first entrant into the mile high club was a guy called Lord Darby who was wagered. So this is in the what's called the betting books. So like literally a book that recorded wages that people made of a gentleman's club in London that's still going. It's called Brooks's. And in there is written Lord Chumley has given two guineas to Lord Darby to receive 500 guineas whenever his lordship and it genuinely says a woman in a balloon 1000 yards from the earth. Oh my God. That's amazing. Yeah. Exactly. So we don't know whether Lord Darby took up the wager or more importantly took up a lady in a hot air balloon because hot air balloons had just been invented then. Obviously there were no air balloons in 1785. Oh, that's even better. Hot air balloon. And supposedly. It's probably, it went through with it. But there's no record in this book of whether or not the way the, yeah, the payouts. I'm not sure what your proof is. There is very readily basket. Why are we gaining so much height? He's very hot in here. That was very, very hot. But Jess, if you go to, I'm actually blushing. I've done this to myself. If you go to milehighclub.com, well, firstly, the first thing you have to do is you have to say you are over the age of 18. Okay. To get in. But actually, the, you know, it's a very simple website, very innocuous about the mile high club. To anyone who doesn't know, the mile high club is, is the phrase used for the collective of people who have had sex in an air airplane or in some means of transport more than a mile high, right? So. Hold on. Et cetera. Yeah. Yeah. It tends, it tends to be air airplanes. You know, if you're in a passenger plane flying a, you thought, 35,000 feet or whatever. You're safely at a mile above the ground. So, you know, have at it and you get to join the mile high club. But the person that milehighclub.com credits with being the first member of the mile high club is a guy called Lawrence Sperry, who invented the automatic pilot. The story goes that he took a socialite up for a flight. Just as in 1916, a woman called Mrs. Waldo Polk, who was married, but her fellows out of town. And she was, she was trying to get her pilot's license. And actually, in the end, she did. Good. More than one way to get this. Ah, she earned it. I'm sure, I'm sure she earned it. But anyway, apparently while they're flying over New York, Mr. Sperry decides he wants to show off his automatic pilot and with great confidence, he activates it. And they get up to something. They get up to something and during they get it up to something, he accidentally knocks the automatic pilot off. And they come down in the South Bay off Long Island. And I've recovered from the water without any clothes on. Amazing. Amazing. This is the story of the first member of the mile high club. Although he wasn't actually flying high enough technically to join the mile high club. So they call him that, but really he wasn't put, but he's, you know, potentially the first person, the first pilot, anyway, to have sex in an airplane. It did not end well for him. And there's accident reports since then of similar ideas. You know, the people being pulled from the wreckages, it's blamed with no clothes on. I'm sure. Yeah, it's one way to go. If it had gone well, we probably wouldn't know about it. Well, this is just, yes, exactly. It is. Everyone's really come crashing down to a really funny newspaper headline. So I couldn't actually find the newspaper itself, but everywhere this newspaper headline is quoted, which is aerial petting ends in wetting. Oh, oh dear, quite, quite the going down at the end. Anyway, in 2007 Singapore Airlines banned people having sex on it's, I mean, what was it now already? Yes, exactly, exactly. Singapore Airlines officially asked passengers in the suites of its brand new A380 Super Jumbo's to stop having sex in them. And they were, they couched the language a little bit more than that. They said, all we ask of customers wherever they are on our aircraft is to observe standards that don't cause offense to other customers and crew. Nothing different applies to our Singapore Airlines suites customers. But then a spokesperson was also quoted, if couples used our double beds, they had these lush, and this probably still do, double beds in the suites on the Singapore Airlines A380. If couples use our double beds to engage in inappropriate activity, we would politely ask them to assist. The reason given is that though these seem private, these suites, they are not soundproof. And anyone can hear what you're doing in there. There's a bit of a side step from idiom origins, but I went down something of a rabbit hole with that one. I'm taking it back. Taken it back. Okay, so we know about this one, because I think we mentioned it before, but I forget because there's a lot of sort of falsehood around this one, but we're not in the air now, we're on the water, right? We're on the water, yes. And I think we did bring this up in our Notical Idiom episode, our Notical Word origin episode. Taken it back is a Notical term. The first instances of it mean that the Taken it back means that a sale is suddenly pressed back against the mass or filled from the opposite side, which prevents further progress. Even the first instances of Taken it back in more general contexts, meaning to be shocked or surprised into inaction, reference the Notical origin. I was taken it back as the sailors say, what I like about this one as an idiom is that it doesn't immediately read as being idiomatic, right? It almost freeds is one of those conversational co-locations, which is when we pair words together, even though we don't necessarily need to be using those words together. Like when we say pay attention, we could just as easily say, give attention, but over time because we say things used together, some of those words used together, it is more common to hear pay attention. But this is an actual idiomatic phrase that isn't just that. Yeah, because we don't use a back in any context other than that, that couplet, right? It's a fossil word, well, kind of. Yeah, sort of. Sort of. Sort of. Yeah. Because you can say like flung a back or something, but we just we don't very often. I mean, why wouldn't it still be used in sailing, right? Because that could still happen, right? Your sail could suddenly be blown in the opposite direction to the one it was going in, right? But presumably it still happens. I wonder if the phrase is knowingly used in sailing circles. Let us know if you do know. Your mild adventure could also be termed a wild goose chase. I guess we found things we're going to ring the shakesby about with this one, right? Yes, we do. Well, kind of in the late 16th century that this is frequently, this is used in Romeo and Juliet. Mercutio says to Romeo, nay, if our wits run the wild goose chase, I am done for that. Has more of the wild goose in one of the wits than I have in my whole five. I love that one. So he's saying Romeo's wits are scattered and unpredictable like a wild goose chase. But did you know that there wasn't a goose involved at all? Is that not implied by the phrase wild goose chases that you don't catch the goose? There was something called a wild goose chase that before this that did not involve geese. It's like it's a type of horse race where one horse sets the course and the others have to follow. It's often erratic lead at prescribed distances in a pattern that ends up looking like a flight of wild geese. So you've got this one horse in the lead and all of the other ones trying to do the same thing, spread out behind it set in certain distances apart. And the erraticness of the horse race and the fact that it's unpredictable is the like it's a 16th century guides to gentleman's recreation, describe the rules. And in none of them is there an actual goose involved also chasing a goose on a horse would wouldn't wouldn't be very useful. I would like to see it. So that's funny, isn't it? What animal is associated with the wild goose chase of the horse? It's a horse. Right. So we were discussing before we started recording what mediums we might like to cover. And both of us turned up with the same one that we should talk about next. Red herring. Red herring of course is something that misleads you or distracts you from something relevant or an important question. Yeah, like a false clue. There are tons of these in mysteries like murder on the Orient Express has a ton of them in it because you're trying to figure out which of these people who all had motive actually killed wretched until the big reveal at the end. And then like the usual suspects has like major red herrings throughout until you reveal who Kaiser Soze is. Things like that. Anyway, there aren't actual live fish that are called red herrings, but it is a name for fish typically herring that is kippered by curing it in brine and heavily smoking it until it is reddish brown. And then they were very stinky. And that's the key part here, right? I've been to one of these buildings where they do the smoking and they're just all sort of it's just it was just a ceiling of dangling fish. I remember them being a very bright yellow color. But yeah, the ones we're talking about here, they were they are just known as red herring, you know, it's not it's not a description of a herring. This fish prepared this way was known as red herring. And we have to bring the horses back for the origin of the the idiom surrounding red herring that describing something as a as a red herring because that stinky fish as you described it was used to create trails for hunting dogs to follow so that hunters could train their horses to follow the dogs. So you've got a person on a horse following a dog following a fish. You'd like go out in the morning and like smear fish along the trail and then the dog would go after it. But the misleading part, do you know where that part came from? I mean, I just assumed and what I read about it said that it's because there is ultimately no game at the end of it, right? The dog gets to the end of the trail and there is nothing to kill. So there are a few instances that explain exactly why it became a misleading thing that takes you off of the trail because you know, that would just imply like following the trail to nowhere, but it's not following a trail to know where it's following the wrong trail. So the the earliest instance we have it is in that context is in 1807 in an article by William Coveitt. Yeah. Okay. So I'm going to say what I read about this. Okay. So I read a debunking of his piece because it's politically motivated. Yeah. Well, it's also it's a politically motivated piece of fiction. And so the idea, if you're going to go where I think you're going to go, which is the idea that it's deliberately used to distract or distract the dogs. So I was reading in the OED here. It says specifically says there's no actual evidence of that practice and that the 1887 article is a misleading piece of basically political propaganda. That's what I was going to say though. So the the story, it's a little different. So so Coveitt wrote this piece. He had an anecdote, which is entirely apocryphal probably from his childhood where he used a piece of cured unsalted herring to lead dogs off of a Harris trail. And he uses that story to criticize the London press for publishing false news accounts about Napoleon that distracted for more important and fact, fact-based narratives. So he is saying that the London press is being is essentially following the path of this red herring. Right. Okay. So the phrase having the meaning it has perhaps goes to that article. But even if that actual practice described in it, maybe, maybe never happened. Exactly. Yes. The OED does sort of connect it to that. The other, there's one other possibility and it's by no means what we use to what inspired the wider use of that idiom. But there is also a story from the 17th century about a clergyman who bequeathed a trunk to his servant saying that it contained something that would cause him to drink and inside was very smelly red herring. So it's just a deception there. Very salty as well. Yes, the notion with Cove it is that he is using it idiomatically or the story idiomatically to describe the press publishing distracting news accounts. That makes a lot of sense. Yeah. Oh, I like that. That's good. But yeah, probably they probably did not drag fish away from the trail actually to distract the house. And maybe I don't know. In England now, England Wales I guess it isn't. I don't know about the rest of Britain. The only type of fox hunting you're allowed to do is trail hunting, right? You're not actually supposed to hunt foxes. You're not supposed to hunt trails. But obviously if you're out with a load of hunting dogs and if they encounter a fox, it's a fairly good chance they're going to go after the fox. Right. You mentioned the wild goose chase which does get a reference in Shakespeare. Another one that gets referenced in Shakespeare is Halcyon Days. Oh, yeah. What is Halcyon? Yeah. So what is Halcyon or rather what is a Halcyon? Which I think is kind of interesting because I think I'd always imagined it as being an adjective. But in this case, it's not. It's talking about a specific thing. It's talking about a specific organism. It's talking about a specific bird. It's talking about the Kingfisher. Halcyon is a Kingfisher. Although the name Halcyon goes back to ancient Greek where there is a myth surrounding the Kingfisher, which is that it is able to through magic calm the sea itself for 14 days while it nests. Well, it's not the sea. Oh, that makes it. Right. So your Halcyon Days refers to this period of seven days either side of the winter solstice usually when there is a period of calm and therefore a period of prosperity. And that phrase goes back to, you know, way before Shakespeare was using it. It goes back to the 1500s. So actually, I suppose not way before Shakespeare was using it. But it very early has this transferred meaning of your own personal sort of calm period or prosperous period or not even just a personal one, just any period of time when things are just a bit more relaxed. Everything is a bit be calm. But obviously, Kingfisher's cannot calm the water. So goes the story. So Halcyon is from the Greek word for a Kingfisher, right? Yeah. So the Halcyon, which is the this mythical Greek bird, the bird is probably a Kingfisher, right? And we do call like the Latin name for the Kingfisher invokes the word Halcyon as well. So Halcyon is a Kingfisher. It's a funny thing. A Kingfisher in French is called a Martin Pescher, which means a Martin Fischer. There's also a phrase that I don't think I've ever heard being used, but it came up with my research because it is in the same breath as the use of Halcyon days in the Shakespeare quote. So it's Joan of Arc, usage it in which is it's Henry the something which one is it's Henry Henry the sixth part one. Joan of Arc or Joan Lapusel, Joan Maiden says expect St Martin's summer Halcyon days. So this phrase St Martin's summer refers to a period of unusual warmth at the end of autumn. Specifically St Martin's day is the 11th of November now, although in the old time calendar it was October the 31st. So it's sort of quite similar to the idea of an Indian summer, which is another origin that we've talked about before, but maybe you can remind us of it. So one of the theories behind why the French call a Kingfisher St Martin's bird or a Martin Fischer, which they do is because the Kingfisher supposedly has the ability to calm the waters and calm the sea much like the calming weather that comes with St Martin's day. I mean there's loads of theories why they call it a Martin Peshaw, but that's one of them. The theories around Indian summer are also relatively vague too, but the notion is probably that it was first seen in this warm spell after the first frost was first observed in areas of the of what is now the United States occupied by Native Americans and the Mississippi River Valley in Appalachia. There we go, because before you'd explained it to me last time I have thought the Indian question was the country Indian. Yeah, I never questioned why. You don't, I mean there's a thing with idioms, you know, we're all very welcome to take them for granted, but when you do actually understand where they came from, it does in a way to use them with a bit more accuracy. We also have the dog days of summer if we're going back to warmer months and we've talked about this one before also known as Kinnikular days. The notion is that the season is attributed to the influence of the dog star serious in the sky, which is visible during late summer. Kinnikular does mean doggy, right? Or all ages. Related to canis, is it, what's the name of the dog star? It's something like that, isn't it? Kinnis, Majora's. What else have you got, Jess? Very briefly, if we're talking about time, this is way out of left field, you might say. But I would love to note that 24-7, I learned this today, 24-7 was not a thing that people said until the 1980s. I'm really. And it is, well, okay, according to the OED anyway, but the OED cites the following quote from sports illustrated as the first instance of 24-7 or 24-7 365. Jerry Ice Reynolds, one of the SEC's two best freshmen by the end of last season, a basketball player, calls his jump shot 24-7 365 because it's good 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. And people did say things like that, like 24 hours a day, seven days a week, but the shortening to 24-7, although probably conversational at that point, isn't recorded in print until the 1980s. That's amazing. We've had 24 hours to the day and seven days to the week for a very, very long time. We never thought to abbreviate it in a consistent way like that. Yes, indeed. It had to come from America that it's one of those. Oh, yeah. It does sound like, you know, shortened Americans slang. Anyway, could we talk about Malafor as an anti-proverbs really quickly? Yeah, absolutely. Whenever I need to come up with a Malafor, I never can. But we can combine a couple that we've already done, like to settle down the extra mile, or something like that. Yeah, right. The typical one you hear is, we'll burn that bridge when we come to it. There we go. So this is mixing up your, well, as it was mixing your metaphors, but not in the sort of broader sense, but very, you know, in terms of actually mixing the words of two metaphors together, right? The blend of like malaproposum and metaphor for a Malafor. And usually a Malafor is considered to be an error, like an unintentional use or blending of terms like it's not rocket surgery or something, but they're often used in an intentional and humorous way, like the 800 pound gorilla in the room or stirring the apple cart. That's terrible. The apple cart. Let me do some intentionally funny Malafor is which I found in Giles Brandritz' word play book. I can read him like the back of my book. The sacred cows have come home to roost with evengeance. Very good. I also see you can have more than two in there. We can stand here and talk until the cows turn blue. Very good. But the other one, which there's a lot of overlap here, is the anti-prover, which is a dark twist on a proverb, which is also often idiomatic. So there, where there's a will, there's a lawsuit. This one's really dark. It's time to swallow the bullet. And then it's easy as falling off a piece of cake. I like that one. That doesn't sound too bad. That sounds more Malafore than anti-proverbial. That's about all I had on that. I just think they're fun. It's a very, very fun diversion, very fun diversion. Give us your best ones in the comments. I was looking up where the phrase seven year itch comes from. I'm sure a lot of people are aware of the play, the seven year itch, which was George Axelrod's play of 1952, but it became a movie in 1955. And it's more famous for that. And the key aspect of it is that seven years into a relationship, people get itchy feet, which is probably something else we should go into. And basically there's a sweet spot seven years into a relationship where you're most likely to be unbeatable. Actually, so I can read a quote from the play actually. An awful lot of customers are going to get an awful big kick out of Tom Yules, small amorous interlude with the gal who lives upstairs when events conspired to give him the seven year itch after a happy marital span of a like number of years. So the phrase does not originate in the play nor the film. And how much older is it? It's about a century older. So it's from the earliest citation is from the 1830s. So it's the first time I guess written down. And I don't think it's a stretch to guess what it's originally refers to, but it does refer to skin complaints, right? It's US slang for scabies or some other skin complaint that was said to last for seven years or to keep coming back every year for seven years. So it's known as the seven year itch. And then later people noticed this sort of sweet spot in whatever the opposite, a sour spot in a relationship about seven years into a marriage where you do start to get uncomfortable, dissatisfied and your eyes may start to wander. And so that's how it's got the meaning it has now. We don't really talk about scabies as the seven year itch anymore. Both of them are unpleasant in different ways. In a recent episode, I talked about idioms that Brits use that Americans don't. Among them was Bob's your uncle. I'm not sure if we explained where that came from though. We did mention other uncle related idiomatic phrases, but I don't think that we talked about this one. So where does that come from? On text, we use Bob's your uncle to mean like, and there you have it. From that moment, everything is easy. It's in the bag, so to speak. And so the story that gets told is that the barbing question is the British Prime Minister Robert Gascoine Cecil, third Marcus of Solzbury, who rather nepotistically, quite literally, appointed his nephew Arthur Balfour to the position of chief secretary for Ireland in 1887. However, that's the story that gets told. But the phrase doesn't actually appear in print until the 1920s. So what is going on there? So it's actually more likely that there is no Bob, no single Bob, but there is, because there are older uses going back to like the 1700s. Of Bob just meaning good, it's just like slang for something being good. There's a quote here from 1721, yesterday at Marleybone, although they spelled it Marybone, okay. Yesterday at Marleybone, they had me all Bob as a robin. So I just, you know, you know, in a good mood. I see the logic there. It's right me. Yeah. Yeah, there's a little idiom, Bob, than a Bob tail. So Bob's your uncle. I mean, it's probably just invoking the idea of something being good, right? But the uncle reference is really obscure and not, not clear where it comes from, because it doesn't really make any sense for the, the nepotistic hiring of prime ministers, nephew, what, almost 40 years earlier to, you know, resurface and become an idiom. It's not how these things tend to work. There must be something else behind it. I was wondering if there could be some sort of like rhyming slang, something, something. It does sound like it, doesn't it? I would bet you any money. Oh, no, I was going to say I bet you only money. It's in the grossest dictionary of the vulga tongue. I wrote these notes a while back and I can see, actually, I did take a note saying, yes, the word bobbish is in the dictionary of the tongue, meaning smart clever. Spryce? That can't be right. Spruce, spryce. Anyway, it means smart or clever. Excellent. Yeah. There was another phrase about uncles that you, you told me about. Oh, yeah, we talked about crying uncle, which means it's from an Irish word. It's not the word uncle. It's an Irish word that sounds like uncle that means like mercy. Yeah, I remember you telling me about that one because I actually hadn't heard the phrase crying uncle. That's like if the play, the playground bully has your arm twisted behind your back and you're, you're crying uncle because you've lost. You're actually just begging for mercy, I see. Speaking of school yard terms, have you heard of the phrase goody-touches? To be, to be called a goody-touches? Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, come across that one a lot. And I'm not so much these days, right? I mean, you're more likely to cause someone like a try hard or something like that than a goody-touches. It's the goody thing. Is that anything to do with the way that in the states they used to refer to like wives as goodies? Exactly, exactly. It is a polite, puritan American way to address a woman, which if you read the play, and if the crucible, I saw goody-proctor with the devil, that kind of thing. It's exactly what I was thinking about. And in fact, that, that quote. The term goody-touches is from a different story. It's from the 1766 children's story, the history of little goody-touches. So in the story, goody-touches is Marjorie Meanwell, who is an orphan who's so poor that she has only one shoe until a wealthy gentleman gives her a new pair of shoes and she's so excited. She tells everyone she has two shoes and she becomes little goody-touches. She's curious, I'd clever, and she loves reading, but the village doesn't have many books, so she carves a set of letters out of wood and uses them to teach the other kids to read and spell. And then she adopts an abused raven named Ralph and then a lamb and then a puppy and a dove and a sky-lark. And she grows up to be a teacher and her wealthy patron, Sir Walter Weldon, makes her the mistress of her own school and she's kind and helpful to everyone and predicts the weather using her weather glass, which unfortunately leads everyone to a restaurant for being a witch, but then the patron defends her and she's released. And then after that, she starts taking care of a rich widower when he gets sick and when he recovers, they get married and they live happily ever after. So it's a little bit of a sermon. Be a good girl. There is a universe where that life is your life. Is it like teaching the kids to read, adopting a pet raven, get a good chance to be a witch? This is all very Jess Zafaris behavior. It is. It is. The unfortunate part of it is that it's very much like be a good girl and you'll go from being an impoverished orphan to marrying a rich man and she's always rescued by these charitable men, but very much so otherwise I love her. I was always harsh to criticize someone for having two shoes. Right. It's not so try hard. Right. How dare you have properly shard feet? So Jess, we reached the last mile of this episode. I think the full swing of this episode has come to a close. The full swing swing swing swing and sway swing and sway swing and sway right in the full swing. Well, thank you for informing me on support of these idiots. Now I'll be able to wield them like a sharp sword with greater accuracy and a full force of the knowledge of knowing where they came from. And everyone who's listening, let us know your favorite idioms and perhaps they will appear on our next collection on Words Unraveled.