---
video_title: "Dangerous words in other languages"
video_id: XA4d9r6Yu5A
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XA4d9r6Yu5A
video_date: 2026-06-24T05:00:37+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's explore some 'false friends'. And start speaking a new language in 3 weeks with Babbel 🎉. Get up to 50% OFF ➡️ Here:https://bit.ly/WordsUnravelledJun26
  
  Rob and Jess are exploring deceptive words in other languages, like French, German and Spanish. So-called 'false friends' look familiar to English speakers but mean something very different. Watch this episode to avoid any sticky situations when you're next abroad.
  
  🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿 ROB'S EDINBURGH SHOW 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿
  Tickets: https://www.edfringe.com/tickets/whats-on/robwords-live
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
Why is it best not to be blessed in French? What does it mean to be pregnant in German? And why do Spanish people get constipated in the face? We're discussing false friends, false cognates, and pseudo anglicisms, which are fancy words for translation traps, and double meanings across languages on this episode of Words Unravelled.

Welcome to another Words Unravelled. I am Rob Watts from the YouTube channel RobWords. And I'm Jess Zafarris, author of etymology books, including Useless Etymology. And today we are talking about some treacherous words, false friends. Yeah, those words that in other languages make you think, oh, I think I think I know what that means because it seems very similar to something in English, but actually it isn't. Have I got that basically right? When you're trying to

learn a new language, you come across a word that looks really familiar. So, you're like, "Sure, I know. I know what that means." And then it stabs you in the back because it means something else entirely. So, a false friend is a word in one language that has the same or a similar form.

It looks similar. It sounds similar, but doesn't have the same meaning. And it can cause difficulty or confusion or awkwardness when you're learning a foreign language. And there's a little distinction here. We've got false friends and false cognates. Some false friends are also false cognates and

many are actual cognates. So cognates as as a reminder. So cognates is one of these words that linguistics people throw around expecting everyone else to know what they what it means. A cognate is a word that is related to that word like as in it's got a common source with that word. An example is like the English magazine which is you know a glossy booklet and the French magazine which is a shop. Those words don't mean the same thing but they are related. They are essentially

from the same root. So they are sort of the same word and they both imply things that have multiple things in them much much like also a weapon magazine or it was originally a word for a storehouse I believe and so in French it became a word for a shop. In English, it became any place where it also a word for a storehouse, but then also a place where bullets are stored or a place where articles are gathered like in the gentleman's magazine, which was the first thing that was called a magazine as a periodical and it was meant to sound manly. But I'm going to really struggle here to differentiate between a false friend and a false cognate cuz they sound like exactly the same thing to me. It just means whether the words are related or not. So, we might

have a word from that's in Malay that looks like a word in English, but they're from completely different linguistic sources. So, you can have you can be false friends and false cognates or you can just be false friends. Okay. But you can't be false cognates and not a false friend. Okay. Okay. Good. Let's kick off with some false friends. Let's get stuck into it. So, a really

good example of this I would say is the this is a false friend, not a false cognate because they are related. Uh the word empathy in modern Greek has a a corresponding empathia. It's basically the same word etmologically. It's the the element in that means in and then the the element pathos which means feeling. But in in English that means understanding someone at an emotional level feeling their feelings. In modern Greek it means malice or malevolence. It's like feeling negative

feelings, strong negative feelings and prejudice against someone. So, you can see that could be a problem if you're trying to express empathy in modern Greek. There's something else going on also with sympathy across European languages. For example, the French satik and the German satosh do not mean the same as sympathetic, even though they do have the same source. They just mean sort of nice. You know, something is nice, which is fine. I mean, being sympathetic is nice,

but it's much more specific in English. It's a much more specific way of being nice is being sympathetic. Sort of the other way around. The English word casino has a very specific meaning. You can imagine a casino in English very easily. It's got glitzy lights. It's got gambling. But in

Italian, it has a lot of different meanings. It can be a word for a brothel. It can be a word for a mess. It can be a word for a noisy situation. or it can be sort of it can stand in for like a crapload of something. Okay. So, this is like another phenomenon, isn't it? Where something is

much more broad in the source language than we're using it for. Chef is a really good example. Yeah. Chef is just a, you know, a head cook in English, but it's literally related to chief. In fact, chief is represents just a borrowing of the word chef just a bit earlier on and it just means a boss. So actually at the head of a kitchen is a chef to cuisine in French. You need to be specific

if you're talking about a chef in French. A chef of what? But our chef is just all about food. It won't surprise you uh that I have got quite a lot of French ones. For anyone who doesn't know, I married a French lady. I had to learn French to to speak to her family. So I've come across an

awful lot of an awful lot of these. I've tried to categorize them. Maybe we start with some of the ones that because of what you were saying about um empathy. Some of the ones that sound good uh but are actually quite bad things in fact. Yeah, I would like that. So a good one is which is

spelled exactly the same as sensible. Sensible and it is the source of our word sensible. However, in French it means sensitive. So if you were to say, what you're saying is, oh, this man is really sensible. That's what you might think. But no, what you're saying is this man is sensitive.

So they might not be being quite as pleasant about you. I think if they were going to say sensible, they would say resonabs also our source of the word reasonable character as well in French to have character is not to, you know, have a great character. It's to have a terrible temper again. Is it because you're like acting up? Yeah. I mean, so so this is this is the thing,

right? It's distinctive behavior is is where it comes from because what has happened obviously with English is it has borrowed a huge number of French words. Huge number. And often the meaning has then changed in English away from that French meaning. for example, we've taken the word on and we've forced it into a niche, which is what we did with chef. But um also, so we already had

the word ask when the French came over, you know, when William the Conqueror took control and were being run by French people in England. So when we get their word for ask, which is demand, we make it very specific. We make it asking with force instead. Even though in French demand is literally just asking and commande as well. We're making these sort of very niche words very sort of uh specific uses. Command is so for example if you order food in France you command it but I mean

you're not actually literally ordering the servant to go the server to go into the kitchen and and make it. To be fair, we also order food, which in another like in another context could sound like giving orders. You're absolutely right. So, so this is clearly a familiar way for the meanings of these kinds of words to change. But I did come across while I was researching an instance where English, modern English is more French than modern French. Oh, tell me. So what I mean by

this is that the the English use of the word is truer to the French use of the word in old French than the modern use of the word. And the word is deceive. Oo yeah. So the French equivalent of it is dovoir as in we say receive they say reservoir. We say conceive they say conservoir. And for

uh deceive they say desvoir. But anyone who speaks French will know that desoir means to disappoint, not to to cheat or to you know hoodwink. But the English meaning is actually truer to both the Latin and the old French meaning of that. The modern French meaning of being disappointed is based on the idea that you your expectations haven't been met and you therefore feel deceived. Oh, because someone got your hopes up and therefore you are disappointed. So that's

that's English being more French than French. It's a little bit true of the word petulant in English versus petulon in French because the root of petulant means to attack or to strive after or to to beg. And it's just bad behavior more than uh French, which my understanding is it means more like playful, right? Oh, I don't know actually. I've never used it because I've barely used it in I've barely used it in English. It's quite sort of high high level, isn't it? Petulent. Don't get

the opportunity to use it often. Petulent means like irritable or or or peevish in modern English. Though in in English, it originally meant the same thing as it did in like 15th century French, which meant like immodest or wanton or saucy, which means you're being like forward, which then sort of evolved into insolence, which is the the modern sense of the English word petulant. So it it it pedated in English and it's ameliorated in French. Here's a false friend for you, Jess. An

unfortunate one as well. In German and Swedish, the word gift or or gift as it's pronounced in Swedish means not something pleasant you give someone, but poison. That uh that feels like an important distinction. It is. And it comes from the same place. They both just mean, you know,

our word present. Gift just means something that has been given. But like I say, you can give something very pleasant or you can give something not very pleasant. But there's also an extra meaning for it in Swedish, which is married. So, you really have to watch out you're not entering a seriously toxic relationship. Oh my goodness. But fortunately, this video's sponsor has been helping

me learn a bit of Swedish so I can avoid confusing generosity and toxic substances and weddings. That's right. Babel is one of the top language learning apps in the world. I've been using it to learn Spanish. And one thing I really like is that the lessons focus on real conversations and practical situations. So, you're learning language that you can actually use. Yeah. and

hopefully avoiding situations where you're trying to say you're embarrassed and accidentally telling everyone you're pregnant. Oops. Exactly. Though, Babel's lessons are designed by real language experts and they're built to help you start having actual conversations. I've already picked up useful phrases like profess which means what do you do for a living and soy escortor which means I am a writer which comes in handy when making small talk with Spanish speakers. And Babel's new

group plan gets you six separate accounts for the price of one. So Jess can keep working on Spanish, I can keep working on Swedish, and everyone learns at their own pace. So click on our link below to get 50% off your Babel subscription, and let us know in the comments what language you're learning or would like to learn. Thanks again to Babel for sponsoring this video.

Can I mention a few more French ones that we've taken from French but have changed meaning in English? I've got a couple too. Let's do it. Okay, this these are great. So, u we taken these, you know, the best part of a thousand years ago. Uh and they've diverged quite a long way. For

example, our word travel is from the French word. Indeed, our word travail is also from the French word. Travel is just a variant on the English word travail, right? But sometimes a specific variant takes on a specific meaning or just a specific spelling of the word takes on a specific meaning. But that trai in French means to work. People who know French will know that not to move around. So

when we say travel, we're basically implying quite a rough journey, one that's a bit of a bit of a slog. But even then I'm using another false friend which is journey which is based on the French. Now if you come across Ja in French you're not dealing with travel of any sort. You're dealing simply with the word for day. But our word journey implies a day's travel. That's also

the for another fun linguistic term if you want to to have one on hand that means travail and travel are etmological dublets because they came from the same place but ended up with different meanings in English. There we go. Come across a few of those perhaps. Oh, actually here's a here's another one I was surprised to find because I I'd spent a lot of time assuming this was the case. So rest re t in French means not to rest but to stay. And I was thinking oh but our word rest probably comes from

that right? If you stay somewhere you're kind of just uh you know you're resting in the same place. But that's not true. Our word rest in that sense is oh it's just Germanic through and through. It's just a word meaning to to repose. Repose being another French word by the way. In fact,

the the French for to rest is repos. But our word for when we say and the rest as in you know except for the things we're talking about the rest that does come from French because it is the stuff that stays. It is the stuff that remains is what's left the rest. Another interesting dublet that came from a French false friend is rapel, which means in French, I believe it's a it's a word for a reminder, and it is also our word for repelling down a mountain. It literally means to recall. Um,

and it's a dublet with the word repeal as well, which is also from the same source. Oh, that's a really good one. Like, there's so much here. It It makes the brain buzz. If you drive through France, you'll know that word because it's written underneath speed limit signs when it's not the first time they've told you the speed limit. So if it's a repeat sign says that feels a little

passive aggressive in case you didn't notice the first time. It is like that because in in England, I don't know how you do it in the States. In England, we just make the second and third signs. They're just much smaller than the first one. So you already know that it's a it's a repeater sign because it's smaller. But there are still the same size. And yeah, I suppose it doesn't matter,

does it? Like it either is the speed limit or isn't. It doesn't matter how long it's been the speed limit. Yeah. One to watch out for, by the way, uh, is French. Bless B L S with an accent

on it does not mean blessed. It means injured. Oh, no. Yeah. But they do share the same root because the idea of being blessed in English is essentially having been struck with with a holy blessing. To be blessed is literally struck by by God or or I don't know if if it's by God or by

some sort of holy um force or by a southern lady who's telling you bless your heart. Exactly. Yeah. Well, as long as she's not got a knife in her hand, then you can be you can feel safe. But Oh, no. You shouldn't. If an a southern lady says, "Bless your heart," she is uh she's being very

judgmental. Is it Is it Is it patronizing? Is it It is. It's very much. I've got a few to watch out for when you're on holiday. If you happen to be going to a French-speaking country,

um you need to be aware that the word lassium, which is spelled exactly the same as location, does not mean a location. It means a rental. So, oh, okay. Is where you rent your car. It is not where you're going to find your car. Is that just like an extended sense of that same notion? It

looks like it's just like a usage of a place, kind of a figurative extension for the French context. It has to be, doesn't it? Because it'll be from locust. It will be from Latin just for for place, right? Li in French, not a library. Do not walk out with a book without paying for it

from a French lier. Although we all know if we've done any French at all that a French library is called Bibliote. Oh, we love Bibliote. Yes. Be careful with that one. If you're in a restaurant

and at the end you want uh I don't know, you've paid the bill and you want a receipt, do not ask for laret because what you're going to end up with is the recipe for whatever it is you ate. I mean, that might be nice to have on hand. Yeah. Well, that's true. A little confusing, but I, you know, it's really good. And if the food really doesn't agree with you, um, don't ask for lmed if

what you want is medicine. That's medicine. That's the doctor, right? It is the doctor, right? But also don't ask for the doctor because you might end up with someone with a PhD that is not going to help you in a medical emergency. Also true in this state in English. There are also a few

that are words that um are rude in one direction or the other. For example, the the French. So, this is one that my wife told me. She says it's really funny when she sees this on signs in England. Say it'll be a sign for an Irish pub and it'll say a bite from Ireland. Bite bite in French

is pronounced beat. And I it means penis. It means penis. So, so French people find it very very funny when they see a sign that says a beat from Ireland. That accent wasn't offensive, was it? Ah,

it's fine. It's fine. On that note, the This is much gentler, but a crayon in French is not the same as a crayon in English, for example. Crayon is a is a pencil, isn't it? Mhm. And then pensil

Danish, Swedish and Norwegian have a similar word or basically a cognate with the meaning paintbrush instead. And penicellin is called because it it looks like a paintbrush, not a pencil. The Latin word that these come from means tail, like a a brushy little tail or a penis. So there's that. Uh, while we're chuckling at mildly rude things, although I've got a load more rude ones from other languages to do a bit later, um, bra B r a s, but pronounced basically bra in French is your arms, not your bra. But there is a link because the the English braier brazier is from the

French for arm thing, right? Your arms into Yeah, exactly. It does invoke the word arms, but actually in French, a brazier, bracier, not brazier, that's something else. That's a brazier. A bracier is a sports bra or a bra that doesn't have wiring in it. So they do use that word for

something a bit similar. But what they call a bra in French is a sutang, which is another euphemism because the brazier is a euphemism really. If you're calling it an arm thing, isn't it? you're kind of skirting around what it's actually what it's actually concentrating on. Sutang go means a throat support not a ah yeah yeah that would make sense like gorgeous is having a long slender neck oh is that right? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Literally support that's a better

way of putting it. Then there's some obvious ones like in French pain is very good in that it is pan their bread is superb. And a quang spelled c o i n is a corner. It is not a coin. A coin is a ps but a piece is a morsel which is a morsel. Another edible one. We we use this in in

English as well with the French sense but they're doulets. The word champion for mushroom is a dlet of champion. The notion of both is the word field essentially. It means that if you're a champion, you are a compat combatant in the field. You're a gladiator or fighter originally. And if it's

a mushroom, it grows in the fields. There is a potential third dlet. So, does that make it a triplet? Campaign as well. Oh, okay. So, we've got a quadruplet then because Champagne as well.

Yeah, the region may well be may well be made after the fields. Made after the fields. Yeah. A couple that appear across romance languages in general would probably be, this is a a subtle difference, but words like conductor and control just have different notions in English a little bit. like conductor tends to be associated with I I mean you also have musical conductors that reflect the same sense as in Spanish and French but it means um often is associated with trains in English the train conductor and then control is a little it's it's fiercer in English control um whereas it's just like checking and examining but we also have that sense in like mission control and uh and things like that in English so conductor is a driver isn't it in in most Europe European languages and control is a is to check cont this this reminds me of something really interesting. I mean it was more pertinent when Britain was still in the

EU although Ireland is still in there and Malta. Um is Malta in the EU? Well anyway Ireland is the you know this the representative of the English language uh on in the EU these days? But there's there's a something called Euro English that's particularly relevant in Brussels, the seat of the European Union along with Strasburg. And and this is the the English that Europeans speak together when there are no native English pe speakers in the room. In fact, there's

been research that suggests that as soon as a British person walks into a discussion between Europeans speaking English, general comprehension drops because the the native speaker comes in and starts using words in a different way to the people who are using them. This Euro English, it features usages of words that everyone else understands as being correct, but a native English speaker would not. A really good one is is control is one of the ones, right? They'll use control to mean you know we need to control that will mean we need to check it not that we need to you know take control of it but others are like actual so in most European languages well I say most the ones I know anyway actual doesn't mean like you know real or existing like it does in English it means current so actual in French actual in German these mean currently in discussions between Europeans European language speakers they will use actual to mean currently rather than to mean you know real or really linked to that realize as well I mean we'll occasionally use realize to realize a dream is to make it happen but we use realize you know when something occurs to us but that doesn't happen in in Euro English it gets used to mean making something occur and eventually is another really good one eventually in English obviously means you know it'll happen down the road at some point. In German, you might say end, French, you might say finale, but eventually gets used in Euro English to mean possibly because these words mean possibly instead. So there

English words being used with meanings from other languages, but everyone understands it because in their native language, it's the same as it is in the other person's native language, even though those native languages aren't necessarily the same. I don't know if this would qualify, but you can tell me whether whether this falls under the same category, but the word cult in English has a particular negative connotation, but it's basically just means worship in most European languages. I don't know if that's that would qualify. I guess it's a little less conversational. I don't know how frequently it comes up, but any variation on the word cult in like French or Polish or Spanish. My understanding just means worship. Aud house house of worship. I

wonder if that's more closely related in meaning to culture than we use it. Oh, certainly. Yeah. No, all of them mean are from a root meaning to till or to to cultivate. Ah, that's a good one, Jess. We turned cult into a porative basically, right? Or people who behaved in a cult-like way

turned it into a porative. Yeah. Yes. It's not our fault. The cults the cults all end up going wrong. Although I mean the ones that don't, they just become religions, don't they?

Um, another fun one in Danish, Dutch, Norwegian, Swedish, and German, the word bad means bath typically or or the word ba typically means bath and it's even in German, it's there are particular towns that are that are that qualify as like bath towns and things and you have to meet a certain standard. My understanding is to be called a bath town and and that probably, you know, dates back to Roman times and and bathouses and things like that. But the English word bad is not related to any of these words. It has some drama around it. It doesn't have relatives in other languages. It it might have a predecessor in old English that's the derogatory term battle,

which was used for affeminite men sometimes. And it may be related to a word meaning to defile, but it didn't. It wasn't the standard word for bad in old English. Old English instead used words related to evil for bad as the antithesis of good. And we still of course use that good and evil. But good and bad in terms of quality. Didn't come around really until say the middle

English 1300s or 1400s. I think old English also used words related to bailful as well. Yeah. Uh, but that I love that. So bad is a proper English word. I love it when we find one of these.

Like that is a false cognate. Yeah. For example, they're not related. False cognate with bath in all of these. But bath is a true cognate of all those other bads. You find with a lot of Germanic

languages if they're using a d, English is using a th. But the rest of them except Icelandic and maybe farohies don't like that th sound very much. Oh, here's a here's a related one if I may from German. Obviously, I've also got quite a lot of German ones because I am speaking to you from Germany. Not in German. Not. It means emergency. It does not mean not. Now, this, you know,

is something you could maybe survive without knowing, maybe. But if you ever were caught up in an emergency and you were looking for, say, the exit during a fire and what you saw on the sign was not gang. And if you only a small amount of German knew that gang was exit, but didn't know that not meant emergency, you might very well turn away from that door thinking it was not the house gang rather than emergency exit. That one strikes me every time I'm on the subway in Germany. I I think I've mentioned this before, but I had family in Germany for a little while, and the big joke among my southern American family members was, "Where in the hell is fart Germany?"

Because it's on all of the exits. And the fact that you do have a a multitude of different farts in German is endlessly hilarious. Fart just means a journey or a way or something like that. the it's from the verb faren which means to to go or to drive actually because you got gaan which is which is go I'm getting too deep into it but yeah fart I'm wondering if there are any relatives of fart in English any you know if there are any genuine cognates um fast as well you have to watch out for fast as well in German because fast doesn't mean speedy does it mean like something stuck or is it closer to that sense of fast it does so we do have that meaning in English it means tight you know or or or almost as well if you've you've done something fast it means you've almost done it not you've done it quickly so watch out if a German says that they've done something fast I mean that's also it means they haven't done it that's also ultimately the logic behind fast as a word for speedy too the idea is that you're like sticking to an intense paste pace yeah yeah that's one of the one of the ideas behind it was in a video I recently did about contronyms, right? Because you know, you can be stuck fast, which means you're not going anywhere, or you can be moving fast, which means you're going somewhere very fa very quickly. Indeed,

I have another phenomenon that's related to false friends. These are false friends, but they're a different sort. their pseudo angllicisms and this is when a word in another language uses an Englishlooking word to mean something that English speakers wouldn't recognize. Uh and so for example, a handy in German is a mobile phone and it's it's artificial pseudo English and the German hand. But allegedly many Germans think that the word is an English term for a cell phone when it is very much not. Apparently, Indonesian and Korean

also have handphone or variations on that word. We don't have a noun handy, do we? We just have an adjective handy. Someone is handy. Well, is there a thing? Oh gosh, we do. Oh no.

Oh, that is one of my worst moments on this podcast. That was one of the worst ones. just had to take a glance at your face and realize where I was going. Psych through the rolodex of whit disgusting acts. Oh, it's that not disgusting. Natural natural. Oh,

I thought I thought we were on the same page. Oh, that was funny. Uh, I've got I've got more of the German ones for you. Okay. You know, they Do you know what they call um so in the '9s there was a style of backpack that was really fashionable where it's just a single strap over the arm. We had them at my school. Everyone was wearing them but people

stopped wearing them because other kids used to go up and just sort of undo the bit of velcro and your bag would fall on the floor and everything would break. They call that in German a body bag. That's horrible. I love it. It is. Yeah. I mean, it makes perfect sense. I mean, we call them like

crossbody bags sometimes when they're being sold in the in shops and things, but it's just so it's such it's so funny because it has such a different meaning in English as well. Although, you know, bum bag and fanny pack are also pretty funny. And the word that we use for a backpack, a rrook sack is obviously a bit of German. That is literally German for backpack. A rook is back. I

wonder what the German word for like a a medical or a crime body bag is. Yeah, that's a good point actually. Yeah, Kerpa. It's probably some uh elaborate compound word. Basically, that's not keratashen. Lensac. Is that what it is? Yeah. Like uh I think it's supposed to be like lich sack.

Yeah, it's a dead body bag. That's very good. That is really good. I like that a lot. That's better than body. Uh, going home in a body bag. I'm not sure I'd fit. These are Germanic words,

right? Body is a Germanic word and bag is a Germanic word. Actually, body is one of those ones. We've talked about this though, haven't we? Body doesn't exist in other Germanic languages except for it's probably it might be like a dialectic term in a regional bit of Germany.

But body like we say everyone else is using words like kerper cor related to corpse or words related to to lich or words related to live as well like lie is another another Germanic word for body but they're not using body. So they've got they've got space for it in the language. Another one you got to watch out for as well if you go if you go to um a photography session or a filming session it's called a shooting. A shooting. Oh no. So, if you go for like a family portrait, you're you're in

danger of attending a mass shooting. Watch out for that one. Oh, but my favorite one is what Germans call a vintage car, which is an oldtimer and and they do this blissfully unaware of the, you know, the actual English meaning of this. My understanding is that German also has mobbing as a word for bullying and flipper as a word for a pinball machine. Oh yeah, there's a whole theme park essentially on the edge of Berlin dedicated to flipper machines. To to pinball machines. Yeah,

you just go there and all you do is play pinball. I haven't been. I understand why it's called pinball because you start by shooting it with the pin, but uh I think flipper is more pertinent to what you how you play the game. One that I've heard English speakers adopt here. I don't know why. Maybe because it's more piffy than our word for it, but they describe a projector as a beamer.

Oh, interesting. So, something that beams an image onto a wall. Basically, they call it a beamer. Although I don't know if this is the same in American slang, but in British slang, beamer is a German car. A BMW. Yeah. A beamer. Yeah. You know, the French call it a BM. Like,

well, why miss off why miss off the last letter? That has a different bit of slang uh sense in in English. It does. Again, I think that's American slang. I only know it from Family Guy, I think. Is it is it yourself or something? Yeah, I mean it yourself in particular. It

just means bowel movements. Yeah. Okay, there we go. I don't think it's specifies where. This is great. That tells you something about Family Guy. All right. Not me. I read and I'm

going to need someone who speech speaks Dutch to confirm this, but I read that coffee shop means a cannabis dispensary in Dutch. Oh, yeah. That that's just a fact. That's absolutely true. If Yeah. Yeah. If you go to Amsterdam and you go to see the coffee shops, someone is not going

to go and have coffee. They're going to have cannabis. I mean, we call it we call them, you know, Dutch cannabis shops in in English as well. That's 100% true. I guess there is some there is a degree of similarity between the smell of coffee and cannabis. I mean,

you can usually get coffee there, but it's not it's not the reason that anyone's there. You get coffee at a at a at a weed dispensary. Yeah, that's interesting. I I never would have guessed that. Here's something that you mentioned um pregnant. German pregnant. It does not mean

pregnant. It doesn't mean pregnant. Uh it means like evident or inform informative. Is that right? It's more like I I would define it more like brief or pathy. Pathy. Okay, that makes sense. So in

Romanian it means evident or marked or manifest. In Swedish it can actually mean pregnant, but it can mean striking or distinctive. And in Dutch it can mean like poignant or meaningful. And all of these are from the same like when we say a pregnant pause we mean the same thing. But all of them are from the Latin word that actually means pregnant with a baby. So something that is

pregnant with something. It's just kind of filled with it. It's much more figurative in in these other languages than it is in in English where it is it is more literal. Though in English there were also this is a Latin derived word obviously it means like before birth but in old English the words were like midna meaning with child or uh bona meaning child adding or child increasing or increasing with child probably um in the 1800s you could also say that someone was poisoned. So there we go we've come full circle with our gifts. Okay for me you buried the lead there. So so pregnant

is prebirth. Now that makes sense, doesn't it? Okay. And so it could be the pre-birth of an idea or it could be, you know, pre the birth of of something else. It's something that's about to produce something. Yes. Got it. Not something that is full of something. Like I said, well,

I mean, it's that not Yeah. I suppose it's full is full of it with the intention of at some point releasing it. I understood your logic there. Um, another fun one that I believe is different in pretty much every European language is smoking means a dinner jacket, which is cool. Yeah, a smoking a smoking jacket. So, it's not exactly the same as a as a dinner jacket,

right? It's one of those with the sort of uh lapels, the sort of shiny lapels, like a tuxedo. Yeah, I suppose. Yeah, I suppose you're right, actually. Yeah. Tuxedo is named

for tuxedo New York, which isn't very far from me. It's very wealthy, right? Is that why it's named after what they wear? Or it was I think we still call it a dinner jacket in British English more sort of formally. Even though a dinner jacket does not have to be just the jacket like the full setup is called a dinner jacket which is stupid but true. It took me forever when I was a kid

reading earlier reading historic novels and things when people would say dressing gown. that didn't like I couldn't picture anything other than a frilly night gown when I read that word. So, we've got like Ebenezer Scrooge in his dressing gown and I was like terribly cold. I we've we've been dabbling in Spanish, haven't we? The pair of us. We have. Yeah. So, I looked I

looked up a couple one of these came up the other day when I was out with my camera operator. very smart German man who also fluent in Spanish and his English is immaculate. But he did use a word u that I wasn't expecting which was when we were filming and some people got in the shot and started messing around which happens a lot. He said uh that he wished they weren't molesting us. Oh yeah. No me molestar just means like don't stop bothering me, right? Yeah. So he'd used

the the Spanish meaning this German man had used the Spanish meaning in English of molestar which is just bothering someone to molest them. So you know again ultimately the the meaning in English comes from that but it's it's for sure is even further. It wasn't great to start with. And also, constipado in in Spanish is not to be constipated in your bottom. It's to be constipated in your nose. It's to have a cold. Watch out for that. I mean, same notion. I think it's neat that a

lot of these have an English-l lookinging ing on the end, and that gets tacked onto other activities. So this is this is a Spanish word with the English looking ing ending on it. Um the word for bungee jumping is pointing which means poente is bridge. So it's bridging. Oh I think I must have mentioned this before but I do have a least favorite French word. And it's

because it looks like an English word. It is not one. Uh it's footing. Yeah. That's also that's in other languages too. Doesn't it just mean running? Yeah. Well it does. Yeah. Jogging. I guess we use

like and there's a difference between running you know and footing you say like that and and and oh you'll understand that won't you Rob no it's not a word stop it we don't say that stop it and they also use here's a really interesting one because we got a nice um boomeranging going on here in French they refer to celebrities as lay people the people but we get our word people from French in the first place so it's gone from from to English meaning people and then they gone I guess cuz cuz a lot of celebrities are Americans. Uh so they take the the American word for it. I really like the French French word for a makeover though. Relooking. Is it? Yeah. Or that's awful. I

don't know why I really hate these. I think it's because of the way I'm Am I saying this with an earshot of my friend my my wife? Um, I don't like the way that French, whenever it takes on a word, deliberately puts a French way of saying it onto it. I find that really annoying. I mean, in English, we do a terrible job of try of attempting to pronounce it the way that it is from the source language, but French never does that. So, you get uh fing you get uh there's this

TV show that's very popular in France. I don't know if it's still running, called Lend Shopping, which is the queens of shopping. They go they go out shopping and then they they I so so French people are very good at being [ __ ] So what they do is they go out, they shop, they buy outfits and then the other women tell them how awful they look shopping. Uh yeah, and I don't know. There we go. I shouldn't have said that. I've just insulted all of France. I love French. I think

it's a very beautiful language, but I do not like the way that it makes every word seem like it's French. I saw some from Italian. Um, I like that the joker in a deck of cards is sometimes called a jolly. I don't understand. Oh, a spa is called a beauty farm, which is kind of funny. Yeah,

they talk about wellness here um as being sort of general well-being. Um, we might we might say so you go to if you went to like a wellness spa. Spa. I don't know if we use that in English, do we? Do we say wellness spa? I have certain before. Yeah. I feel like wellness is actually

a word that we are sort of using these days but I think there was a time when it wasn't really and wellness was quite an unusual use of the term in in German another good one of those is home office as well which during the pandemic became a big thing a home office is working in home office means working from home whereas in England the home office is is our interior ministry you know what the state department maybe no is that your foreign affairs what's what's the American like home affairs or is that just home? Is that just the president? Yeah. I don't know which department would be the the the department of the interior or something like that interior. Yeah. Oh yeah.

Do you have a department of the interior that Yeah. Yeah. Whoever's in charge of your police and all that. In the same vein, smart working in Italian is the term for remote work, which hey, as someone who works from home, I'm into that. These are all quite new concepts. So, it's sort of

okay that these terms are not the same everywhere because we're coining them at the same time. Um, but it's interesting that they're choosing to use English units to build up these words. I'm sure it's that English was steering corporate culture at least for a while there and maybe still is. Can I finish on a blue note with a few rude terms as in terms that are not rude in other languages? As if you have to ask. Playing into your your hands. Yeah. I still I'm still not

over the hand reading. I feel like I'm still residually blushing. Um so the German for fat um is is dick. Great. It's a relation of our word thick. As I said earlier,

if the if the Germanic other Germanic languages are using a d, we're using a th sometimes. So the same happens with dick and and thick. And so the German word for buttermilk, which they consider to be fatty milk, is um dick milk. Oh, that's fun. And actually, this is fat has is a word in lots of languages. And in Nordic languages like Norwegian and Swedish,

it means a plate or a saucer or a barrel. And it's related to the English word vat. In Albanian Catalan, it means luck and chance and fate and destiny. And it's related to the word fate. And then in Cantonese, it means to show or exhibit. And it's not related to any of

these. So just that that threeletter triad of f a ts meanings. Mhm. That's interesting. Yeah. It's

quite forceful sound as well, isn't it? Fat. Nice start. Nice finish. So, uh, the the Swedish for the end of something is [ __ ] which means sort of the u I think it's related to words like slle. So,

if you get off the last stop on the bus, you get off at the sloot station, the [ __ ] station. Exactly how it's fabulous. Did you know that that did we talk before about the fact that sluttish was originally used for like slloavenly men before it was applied to like loose women? Yeah, we did talk about it and the revelation there particularly was that it was applied to men not women because there is still some archaic people particularly like in the halls of power here. I remember this I remember a conservative member of parliament saying this just a few years ago.

They described a woman as [ __ ] and what they meant was that she was untidy. Oh, no. But just amazingly out of touch. One, don't say it anyway. Right. Two, maybe be aware that that's even worse

now than it was there. Well, it Yeah. Yeah. It's not It's not a nice thing to describe. Anyone else? Uh, come. There you go. That's a Malay word meaning a species of beetle according to

an article by Babel, who have sponsored this video. But actually, I just came across it organically. Words that sound dirty. It's there. And the Danish for dune is [ __ ] That's amazing.

I have no additional thoughts. That's great. Similarities. Similarities. There are definitely plenty of English words that have also been overtaken by sexual meanings to like ejaculate within Victorian society meant to exclaim suddenly, which makes novels a little awkward sometimes. Yeah. And then like intercourse. It's really hard to talk about an erection,

right? It could just be a building. Um, and it not seem it's about something else. Exactly. Intercourse is dialogue also other things. This is this is another episode for us, Jess. This is

not this one. It's not this one. I've enjoyed this an awful lot. There was quite a low there was there was a a very specific low point for me, but uh other than that, I've enjoyed this an awful lot. This has been a fruitful intercourse with pregnant pregnant with information. Oh, Jess,

I I should plug something. I shouldn't miss the opportunity to do this. You need a little clap because I have mentioned for this thing on a few other other platforms, but I am taking my wordy nerdy live show to the Edinburgh Fringe this year. Yeah, I'm going to be doing 10 nights in a row between the 6th and the 16th of August, 10 past 8 in the evening, which is a lovely slot. Uh, please do come and see it if you're around. And we'll spend an hour together revolutionizing the

English language. I'll leave a link to tickets below. Don't miss it. It's a great show. Thanks, Jess. Thanks for coming to the last one. So much fun. Both of them. Uh, anything you'd like to

plug, Jess? Sure. I have a couple books coming out this year. I one is called one is a miscellaneia of weird and wonderful facts for curious humans who have nothing better to do than read. You know who you are. Yes, that is the title. No, I didn't come up with it. And the other one is

called Into the Words, an etmologist's field guide to plants, animals, and nature, which we'll talk a little bit more about later this season. Yeah, I'm super excited about that one, actually. Oh, super. That's that's a very sort of European word. Yes, using super instead of very. Yeah,

that's something I've picked up since I moved to Germany. Thanks for joining us for another fun Words Unraveled. Have a great one. We'll see you. Have a good one. We'll see you next time. Byebye.