---
video_title: "Old words for sex"
video_id: 8WGBwXFwI1Y
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8WGBwXFwI1Y
video_date: 2026-02-23T18:56:53+00:00
video_description: |
  Rob gives us a history lesson in sexy words.
---
Are you interested in what the word for sex was in old English? Did you already know this? Tell me. It's yamanna, which means a thing shared. Some other really old words for sex. It used to be called fellow red. The suffix that you could use as an alternative to ship. So basically sex was called fellowship. One of the turns for it in middle English. And another one was swive, which I really hate. Alexa to swive someone to have sex with her. That's used by Chaucer. There are lots of sort of fun old euphemistic phrases for having sex. You've got at the service of Venus. I love that one. I love that one. You see, read all these old texts that say the guy's knackered because he's been at the service of Venus. There's a popular term for the 1600s and 1700s. The shaking of the sheets, which was originally a dance. It became a term for having sex for obvious reasons. It basically means to play at cockles, which is another phrase from the set of centuries. That's very nice. From the 1600s onwards, you might have heard this. This sounds like a way I would refer to it, but they just could call it to do the other thing. But there are some just really horrible old words for it. Like, a quiffing. I really don't like quiffing. Poop noddy. That was a 1600s term that happens. None of these are better than the word, like, any of the actual words for this. What about you? If I like this one, this is one for the Victorians. A fercytoodling. Okay, I like that one. It's better than a fercytoodling. To mess about, to take liberties, to fercytoodle. But you also have wopping, niggling, wantonizing, belly-flopping. And this is actually my favourite. Miskissing. Like, you just slipped. Whoopsie dosie. It's my trip to Fallon. Terms for sex from down the ages. Not one of them really hitting the nail on the head as far as telling you what's going on.