---
video_title: "Is escalate a back-formation of escalator?"
video_id: pvkRTtdtTAQ
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pvkRTtdtTAQ
video_date: 2026-02-06T20:04:27+00:00
video_description: |
  Just like the device itself, the words escalator and escalate are both recent inventions.
---
I was surprised to find how old the Escalator is. Oh, I love this one. This is one of my favorites. Because Escalator is a proprietary name, which seems amazing because it is such an accurate, well, I mean, I take it for granted as an accurate description of what it is, right? I think, oh, yeah, if it takes you up, it's escalating. So it is therefore an Escalator, which may well have been the logic applied by Jesse Wilford Reno. He called it the endless conveyor elevator, and it was Charles D. Seiberger, who coined the term Escalator. The implication here is that the word Escalator didn't exist until after the invention of the Escalator, which is hilarious because we use it in terms like, describing warfare, like escalating tensions all the time, but we wouldn't have said that before the late 1800s. So the first Escalator was not called an Escalator. As you said, actually gave it various names, you could have moving stairs, the inclined Escalator. This is 1892 invention by Jesse Wilford Reno. This patent is called the endless conveyor elevator. Okay, there we go. And it's first installed on Coney Island as an attraction for a couple of weeks. Thousands of people turn up to go up and then presumably come straight like the Alagel. And then it's tried out on the Manhattan end of the Brooklyn Bridge. They put it there and people have a go on it there for a bit, but the first sort of proper use for it is in blooming tails of all places. It's not interesting. And then Otis, which is a name you will still see on, I don't know if you'll see it on Escalators because you don't have to be confronted with the brand name on those as much, but if you get in the lift, you'll often see, well, I often either see Shindler written on the lift, which is always funny because it's Shindler's lift. Shindler's lift. Or Otis. Otis is still a big brand in machines that take you higher than you currently are. And they had the trademark for Escalator and they bought his design, bought his company. And it became, yeah, to start with a brand, a branded product called an Escalator, which I love that. Really surprised me.