---
video_title: "The catastrophic birth of the 'Mile High Club'"
video_id: yt3MuvWHdHg
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yt3MuvWHdHg
video_date: 2026-04-20T19:45:45+00:00
video_description: |
  Rob and Jess discuss the scandalous origins of the Mile High Club (beyond balloons).
---
But Jess, if you go to, I'm actually blushing. This is, I've done this to myself. You know, if you go to milehyclub.com, well, firstly, the first thing you have to do is you have to say you are over the age of 18. Okay. To get in, well, actually, the, you know, it's a very simple website, very innocuous, about the milehyclub. And to anyone who doesn't know, the milehyclub is the phrase used for the collective of people who have had sex in an air aeroplane or in some means of transport, more than a milehy, right? So... Hold on, et cetera. Yeah. It tends to be aeroplanes. You know, if you're in a passenger plane flying at, I thought, 35,000 feet or whatever, you're safely a mile above the ground. So, you know, have at it and you get to join the milehyclub. But the person that milehyclub.com credits with being the first member of the milehyclub is a guy called Lawrence Sparry, who invented the automatic pilot. The story goes... Yeah, he took a socialite up for a flight. This was in 1916, a woman called Mrs. Waldo Polk, who was married, but her fellows out of town. And she was trying to get her pilot's license and actually, in the end, she did. Good for her. Apparently while they're flying over New York, Mrs. Sparry decides he wants to show off his automatic pilot and with great confidence, he activates it. And they get up to something. They get up to something and during the getting up to something, he accidentally knocks the automatic pilot off. And they come down in the South Bay off Long Island. I recovered from the water without any clothes on. Amazing. Amazing. This is the story of the first member of the milehyclub. Although he wasn't actually flying high enough technically to join the milehyclub.