---
video_title: "The German words hiding in English"
video_id: Lad89Mtao0U
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lad89Mtao0U
video_date: 2026-08-26
video_description: |
  Want to learn a language the fun way? Start learning through TV with Lingopie today! Get a 73% DISCOUNT here: https://learn.lingopie.com/words-unravelled
  
  Willkommen! Jess and Rob are exploring the German words in English. In this Zeitgeisty episode, discover:
  
  👻 What doppelgänger literally means,
  📏 The longest German word,
  🤧 And why Americans say "Gesundheit!" when they sneeze. 
  
  Satisfy your linguistic wanderlust in another wunderbar edition of Words Unravelled.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
Why do [music] we say Gesundheit? What's the longest German word? And do you know your [music] Ablaut from your Umlaut? Grab your rucksack, knapsack, or haversack. Let's go to kindergarten and learn a thing or two about German terms that have made their way into the English zeitgeist [music] on this episode of Words Unravelled. [music]

Willkommen to another Words Unravelled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel RobWords. And I'm Jess Zafarris, author of etymology books, including Useless Etymology. And today we are visiting you on your current home turf. Are we not? Yes, we are. We are covering the German words

that have somehow found their way into English or for whatever reason regularly trip off the tongue of us English speakers. There's a bit of nuance there that will become clear. I am looking forward to this one. So where should we start on our German journey? Well, I think we should start with the sort of obvious borrowings from German. The ones that people you just look at you go,

"Oh, that's well German that." Whereas like doppelgänger [laughter] for example, you know, a double walker quite literally or a double goer. If you ever meet your doppelgänger, someone who is exactly like you, then is it you'll perish I think is the story. [laughter] You don't want to meet them basically. But words like that for example. Why not go into that for a second?

Because the original English sense was ghostly, right? The the apparition or spirit of double of a living person. Which is interesting, isn't it? Because another of the big words from German is poltergeist, which literally just means a noisy ghost. I think in American English, you potentially use more German words than we do over here, which doesn't seem to make much sense just in terms of our proximity to Germany. I say over here, I mean in Britain, obviously. I know

I'm in Germany, but just because of the nature of America's makeup and the many Europeans who made up the early settlers there. Yeah. and and um German folks encountered sort of um a bit of bias in some of the early days of the the migration into what is now the United States to being sort of isolated and and like the German language was also sort of maligned in some states and regions as well in the early 19th century there was a sort of a concerted attempt to prevent people from learning German but nevertheless there are quite a lot of German speakers still in America and there are of dialects of German that exist in America, right? Pennsylvania, Dutch, and the like. But I when I was talking about words that you use, the idea they use more over those iss for example, we don't say Gesundheit in Britain. When someone sneezes, we say bless you, which is just,

by the way, Gesundheit means well healthiness really in in [clears throat] in German. And you also say it here when someone sneezes. In fact, I would say Germans are almost militant about saying Gesundheit when someone [laughter] sneezes. Like it's if you do sneeze in public here, you can feel pretty certain that someone is going to wish you good health, which is rather nice. I think I've got to bring Drew over there cuz he has like seven sneezes in him in any given go. So [laughter] by

the end I'm just like curse you. I just have one massive sneeze. I've sort of grown into my dad and it's gigantic now. [laughter] I sneeze. But I always powerful sneeze saying Gesundheit to other people here. I've really taken that one that one on. Funny enough, the gesund in German in

Gesundheit is related to the English word sound as in healthy or safe. But it is also convenient that it is a loud sound. [laughter] Right. I had no idea about that one. That's fascinating, isn't it? Because you have this way of making nouns by putting a g in front of them. That was also common

in English, old English, but we've dropped a lot of the the g in there. For example, a a drink in German is a Getränk, which is just taking the verb and putting a g in front of it, turning it into a noun. We see that in old English as well. The the well, it was usually a yuh sound, but it's a ge at the beginning. There's a relationship between German and English is worth pointing out, isn't it? They're siblings as languages go. We're actually fairly closely related to German in that

we are West Germanic languages. Yeah. us uh the low countries languages like um Dutch, Flemish, uh low German as well closely related to English and indeed old English. I I've said this before and I stand by it. I think a German has a better chance of understanding old English than a modern English speaker just because the the three grammatical genders, the same four system, although old English did have a fifth case early on, but it definitely has a very very sort of German feel to it, old English, but there's sort of little translations you can do. I made a

video about this a few years ago, but it's a very popular video that I made where I sort of told you you how to cheat translating German into English by swapping consonants around because German, what we call German, what's actually called high German really, um, went through a very specific process, a consonant shift that was consistent. That means you can actually Sorry, [laughter] swap them around. I'm seeing I'm seeing a dog there. Hund. Yeah. Excuse me. [laughter] You

just you just lug that that dog away while I explain the consonant shifts. [laughter] Um, so [laughter] for example, a lot of German words that begin with a d, their English equivalent begins with a a th sound. Talking about words like das, which is that in English. Yeah, I mean there are absolutely loads of these. Hold on, I've got a whole list of them. Drei is three in

German. Thunder is Donner in German. Thing is Ding in German. There are lots lots of these. For example, you can swap uh ths in English for s. For example, you get uh water becomes Wasser and what

is was. See, and obviously the the sort of and thing is also going on. P's and Fs. Sometimes a P in English becomes a F sound in German. The words Pfeffer and Pfeife, which means pepper and pipe are double whammies on that. But also uh hoffen is hope and um Apfel is apple. Oh yeah, W's and

Y's in English some somehow become G's in German. For example, uh a bow in English is Bogen in Oh, excellent. Yeah. or uh day is obviously Tag which combines two things there because you also have this DT switch thing. I just like put pointing those things out because actually if you're aware that German went through a sh and it is it was German that sort of diverged away high German that diverged away from the other West Germanic languages with this particular second Germanic, um, consonant shift as it's sometimes called then it does actually help you translate the words if you know that oh hold on if in high German they're using this consonant perhaps it's this consonant in our language and sometimes it'll get you there. I must say, I've had a tremendous time learning

German because there is nothing like the feeling when you get the vocab and the grammar just right and it clicks. Not only that, but learning a foreign language opens you up to a whole new culture. And we've been using a learning tool that brilliantly brings language learning and culture together. Yeah, Lingopie, the sponsor of this video, is a streaming platform built specifically for language learners with over 3,000 TV shows and movies you can watch in languages like German, but also French, Spanish, Korean, and 12 others. Most people who love languages still hit a wall where studying stops feeling like progress. And what I really like about Lingopie is that

it lets you learn the way people actually do in real life by watching and picking up things in context rather than staring at a textbook and trying to memorize rules. Yeah, I've been watching a hilarious German miniseries called Jobs in which this rather hapless man tries out various different roles at the main railway station here in Berlin and I am picking up lots of vocab that I didn't get taught elsewhere. For example, at one point one of his bewildered bosses mentions having an ernstes Wörtchen with someone which means having a serious little word. And I love the way that in German you can just put -chen at the end of something like Wort meaning word to make a little one. Gorgeous. While you're watching, you get dual subtitles so you can see

both the original language and English at the same time. You can click on any word to instantly see what it means, hear how it's pronounced, and save it to review later. Yeah, those clickable words are really handy. But if a scene is going too fast for you, you can also slow the video down. You can loop tricky lines and even repeat them out loud because there's this excellent say it feature that will compare your pronunciation with the original soundtrack. If you'd like to try it out,

Lingopie is offering Words Unravelled viewers a free 7-day trial plus a big discount if you decide to keep going. You will find a link in the description of this video. Viel Spaß, [music] the elaborate compounds can make German seem intimidating, but if you break them all down, it's the vocabulary isn't that hard to understand. By its very nature, the compounding avoids you having to create complicated words, right? As in long words, borrow long words or invent new words. By compounding you can use small simple elements to make longer concepts. So though

they look really complicated um they're not. We should talk about some of the sort of famously long German words then shouldn't we? There are a couple that they they talk about over here. One of them was this was a genuine meat labeling law enforced between 1999 and 2013 in the Bundesland the the state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern or Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania and it was the uh Rindfleischetikettierungsüberwachungsaufgabenübertragungsgesetz. It's a mouthful or one word. Yeah,

it is. But actually if you break it down you got Rindfleisch which is literally beef meat Etikettierung, which is labeling Überwachung which is I suppose monitoring supervision. Aufgaben is duties Gesetz is yeah delegation law. It's not as complicated as I mean it's still quite complicated [laughter] but it's not it's not that bad. Have I sold it? Okay. [laughter] Maybe I can

sell it sell it on the other um popular example given here. It's actually shorter, but this was theoretically an actual job. Although the person who had this job between well the people that had this job between 1829 and 1991 is it? I might have misnoted down that date. They could they technically could have called themselves this but I don't think they ever they ever did. It's

Donaudampfschifffahrtsgesellschaftskapitän all painful. [laughter] Yeah, but it's not that complicated. Again, Donau is just the Danube. Dampfschiff is a steam boat. Damp is steam. Schiff is ship. Uh fart is journey. Don't laugh. [laughter] Gesellschaft is going

to laugh. Gesellschaft is society and Kapitän is captain. So you get Donaudampfschifffahrtsgesellschaftskapitän. It's my point is it's looks absolutely disgusting, but when you break it down, it's not that hard. [laughter] Absolutely disgusting is not the word that I would have applied to that, [laughter] but sounds complicated. I No, I recently had to fill

in some legal documents because because for some reason life here requires you to do this quite often. Uh, and the the the length of the words in that document, it is disgusting. I would describe it as nothing else. You see it, [laughter] you feel you feel sick. think I've got to work out what on earth this means. Luckily, once you've deciphered it, it will tell you precisely what

that concept is. You know, it won't be some odd borrowing from Latin or from French that has a very complicated meaning, but is actually quite a short word. No, it'll be a nice long word to explain quite a complicated concept, but the word itself will explain it. Yeah. Our bureaucracy tends to distance itself from its actual meaning by putting it in Latin, [laughter] whereas this is this is more approachable in many ways once you get past the uh the intimidation of the gigantic words. Yeah, this came up in our recent Latin uh episode as well, particularly in medicine

and science as well. In medicine, it's a really good way of obscuring quite a a horrible diagnosis with [laughter] with the words that you borrow from a classical language instead. Is there a rule to the order in which you put your compounds? I bet there is, but I've never I've never sat down to learn it. Cuz it seems like you could make any word by compiling German words into one compound, but I also don't know like I would probably do it out of order. For example, in German

sentences in a way that we don't necessarily have to do here, you have to order the information, order the information that you're giving a certain way that it's time, manner, place. So, to to speak German properly, you have to say when the thing is going to happen before you say how it's going to happen and where it's going to happen in the sentence and then usually you finish it off with the with the verb [laughter] so that people know what's what's going on there. We do have like unwritten, unspoken rules for that in English too. We don't like think about it but until like when we when we describe things with multiple adjectives for example we put them in a similar order. I think I don't think English learners are as a matter of course taught that concept they tend to [clears throat] find social media later. Well yeah we we definitely aren't

growing up you just know don't you? Um, but I in German lessons I I have been taught the order in which these things have to happen. So at least they're aware of it and conscious of it. Uh, didn't explain it, but that's the deal. [laughter] These compounds have also created we I think we've addressed before and I suppose we don't have to rehash, but they end up being translated into acronyms pretty frequently, right? Yeah. They're not quite acronyms, but you take the first two

letters of each element like but it tends to be words like I'm thinking about the really famous um department store here is called KaDeWe which is Kaufhaus des Westens Aldi which you've got in the States right is is Albrecht Diskont it's a very popular way of making brand names Adidas as well which we've discussed before was Adi Dassler I mean know that's a name but still it's a similar principle then the Worth pointing out that that isn't an is not an acronym although some people it is [laughter] but uh flack the word flak as well is from German and it's short for Fliegerabwehrkanone it means aircraft defense cannon and uh flak first came into English in 1938 as a term for an anti-aircraft gun and uh the the elements are pilot defense warding off and cannon and then by the 1940s flak also meant The anti-aircraft fire itself, especially the exploding shells that burst around the aircrafts in the air and then it's catching flak comes from that kind of like shrapnel damage. That's such a good one. I didn't know about that. I mean, it is worth mentioning that there were a couple of wars in the 20th century involving the Germans and and they did involve uh a lot of vocabulary exchange. Ersatz is another one as well uh which came in during the first world war. the Allied naval blockade of Germany restricted imports

and uh forced Germany and AustriaHungary to develop substitutes for food and fuel and chemical compounds and things like that. And so Ersatz products were sold in Germany during the war. They might use like roasted acorns and chicory and beechnuts for coffee for example and you would attach ersatz to the front of the word coffee. And so now that's our word for like any fake thing or fake product. Whereas really it's just a replacement. It doesn't have

to be inferior but in in English it carries the idea of inferiority doesn't it? I don't think we were using the word blitz before the second world war. I might be wrong about that from blitzkrieg which is lightning war. We talk about things being kaput that's German for broken. I wonder whether some of these words I don't think any of the ones we've mentioned so far but some of the words it's difficult to know whether we got them from German directly or from Yiddish which is the language of the Ashkenazi Jews right a lot of whom found themselves in sort of New York area speaking uh a form of high German I think it's fair to call it that it's it's hard to you know have be careful when categorizing languages in relation to others. But um certainly words like schvitz,

which is German for sweat, but if we talk about sweating and we say schvitz, I think we're actually invoking the yiddish word rather than the German word. Um when we talk about a mensch, mensch is German for person, but again, we've probably got it from Yiddish speakers rather than from German speakers. That also had to have taken off with like the notion of the Übermensch, right? I have no idea because it tends to be used nicely, doesn't it? You say someone's a real mensch. I don't know if people have would be calling on the the dialectic of the Nazis

when they did that. Yes, but it's originally a Nietzsche thing. Yeah, maybe. Maybe. Anyway, um but Uber, there we go. [laughter] We borrowed Uber. But you know what what what you've touched

on there that's really interesting is that we have the areas of philosophy uh the areas of linguistics and the areas of psychology are particularly rich with German borrowings. Yes, they sure are. Tell us about some linguistic ones. I wanted to bring up zeitgeist which I think is a is a big one. This is the the general like intellectual or moral or cultural climate of an era and it means time spirit in German. This comes from German philosopher Johann Gottfried

Herder who coined this in the 1760s and then Thomas Carlyle brought it into English and it's um the the zeit bit the time bit is also cognate with well I mean just like time is with uh with tide. Yeah, that's another good uh consonant swap. The T sound in German for just a t sound t sound in English. And then Geist, which we also saw in in um poltergeist is is ghost or spirit, right? Yeah. [clears throat] But also there are terms like angst, right, which is just German for

fear really, but it's just got that extra little existential element in English that it doesn't really have in German. Kierkegaard and Freud, angst [laughter] yeah gestalt these are all words that come from psychology really we talk about the gestalt of something the sort of combined whole is from a German word meaning the shape or the form but we tend to use it in again a rather more horty way in English um I've heard schmutz before in in English Weltschmerz the the deep sadness or weariness born from the gap between the world as it is and the world one believes it ought to be it means Weltschmerz and this is the thing that we often attribute to German is a great ability to express emotions that we don't have words for of our own obviously Schadenfreude I would argue is just part of English now Schadenfreude oh yeah absolutely it's it's used so so much I think you can have Freudenfreude where is where you feel someone else's joy Fremdscham is a good one which is where you feel the shame of someone else on their behalf We got wanderlust from German as well, but we did because we have the same words, we just treat it the same. Yeah, that's right. We do, don't we? Yeah, that's interesting. But it's not exactly the same thing like um because Freud

used the term Lustprinzip which we translated into the pleasure principle. There's a slight different idea between our lust and the modern German lust. Our lust is largely sexual. I don't know why I did that with my fingers. Why would I [laughter] do that with my fingers? Largely sexual. Um,

it's desire, but but you can also Yeah. I mean, you can have Lust auf Tee, you know, I just feel like a tea. [laughter] I mean, it's usually not sexual with tea. This is a a German romanticism thing. Originally the Wanderschaft is the traditional journeying period for journeymen as well and that's kind of connected with with the Wanderlust as well. We've come across that that

ending of the word there which is the equivalent to English ship. Right. Yes. Wanderschaft. Wonder wandering ship. Wondership. I forgot to mention a second ago with with Weltschmerz,

the the second part, the Schmerz is the same as our word uh smart. Basically when something smarts and it's painful. [sighs and gasps] Oh that's so good. I'd never spotted that. So yeah.

So Schmerz becomes smart and which people maybe already know as schwarz, the German for black. Old English used to have and in middle English used to have the word swart for black as well as uh black because there were two different types of black. There's a sort of a shiny black. The sort of black that that this is. Mhm. And then there's the sort of black that a deep hole is

for example. [laughter] But we do still have that in the word swarthy. That feels like an antiquated uh racist insult to me now. Yeah, you have to be careful. Yeah, it feels a little like Victorian novel and uh Heathcliffy, you know? Yeah. [laughter] I can't think of a single

situation where I would confidently use the word swarthy, [laughter] right? Except Yeah, I suppose it can have sort of a like like piratey tone to it, but I don't know. Not so much. Yeah. Yeah. [laughter] I love how we're just stumbling across words here. I didn't have

these words in my list at all. This is fantastic. I love it like this. [music] You tried to take us over to to German linguistic terms in English and I would love to do that because one of my favorites is the fact that loan word is not a lone word but it is a calque from the German Lehnwort which means loan word. But if it were a lone word then we would just use Lehnwort right. So a calque is where you translate the element into your language right

whereas [laughter] a borrowing would just be to take the German word right like cafe is a is a borrowing or a loan word and then and then loan word is a calque and calque is a French loan word which means copy. It's from the verb calquer which means to trace by rubbing which is also very cool but that's a lone word from Italian. [laughter] I'm guessing calque is related to chalk, right? It's like a a chalk rubbing I think as well. Anyway, but yeah, lots of linguistic words. Uh

who are the big influential people? Jacob Grimm actually the consonant shift I was describing earlier that takes high German away from Dutch and English. that's first sort of set out by well I don't know if it's first set out by him but it's first certainly popularized the ideas popularized by Jacob Grimm of the Brothers Grimm who wrote all those fairy tales why are they collecting the fairy tales because I kind of just want to analyze them for for language Ablaut that's the the word we're going in here so Ablaut and, um, Umlaut were given to us by well they're both older but uh in the linguistic sense Jacob Grim Jacob Grimm is our is our guy here so Ablaut is this term for the regular pattern of vowel alternation that happens in a lot of Indo-European languages and in German it means like off sound or departing sound and in English we really got it from Franz Bopp in his comparative grammar but Grimm made it a technical term in 1819 and so English does this with tenses like sang and sang and sung and song and then and and one of the reasons that it comes up in Proto-Indo-European languages a lot is we tend to this is a little technical um alternate among an e-grade, an o-grade and a zero-grade vowel where the third time the vowel disappears or is reduced which we see in like ride, road and ridden. The the vowel there is doing these and this this comes up across many different languages. Meanwhile, we also have Umlaut which literally means changed sound or around sound. Loud is just related to loud. Yes. Yes, indeed.

Um, and that's the difference there is when a it's it's also called an I mutation in English. When a vowel change where a back vowel moves forward in the mouth or a front vowel becomes higher like in man and men and foot and feet and goose and geese, you're anticipating a plural or inflectional ending that once contained an I sound that reshaped the preceding vowel and it's not there anymore. [laughter] Oh, that's why it it's called an I-mutation. That's brilliant. Ah, this is gloriously geeky. I'm well the dot dots with the the little dot dot with in German. Yeah,

which is one in German. It's not the same. It doesn't make the one in French is not the same. If you see the two dots above a vowel in French, it's called a and it doing something else. It's separating the two vowel sounds. Whereas in German, it's yeah, it's altering the vowel

sound. I think you mentioned before that it used to have a little e over it as well and that kind of reflects the the moving forward of the vowel sound. If you can't find the two dots on your keyboard or you just don't fancy writing them, you can just put an e after the vowel as an alternative to using the two dots and it produces the same thing. We tend to spell some like German names in English end up having like oe in them. Yeah. You sometimes meet people whose surname is

Koenig. Sometimes pronounced like König and that's K O E. But if you wanted to write it just straight up as king in German, which is what it's German for, you would pop an O with an umlaut above it. My parents best friends are the Schoenbergers. And that's how we say that in English, but it's got to be Schönberg, right? Yeah. Schön is a really good example. Yeah. Beautiful. That's beautiful.

The beautiful mountain. I get a bit confused because berg berg can mean like a hill but a burger can be be sort of a person from somewhere. I would assume that you from a place from a place called Schönberg. That would be my someone just needs to explain this one in the comments to me. I'm getting I'm getting my my Bergs and my Borgs confused I think. Anyway, [laughter] I think yeah,

someone from a pretty mountain would I guess be a Schönberger. [laughter] A couple more little sort of linguistic terms. A Wanderwort is a migratory term or word. That would be um one that is basically the same in many different languages like chai or tea. Basically the same word in lots of different languages. Ginger, copper, silver, mint, honey, things like that. And it's usually

like something that got traded. Another one is the the leitmotif, which is it's a musical phrase, but I think you could also use it in literature as well. It's it means leading motive and it was associated with Wagnerian musical drama and uh and but Mozart also used light motifs as well. The arts we didn't really even go into the arts did we have the the building which is I am we are already here. We've arrived in the arts. [laughter] Yeah. There we are. Bildung is sort of development or

I you could think of it as buildings but it's not quite the same. It's I say it's a what how would you translate Bildungsroman? There's like a just a straight up English translation of that, isn't there? It's like education novel. I mean, it's a it's a coming of age story in English. That's it. There we go. That's what I'm talking about. Coming of age story. That's what

I was looking for. Nice one. I kind of failed to explain in our Latin episode why romance became a word for stories. Romance [snorts] first meant a work written in French. And French works long tales of like legendary history and adventure. And then Germanic languages like English and German

started using it for kind of any sort of courtly story because the works in the French vernacular often featured kings and knights and wars and conquests and love and marvels. Romance shifted from a work in French to any adventure story and then ultimately one that involved courtly love. So that Bildungsroman is actually a mix of German and French. Yeah. All kinds of stuff. [laughter]

Oh, can I return to a hypothesis I made earlier, which was that uh there are more German words in sort of everyday use in America. One of the other words that made me think of that um and trying to steer us in the direction of the research I've been doing is is kindergarten. Yeah, good call. Because we don't call we call it a nursery school commonly in Britain. We we don't call it a kindergarten pretty much at all. Interesting. And unless you go to what was

a descendant of the original kindergartens. Oh, so like a German school. Yeah. It would have to be one that was established by or by the the successors to uh Friedrich Fröbel, the inventor of the the kindergarten uh who is a guy who was born in 1782. Like really ages ago.

Ages ago. He fought in two wars against Napoleon. this man. But um he also had a tragic start in life. His mother never really recovered from child birth and she died when I think he was about nine months old. He and his dad wasn't really up to the to the job of filling the void. So he he was

like I will parent all children on their more or less. He s as a child he sought uh solace in nature. But he came to believe that humans as a part of nature themselves could learn a great deal from nature. And so he does eventually establish the kindergarten which is the actual plural of Kindergarten. It's not kindergartens Kindergärten with a a nice umlaut on that a. Uh

and they they start off just in Germany, but they get banned by the Kingdom of Prussia. A lot of the people that are staffing them that are teaching at the the kindergarten are um forced to flee and they flee to places like Britain and America and they set up kindergartens there. And in America, it becomes the generic term for preschool education because one of the things that Fröbel believed was that kids weren't being developed sufficiently before they got to school there sort of holistically. The first kindergarten in the US was started in Watertown, Wisconsin by a German lady. Did she perhaps flee as well? I imagine so. Uh this was 1856,

so that would make sense. Um and that was a German language kindergarten. Elizabeth Peabody founded the first English language kindergarten in 1860 in Boston and then spread sort of Boston being a a hub for educational like like pedagogy kind of across uh the US in general. But what we've neglected to even point out is what kindergarten means. Children seems a little bit obvious. It

means children garden. But does it mean that necessarily for the reason that I think you could assume? You might assume that it's a garden where children play, but actually Fred Fröbel was very explicit when he put out his first adverts looking for people to help about why it was called a kindergarten. And it was that it was a place where children grow and flourish like flowers, which is actually way more poetic than I'd always assumed it was. It's a little more like Montessori style is the the idea that I seem to get out of it, which is that like it's focused on self-expression and self-directed learning through play and songs and practical activities.

Kids that attended a kindergarten were given what became known as gifts which were little very simple toys like uh I don't know a load of blocks a fixed number of blocks or a ball and a and a I don't know a prism or something and they were encouraged to let their imagination go wild. Nothing they did with it was wrong. Maybe not sticking it in the eye of the next child over. [laughter] Um but but otherwise you're right. It was about a freedom of expression above all else. It's still going. The the movement is still going, which is why uh I I mentioned that

to go to a kindergarten in Britain, you might actually have to go to one of the original sort of styled kinder kindergarten. But we don't just call generally nursery school a kindergarten.

[music] One of the things that you can bring to school or kindergarten is a backpack. And we have three words from German for different kinds of backpacks. We have rucksack, knapsack, and haversack, which is your backsack. Ruck is related to the English word ridge, which is also just the word for a back ultimately. It's from the old English word for your back. I

didn't know that it was related to ridge. You're throwing all these out for me. That's amazing. Then I don't think that's an obvious one at all. I don't think so either. Other than they only got

one letter in common. Yeah. In old English it was ridge was spelled h r y c g. So [laughter] yeah that makes more sense. So we've got the rucks sack which is the back sack. The knapsack

which is the eating sack. Knappen, to eat. And [laughter] literally to to crack or snap though I think is the is the knappen which we've talked about before. And wouldn't we talk about that? We we talked about Knackwurst and we talked we were talking about sausages. Oh yeah. I'm

also thinking of the fact that a Knackwurst is called a Knackwurst. Oh yeah. Maybe this is just a little different. Point is that we tend to not pronounce the K. Is there a K at the start of knapsack though? Yes. So it would be knapsack. [laughter] Yeah. Exactly. There we go.

That's your that's your eating. I tend to assume that they're silent like they are in English, but they're not in German. But your Habersack, which is [snorts] also from German, is also an eating sack because it means oat sack. Oh, okay. So, it's like Hafer is Yeah. is your if you want

oat milk, you have Hafermilch. Oo, that's fun. Yeah. But yeah, originally it was a word for a bag for oats that you would carry like like a horse oat bag. Oh, that's brilliant. That's

really good. I learned a cute one the other day. Well, it was it wasn't that I learned the word. I obviously knew that the word muesli uh as in like breakfast cereal was German, but what I didn't know is that it's Swiss German and that it's actually quite adorable because the -li is one of these regional diminutive suffixes. Basically, you stick it on the end of something to make it sound cute. Like the line on the end of line means little one. The -chen on the end of Mäd

or Weib means little. But but muesli means little mush. Uh Mus being like a sludge. [laughter] A bit of morning sludge. Exactly. We don't have cute words for for sludgy stuff, unfortunately.

I mean, it's related to our word mush. That also just doesn't sound as cute as as muesli. I also I hadn't even I hadn't even heard of it until like IKEA came to town when I was a kid. Oh, really? Oh, okay. Well, the interesting thing is in England, we use muesli to refer to quite

a specific type of breakfast cereal, a collection of oats and maybe some dried fruit in there. But here I I I've noticed that muesli is used for much more sort of broadly for breakfast cereals of anytime type. Yeah, it it struck me when I first tried it. I was like, this is like less sugary granola. That's what it's misery granola basically. Misery

granola. [laughter] Sad granola. Sad granola. Oh, is it granola? Oh, it's muesli. [laughter]

I've got us on to food. We should talk about food, obviously, because that's a really good way that we smuggle German words into into English. We all know the most fun one of these. Go on. Pumpernickel. Pumpernickel. Yeah, [laughter] that is a fun one. Yes, it means it means fart goblin

or or fart devil. It's the same nickel as in the name of the metal. And because Nicholas has also often been associated with like goblins and the devil, we also have records of of the devil being called Old Nick in English, too. Yeah. It's quite common. It still gets called Old Nick sometimes,

doesn't it? Yeah. Yeah. But then we have foods that we think of as like really sort of American like the hamburger. I think of that if you sort of name an American food, I'd think of the hamburger even though it's it's literally just means thing from Hamburg in Germany and say the Frankfurter is the thing from Frankfurt and the uh Vienna, Wiener is the thing from Vienna. The hamburger

is one of our rebracketing bits because like all burgers are named after Hamburg. Yeah. Even a beef burger or a cheeseburger [laughter] is named after Hamburg. I've never had a There is no cheese. [laughter] This is true. This is true. Yeah. I grew up thinking that beef burgers and

hamburgers must somehow be different because in shops they they're sold as beef burgers. Are they? Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. I remember distinctly seeing packaging in like Iceland,

this frozen food shop in England that said beef burgers. Sometimes they're branded as beef burgers here, but they're they're all made of Well, unless they're specified otherwise, they're made of beef. You have a chicken burger. There is no chicken burger. [laughter] There's no chicken burger.

Turkey burger. That kind of thing. No turkey burger. Where do you come from? Chickenburg.

[laughter] Sauerkraut. That's a good one. I a lot of them are just very literal descriptions. Sauer is just sour cabbage. Sour cabbage. Exactly. Um, and Schnitzel is a is a cut. Schneiden is the verb

to cut. We got noodle from German as well. Yeah, it's a weird one that, isn't it? Because again, do not associate the food with Germany at all, but it seems like that's where we got it from. It might be related to the like a word for dumpling, right? Or and therefore related to the word knot.

Yeah. Knödel, which is kind of dumpling. There are various words that are a little bit like noodle that mean a kind of doughy thing. In Germany, noodle means pasta, not specifically what we would call noodles. Even if you get like fusilli, that's noodle still. Noodle. Yeah, noodles. I did

not know until I was looking this up the other day that we got the word and the concept of gummy bears from German, which makes perfect sense because of Haribo. Oh, Haribo again is one of those brand names that's just made up of the first syllable of of names. I've forgotten his name. What is it? Hans Riegel Senior founded Haribo in Bonn. So, it's Hans Riegel Bonn. Very good. Oh,

I like that. Yeah. And it says Gummibärchen on the German packet of those lovely What do they call them in English? They call them star bears or something, don't they? No, that's star mix. Gold

bears. Gold bears. Goldbären. That's what it says. It's not given. Yeah, you're right. I actually do

have one more. Pretzels. Pretzels were from Oh, this is a very good one. This is really, really interesting because it's also Latin and it means like folded arms. This is the best theory, right?

Because we don't they've never seen this word bracellus that it potentially comes from in Latin, which would mean like yeah, folded arms, but that would link it to words like brachiosaurus, right? It is arm lizard pretzel. [laughter] Yeah, I actually I bought I was going to make a little video about this and I bought a tiny brachiosaurus and I've also eaten pretzels since but I've never managed to do the have the two things in the same place to make the little short that I wanted to make about this very thing. One day I will. [laughter] One day will you have little

[music] When we were talking about what we were going to discuss on the show, we mentioned dog breeds. We should go down there because I was like, why do we have so many dog breeds that have German names? And you conjectured conjectured something about it. I did. And I actually looked this up a little bit more. Uh there there are more there are more like English and French names for dog breeds

in English, but Germany is still up there. And reading about it, it seems to be that it's kind of a combination of several breeders in Germany kind of picking up dog breeding around the same time. And it coincides with the industrial revolution shifting away from the need for working dogs. So you get more pet dogs. There was an era in which dog breeders like the person who first bred German shepherds whose name was Max von Stephanitz. A lot of shepherding dogs in Germany were just kind

of whatever dog you had. Like [laughter] that was there there was no standardization around the breed. And so he particularly he wanted more herding dogs to be more standardized like English herding dogs, but he particularly liked dogs with a wolflike appearance and pointy ears who were also intelligent, had sharpened senses and a a strong willingness to work. And that became the German Shepherd. That same dog is also called an Alsatian, which you may have heard because during World War I, the British wanted to not say the word German. [laughter] That's right. Yeah. Alsace

is well, it's Alsace, right? In in France, although they speak a language there called Alsatian, which is a form of high German. Uh, so I mean, you know, splitting hairs really. I mean, that that region has changed hands between Germany and France over and over again. But the the dog is not from Alsace, by the way. It was just to avoid calling it a German Shepherd. They became known as

Alsatian wolf dogs for a short time, and now you still see it sometimes, but but mostly they're called German Shepherds. Here's one that we don't get from German, but is worth mentioning. Well, it will become clear. Yeah. A Great Dane. Do you know what it's called in German? What's it called?

It's called a Deutsche Dogge. So it [snorts] has the English word dog. [laughter] Yeah, it's called a German dog. We talked before about how the English word dog doesn't seem to have any relations in other languages. And so we can be pretty confident, well, we know that that is a borrowing of the English word dog. But dog tends to be used in other languages for very specific

type of dog. And uh a great dane is that type of dog. It's one of those big dogs. Yeah. big dogs of bloodhounds and and things. Mastiffs, that's the word. That's the thing. Yeah, mastiffs tend to be

called dogs in in other languages. But yeah, in German, what we call the Great Dane, they call the German dog, which is confusing. Poodle, that's a puddle dog basically means a water dog. And then the schnauzer, which is the snarler or growler. I have to mention that in Berlin, so people who like to criticize Berlin as an unfriendly place because sometimes it really is.

Uh they talk about the Berliner Schnauze, which means the the German snout, but it's basically the sort of grumpy attitude that that Berliners conduct [laughter] themselves with. That is the same as you found in the name of the dog that we say schnauzer, but it would be Schnauze. Yeah. It means like the the word is like snout or muzzle, but it can also mean like growler, snarler with your with your snout. Yeah, with your snout. [laughter] Rottweiler is just a thing from

Rottweil. Try to work out what that meant. So, Rottweil. Vile is is like villa in Latin, which didn't mean a a house. It meant a a farm really. And the w might be red but might not be. Oh yeah.

No, I did see that once. I researching this for something else. It it suggested maybe it was the color of the brick in this the town like the roads. Um but the uh Rottweiler butcher's dog is the the translation of like the original name of the dog. So they were used to guard livestock and drive cattle and then even pull carts loaded with meat. It's a shortening in much the way that you

might call um Oh, we haven't even mentioned that the the dollar the word dollar comes from Oh yeah. Yeah. Joachimsthaler. Yeah. Yakim's [snorts] Tala. Joachimsthal is the Joachim Valley where they well

they mined and minted big coins. Long story very short. And the the Joachimsthaler becomes just a thaler and then that travels and eventually becomes dollar. I'm sure we went into that at some point when we talked about money. I think so, too. Oh, and we should mention that Neanderthal as

well comes from the Neander Valley. We've talked about dachshunds before, but it's a it's a badger hound cuz they used to go down the badger holes, hunt after badgers. Uh, Doberman's not what you expect because he's not Well, it's named after a person, [laughter] Karl Friedrich Louis Dobermann, who is a a breeder famous for pinching. Not really. [laughter] Pinscher was the word for a a terrier type dog, which it is related to the word pinch. The little nipping was uh pinschy.

Off the back of Doberman, I want to just mention some things that are actually named after German people or at least people with German names. So, we have diesel which is named after Rudolf Diesel who developed uh developed it. Zeppelin, Ferdinand von Zeppelin, a German name. Uh the Bunsen burner is named after Robert Bunsen. Uh and the Geiger counter is named after Hans Geiger. Uh what else

have we got? Fahrenheit. Surely. Yeah. Fahrenheit. Yeah. Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit. And Hertz is from

uh Heinrich Hertz. The Doppler effect is from the Austrian physicist Christian Doppler. And oh, I put a little French accent there. And [laughter] Möbius strip is August Ferdinand Möbius. Mesmerize is from Franz Anton Mesmer. He was a proponent of animal magnetism which also involved hypnotizing

people. [snorts] Yeah. He had his theory taken off him very early by charlatans who used his name repeatedly uh to say things that were not what he thought. It's a bit of a bit of one of history's losers unfortunately is Mr. Mesmer. I I would love to cover some German given names that go

really hard in terms of like like if you translate them into English they're I mean in German they also they're just really badass. [laughter] Okay. I have no idea where you're going with this. Go on. Well, okay. Like Ludwig means like famous in war. Lud is related to to loud. Hedwig,

which is war war or struggle struggle, which is a fun one. Hilda is battle and and it's also related to Hildebrand, which is battle sword. And the brand in it is related to our word brandish as well. It's also related to the word brand because brand the root of brand and all of these words that are similar that mean sword mean burning. But it it also resulted in a lot of swords. Brandfall

is still the word for a a house fire here. brand is is is fire. I guess the flashing of the sword perhaps resulted in many words in a variety of languages that are similar and mean sword. There's also Brunhild which means battle ready in armor or armor battle and then Matilda which means mighty in battle and has the the hilda bit in it as well. In old English we also used hild in a bunch of kennings. Hildbedd was your deathbed. And then a hildegicel, which just was like blood

dripping from a sword, but it meant battle icicle, [snorts] which is very cool. It's like the cold steel. And then uh hildenædre, which was a a war adder, but but a word for an arrow or a lance or a spear. So these are Kennings. These are the words that sort of turn up in like poetry and they don't necessarily stick around. that kind of coin, no, but they're like metaphorical extensions of these

things, which is fun. They're very poetic. You could also be hildesæd, which is weary of fighting or literally battle sad. Yeah. Well, but sad in that sense is the the German sense of sat, which is um fed up as in like satiated, full up rather than um sad. Sad. A couple more German names. the

the name Albert and then Alaric means noble bright which is very cool and then Bertha similarly is the bright one which is cool and has German variations Bernard or Bernard in various languages is a German name originally it means bold as a bear but there are equivalents of a lot of these in old English weren't there and also French like I my my name Robert the Bert at the end of any name is from that same word meaning bright in German but also it meant it in old English because the languages were very closely related which brings us nicely full circle doesn't it oh yeah I think so yeah vielen Dank Jess this was a lot of Spaß that means fun [laughter] doesn't sound like it means fun but it does this was an excellent time I'm very I'm very glad we did the subject we'll catch you in the next um Words Unravelled we'll see See you then. Tschüssi. [music]