---
video_title: "What is the true plural of 'fish'?"
video_id: -54FiJ0PsXo
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-54FiJ0PsXo
video_date: 2026-08-12T05:00:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Rob and Jess are taking the deepest of dives into the origins of words from the ocean.
  🐟 Are many fish 'fish' or 'fishes'?
  🦈 Why is there a mystery around sharks?
  🐠 What is a sarcastic fringehead?
  These questions answered, and many more, in this subaquatic special of Words Unravelled.
  
  🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿 ROB EDINBURGH TICKETS: https://www.edfringe.com/tickets/whats-on/robwords-live
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
Is the plural of fish or fishes? Are sharks named after terrible people? And do mussels have anything to do with muscles? We're getting wordy with the whales, cuddly with the cuttlefish, and exploring shocking truths about electric eels [music] with a deep dive into the etymology of oceans and seas on this episode of Words Unravelled. [music]

Welcome to another Words Unravelled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel RobWords and I'm Jess Zafarris, author of etymology books, including Into the Words, which is one of my next books that come that's coming out soon. And today we are diving under the sea for an oceanic episode, which I also address in this book about plants, animals, and nature. Indeed, we've heard that it's better down where it's wetter. Let's talk about under the sea, sea animals, sea ecosystems, and the like. I where do we begin with this? That's a good question. We

should probably talk about the word ocean a little bit. We do have a slight transatlantic difference in the way we use ocean, right? I mean, I think there are situations where Brits will say sea and Americans will opt for ocean. And maybe that is a product of the continents on which we live because we go on holiday to the Mediterranean which is a sea. When we go to the beach, we go in the sea no matter what. [laughter] Whereas in the states you tend to be look more likely to be popping in

the ocean somewhere. That is true though that's always been a murky distinction right I mean ecologically we have seas and oceans and those are different ecosystems but also you know the seven seas and the and and down by the sea and idioms that pertain to sometimes the sea or sometimes the ocean have long been murky distinctions here in Germany the word See, which is S-E-E can mean yes it can mean the sea We call the the Baltic Sea the Ostsee. But also I've got a little lake near me that's called Schäfersee. It also means lake as well. It's body of water. Really really old word sea. Really old Germanic word. Wherever we've found water,

large expanses of water. We've said that's the sea generally. But ocean different root. That one is Greek. It's from the Greek Okeanos, which is the world encircling river in early Greek cosmology, which explains why we talk about even more vast expanses of water generally as being oceans.

The root sense of the word sea could be salt, but basically it's as you've suggested, it's any bounded saltwater or freshwater body. So that's probably unlikely. Yeah, we don't need any further explanation than that, do we? I mean, humans have been hanging around water forever, basically. We'd bloody love it. We crawled out of it one day and we [laughter] stayed not too far away. We sure do.

Um, the the ocean has several depth layers that are kind of fun to talk about. The epipelagic, [laughter] I don't know, [clears throat] hidden depths of the ocean. Yes, the hidden depths of the ocean. Tell us tell us more about the hidden etymological depths of [laughter] the ocean. Only some of them are that hidden. For example, the epipelagic zone which literally means upon the

surface and this pelagic element means of the sea or of the open sea. So here again we have this this confusing distinction between seas and oceans across languages as well. Um and then we have the mesopelagic zone which is the middle or of the open sea and it's the the middle layer of the ocean and the bathypelagic zone which is dark and the abyssal zone which is darker and means bottomless. [laughter] False guess from the word abyss. Oh yeah I mentioned [clears throat] bathic just means deep. So we've got deep and then we've got the abyss and then we have the hadal zone, the

hadopelagic zone which is derived from the same root as Hades. Yeah. So [laughter] the underworld even more abysmal than the abyss. Yes, indeed. The really juicy stuff for me comes in when we start to talk about the animals that we find in these different layers. We should start with the

big ones. Literally the big ones, but also the the the the big words. Let's talk about whales and let's talk about fish. Yes. Stuff like this. Again, super old words. Both whale and fish.

Fish even more so. If you want to talk about as far as you can like whale is a Germanic word, but fish is a word that we share with all the Indo-European languages have a word that's related to fish. Be it the Latin piscis from which we get Pisces that is directly related well not directly you have to trace back to a common ancestor but it shares a common ancestor with the word fish which I I I think is sort of sort of incredible but what I learned from researching this is that in English fish didn't just refer to what we now call fish it referred to any ocean-dwelling animal which explains Why we do have animals like uh cuttlefish which are not fish or shellfish which to our modern eyes are definitely not fish. Starfish not a fish but we call it a fish because we're invoking this much older meaning of the word fish. That's also why in like biblical tales like Jonah and the whale, sometimes it's a big fish, sometimes it's a whale because whales were also big fish by earlier standards. Right. Yeah. Exactly. Here's a revelation though that I

had while doing this. So the plural of fish is what? Fish. It's fish. Right. But also

people people say fishes and I think the the more and and that's fine but there's tends to be a nuance between when we're talking about fish and when we're talking about fishes for example if you've got a load of the same type of fish you call them fish but if you've got I've got some trout I've got some salmon or trout kind of salmon doesn't matter you say oh look at the different variet different types of fishes I have that is legit a legit use of fishes but to me it sounds occasionally a little bit childish, but I looked this up and Old English, the plural of fish is fishes. What? Yes. Middle English, the plural of fish is fishes. Fish as the plural of fish is newish, as in within the past thousand years. Why? Why? That's so that's that's extremely

counterintuitive for plurals. Yeah. Well, so one of the things you can usually grab on to when we talk about animals where the plural is the same as the singular, so uh sheep and deer, is that in Old English which had three grammatical genders, masculine, feminine, and neuter, the animals which we generally use the same word for the plural as the singular were all neuter because you didn't put a special ending on the neuter one to make it a plural. And so I thought, oh, well, fish must have been neuter, but it wasn't. It was masculine. And it

did have the straightforward s ending on it. Uh, found examples of it. Old English f i s c a s f i s c e a s. Bearing in mind that in Old English sc is pronounced shh. So it's it was fishes. Fishes. And to to not pluralize it, I don't know. I don't know how it happened, but it

I mean to to not change it to pluralize it. I don't know how it happened, but it did. Looks more like Pisces, too, doesn't it? Yeah, you're right. But Pisces would be singular, wouldn't it? Yeah.

Oh, it's a bit confusing. Yeah. Right. I thought that was interesting because up until this point, I just presumed that fish must have been neutral. Must have been neuter like all of those other examples. But I would think so, too. That this was a revelation for me as well. Yeah. I think your

average language snob would assume that fishes was the crude modern invention. Yeah. No, I was I was thinking sort of like uh people versus people's. Yeah, exactly. Sheep versus sheeps. I call them

sheeps. That's my two pence about fish. I'm sure we will talk about different varieties of fish as well at some point. But we we did touch on whales and I think whales. Yeah, we should go there. Can you tell us about whales? So whale is it's it's a Germanic word. It's like one of these

others. We're going to have a bunch of these that are like it's the Germanic word for whale. But the cool thing I think about uh about this is is that the the root of this word refers to, you know, big sea fish whales and walruses and things. And the word walrus, which I think we may have mentioned before, but I think it's worth mentioning again is that walruses are whale horses. Yeah. Or horse whales. Right. [clears throat] earlier forms of it are with the word that way

around like you've got this Old English version of it which is hrosshvalr right which is horse whale and then it's thought that confusion between that phrase horse whale and a Scandinavian word that was specific to the walrus meant that we sort of switched them around and so you end up calling it essentially a whale horse and that's what walrus walruses. The neat thing about the the binomial of the walrus, the Odobenus rosmarus is it has two two interesting things happening here. The first part means tooth walker which is very awesome. And then the second part uses that rosmarus bit is from the old Norse word for a walrus, rosmhvalr or hrosshvalr which is also horse whale like we've been talking about. So we've got horse of the sea. So, a tooth walking horse of the sea.

Amazing. [laughter] Actually, I I was mentioning how I went to Orkney or I mentioned I was going to Orkney. I've now been to Orkney and the main island there. It's just known as the mainland to modern people. It's also also known as Pomona, but the um the old Norse name for it was Hrossey, which means horse island. It's using that same that same element there. We should also mention

that whale is one of those words where we've pretty much arbitrarily swapped the H and W round at the start. So it belongs to the same groups as the word what, where, when, who, all of which were originally who words, but at some point after the introduction of the printing press became these wh words. Another animal that has that same bit in it is the narwhal, right? Which is unlike the walrus, which is a horse whale, this is a corpse whale. Yeah, it's awful, isn't it? [laughter]

So, they have this muddled gray coloring. So, if you are sailing and you see one gliding under the surface, which they often did, it looked kind of like a a corpse underneath the surface. It's a really horrible explanation and it is considered the most likely explanation. There is an alternative explanation that that links it to nál which meant needle which would also make a lot of sense for a narwhal cuz it's got that big horn on it. That makes way more sense. And and that

would be my preferred origin if we could pick one. I mean, imagine seeing that animal and going, "Oh, yeah. I think the most notable thing about this is that it's gray, right? [laughter] Unicorn way. What about the thing? The thing, right? Their Latin name is Monodon monoceros, which means

one tooth, one horn, which is that's exactly what it is. The tusk is is a tooth. Sounds indecisive to me, to be honest. Which is it? There's some debate, by the way, about what they use them for because they they only sort of like they don't frequently just go around spearing things and then they can't exactly eat it off the end. So, it's maybe like a sensory tool. It might be a fish

whacker. It might be because they are observed whacking fishes with them. Fish with them. Uh it could be No, it's okay. We're okay with fishes now. [laughter]

And then it it could be an ice poker. It could be a super sexy cosmetic adornment to win over mates because it is either that most males have them but some don't, or all males have them and some females occasionally do. Someone is going to have to correct me on that one. [laughter] resident narwhal expert, please leave your comments below. It could be two of those things, right? Couldn't it? It could it could have a function and also,

you know, the length of it somehow impresses. It could also be a sexy lady narwhals. [laughter] [music] We've been talking about whales and haven't talked about an actual whale yet. Tell us about a whale, Jess. [laughter] So actual whales belong to the order Cetacea which means which is from a Greek root meaning sea monster which is great. Uh Ceto is also a primordial sea goddess and mother

of many monstrous Greek offspring in uh myths. So there are two different kinds two different divisions of whales. One is Mysticeti which is baleen whales. That's our like humpbacks and such. And then there's Odontoceti which is toothed whales which is like dolphins and porpoises. So dolphins are whales and killer whales are dolphins but also whales.

Okay. So dolphins are a type of whale. They are toothed whales. They belong in common understanding. I don't think we say that they are whales. Right. Right. In a scientific sense

they are they are a type of whale. Is that right? They do belong to the overarching structure that includes whales but they are a particular brand of whale. Okay. Because one of those fun facts that people like to trot out is that a killer whale is not a whale. It's the largest

variety of dolphin. But you're saying it is a whale. Right. They're all whales. They're all whales. But there are also it is true that killer whales or orcas belong to the same category as

dolphins. They are in Delphinidae which belongs to the parorder Odontoceti which is toothed whales. Okay. And they share that with the porpoise as well. Yes, they sure do. They sure do. which is

the pig. The pig fishically speaking. Yeah. And and you can see it when when someone says it to you and they say, "Now, what's the French for pork?" Pork. P O R C. What's the French for fish?

Pass. [snorts] Ram those together. Lose a syllable off the end of each one and you you get porpoise. In Old English, they were called mereswine or they were they were basically mer pigs, which is fun. Yeah. Right. Ocean pigs. And they have these rounded snouts and these

sort of stocky bodies, which is the idea there. And then dolphin means wombfish, more or less. Yeah, because it's from the Greek. Is it delphys womb? Mhm. Delphys. They give live birth. That's

that's the the gist there. Yeah. I also read that it might be the shape, but perhaps because they they give birth to live young because obviously not the only ones that give birth to live young. All of the mammals of the sea give birth to live young. But um yeah, I don't really understand how it's shaped like a womb. [laughter] I don't know. I did I did want to get like a a more sort of

scientific explanation of the difference between a porpoise and a dolphin because I've always sort of wondered. So I looked up what the porpoise conservation society says and and and you've hit on some of this already, but porpoises are generally smaller than dolphins, which I think is what we all know. With the exceptions of the finless porpoise, they have a triangular dorsal fin, whereas dolphins have a sickle-shaped fin. So it's their fins as well as their noses that look different. Dorsal, by the way, is just from the Latin dorsum, which means your back. So

that's how you can remember where the dorsal fin is because I sometimes can't remember. Porpoises also have different teeth. They are spade shaped and look much more like our teeth, whereas dolphins have cone-shaped teeth. [laughter] I mean, now I'm imagining a dolphin with humanlike teeth, which is what a Boglin [laughter] is. And I'm freaked out. Freaked out.

And dolphins can ah, now [clears throat] this is interesting. Dolphins can make some sounds for communication within our hearing range. Whereas porpoises communicate in the ultrasonic range. So you've never heard a porpoise, but you might have heard a dolphin. dolphin has been used historically for basically all of these things. It's most commonly now applied to

like the bottlenose dolphin that we typically see and then the Amazon River dolphin that also has a bottlenose type shape to it. I think those guys are a little scary though. They can turn their necks which is a little creepy and they are pink [laughter] or they're often pink. Why don't you want them to be able to turn their necks? Well, it's not It looks a little like if you look up a photo, Martin, please insert photo of creepy Amazon River dolphin. [laughter]

Exorcist. I will eat your fish. It is a little uncanny valley. I'm just saying. [laughter] Uh, I mean the what we ought to be talking about is the creepy one is the killer whale.

Oh yeah. Orca. Yeah, but they're pretty. Orcinus orca. They are really pretty, aren't they? The

story goes that they're originally called whale killers. Yes, because they hunted baleen whales. Yeah, cuz they're very good. They're very scary as well. Mhm. Generally.

Yeah. Pliny called them an enormous mass of savage flesh with teeth. [laughter] Who who hasn't been called that? [laughter] By the way, Orca comes from the same root as Tolkien's orcs. No way, does it? Yeah. Yeah. So, the the even the genus name Orcinus is related to the name

Orcus, the Roman god of the underworld. Orc and Orc were also used in English for a long time for large deadly marine creatures. And then Tolkien pulled mostly from the the Old English usage of of big deadly scary thing. Apparently the Orca used to have quite a fun Latin binomial name. It used to be called the Orca gladiator which is kind of cool. Oh, that's cool. And I don't know if that is

a reference to them being like gladiators as in sort of um combative or whether it's from the same root as the word gladiator which essentially means swordsman. It's from the the Latin for a sword.

Here's a trivia question for you. So, sperm whales have teeth, but are they toothed whales like our orcas and our dolphins? No, they're definitely baleen. I think I don't think I'd struggle to tell the difference between uh cuz one of like the tooth ones basically look like dolphins. They seem to have like just a completely different shape to the the baleen whales, right? It was a

trick question. They're not baleen whales either. They are also [laughter] What are they then? Well, you're right. They're they're they're not either. They are not members of Delphinidae. You were half

wrong. But they do belong to Odontoceti. So they they are toothed whales, but they belong to their own distinct family. What's so special about them? They got all kinds of weird stuff about them. They

have big craniums and their uh teeth, but their like lack of morphological familiarity to other dolphins and things. Their unique traits have also made them a massive target for whaling. As a matter of fact, their spermaceti organ in their head helps them focus and regulate buoyancy during deep dives. And they can dive extremely deep to hunt large squid, which for a long time we hadn't even seen them hunt. So this it was cool. It has been cool in recent years to observe that which

is cool. And their their clicks can reach 230 dB which is louder than a jet engine at takeoff. The elephant in the room though Jess is why are they called sperm? Oh it's because the it's because the the spermaceti in their head looks like sperm. What is it? It's a waxy substance in their head

that is also highly prized by the whaling industry or has been in history. And uh it's the stuff in their head that helps them regulate or help helps them focus their sound and stay buoyant during their deep dives. And it looks like sperm. It looks like sperm. Fine. Yeah. [laughter]

There are other substances that look like sperm that they maybe could have named it after, but fine. Spermaceti means call it the spunk fish. Sperm of the whale. Like [laughter] have you got any more whale types? A lot of them quite self-explanatory like humpback. You go well

it might be that that big like bumpy bit on its rear and and the blue whale is a bit blue looking. Not that surprising. The cool stuff about these I think are the the Latin names. The blue whale is Balaenoptera musculus, which you'll notice is related to our word muscular and is also from a word meaning mouse. So the blue whale literally has mouse in its name. [laughter] Not the only

mouse of the sea, of course. The word mussel as in the shellfish. It is the same word as the other muscle as in the ones that I don't really have. [laughter] Me neither. They're just two different spellings of the the same word and they both just mean little mouse and it's I'm assuming because they kind of look like they're little mice affixed to things. Yeah, I guess so. I guess so. When

they're sort of sitting upright, they do look like a little sort of little mouse just sitting there. Balaenoptera I mentioned a second ago means winged whale. Um another one similarly the humpback whale is Megaptera novaeangliae which means great winged of New England. So this is the the same as we get in helicopter. Helicopter and pterodactyl. Yeah. Pteranodon. Yes. Indeed. Whales that look like

that that have the sort of shape of humpbacks and blue whales and minke whales and things are often said to be winged whales because they have very long uh fins. Can we give sharks a mention? I I feel like I love that they're in a similar realm even though sharks are are fish. What I think is interesting about shark is we don't know where the word came from, but we do know specifically when it entered the English language, which I think is kind of fascinating. Yeah. A specific expedition,

the expedition of Captain Sir John Hawkins, which returned with a specimen of a shark, which was exhibited in London in 1569. They called this animal the shark. There's a quotation here uh from a collection of black letter ballads and broadsides. This is from the Oxford English dictionary. It says, "There is no proper name for it, a marvelous strange fish that they brought back that I know, but that certain men of Captain Hawkins's doth call it a shark."

There's evidence there this is a new word, but no one thought to it would appear ask them where they picked up the word shark because it existed before that for different things. Right. That's interesting because I was reading some notes about this where they said you could call a person a shark before you could call this animal a shark. But then I read other notes saying that's not quite right. So I I I ended up confused and lost. So if you can

shed any light on that, much appreciated. The OED has shark as a word for a person before it was a word as a fish because the Old English didn't have a general word for the broad group of cartilaginous fish that we now call sharks. It had more specific names like houndfish or sea dogs which are are what we still call dogfish sometime. Dog fish. Hammerheads were balance-fish until the 1740s which is cool. There's also this word tiburón as well or tiburón which are

borrowings from the French and the Spanish encountering them presumably in the Caribbean although obviously you actually do get them around Britain. Other Germanic words for sharks were something like high or har and then the word shark or sharker appears in the 1400s and it meant it means scoundrel or villain or swindler and it didn't get applied to the the animal until the context you were talking about. In that sense, it might be a word for to poke or to stir, or it could be related to German words for villains and things. It could be that the shark was being compared to that kind of person, or it could be that it was drawn from say like a Mayan word for sharks. But the headline here is we don't really know, which is sort of interesting in itself.

Moby Dick has some of my favorite shark species descriptions, by the way. Uh, he also Oh, no, sorry, it's not Moby Dick. It's another work that Melville wrote. It's Mardi, which is another another sea voyage story from 1849. He describes the brown shark or sea attorney, so-called by sailors a grasping rapacious varlet, the dandy blue shark, a long taper and mighty genteel-looking fellow with a slender waist and a Bond Street beau. And then the whitest

tiers of teeth imaginable. And then there's the tiger shark, which he describes as a round portly gourmand who has a rude savage swagger as well as a distended mouth and a collapsed conscience. And then the ghastly white shark, a ghost of a fish that moves with horrific serenity of aspect and sports a bottomless pit of white teeth. Best one in there is sea attorney, isn't it? Yeah, I think so too. Really? [laughter] Which does Yeah. go some way to supporting the idea that the animal

is named after the land predator rather than the other way round. Another animal that we haven't got a clue where its name comes from, by the way, is squid. Oo, I love this one. No clue whatsoever. Might be uh a sailor's variant on the word squirt because what they do I like that. That's great.

Yeah, I think that's fine, isn't it? I can't think of any other squ words anyway. But but generally don't know where the word squid comes from. That would also make sense with the relationship with with calamari, right? Which is from a a root meaning reed or pen because they squirt ink and because they're and because they're pen shaped. So it's nothing to do with it being

nice or something. What's No. No. Calamus means reed or pen. The calli in calligraphy is not related to that then, is it? Because the calli in calligraphy is nice. It would make perfect sense

for that to be the case, but it does not appear to be. You can end up with two words in the same same field that seem so similar but actually aren't related. Speaking of which, these are these are cephalopods which means headfoot. Cephalopods. I always called them instead of cephalopods. It's

one of those things I'm not sure whether it's a c sound or a s sound. Well, you know, some people say encephalitis, some people say enkephalitis. It depends on what you want to follow, doesn't it? whether you want to go with classical Latin feel or a a more modern Latin feel, whether you want to S it or or K it. That's not the the only debate we have around cephalopods, is it?

Is it not? Tell me. The plural of octopus is what I'm talking about. Oh, for goodness sake. Which of course means 8 foot, right? Yeah, it does. Which is the problem because it's

that's the confusing part. [laughter] [snorts] Yeah, because the plural of -pus is not -pi or -puses necessarily. I mean, it is in English if you want it to be. You can just say octopuses if you like. And I I favor just sticking an English ending on the end if you want. I suppose

that is that is more normal. It's octopod, isn't it? Octopodes is another way you can say that. Octopodes. [laughter] Yeah, I think that's even more fun that is. But I don't know if

that's right, is it? I I don't know if that's right. Uh yeah, but it's it's not octopi. So, I mean, it isn't. I mean, people use it. So, it isn't as far as people use it,

but it's [laughter] the logic that they're applying to choose that plural is is flawed. That's not how you pluralize that. Puss, no one likes my take on this. And it's that all three are correct. And I have and there's precedent for all three of them. Actually, we've talked about this

before and we I was also on board with the idea that all three are correct, but only through usage sake. I mean, if one of them is wrong, it is octopi. The problem with that is that the word octopus didn't exist in ancient Greek. They weren't called octopuses in ancient Greek. They were called polypuses or the word was polypus. And then the word polypus is pluralized in English

with that same ending as polypi all the time. So it also has precedent. [laughter] It's precedent, but it's only a precedent for the same mistake being made, right? because you're applying a Latin plural to a Greek word, which is a problem. But the word, but also the word octopus never like it only ever existed in modern Latin essentially and then English. Okay. Yeah, I see what you're

getting at there. So, what we're doing is we're taking the Latin version of the Greek word and pluralizing it the Latin way. The Latin version of a Greek word that never existed. Yeah. [laughter] And we should point out actually when we're talking about animals and binomials and and modern Latin names for these animals, a lot of the words never existed in the classical languages. We have

invented these words to help us refer to these animals. So scientific Latin is not classical Latin. It's not as though [laughter] right the Romans were going around calling everything by these complicated names. the these words are often entirely manufactured, pieced together from whatever element that the scientist that has the job of naming the thing has decided upon. The other point in favor of of not using the I ending is that it's the wrong declension in Latin to pluralize it that way. Anyway, so [laughter] so it's not even the Latin plural.

No, really. The most correct is probably just the English octopuses because because it is the only one that that makes enough sense and has enough precedent to not have anything against it.

[music] While we're on the cephalopods, cephalopods, whatever you want to call them, cuttlefish. There's I mentioned that as one of the fish that isn't a fish, but originally it was just called a a cuttle in English or cudele in um Old English, possibly related to uh other Germanic words meaning pocket or even scrotum. So, it might be a a scrotum fish. We do use a relation of that word to mean scrotum. Why am I saying the word scrotum so much? I'm saying it even more now. But [laughter] when we

slowly turning when we use the word codpiece, when we use the word codpiece, the cod concerned is not the cod of the sea. It is not the sea cod. It is the cod that that potentially it's related to the word cuttle. So it is the cod of the sea. It's just not that cod of the sea. Well, no, but there

is also we're not we don't know for certain that cod the fish isn't named after the cod that means Ball sack. Ball sack. The sort of word we have to believe. [laughter] I don't know. So that there might we might basically have two ball bags of the sea [laughter] in the in the cod and and the cuttlefish. Do you know what the genus that uh that cuttlefish belong to is called?

No. [laughter] It's sepia. And that is also the brown pigment that was once made from cuttlefish ink. Oh, no way. Oh, I like that a lot. What a lovely little fact. Okay,

so sepia is an S-E-P-I-A, like the the word that we find on our smartphone filter lists. Cuttlefish can change. They can change color, too. They they can camouflage themselves into different shades and whatnot to blend in. But also because the way males and females can can change is a little bit different. Males can also make themselves look a certain color on one side when facing another

male and then make themselves look another way on another side to impress the female. Oh, like angry side, sexy side. I think it's they disguise themselves as like females on one side and then they they they look sexy on the other. [laughter] They're playing both sides at the same time. Very fun. If you can get it. Mhm. Nautilus is another sephalopod. Those are cool. It means

sailor and they're these the swirly shelled swimmy ones named after the the ship or is it coincidence that they have the same name as the the ship or is the ship named after them? I think the ship is named after them the way [snorts] it was described in early bestiaries and things like that described a creature that floated at the surface and spread its arms like sails. And that's probably it. It might be an image that comes from the Argonaut, the octopus that produces a thin sort of coiled egg case that was mistaken for a true shell. But the chambered nautilus doesn't actually come to the the top of the sea like the early accounts said. Great. You worked in two

uh literary vessels, right? And you mentioned beasties, which brings us nicely onto another shellfish that I wanted to mention. Oh, yeah. Which is the barnacle. Yes. Which was a word for

a goose and not [laughter] a barnacle. Exactly. We talk about them as barnacle goose. Barnacle geese nowadays if we do to refer to them, which Jess does all the time because she likes talking about bestiaries, but most of us don't refer to them all that often. But they were just called barnacles. We added the word goose to the end to differentiate them from the shellfish that we

later essentially name after the barnacle goose because the barnacle goose is this goose that supposedly grows on trees. [laughter] He like dangles from it by its beak. And the theory goes that these trees are there obviously they're at the water side. And the barnacle, what we now call the barnacle, is the shell from which the barnacle goose is produced. And if you look at a barnacle, they've got sort of little sort of hairy bits. Yeah. And it looks

like it's got a a beak. Yeah. They've got these little hairy bits to sort of invoke the idea of of [snorts] feathers. So, the barnacle is named after the barnacle goose, but the barnacle goose in turn is named after a sort of mythical shell. Bit of a mind mess, but um pretty cool.

The word itself might mean something like bare neck, describing the the coloration on the barnacle goose's neck. [laughter] Well, it could be, but I think it's more likely from a French bernaque, isn't it? which obviously wouldn't come from bare neck with a bit of influence from the word hibernacula. Oh, so that's from hibernaculum, a reference to Hibernia. I mean, bare neck. Yeah. All of these things might well play into it because barnacle is not how the word

should have ended up, but that is how the word has ended up. Something must have influenced why it is the way it is. If it is indeed from this French bernaque, which it seems like it probably is. Excellent. Love this stuff. clam. Uh, you told me about clam in a previous episode. Uh, and it means

kind of what you expect it to mean, [laughter] to to clam up. You don't necessarily have to be invoking the idea of a clam for that phrase to make sense because clam does literally mean to constrict or to clench to to clench to pinch to to to cramp. Yeah, it just happens that that's what a clam does. We already mentioned mussel being the same as muscle. I don't think we mentioned why our muscles and and and you know anyone who's really into already knows that muscles are so called because the rippling of a muscle looks a bit like a supposedly looks a bit like a a mouse crawling around underneath but it always bears repeating to anyone who doesn't already know that because it's gross but fascinating. Gross but fun. Oyster is related to

words for shell and bone and such. Mhm. M yeah, a word for shell or uh potsherd originally, which was like broken pottery and discarded shells and things having that same hard and curved form and therefore related to the word ostracize. Yes. Yeah. From the fun fact that they would write um

what's this what's the fact here? Ostracize comes from an ancient Greek electoral process that involves writing names on shards of pots. It's not it's an election for who should be um kicked out. Exiled. Yeah, basically. Yeah. And if you're on a lot of potsherds, then yeah, you will

be then you get ostracized. There we go. Oysters. Actually, my the the hometown of my wife in southern France is called I S T R E S. And that's also thought to be named after the oysters that you get off the coast there. How cool. Quite cute, isn't it? I was looking up those sort of freaky

plantlike animals that you get under the sea. The ones that the ones that apparently animals, but I don't believe it because they look more like [laughter] more like plants, you know, like the anemone. These are cnidarians means uh it's from the Greek word meaning nettle because they're often a bit stingy and it includes jellyfish, anemones, hydroids, corals, etc. Jellyfish. That's another good example of a fish that's not a fish from that old use of the word. Yeah, anemone,

daughter of the wind. Um, and that's why we call a device used to measure the wind an anemometer because it's from the the Greek for wind, which in turn is related to the Latin animus. So, we're talking about, you know, movement. It's all about mu movement. A sea cucumber is an echinoderm.

Yes. Yeah. It's a good word, isn't it? Well, it's it's a bit I actually got a bit lost in this one cuz uh echinoderm you can take it as meaning sort of spiky skin or or even hedgehog skin skin which is a really fun idea which would link it to the word echidna the sort of Australian hedgehog type animal really but there's a little bit of uncertainty about how close the link is and precisely how this link works because you have the Greek echidna which means a snake or a viper. But why the heck would this animal be called that? Or at least rather why would a hedgehog be

called that? Because that's what gets called this first. And so it could be because they eat them, but otherwise it's a bit odd. But then you also have the Greek ekhinos, which is hedgehog. Hedgehog and and sea urchin in the same way that urchin was originally a word for.

This is one of my favorite facts in the entire Oh yeah. field of etymology and that is that a sea urchin is called a sea urchin because a land urchin was a hedgehog. Right. Wonderful. Well, so the French calls a sea urchin oursin and it calls a land hedgehog hérisson. But

those two words are the same word. They're just picked from from different periods of the words development, which is kind of amazing because they spell with an H, but if you if you drop that H, you do get something that sounds quite a lot like awesome. And in turn, when we refer to like a little Victorian kid as a as as an urchin, what we're doing is we're invoking the idea of probably a hedgehog actually rather than a sea urchin. But we are figuratively saying they're like a a sort of lost little spiky animal. hide under the hedges and things like that. Crawl from the

the dregs of society. Yeah, that's right. They might sneak sneak out at night and take a bit of food and then sneak off again. Maybe they've got like spiky messy hair or something uncoiffed.

[music] We'll finish off with some fun fish names. But before that, we've gone from elephants. So I want to go to the bottom end of the of the size scale and talk about plankton. Excellent. And the like.

Yeah, plankton's a German word by the way. Well, it's a German coining. Um, but it does invoke a a Greek word that is plankton. But weirdly, we get it from German texts. That's what I mean by that. German scientific texts start using the word plankton to refer to all variety of

tiny weeny organism animals eggs, larvae a type of animal called a diatom actually it's not an it's not an animal at all it's an algae it's a type of algae um that's made up of two symmetrical bits a lot of the time which produce 20 to 50% of all of the oxygen produced on Earth, which is pretty incredible. So that's how you know they're not animals. And then protozoans, which is just worth a mention because it breaks down into two quite nice pieces. You have proto, which means early or original, and then zoans is the same as you found in the word zoo, for example, or zodiac, which is just from the Greek word for an animal. So protozoans are early animals and they include single cell organisms like amoeba and stuff like that or amoebas.

What's the plural of amoeba? Let's go with amoeba. [laughter] I would think it would be Yeah, that's that's fine. It's fine. It it definitely you can say amoebas, but I'm not sure if you can also say amoeba. Yeah, I'm sure you could add an e on that and make it

plural as well. From the large to the very tiny. Oh, you also have krill, by the way. Krill is just a Norwegian word. Krill. There you go. a lot of fishing words from the Norwegians because they're

very active in the the North Sea obviously around England. So, and they were just always words for krill. Yeah, they just Yeah, they just had words for these tiny tiny shrimp. But yeah, Norwegian sailors and British sailors, English sailors will be encountering each other quite a lot. So, you end up borrowing a lot of words just like you borrowed a lot of words from Dutch sailors as well. Excellent. We promised some fish names. Oh, yeah. We should talk about fish.

We've been talking about the ocean and have barely touched on fish [laughter] the plural is up to our creativity. Right. [laughter] I particularly like barracuda. It could be from an indigenous word from the Caribbean, particularly in northeastern South America. could just be a borrowed word for the name of the fish, but it could also be inspired by a word meaning overlapping tooth or snaggletooth, which could be related, which is like a Latin derived word.

It is a long-bodied and silver-scaled and and extremely dagger-toothed fish, but Taíno had this word baracouta, which meant a solitary person or animal. So, it it seems like it it's good chance that it came from that. It's thought to be a smashup of both that word and the the Spanish word. Yeah. Because a good chance that the form barracuda is borrowed from the Spanish who are often the ones that borrow the Taíno words. The Taíno being

the people who were inhabiting the Caribbean when [clears throat] the Spanish turned up. How about a tuna, which is from Spanish as well, but also was originally an Arabic word. Well, kind of. It came to English from Spanish which came from Arabic which came from Latin which came from Greek. And originally the root probably means to dart or to rush. And then that word

made its way from Latin into Arabic before it hit Spanish and then English. When I was thinking when I think about fish as a as a good Englishman, I always think about my fish and chips. Uh and there are a few common fish that we have. I already mentioned the cod which might be the ball sack of the sea but we also have plaice which is a gift for fish and chip shop owners because it's very easy to pun on it. So you can say Fred's Plaice. Oh it's Fred's Plaice but it's in it.

I think when you came to England we might even might have even taken you one with plaice. can't remember but it's from the French um plaice which in turn is from Latin platessa which means flat because it's a flat fish. Oh, excellent. Excellent. Yeah, exactly. So, the clue

is in the name. Haddock is also another one. We don't know what the hadd bit is but the -ock at the end of there is the suffix that we come across in words like butt and um other small things like hillock. It imply something small. So whatever a a hadd was, it was bigger than a haddock. [laughter]

That's great. There are a couple of violent fish. The word herring, for example, might be a diminutive of a word meaning army because of their schooling behavior. Yeah, the ing thing at the end, it's either diminutive or it's just means a thing associated with that thing, right? because you have ling which is more more diminutive but but also the the Germanic suffix -ing just means what's a good example viking is a good example actually we talked about that one before right vic or vik at the start of that either means bay or camp and the ing at the end means the people of but it doesn't have to be people it can be the fish affiliated the affiliation with it [laughter] can be the the fish associated with the hair or the har this herring again beautiful Germanic word. Another violent fish is the gar, which meant spear in Old English. Its

nose looks like a big long spear, and they've got a torpedo-like body that's armored with big interlocking scales covered in enamel, which is cool. Yeah, that gar is in the first line of Beowulf when it refers to the Spear-Danes. We mentioned herring. We should also mention sardines. Oh, excellent. Yeah, a tiny form of herring.

Are sardines related to the island of Sardinia? Tell me. Question. I don't know. [laughter] It's it's always assumed that they are. And you'll read a lot of etymologists that say uh yes,

the sardine is so called because they were caught in abundance of Sardinia. However, some etymologists have said, well, hold on. They get mentioned in citations of Aristotle and the time that he was living. It's unlikely that the Greeks were just popping to Sardinia to pick up some little fish. So, could they be named after someone else with that sard element, which is the key element? And it seems like, yeah, yeah, maybe. Maybe. So they may

be related, the word sardine and Sardinia, but it's not necessarily the case that the sardine is named after Sardinia. It could even be the other way round. That reminds me of cypress trees, which I think we've discussed before. They're like the relation to Cyprus is murky and it's hard to tell whether one's from the other or not. It's exactly the same with the word copper and the same island as well. Is copper named after Cypress or is Cyprus named after copper? It's really,

really messy. One more violent or at least shocking fish would be the eel. At least shocking in some scenarios. But the absolutely shocking. [laughter] This is also just this is the Old English word for eels. But it also has cognates including the Latin anguilla which is

which meant snake or serpent or like little snake or little serpent which is fascinating. Aristotle described eels as the end or as being born from the entrails of the earth because there's this big there there was a lot of confusion about exactly how eels reproduce for some time. Apparently this was confusing into the 20th century. But it was eventually found that some reproduce like the the European eel and the American eel reproduce in the Sargasso Sea. And it's it's kind of hard to observe. It's really weird how they all head to Sargasso Sea to do this. And we've just never

quite got to the bottom of of how they do it. It's proper proper freaky for all the things we do know. We haven't quite worked out how how eels get it on, right? Uh speaking of which, I mentioned electric eels, but they aren't actually true eels. They're members of a completely different order.

And their ability to produce electricity is from three pairs of abdominal organs. The Hunter's organ, the Sachs's organ, and their main organ, which comp which are composed of electrocytes, which basically when the eel's brain sends a signal through its specialized spinal nerve, the electrocytes discharge, creating this burst of electric current. Apparently, they use it for navigation and communication. And then also for stunning prey and stuff. So it is electricity. It is a high voltage but a low amperage. So a human might have a a

painful jolt or a muscle spasm but wouldn't go into say cardiac arrest as long as they weren't jabbed in a particularly sensitive area which could happen. Jess, you said you'd brought some fun fish names and I want to squeeze those in before we head off sail off into the sunset. Yes. Let's uh let's close out with some silly fish names like the sarcastic fringehead. No, no, no, no. Why? Wait. Okay, so hold on. No, we can work this out cuz sarcasm

is to do with flesh. Tearing of flesh. Is it a flesh-tearer rather than an irony-monger? That is the idea. Yes, indeed. It has It has a fringed head. That's not surprising.

But it has a large, brightly colored mouth with some scary teeth inside. [laughter] Right. When we're being sarcastic, we are essentially tearing chunks of flesh on someone. Right. Okay. We have the tasselled wobbegong. No, we don't. That's not real.

It is a carpet shark with shaggy lips. And it's the the second part that the tassels are are the the shaggy bits. And then uh apparently the the second part is an is an Australian Aboriginal word meaning shaggy beard. A carpet shark. Carpet sharks are called carpet sharks because they their their patterns can resemble ornately patterned carpets.

Oh, okay. Oh, I like that. That's a good explanation. All right, I accept it. [laughter] This one has a regular name, the reef triggerfish. They're called triggerfish, I believe,

because of their the speed of their movements. The reason I brought up triggerfish, they're cool, is they also have a really cool Hawaiian name, which is the humuhumunukunukuāpuaʻa, which is triggerfish with a snout like a pig in Hawaiian, which is very cool. And there's a lot of doubling going on in there. And I know that in Hawaiian, if you double something, then you sort of augment it. Yes. It's it's a good way of saying something is very, you double it. Right. What was that again?

Just one more time for us. Humuhumunukunukuāpuaʻa. Beautiful. [laughter] And with that, let's bring this episode of Words Unravelled to an end. Thank you for joining us. Can I plug my Edinburgh show

one last time? It will still be on when the time this goes on. Just a few days left. If you happen to be in Edinburgh, do come and see me. I'm on at 8:10 p.m. I'll leave a link below. Yeah, I won't

go into where exactly because you just find it. It's central Edinburgh. If you're at the Fringe, you'll be able to find me. Check it out and we'll see you next time on Words Unravelled. [music]