---
video_title: "What is the 'nihil' in nihilism?"
video_id: 6pya-WuePwo
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6pya-WuePwo
video_date: 2026-02-25T06:00:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's get philosophical. And get an exclusive 15% discount on Saily eSIM data plans! Download Saily app and use code "unravelled" at checkout. https://saily.com/unravelled
  
  Jess and Rob are digging into the origins of the words behind some of history’s biggest ideas – from stoicism and cynicism to logic, ethics, and metaphysics. Along the way, they trace how ancient Greek schools of thought shaped the language we still use to argue, reason, and disagree today. Enjoy this particularly pensive episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
What do philosophers actually love? Our sophomores really wise fools. What's so cynical about dogs? We'll explore the existence of existentialism, the absurdity of absurdism, get meta with the physical and explore pithy and profound aphorisms on this philosophical episode of Words Unraveled. Welcome to another Words Unraveled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel Rob Words. And I'm Jess Siferis, author of Etymology books, including useless etymology. And today we're getting a little philosophical on Words Unraveled. Oh, yeah, we're hoping to get to some big truths during this episode, not just about the world in which we live, but also about the words we use to describe the world in which we live and the philosophers that we use to try and explain it. You will get a little skeptical, a little rational, a little stoic, a little cynical. Oh, there's which we always are. Of course, we always are. But let's start off with that word, philosophy. Because it's got a literal meaning. And it's not necessarily, I don't think it's intuitive what philosophy literally means. It's kind of cute, the way it's typically translated, right? It's love of knowledge or pursuit of wisdom. Yeah, yeah, it is. So the philo on there is the same as you get at the end of words that have file on them. So reason I could only think of a bombable words that end like that. Frankophile, people who like French people. So yeah, we've got love. Philadelphia. Oh, yeah, city of brotherly love. Oh, there doesn't actually mean that does it. Right, I mean, it's just city of love. But we have to make sure it's definitely heterosexual. Oh, this isn't supposed to be a political episode. It's supposed to be a first song of one. Oh, but there's so much overlap there, right? The thing is we did try to come here with like not particularly like classical philosophy and a little less like political philosophy and a little less religious philosophy. Yeah, it all gets ends up tied up in the same terms at least. We necessarily will have to talk about political philosophy and religious philosophy during the course of this episode. Unfortunately, the question of like human existence does ultimately bring up the notion of deities, right? Yes, it does. And people have certain ideas about how that existence should be carried out. And they aim to put that interaction through politics. So of course, there we go. Philosophy. So yeah, Philo is the love bit and then the the Sophie. Well, it means wisdom. And it's the same that we see in Sophism. Yeah, of course. Before we get to that, I want to note that philosophy in the Middle Ages was also a word for things like alchemy or a cult knowledge or really any speculative science, the exploration of anything unexplained. And it is still sometimes described as the predecessor to hard sciences. It also had many entertaining letter salad spelling variants in Middle English, like it was spelled with Fs and Zs and all kinds of things. But we do have remnants of that much broader meaning of the word philosophy that we still use all of the time. If we talk about a PhD, right, a doctor of philosophy, we're not talking about them. It doesn't have anything to do with, you know, the monarro discipline of philosophy. It just means the acquisition of knowledge, right? And the same if you've got an M Phil, you know, a master of philosophy. You didn't study philosophy necessarily. You just studied something that involves, you know, the attempt at acquiring knowledge. Speaking of acquiring knowledge and on the note of that Sophos element, we get to Sophism, right? And this comes up, this has come up before because we talked about the word sophomore, which has a common explanation that isn't quite right. Yeah, remind me of that one because we don't really use the word sophomore in Britain. Right. So that's your second year of high school or college typically. And if you're a sophomore in high school or college, you may have heard it said that the word sophomore is derived from the elements Sophos meaning wise and Moros meaning foolish. So you're a sophomore, you're a wise fool. That's funny and entertaining and very apt for someone who's in their second year of learning. But it's not entirely true. But the truth of it is also pretty cool, I think. It's that the first half of Sophomores ultimately from Sophos meaning wise, but the second half is not from Moros meaning fool. The first half is usually tied to Sophism more than general wisdom. Ultimately in many early colleges, especially in throughout Europe, your second year would be studying things like rhetoric and philosophy. And rhetoric is the piece that's connected to Greek Sophists. Right. Do you think that whole interpreting the more as being sort of idiot or fool is just sort of transferred across from the meaning of oxymoron? You know, probably. I really want this literal oxymoron which is sharp and dull in the same word. Right. Oxymoron isn't oxymoron. I don't know. It just feels like that. That the etymology of one might have inspired the etymology of the other. I think it was originally probably a joke, right? And then people were like quoted it as truth. But a Sophist in the 5th century BCE Greece was a professional teacher who sold instruction in rhetoric, argument, and just civic behavior. The earliest uses of the word could describe a craftsman or a sage, but protagonist is our first one who became our itinerant intellectual who trained elite youths for public life in Athens. And here we are in Greece, which is where we absolutely need to be when we're talking about philosophy in ancient Greece. I mean, who does it start with? Really it starts with Socrates and Plato. You know, Socrates never wrote anything down. All that we know about Socrates is from Plato for the most part. From, yeah, from Plato and Zed of Phon. Yeah, what they wrote about it. So you know, he may not have said a single thing. It might all just been Socrates making him say the things that he wanted him to say. But perhaps not and probably not. But I was looking up Socratic reasoning and the Socratic method. Have you ever like engaged in the Socratic method? It's questioning, right? It's allowing someone, asking people questions and having people explain themselves into a whole often. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, because the final stage of it is called Aporia, which basically means puzzlement. So yes, you raise a premise, well, you know, person A raises a premise. Person B finds an exception to it that means it can't be correct. And then person A then has to reformulate it. And you go like that until you really, yeah, like you say, you end up in quite the whole. What's kind of cool about the way Greeks approached philosophical discussion is it ultimately shaped the way we argue, including on the internet these days. And then it also shaped the way advertising approaches persuasive reasoning. Like this office, for example, they were begin to rhetoric. A famous one was I think it's gorgeous. Is what you is how you pronounce his name or is it gorgeous? Right. I think it's actually gorgeous. Either way, he's spoken this highly patterned rhythmic style that drew attention to sound and structure over content. So he had a few different like word nerdy ways of approaching rhetoric. One of them is called iciclein, which is a device where successive clauses have equal length or similar structures. So we see that today and buy one get one. And he also relied on antithesis where you place opposite ideas next to each other to height and contrast. Sissura wrote, I defended the public as a young man. I shall not desert her now that I am old. So you do one and then the other. And we also like even AI picks up on this. It's not this. It's that right. Oh, yeah. So this continues to exist. The thing about the the office is they were they were. They were focused on rhetoric, but they were also considered philosophers. But then they were horribly maligned, not horribly maligned. They kind of deserved it. So they they had a reputation for basically making bad faith dumb rhetoric arguments that undermine to people without any real without making any real point. So they became known for basically selling advertising language as we might put it today. There are a cues of sort of superficiality. Yes, which is why like sophistry is not considered an attractive trait today. I see how that makes so much sense now. Interestingly, sophomore and sophist are also related to the words sophisticated. Being sophisticated wasn't originally a good thing. It meant mixed with a foreign substance or impure, like mixed messaging and the convoluted logic of a sophist. Now I'm really excited that Jess is coming over to Europe in a couple of weeks. Yes, yes. Nice to repay the visit that I made to the states last year. And as I was talking around the US and Canada, I was able to surf the web wherever I went. Thanks to this video's sponsor, Sally. Sally provides affordable eSIM data plans in over 200 destinations, including for entire regions like North America or Europe. If you travel a lot, you'll know what a pain it can be to land in a strange country and have to wait in line to source a local SIM or deal with scammers at airports and train stations who are trying to sell you shady plans. Yeah, Sally saves you all of that bother. You can download the app even before you travel. Before you get on the plane, then you select your plan from a range of affordable options and the app makes installing it on your phone easiest pie. So when you arrive, your data will already be active, no cues, no fuss. And you only have to do the installing process once or future data plans just go on the same eSIM. And if you are a really frequent traveler, you can sign up to Sally Ultra as a pure massive perks like airport lounge access. And I do like an airport lounge. Get Sally today. And as a viewer of Words Unraveled, you can get an exclusive 15% discount on Sally eSIM data plans. Simply download the app and use the code Unraveled with 2Ls at checkout. Tell me about some more of these sort of schools of philosophy because they, some of them have got very boring names. They're just named after a person, which one am I thinking of. Epicureanism just named after Epicurus, boring. But there's some much better stories than that. Boring, but he was also semi affiliated with hedonism. Like Epicureanism and hedonism aren't the same one center's pleasure. But then they mean different things by it. Heedonism means pleasure. That's kind of fun. They focused on immediate sensory pleasure as being a positive. Yeah, yeah. I mean, Epicurianism is basically the pleasure is the only thing that really matters. The only thing that intrinsically matters. The highest goal of Epicurianism is adoraxia, meaning freedom from disturbance and aponia, meaning absence of bodily pain. But then the hedonists took it a little bit further saying the only intrinsic good is pleasure, which wasn't just the absence of pain, but positively enjoyable sensations. Right. And the aspect is... Which is why hedonism is sexy. Yeah, as opposed to Epicurianism, which does though pleasure is important, accepts that tranquility and moderation are also actually the roots to the most sort of tranquil life. It's not really the opposite of that, but like cynicism ended up involving kind of a giving up many of life's pleasures. Yeah, and that has got one of the most surprising, I think, etymologies. Actually, that we've ever spoken of, because it's come up before, it's just related to a word that you wouldn't expect it to be related to. Dog. Or not related to the word dog, but for the Greek word for dog. Indeed, yeah. Although I think, probably if we trace it back far enough, we find a way that it is related to dog. Certainly related to hound. It is related to hound. Yeah, yeah. So why would they call the dogs? It's a matter of debate. It could have been a reference to their lifestyle. They lived a course ascetic life like a dog, according to the Greeks living on the streets and things like that. This all came down to Antisthenes, Credo, that all one needs in life is virtue and strengths of strength of spirit, and that ill-reput is a good thing and much the same as pain. Or it could have been a reference to where they hung out, which was called the Kino Sarge, or the Grey Dog, which was a gymnasium originally a place where you would study or practice things near Athens. Yeah, okay. So if they were meeting at a place called the Dog, essentially the Dog, they were like the dogists. The Grey Dogists. If it isn't on about where they met, then we should mention stoicism next. Yes. Which is kind of fashionable in certain quarters, maybe it's from the Greek Stoicos, meaning a porch, because the founder, a guy called Zeno, ZDNO, he lectured on this, a very onate porch, painted with murals. And it was at the Agora in Athens, and that's that Agora. Me also means like a meeting place, and is where our agrophobia comes from, which is essentially a fear of large spaces where a lot of people could use. But yeah, the stoicism comes from that word, meaning porch. I think Zeno is like the most famous Stoic. It's interesting they didn't name it after him. I was reading a thing saying that they just thought that maybe he was flawed, and therefore they didn't want to name, attach the entire philosophy to Zeno himself, but the most famous Stoicist is probably, or Stoic, Marcus Aurelius, right? Roman Emperor, who wrote meditations, and he just set out all of his private thoughts on how to be more virtuous, and immune to temptation, and that is where we get a lot of our modern ideas of what it is to be, Stoical. What's another word for the way we interpret Stoicism? Now, I tied in with the idea of a stiff upper lip sometimes, not showing too much emotion. Being sort of reserved, but also reserved in the face of trauma or pain or whatever else. It's really about rationality, though ultimately, isn't it? It's an allogic, which is a word we should maybe go into. It's about, you know, applying the facts, not the emotions to the situation. Logos, of course, is the Greek word meaning word or account or reason depending on the context. And it's the rational order of the cosmos and the rational faculty within the human beings. Those multiple meanings of logos, meaning, you know, reason and also word, is why we have so many lodges andology words that you go up. And here it seems like it means words associated with that. And here it means thoughts associated with that. Well, that's because that study of, yeah, that's because that Greek word is kind of versatile. It goes along with, well, I guess this is more in persuasion, but ethos and pathos, ethos being credibility or character from, which means like character or customer or disposition. And then pathos, which is the appeal to emotion, all of which are associated with to critic method and then just rhetoric as a whole. Then you got ethics as well, which isn't a million miles off. Is it, which is the name of the tree name, where's the name given to a treatise of Aristotle, right? You know, who's, you've got, you've got, where you've got, you've got Socrates, Plato, Aristotle. That's the order they're coming. Right. But, but, yeah, one of his treatises gets labeled as Tart Ethica in Greek. And that's where it comes from. It's a list of sort of moral principles from Aristotle. Similar to metaphysics, which we talked about in a previous episode with about the prefix meta, which now we used to mean sort of beyond, but that wasn't really what it meant in Greek. The reason it became that is because Aristotle's, Tom Eta, Tart Ethica was a work that was literally titled The Thing After The Physics, because he wrote the physics first. And that was it, the first treatise and then he wrote the thing that came after the physics. And at first time, that after shifted to beyond. Yeah. But there is also sort of a sense, isn't there, that you should cover the like the physical and the material first and then cover the philosophical later as well, which kind of helps with that idea. He describes in this work the study of being, right? Well, we're talking about all these people, by the way. I was, I was wondering why we talk about Platonic Love and, and what Plato actually said about love. Platonic Love is, it's basically friendship. Not sexy. Not sexy love. So what does that have to do with Plato who wrote extensively about sexy love? Exactly. It's somehow drawn from his symposium, you know, intellectual, intellectual love. In the symposium, there are several pieces where Socrates is arguing with people about the highest form of love or what kinds of relationships are the most meaningful. I mean, I've looked up a lot of these words, but I haven't read any of these texts. I have to put the cards on the table, say this, I didn't study philosophy. And this is all new to me, but it's interesting how the words do reveal information about the philosophies as well. Right. I haven't read the symposium since high school, but I do remember some of the arguments within it. I did read Marx at university, which I think you're supposed to read at university. I only said we were not going to talk too much about politics, but Marxism is a philosophy and it's just a political philosophy. It's worth talking about maybe just a handful of those because I think it's quite interesting to see how close our modern interpretations of the terms are to what they originally meant, you know, liberalism is a fraught term now. Liberalism doesn't mean the same thing as liberal doesn't mean the same thing as neoliberal in the United States. Right. So what does neoliberal mean these days? Neoliberal means capitalist basically, right? It's free market capital markets, right? Deregulation, privatization, reduced government, which is the opposite of what they call liberal beliefs. Yeah, exactly. If you get called a liberal, right, a lefty liberal, or whatever, I mean, it's something completely different. It's an ultimate idea that people should be able to do what they want. So it means that people at complete opposite ends of a political spectrum can fall into the same umbrella and even throw a term that can be applied to them, at someone else as a result. It's madness. Dishearing. Conservatism is another interesting one as well because we talk about a big sea conservatism and big sea conservative and little sea conservative. And now in Britain, I've always thought of that as being, well, you know, big sea conservative is a member of the Conservative Party, which is felt with a big sea because you can be absolutely politically conservative without being. Obviously conservative like sort of Victorian. I know that's a stereotype about the Victorians and not but ultimately conservative, you know, conservatives and is concerned with conserving, right? About maintaining things as they are sort of resisting change, which actually political conservative political conservatives are not necessarily a first change. I would say the distinction we end up getting over here is between conservatism and conservationism, which is very much a more, especially when it pertains to the environment is a more left wing priority. Yeah, it's funny that isn't it whereas we're ethnologically speaking they basically I don't. I was also looking up republicanism now I realize now that I've just listed liberalism conservatism and conservatism even and republicanism that it seems like I'm just delving into American politics, which I genuinely was not doing I was looking at these terms because these terms are all relevant in one way or another in Britain as well, you know, republicanism is a movement. A movement to not have a monarchy for example to have a republic or you know in Ireland or Northern Ireland it's a it's the movement to be part of the Republic of Ireland rather than part of the United Kingdom. But I was just looking up where it comes from and it's from the Latin race publicer right and the race means affair and publicer, so obviously means public. It just means affairs of the public, which I think is kind of interesting. The United States is structured originally as a democratic republic a representative republic. But there's nothing actually in there that's in that heteromology that speaks to the idea of left wing or right wing. Yeah, exactly and obviously it's affairs of the public, but it doesn't necessarily imply that the public should be in charge. Right. All of these political philosophies are absurd, right, which also has very little to do with absurdism. Oh, very good. That's a bit of a big statement. Oh, it's okay. It's a pun. It's a pun. So, tell us about absurdism. So, philosophical absurdism is related to existentialism. It holds that human beings pursue purpose and coherence and justification while the universe offers silence, arbitrariness and no final explanation. It's just permanent tension that doesn't have a solution. So, it's often been associated with chemo and with the myth with Cicifist basically rolling the stone up the hill. In short and very reductively, he meant that everything we try to do is relatively pointless. Okay. But the word absurd has some absurdity baked into its etymology and it's also a little bit ableist, but it's a it's not an element of the prefix app, which means off or away and so are duiced. Which was an adjective primarily used to describe people who were deaf or nonverbal. So, why does absurd mean illogical or ridiculous or in the context of absurdism? What does it mean? But it just stuff doesn't matter. And there are two explanations. In Latin, the full word absurdist meant the same thing as the English word does today and was used to describe silly and improper behavior. But at the same time, it was used to describe a sound or a bit of music that was out of tune or discordant and goofy and wrong. So, one explanation is that absurd was meant to imply that something is out of harmony with what's normal or reasonable or proper or something that was tone deaf but like literally tone deaf. And then... Right. So, it's almost like abnormal. Yeah, exactly. But there's also some linguists have a more interesting and almost punny explanation because the Latin soar duice was applied to both someone who cannot hear and someone who is not heard. The term absurd could be said to describe things that are literally unheard of because they are so illogical and ridiculous. Right. Yeah, so that is punny. So, yeah, it's kind of a punny and modern term, modern English term, unheard of. Because it has been used in comedy for so long, that's also feasible. It sounds like too neat of an explanation but that logic does go back to Latin. Absurdism. Do you have nihilism there? It's on your lips. I do. It means nothing. Nothing is on your lips. Yes, of course, because it appears in that made up word, doesn't it floppin' knocky, hill and fillification. Yes. To esteem something as worthless because it's just a pile of terms meaning nothing or of no value and nihil is in there, which is where nihilism comes from. We interestingly get this from like German and Russian philosophers for the most part. Oh really? The Berlin winters pretty rough. Like Jacobi and Turgeniev, I would say, are the nihilists that I typically think of. The idea is it's the view that the world and especially human existence is without meaning purpose or comprehensible truth. So it's a little more intense than absurdism. It's like what you're doing is pointless but existing is still enough whereas nihilism is like, nope, doesn't matter. Existentialism is of course another approach altogether as well, isn't it? Existere, right? The Latin that the word exists comes from. It doesn't really mean what we think of it as meaning. It doesn't mean just sort of being. It's got it like literally when you pull it apart, it has quite a dramatic meaning that it almost means like to rise from the dead. Right? It's an end. We have all the time is to out. Yes, yes, exactly. It does mean literally to stand out but as if like, as if you were in the grave and you stood up out of it again. It's to present to yourself, you know, in a less spooky way, but it does mean just to stand out. Existere, right? And indeed it's related to the word stand, I suppose. It was a reaction to the notion that like humans have a divine purpose. Whereas this is like existence is more important and comes before like the essence of humanity. Okay. I'm learning a lot. Yes. And in like Aristotle wrote, I'm probably doing a lot of this badly. I'm sure we're going to be corrected and I look forward to learning more. This is going to be one of those ones where the comment section is going to be more informative than the video. Oh, that's okay with us. We're here for the words, not the thing pieces. In Aristotle, the essence of a thing came first. A thing had like a defining nature and its actions followed from that nature. And so Sartre, for example, reversed the order for human beings, human first find themselves existing. And only afterward define themselves through their choices and actions. I'm the worst because if I had to pick a philosophy, I'd go with eclecticism, which is where you can pick whatever you want. The philosophy for the indecisive. I like that part of that one and that part of that one. Yeah, that's right. I just call myself, you know, robism, my robism, just rolling with it. Just a pharism. Just keeping it real, rolling with it. Oh, I like it. The pharism is quite good. I could subscribe to the pharism. Can I take a side step to an English word? Because we talk about an awful lot of Greek Latin here. But I just, do you know that belief? Are you probably do, actually? I should ask this to a normal person. You're the way to believe. It's not supposed to start with a B. No, actually, I don't know this. Oh, okay, you're going to love this. Because belief used to be spelt with a Y or an I or a G pronounced like a, yeah, it's ilif. And for a long time, the word just was ilif. The B gets put on there because it's just a more credible sounding prefix. But it's related to, so this is a real surprise to me. The German for believe is Glaubern, right? And I thought, oh, that just seems like a completely different word to believe. But when you realize that the Y sound in old English is spelt with a G, then you realize that Gleeve and Glaubern are actually very close to one another. There's words across the Germanic languages along the lines of the German Glaubern and the English, the older English. I mean, old English, but also like middle English ilif that mean our word believe. And that's because believe is essentially a corrupted version of that word. The root, the proto-Indo-European root means to care, desire, or love. So it's related to the word love and libido. Yeah, indeed. Yeah, absolutely it is. It's also related to a Sanskrit word meaning to make people make you crazy, to make someone crazy. Yeah, well, this came up in our sexy episode recently. I did say that love and libido are related. That's right. And then confusion in Sanskrit also means, yeah, what is related to our word for love. But yeah, you've got this belief. So the bar gets put there for goodness knows what reason and the ending because it was spelled Y-L-E-V-E, right? But we spell it the way we spell it, probably influenced by the word relief, right? Because it sounded like relief. So that's how it ends up being so far away from the other Germanic words like Glaubern and such. But there you go. Believe should start with a Y. Incredible. That resonates neatly the connection between belief and love connects nicely with poetic notions and maybe even religious notions as well. P poetic notions like aphorism? Yeah. So that was me just trying to direct us towards something else that I've been doing some research on, which is aphorism, which is a sort of little snippets of philosophy. Tyrues to express modes of thinking. Yeah, yeah. There's a very specific definition of aphorism, you know, how it's different from just any old proverb or saying or whatever, because an aphorism you can usually attribute to a specific person who said it, like a proverb, which is kind of a received wisdom. And they're supposed to have like a sting in the tail. They're required some thought. They don't give you the solution, but they tell you a thing that allows you to get there. Here's a really nice aphorism. It's from a guy called Viesua Brzynski, he's a Polish aphorist. And I heard about this from a guy called James Geary, who is an American aphorist. And he says, the most difficult thing to find is the way to the signposts, which I really like. It's not telling you, I know that that statement itself is not, you know, all that wise, but it is if you consider it as a philosophical statement. I remember when studying philosophy in, say, high school and college, every philosopher kind of has an aphorism that you can use on your flashcards, right? Like the unexamined life is not worth living is the the Socrates association. And man is the measure of all things as protagonists, things like that. I think therefore I am for Descartes. Yeah, of course, cookie toe air goes. I didn't know if it's a parent's people that the ago, when we say, ago is the same as the one in cookie toe air go. Yeah. You know, therefore, yeah, there are a lot of sort of much more modern aphorists as well. Benjamin Franklin was quite the aphorist. Oh, and he's darling. Yeah, I mean, he's a great friend of the podcast, great friend of anyone who likes words, really, with his quirky attempts to revamp the alphabet and the English language more widely. But he said, a better slip with the foot than tongue, which I like. Oh, that's fun. Yeah, I do. I do a lot of both, but I definitely do more with my feet than my tongue. Here's one for it feels like one for our times. He that lies down with dogs shall rise up with fleas. Who you hang out with. And then just like, you know, I could say a lot of sort of American poets make for very good aphorists, Robert Frost, good fences make good neighbors. Yeah, maybe the ultimate sort of poetic aphorist of the past couple of centuries is Emily Dickinson, who was a type who would write entire poems that were aphorisms. Can I read you on please? This one is just round full of some. It's kind of the same point made over and over again, but each time in a very colorful and clever way. One of her poems is, A Wounded Dear Leaps Highest. A Wounded Dear Leaps Highest, I've heard the Hunter tell, it is but the ecstasy of death and then the break is still. It doesn't work in my accent. You should be reading this. The smitten rock that gushes the trampled steel that springs, a cheek is always redder just where the hectic stings. Murph is the male of anguish in which it causes harm, lest anybody spy the blood and your hurt exclaim. Sorry, my snotty congestive way of reading it. But there is just repeated over and over again the idea that, you know, the most shining examples of things can come at the times of theirs of greatest. Adversity like the Wounded Dear's last jump or the, you know, that that line about a cheek is always redder just where the hectic stings. The hectic is consumption, right? This is a redening from consumption. It's the idea that you used to have your skin glow as the brightest where it's most injured. Most, most hurt. A lot of Emily's work. My favorite is, have you heard there is no frigate like a book? No. There is no frigate like a book to take us lands away or any corsers like a page of printing poetry. This traverse may the poorest take without the without oppressive toll. How frugal is the chariot that bears the human soul? Basically cheap treasure troves in books. Frugal is the chariot that bears. He would solve nice. And he also wrote forever is composed of now's, which is again just the first line of a poem, but is in itself an aphorism. A strong one. A strong one. Forever is composed of now's lovely stuff. I should I briefly mentioned him James Geary. He's just written a book called The World in a phrase, a brief history of the aphorism. Yeah. It sounds like it's worth a read. I was listening to an interview with him and he was saying, yeah, an aphorism has to have a sting in the tail. So it does have to be a little bit sort of cheeky. Maybe cheeky's maybe not the word. It needs to have a sort of hard truth in it. Aphorisms have sometimes been criticized for being overly reductive, right? We're trying to boil down these massive philosophical concepts into a pithy saying that we can repeat often at in opportune times. And so that's why like Polonius in Hamlet has his series of aphorisms and he's considered he's one of the most quoted characters from that work. That's so funny, isn't it? Right, because he's Shakespeare is literally saying that he is full of empty words. Yeah, exactly. He was polonious. He said, well, don't listen to polonious. Right. And I'm thinking Mal who's just throwing out literally aphorisms, just throwing out proverbs and occasionally directly contradictory ones. Yeah, I mean, they are reductive, but you don't actually live your life by aphorisms. You just choose the aphorism that fits the moment you're in that helps to explain the idea, the philosophy that you want to get across. Oh, I managed to work the word philosophy in it. If any of you try to work out why we talk about aphorisms is because they're little philosophical statements. They are often affiliated with philosophers who spoke different languages than us and lived in different times, but their wisdom can be translated through these more pithy phrases. Yeah, a lot of Chinese wisdom is from aphorisms. You think of Confucius says, what comes next is an aphorism. Particularly if it's attributed to a specific person, it's an aphorism. So before we close out this episode, I do think it might be fun to talk a little bit about a few parody philosophies or philosophies that are intentionally absurd. Oh, great. I like the sound of these. Often these are criticisms of religion, but they also tend to have a philosophical edge to them, like hard philosophical, I suppose you could say. And I'd say the most famous one would be pastifarianism. Pastifarianism. Yes, the flying spaghetti monster is the deity of pastifarianism, a parody religion created in 2005. And why does it interest? So Bobby Henderson was a physics graduate from Oregon State University, and he wrote an open letter to the Kansas State Board of Education after it allowed intelligent design, the view that life requires an intelligent cause or a deity to be taught alongside evolution in public schools. And he argued that if intelligent design qualified as science, then belief in a supernatural being made of spaghetti and meatballs should receive equal classroom time. And he described the monster as invisible, detectable, altering scientific measurements with its nudily appendage. It's also a similar, although it's much sillier, it has predecessors. So, you know, Bertrand Russell's teapot, you could claim that there is a teapot orbiting Jupiter. There is a teapot there, and it is on, because we don't know that, it is on the person who claims the teapot is there to demonstrate it. To prove that there is infect a teapot. Yeah, yeah. A similar parody religion from the 90s, similar to the flying spaghetti monster is the invisible pink unicorn, who is a satirical goddess invented in online atheist communities, particularly a, a using that group that was called Alt atheism as a parody of religious claims and notions of attributes. So, she, the she, the invisible pink unicorn is defined by her invisibility and her pinkness, which, right, contradictory, but that's the magic. The notion is like supernatural assertions can be insulated from disproof by defining a deity or ghost or something as undetectable, and then treating the lack of evidence as compatible with belief. By the way, I'm not challenging anyone's belief systems here. I'm just explaining what the philosophies say. Yeah, because I'm actually a staunch past fairy, so, they're right. Lila Fauge. May, may has nudiliness reign. Another one that actually that has a lot more zaniness to it is a little bit older is discordianism, which was a religion founded in the 60s. The idea is that order and disorder are human-made conceptual grids imposed on deeper pure chaos. Later, a couple of other people published a series of discordian inspired novels called the Illuminatus Trilogy, which was this satirical postmodern sci-fi influenced adventure story filled with drugs and sex and magic through conspiracy theories. And it involves the notion of operation, mind, which, excuse me, in my deep mind. In which they attribute all national calamities assassinations or conspiracies to the Illuminati. And this is the sort of, this is where we started blaming everything on the Illuminati, which appeared many times throughout the 20th century. In the books, the introduction, Fnord, is given hypnotic power to the over the unenlightened, and children in grade school are taught to be unable to see the word consciously. And for the rest of their lives, every appearance of the word subconsciously generates a feeling of unease and confusion that prevents rational consideration of the text in which it appears. Fnord. Fnord. It's like fjord, but with a nune. So they can't hear that. Or if they did hear it, it would trigger them. You're asking me to explain this to a degree that I don't fully understand, but this is what I have read. I think this episode has been about anything, about explaining things that we don't really understand. When we were preparing for this episode, Rob said, what is it? You said, people have spent their whole lives wrapping their heads around. And I was like, they've also spent their whole heads wrapping their lives around it. It's very true. I was trying to get my head around it on a Monday morning with a cold. Thanks for bearing with me. And sorry, everyone for the sinuses. It's soldiery Garnet. Maybe in the future, we only, we mostly focused on European philosophies. So maybe we can delve into more global. Don't promise that. Please don't. It's a super hard. It's just hard enough. I don't know what I have to learn Mandarin as well. Okay. Yeah, all right. Well, maybe we'll do something later. We won't. Oh, they're quite great. It did. It's due to that. Thanks a lot for joining us this time round. We'll see you next time on Words Unraveled. Thank you.