---
video_title: "Missing family member names in English"
video_id: HcJOx-hlTCk
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HcJOx-hlTCk
video_date: 2026-02-13T14:14:27+00:00
video_description: |
  Rob and Jess talk about missing words for family members in English.
---
So, a lexical gap or an accidental gap is when a word could, or even seems like it should exist, because grammar allows for it, and the words and sound patterns exist, but we just don't for various reasons. We also have these meaning-based gaps too, right? So, concepts that exist within our realm of experience, we don't have words for them. And a big one, I'd say, in terms of things that many people have, is words for different family and members that we just don't have a word for. Like your niece or your nephew, we don't have a gender-neutral version of that word, so people have made up a neologism, nibbling to fill that gap, right? So, this is one of the fun things about lexical gaps, is you get new words out of them too. You know, I want a word for. I want a word for my sister's husband's family. Now, I know that's sort of technically a kind of in-law, but it doesn't really work for me, right? My brother-in-law's brother should therefore also be my brother-in-law, but that can't be right. Can it? My mother. I mean, I've never heard of a fairly metham. Yeah, exactly. It's in-law-in-laws. We need a term for that. You know, a language that's got a lot of these terms, is Korean. Korean is really good at nailing down the specifics of family members. For example, they do have separate words for your older brother and younger brother, an older sister and younger sister. And we just have too many syllables for that, I guess. Yeah, well, I mean, we require a minimum of two words to do it, which could be better. It's a lexical gap. Maybe your additional in-laws could be your out-laws. Oh, I like that. Yeah, you could in-laws. But the more distanced of the out-laws, then you've got the younger laws. You know, every one of them.