---
video_title: "Slurs and taboo words explained"
video_id: 6JYqGa_-UZE
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6JYqGa_-UZE
video_date: 2026-03-11T06:00:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Rob and Jess are joined by the brilliant John McWhorter to discuss words you're not allowed to use. Professor McWhorter has written extensively about taboos, slurs and profanities and brings his unparalleled expertise on the English language. 
  🤬 Is "the R word" becoming even more taboo?
  🤐 Are we "unaliving" our way to a new era of self-censorship?
  🔄 Can a slur ever be truly "reclaimed"?
  These questions answered, and many more, in a fascinatingly frank episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  More about John: https://johnmcwhorter.org/
  📕 Nine Nasty Words: https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/624619/nine-nasty-words-by-john-mcwhorter/
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
What makes a profanity profane? How does a word become a slur? And are we entering a new era of self-sensorship? We're here with linguistic Titan John McWhorter, one of the leading minds in language, to discuss pejoratives and pedantry on this episode of Words Unraveled. I'm so excited about this one. Welcome to another Words Unraveled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel Rob Words. And I'm Jess the Ferris author of etymology books, including useless etymology. And today we are here with a legend of the linguistic space. John McWhorter, who is a longtime professor of linguistics, and authored How Many Books Have You Written? Technically 24. Actually. Okay, that was going to be my estimate. So I'm glad I'm not too far off. And these books have covered American English dialects, Creole languages, race and language profanity, and so much more. Do you have a favorite that you have written? My favorite of my books is probably the power of Babel, which was one of the early ones. And I wrote it just basically saying exactly what I wanted to say, sharing what I wanted to share, not feeling like anybody was looking over my shoulder, not writing it, thinking about making money. It was just a labor of love. And now it's getting a little antique, but that's always going to be my favorite. That one is just me basically. Have you considered another edition? Thought about it. And actually there is an editor who I've talked about that with. And it might be worth it. I mean, I have to really get rid of the pop culture references, you know, writing about married with children. And you know, all these things that, you know, nobody has any idea what they're meant. And a lot of my thoughts have changed. Yeah, I would do it if the opportunity were right. Yeah, that one could be refreshed. Yeah. I'm glad you brought up pop culture references because that's part of what we want to talk about a little bit today, right? Actually, it relates mostly to one of your books called Nine Nasty Words, which is particularly relevant now. It's about words that are taboo to some extent, profane slurs. Actually, that is exactly where I want to start with you. Is asking what the differences are between those terms? You know, swears or curses or cusses, indeed. Profanity and a slur. What makes something one of those things? Well, I think that we happen to apply certain labels to certain words because of when in history they were taboo and what word happened to be used. And so we can say that, you know, hell and damn, and if I may, f*** our profanity, they are profane. They go against certain rules. They're not properly religious, etc. But really, I'm a lumper rather than a splitter. And when I wrote Nine Nasty Words, I was thinking at first, I really don't think I could get anything out of the book that was just about damn f***. I thought, frankly, it's been done and or that doesn't really interest me. What really grabbed me was that those things in my mind are no longer our profanity. The profanity is the slurs. Now, you can say that when you use a word to refer in a pejorative way to some group, we call that a slur. But in the grand scheme of things, it's what is profane at any given time. And I honestly believe that, you know, from the Martian anthropologist perspective, there is no difference between how people felt about saying damn a thousand years ago and how people feel about using the N word now. I think they're the exact same thing. It's just what makes you shudder. And so for me, it was really the nine, although in the book, after a while, you can tell it's really 12. But Nine Nasty, because that sounds better, words and I thought it starts with damn, but then it ends with something like, you know, C-U-N-T. And that's the human nature of these words as they change over time. In the answer you've just given, you said various words that we may or we may not bleep when we put this out. But at the end, you did not say the C word. You spelled it out, which is just one approach to it. In American English, that's the worst one next to the N word, which even I don't say. I think that frankly, it's a little overdone that now you're not allowed to say it at all, but you choose what hill you're going to die on. But then also C-U-N-T. No, I will only utter it once, say, in a class, to indicate that that's the topic. But it's too strong. In other words, it's profane in the way that f*** was a hundred years ago. But it's interesting that the C word is not a slur, or is it a slur? Against women, yeah. Yeah, well, exactly, but that's interesting, isn't it? Because it's in Britain. In America. It's used a lot less towards women to it is. Yes. And it's almost loving, you know. Oh, it can be. Not as much as the Australians, I mean, if you're your best friend, then that's the word that's coming out. In Britain, you've got to be very, very close to get away with it. Right, right, exactly. It is interesting in general that casual swearing has become more visible and more socially acceptable on the internet in recent years, probably because online discourse is couched in like humor. And if not humor, then it's meant to be seen or generate a reaction or shock value of some kind, right? Yeah. I mean, it's the internet is a casual space. And so even though we're writing, we're using our fingers, it's kind of what you call sort of fingered speech. And so it's casual speech. It's the bar stool. And so therefore, the profanity happens. And a lot of what goes on online is trying to get attention. And the way you get attention is by breaking rules. And so yes, there will be a great deal of swearing online for that reason. But there's also a category of word. We've started not saying things in some online spaces that weren't profanity at all. In I think it started on TikTok in particular, Elgo speak has started including the avoidance of words like die and kill and suicide because there's a notion that those might cause your video to be taken down or suppressed by the algorithm of some kind, which I have not noticed to be true. Yeah, I mean, I was watching a channel the other day. A lady called Lauren the Mortician. And she specialises it. She's an influencer but she is a mortician. And she analyzes tales of murder and bodies and stuff. But she was talking about a very high profile suicide. Recent, not a recent one, but one that is incredibly high profile. The biggest one in the news right now. Yes. And yeah, avoided all the way through it, using that word suicide referred to self-unaliving, referred to unsubscribing from life. What are we calling this kind of self-censorship? And does it have to fit in with the definitions that we've already talked about? To be honest, I see that as a kind of and almost self-generated new profanity because in using the substitute, you're doing something kind of interesting. You are making it look like you're going against the grain and therefore having to disguise yourself. And so it means that all of those ways of talking around it, those recreationally awkward new terms or ways of using emojis, all of that is a way of, you know, en-wording and f***ing and f***ing in a new creative way. It makes you look a little bit naughty and daring. I'm not surprised that that's happened. You could almost have predicted that there would be kind of neo profanity based on how word processing and search engines were. It reminds you of sort of saying dag Namiya to something something that's very close to the profanity, but it isn't. But in its own way, it's a sort of creative thing. Although I tend to agree with Jess, I think either people are overestimating the effect that the use of these words will have on the performance of their content, which is ultimately what it comes down to. Either they are overstating that or they are very deliberately trying to do something that is interesting. And I would go with that partly because it's rather obvious at this point that people aren't being pulled into a dark black hole because of using some word. It doesn't happen enough to justify how proliferated this new slang is. And so I think it's all a kind of, it's fashion. It's just, you know, it's changing things up because we crave novelty. That's been my interpretation of it. I hope it is that because one of the other arguments is a financial one, which is that. So I know I upload things to YouTube all of the time and as I will have done this video. And at one point, I will have had to state whether or not this video contains certain references. And the reason I have to do that is for its ad availability. It's for whether or not it will receive the maximum number of different adverts from the maximum possible number of advertisers possible. So if I say, well, actually it does contain talk of suicide or it does include slurs, then all of a sudden, you know, the little green dot turns orange or it turns red. And I, we are going to make less money. So there's a financial incentive for using self-unalived. For example, I'm not accusing Laura and the mortician specifically of that. But I would be 100% sure that is a driver for some people. I don't think the algorithm either, I think it allows for, to some extent, people to talk about these terms and subjects in an academic way. Otherwise, news organizations wouldn't be able to talk about things that happened in real life on YouTube. Yeah, it's still very creative use of language because somebody, and I don't think we can usually mail down, who somebody has to come up with the euphemism. And then the question is whether it's going to catch on. And if it does, then, you know, we've seen the birth of something new, which then, I mean, the other thing that's going to happen is that a lot of those terms are going to settle in and have specific shades of meaning that stick around even when it's no longer about, you know, certain gents and cancellations. So this is true of unalive, for example. That could start to mean something very specific. It would settle in gradually, and it would be one more word for dead that has a certain shade. And so all this is also probably helping the rootstock of the languages vocabulary, but we'll have to see it. That's an altogether more positive outlook on it than I had. Drone. It's a persuasive one, though. It's a persuasive one. I would love to pivot to something Rob brought up before we were, when we were preparing for this episode. And it's another taboo word, one that we're not allowed to say. And I'm going to say it, but like retarded is the insult that has become one that I think a lot of people feel uncomfortable saying it felt uncomfortable when I said that too. When I was a child, I had an aunt who had a mental disability and her sister who was her age comfortably said she suffered from mental retardation, which is not quite the same as when we throw that as an insult at someone for who is misbehaving on the internet or so the person says, can you talk a little bit about how that word has become what it is today? Yeah, that word is interesting because, you know, people tossed it all over the place in the 70s and into the 80s when I was growing up. And after a while, it became a taboo term because of the associations with it, many of which are for better or for worse negative. And so there were new ways of referring to somebody who was what you might call cognitively challenged. And it changes about every 10 years on special needs covers some of it. Nobody was called special needs when I was a kid, that now that's a common term. And what it meant was that retarded, if I may say it once, got gunked up in the same way that first there was the word bum in America, which my mother as a social worker very casually used. And then homeless starting in the 90s, now homeless sounds the way bummed it in 1970. And so we say unhoused, is that euphemism treadmill. And that happened with the R word. But of course, the internet is all about transgression. And teenage and 20-something boys are especially about transgression. And the American Republican Party right now is especially about transgressions. So all of a sudden, we're seeing that word used, which at first I found kind of antique. It reminds me of being in summer camp in like 1976, and the way the little boys would say, you retard or something like that. But now it's grown people, you know, sitting in studios and using these words. And part of it is because they know that they shouldn't. And so Joe Rogan has even said that retarded is back and unclad, because he didn't like the idea that you weren't allowed to say it. So that's why that has come back. And I don't think there's anything we can do about it, because transgressing is so much of what communication is about. We think it's about saying, oh look, the moon is yellow. But one thing that communication is really much more about than saying the moon is yellow is to say, hey, look, the moon is blue. It counterintuitive is something that a whole lot of language machinery is all about. If you say, oh my god, he had a pink-ass piano. That doesn't mean that the piano had buttocks. And it doesn't mean that the piano was hot pink or something like that. The piano wasn't supposed to be pink. And so counterintuitive. And then another thing that we tend not to think about, because it's not on the grammar books, is that a lot of what we say is based on getting attention. It's almost a kind of counterintuitive mess. You want to transgress. And that's especially if you're young. It's also partly personality type, but it's there. And so when we see the rebirth of the R word, we can just think of it as part of that. And so if you know you're not supposed to say it, well, big surprise, a certain kind of person is going to say it. And that's what inevitably happens. What I thought was interesting when I encountered this issue just today. I was just doing my usual washing my YouTube videos. And it was John Oliver, actually. He referred to the word that you guys have both said now. I don't need to say it. But he referred to it as the R Slur, which is not the R Slur. I know he's British, but the R Slur. And I thought that was interesting, because I hadn't heard it referred to as that. I've heard that R word perhaps. But I wonder if, and I'm asking you both as people who are your side of the Atlantic, because I feel like it's a bit more of a thing of a moment that you guys are having over there. Whether the sides are sort of moving further apart from each other here, and actually the word is becoming even more to boo on one side because of its proliferation on the other side. Is that what's happening? My impression was that before there was a movement to use the word to put it in people's faces that the R word, I had never classified it as a Slur, but I remember what is it? It's 2011. I was doing a class and there was a girl from Brazil, undergraduates and there's a girl from Brazil. English, absolutely excellent, just a slight accent, full idiomatic command, but one of these internationals who's grown up with like three languages, but she had spent most of her life in Brazil, and she just made a casual usage of the R word, and what she meant was she was condemning somebody who, as a matter of fact, had killed a capybara. And so she said, and this person was right, and the whole class just exploded with left, or the idea being that why would anybody use that word? So it retarded was a Slur then, and yet I would never have thought of putting it in non-nasty words because we don't tend to classify it that way, calling it the R Slur makes that more likely. But yeah, it's a word that in my demographic would never be used casually. It would be improper at the backyard barbecue. And so yeah, it's definitely one of them, but I think that happened before, Joe Roganitis and stuff. It is interesting that it echoes the same trajectory as words that similarly used to be used in clinical spaces like imbicil and things like that, which no longer has as many teeth. More on. If you call someone a moron or an imbicil, mostly they are not that offended because it's just not a word that we typically consider as being offensive or even having teeth, you know, whereas this one still seems to have teeth. It is interesting that this happens so frequently with words for mental disabilities. The R word ends up being particularly taboo because it seems to zero end specifically on the nature of the condition that your thought is slower than it's held back. As opposed to moron and imbicil, which are one far into the English rootstock and also kind of opaque. You know, we don't know what somebody's an imbicil. What's a bistle? The R word says something. That's true. That's one of our orphaned negatives that we've talked about on this show before. Without a stick, I think we can't. We'd need to invent. It's more of a physical disability reference. Is that what the bachial is? Yeah, it is. I mean, it is also transferred to the idea of your brain by that. It's the idea of it being sort of unsupported. It's an interesting one. I was looking up these words because even the word like idiot doesn't begin as a slur. It means a private individual. It means you're the way you are. Right. It's a more like idiot. Yeah, like idiosyncratic means now. We can expect that. But originally to the Greeks' idiotes is a private individual. And I guess someone who's in their own world perhaps would be a good way to transfer it. And in the romance languages, idiotisms are just sayings. And so just specific little sayings and idiotism. And then we have it as meaning, well, it's not just what you're like, but you're that way, which is called the purification of a word. Yeah, lovely. So regular viewers are going to be delighted to hear some proper etymology in this discussion of some words that we're very uncomfortable with. I mean, it's interesting how we're still handling taboos around. We talked about health, mental health already, but also just general health, right? I mean, we still prefer sometimes to refer to cancer as the big C. We refer to tuberculosis as TB. And I don't think that's just because it's quicker. I think people don't want to... You don't want to zero in on it. You don't want to zero in on it. I just learned that during the Black Death, they refer to the plague as St. Christopher or St. Giles or something like that. To counteract. Damn too. Yeah, exactly. So it's not just that you don't want to tempt the badness. You also want to counteract it with some extra holiness. It's right. As well, but we still have these sensualities. And death is obviously another one. I mean, we do anything to avoid saying someone's dead. They are resting in peace, right? Just say that somebody passed for... Yeah, exactly. It's a movement. But to just say they died is a little rude in many circumstances. Yeah. But what are these? Are these profanities? Are they... They're certainly not slurs. They're taboos. Well, what we have is something else that is a big part of language that we're not taught because we're always taught, you know, past and future, etc. is that there are softeners. And so to really speak a language is to know that there's a direct way of saying something. And then the way that you probably say it, amidst normal social intercourse and so for a party. If you're leaving, you cannot say, I'm leaving. That's just not within the grammar, you say, well, I'm going to head out and then you gradually leave. There's no such thing as saying, I'm leaving. I had a question about words that we might no longer associate with the more taboo or more pejorative senses that they come from. The one that comes to mind for me is the word jip, which people in recent history I think have re-associated with the word it came from, which is gypsy, right? But at the same time, people, I have noticed people avoiding it recently, but then I have also seen people just using it in normal and common parlance without knowing what it means. Do you have any thoughts on that kind of process and this rediscovery of words like that? Well, I think part of the issue with jip is that the person known as the gypsy is relatively marginal to the American consciousness. Gypsies are thought of as a problem, etc. the way they often are in European countries for better or for worse. And I think that an awful lot of people in American English haven't been aware that it was wrong to use the term gypsy. There's a musical called gypsy that's constantly produced. So I think I, as a relatively language sensitive person, gypt, of course, was commonly used in the 70s and 80s, then kind of stopped being used. And I think I vaguely know that it had something to do with the Roma, but I'm not sure if I did know. And I think it's partly just because the Roma are not a significant demographic element here. It'd be interesting to see how that went. Maybe, for example, in the UK where there are more, quote, unquote, gypsies. But here, it's just such a marginal thing that I imagine that's why it's coming back. Like, I don't know anybody who's using gypt as a way of being a smarty pants. It's just, I don't know what, you know, the person in question is. What's interesting here is I have no idea what words you guys are talking about. The idea of being gypt, that means something, doesn't it? Because I don't think it means something in British English, which I think speaks to exactly what you were. That's interesting. You were just saying. It was very much the slang term for getting cheated through the 70s. There's a peanut, a Charlie Brown strip that very casually used it, called something a chocolate jip cookie. And that was considered very funny. But it wasn't a slur. But by the 90s, I would say, it's not something I would have said. To be honest, the problem just thought that the term became outdated. You know, now you get screwed or something like that. But it used to be gypt, G-Y-P-P-E-D. You have very, very third grade, as I recall. Maybe it's the renewed modern interest in etymology that has made people. More aware of such things, right? I don't want to speak for all brits and all of Britain when I say that. But I personally have not heard that word used. It may have been cut, counted some points. In British English, what is the word for getting cheated? The kind of slang peanut butter word? Dupt, maybe. Which even to me has a sort of American ring to it. Part of speech seems to matter with slurs in particular, too. Like the R word we were talking about before, as a noun versus an adjective was, I think, more pervasive or more negative in the past than the adjective. Yeah. What? Yeah. To call somebody, yeah, exactly. What's interesting here is we're talking about the return of a word by the people that it doesn't refer to. But you have written a lot, John, about words being reclaimed by the people to whom they refer. Which is a phenomenon of its own. Yeah. It's one of the oddest things. There's a reason people write whole books about the N word in particular. Because one way that human beings who are looked down upon defuse a slang term is to just a slur against them. Just use it themselves. And that's just, you know, in any language, you know, a pizon in Italy or something like that. And that's what people do. You could have predicted that that would have happened with the N word. And so what it really means when black people use it among one another is deer or buddy. But then we have this idea in America that we're going to possibly ban ever saying the word in any meaning, and even extending that to people using it as a term of endearment. And that's a really hard ask because you're asking people to go against a human tendency that's about self-definition and pride and fellowship. But the usual thing is that for example, there are gay men who, I'll say once, will use Fag, you know, among one another. That's also happened with the term Dijk among women who are using that term. And so that's just normal. You know it's coming. And yeah, with the N word, it's become so sacred, so to speak, in America, that we're asked to go against our natural impulses, which is why the word always remains so sensitive. Controversial. Yeah, so that usage by one group has not actually, it's not, it's not improved anything about the word. Has it? You essentially just have two parallel meanings. The offensive one remains and is used by a completely different set of people. For size. The people that have reclaimed the word. I'm putting air quotes around that for our listeners. The awkward thing is that because in some ways, not always, but in some ways, the races in America are coming together in a way that they weren't in the past. That, you know, slowly, we are getting past it. And there's some people who would burn me in FFG for saying it, let them. It is not the way it was 50 years ago. It means that a lot of younger, non-black people have a natural impulse to want to say, an IGGA, because they're using it as a term to mean buddy. And even if they don't mean it to a black person, they'll often use it among one another, because they figure it's in the music they like, it's in the movies they watch, why can't we use it. And it's natural for them to think it's a word meaning buddy, and that we're signifying among ourselves the same kind of fellowship that we watch black men signalling among themselves. And a lot of black men are okay with it too. But it's sensitive because really what the language wants to do is have the one that ends in ER as the slur, which is almost never heard in polite company now. And then the one that ends in A meaning, yo, my buddy. That's where the language wants to go. And we would say, well, it emerged among black men. And then it jumped the rails and became general, like many black English terms do here. But with that one, because there's the whole argument as to whether it's one word or two, and that they sound alike, it ends up in that it's probably about dialect and how you pronounce even the ER one. It's always tricky. So yeah. I've seen recently discourse around people saying that a lot of Gen Z terms in general come from black music, which I think is really neat to observe. Like, like, bussion comes to mind or no cap or things like that. Sus originally is black music and black culture. And it seems like Gen Z kids and Gen Alpha kids increasingly. Because Gen Z isn't kids anymore. They almost don't consider that to be significantly culturally different. No, it's music and also just gay, black, ballroom culture and that whole space, which I don't really know that much about. But it is linguistically, always has been linguistically extremely creative. And so a lot of the terms now that our thought of is just kind of slanging and cute, come from that. And so what's the latest one I learned on this? I almost want to ask my 14 year old. It's the term that means something like picked up on and it involves tea. Well, also the whole tea thing, tea as all of that is from that culture. And that's a wonderful thing. I mean, America wasn't talking blackly in 1925. And it just shows that the old lines are fading even if they're not there. But yeah, at this point, if there's a new colorful slang term that the kids are using, chances are it came from darker, skinned people. You know, what's interesting is if it didn't, you know, 6-7 is not something that people black and gay and dancing were saying. That one has its own history. But with a lot of them, it's based on that pathway. No one would have expected that in even 1980. And here we are. Teas of particularly interesting, wasn't it? Because it's not only from black culture, but it's also black drag culture as well. Yeah, specific sub culture within the culture, exactly. Yeah. That's excellent. And then we've also, we have more entertainment that focuses on that sub culture. So it enters more common usage. And on that note, you talk. Not clocked my tea or something. It's the usage of cloth. Sorry, I had to get that. Anyway, good. Oh, no, that's great. Is that to notice someone's? No, to notice to figure someone out. I, oh, he clocked me. That's one that I hope is summer from young people. So, yeah. And he could talk to my tea. And you do, you annotate a tea cup while you say it. I'm told. Oh, that's part of it. I mean, yeah, I would say clocked. Like, I clocked that, but not. I hadn't heard. I clutched my tea. That's great. It's around. It also sounds very lady shabli, right? He extremely, yeah. And yet I heard it from 13 years old. Right. I'm speaking of dialectical terms, which you write about extensively, and one angle of it, which is something we've discussed a lot before. And that's why so many people, even when they are aware of other modes of communication, feel that they need to champion a certain mode of proper English. And in the process, they can end up either frustrated or marginalizing people based on the slang they use. Why do you think people have an impulse to, even if you know a lot about language and grammar and dialect, why do you think people feel the need to protect a particular mode of communication? Part of it is that it's perfectly natural to think that the language that's used in the most formal or vanilla circumstances is somehow the real thing, especially because print looks so permanent. And then there's all this stuff where people are just talking. It's perfectly natural, almost like he's using this word in this episode, but inevitable for people to think that way. And also, it's also part of being human to like feeling superior to some other group. That's just what we do. And because morality does advance and being openly racist is considered something to get past, being openly sexist is something that we justifiably police. There is one last remaining classism. And it's about life, which is very easy to say, you don't know how to use the word, whom what's wrong with you? That is the equivalent of wrapping somebody on the head with your cane in 1885, calling them a ruffian. And so I think that that's part of what's going on there. But it's also just natural. And so for example, I have been now preaching for decades about how all human fluid speech is cognitively equal. That there's no such thing as a cognitively normal human being speaking some sort of bad version of a language. And I've meant it. And I've written with great affection about the newish, now not new, but newish usage of like and how it's subtle and there are dissertations written about it. I must admit, I have an 11 and a 14-year-old. They say like every five words. And there's a part of me that thinks, stop it. You don't send it. And I don't say it. I have told them, say that all you want, just pull back on it in formal circumstances. But I must admit in real life, I find myself thinking, must you say that word every five times? And it doesn't make any sense. But I have a certain ingrained idea that the language of the Wall Street Journal is the real thing. And I'm a fussy, cardiganed kind of person. And so the way I talk, I believe, is kind of close to that. And I don't say like every five words. And I'm too old ever to have. And so, yeah, it's natural. Even a me can't help but see some ways of communicating as more lowly. And then I can smack myself. But most people haven't been studying languages and dialects forever because they're great many more interesting things to do. And so you can't help but think that there's a sloppy way of talking and then the real way of talking and people need to do it the real way more. It's just it's natural. There is a sentence that occasionally pops into my head. And I'm pretty sure it's from your magnificent bastard tone or rather our magnificent bastard tone. And it's along the lines of you. I did it if you remember it yourself for beta. But it's something like the idea that people are stumbling around getting the language wrong is nonsense. People are successfully communicating. That is the language. I think was the point you were sort of making. That sounds, I love that book. I'm looking at it right now. May have been what I said or may have been in the next one, which I'm looking at too, what language is. But yes, the idea that people are walking around stumbling linguistically. It's just not the case unless somebody has aphasia. Or is drunk or something like that. Yeah, but it's part of it that people invest in learning grammar. And I mean, quite literally financially, they're parents will invest in them being taught this stuff. But people invest time in it. And therefore when they witness someone doing it differently, wrongly to their mind and maybe in some cases, wrongly. I don't know, I think something's wrong. That's one of the reasons why that is so offensive to them. Yeah, because it looks like the other people didn't do the work. Or you're kind of proud of yourself. Or it means that the work that they put into it doesn't matter. Right. Exactly. And so what did I go to all this effort for if you're just going to walk around talking like that? Yeah. Yes. It's still getting your McDonald's order just quickly as me. It wouldn't be that exactly. I have noticed that people want me to be a champion of a style guide of some kind or a mode of communication. And I edit many things for a living too. And I'm like, well, I have to work with three different style guides for my three different publishers. So I don't really get to be an advocate of one over another. No. And the style guides are often quite arbitrary. I mean, by very well-meeting people, but these rules are often based in, I mean, that's the thing. People don't get. I just happen to have this prop. Those rules are made up by people writing with a feather in the 1700s. Don't ask me why I have this feather acidic right here. Who are now? I assume that's how you wrote your book. That's not what I'm going to do. It's a long story. But it's by people from that long ago who died. And they are the ones who decided what we're now being told is correct. And it's easy not to know that. But it's hard. But then again, you have to, what hill are you going to die on? I don't say my daughter and me went to the museum in any kind of public setting. I've learned to say my daughter and I. The rule itself isn't utter absurdity. But people are people. And then things are going to be heard in certain ways. And if I insist on saying my daughter and I, then who am I to say that there is no room for arbitrary rules? But the thing is there are arbitrary. They're just as arbitrary as fashion rules. And that's what I think it's easy for people not to know. You have to put on clothes and get to the point where you have to put on certain clothes and not others. No woman now walks around in a hat wearing a girl and wearing a dress and my ears. That's luckily that's no one can insist there. But still, these fashion changes are arbitrary. Ultimately. But here we are. I think the best perspective for me comes from looking at the rules of dialectical English. And because they do have rules, they're just not written down unless by people like you, which I think is really neat. Because the internal logic applies just as much. And if you break those rules, then people notice that it's not weird. Yeah. The most counterintuitive thing is that black English has rules. And ones that speakers themselves have no way of knowing. In other words, it's normal human language, but it's so hard to hear it that way. And that goes for any non-standard dialect. So there is a written form of English. And I don't think we necessarily talk about it as being the case. I think we automatically think of written English as being that the spoken form committed to paper, but it isn't in much the way that when we read old English, it's all classical Latin. It's maybe a better example of it. It's a sort of idealized, perfect version of a language that is being actually spoken in a very different way. By almost everyone, almost everyone who speaks English does not speak the same as we're taught to write it. And we should write it because you're going to be understood by the broadest number of people if you do stick to those rules. Yeah, you have to learn the written form. And it has rules. And some of them are arbitrary. Some of them are just that you can make a longer sentence more easily in writing. That's important. You use a capital I for the first person singular pronoun writing. You have to. That's just the way it is based on conditions a long time ago. And in general, written language can often be more precise because you have a chance to think about it. And the person reading it has a chance to go read back as opposed to just talk, which is quite different. But it's easy to under. It's easy to miss that writing and casual speech are going to be very different. But that doesn't mean that casual speech is bad or lesser than writing. Because casual speech is where language actually begins. Writing only comes along much later. But that's a tough one too. Writing versus speaking. I teach that in my linguistics classes. I thought usually very much in textbooks. But I make sure students understand that there's writing and talking. Because really, to be a literate person is to have two codes in a way. But you're not taught to think of it that way. Yes, just easy. I mean, how old is writing? Writing is not. Well, no. Yeah, we're talking fewer than 5,000 years. 5,500 years. And so if humanity had existed based on the idea of homo sapiens is 250,000 years old, which I think is being revised. The old factoid was, if humanity had only existed for 24 hours, writing only came around during the last five minutes of those 20-row. That's the duty. That's the duty. It is. Yeah. So that's real language is what we're doing right now. And then about 200 languages are written in any real way. And that means that 6,800 are just talked. So that's why we linguists like casual speech and spoken language. Because that's most of what language is. And then there's this written artifice that happens in certain societies at a certain time of that 10 minutes ago. And that's interesting, too, but it's not the main meal. I mean, did you're taking us really far away from what we're talking about here? But it's interesting. And I wonder what your take is on this. The languages that do have a written form take up a lot more space in the brain of linguists and linguistic researchers in a way that perhaps, and you have written about this. That perhaps comes to the detriment of our actual understanding of English. And the reason that I thought there's just popped into my head is the Celtic influence on English, which you've definitely written about. And the fact that we potentially have a lesser understanding of that as a sort of species, or I don't know, I would describe it, because the Celtic Britons didn't write anything down. Right. Or not back then they didn't. And so we'd be. No, because you should, yeah, sort of, be writing plenty now. Yeah. And so, yeah, but being, it's lost to the record what those interactions were like, what Celtic was like, what early spoken English was actually like. And so there's so much that you just have to guess. But yeah, you get an artificial sense of how language really works by only going from what the big written languages in one book. I think that was definitely what language is. I said that the way we often think about languages is if we're on the shore, we're at the sea shore. And we can see some fish in there, and maybe there's some lobster, or something, and the things that wash up, and you figure, well, that is sea life, as opposed to actually being underwater and seeing all of what's under there. And there are these pictures in Victorian books of under sea life. And they have all these creatures draped over the frame of the picture, as if that's what it is. And a lot of it is clearly that some squid washed up on the beach or something. And to them, that's what the ocean life is, because they couldn't go under yet. Nobody had seen what's under there. The linguist is kind of like somebody who's been under and says, oh my God, there's the sperm whale and they're jellyfish, the condense, and all these things. And people were standing on the beach saying, no, there's just a clam, and dead trout. That's the analogy. I think a dead trout is a wonderful place to end our conversation. Beautiful. Trow on this. Yeah. Well, thank you so much for joining us, Jan. This has been amazing. It's a huge pleasure. Please keep doing what you're doing and communicating that the barely-comprehensible world of linguistics towards more tools, to us in a way that we can understand. You and I will. Well, we'll see you all next time on another Words Unraveled. Are you going to leave? Okay. Are you going to leave? Yeah. I'll leave. N-no, N-no. Oh gosh, Smells are My Sum. Oh, Smell my figure. I haven't seen you ever since I was in the musical.