---
video_title: "The origins of slang words"
video_id: 8HuQo5xKSZI
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8HuQo5xKSZI
video_date: 2026-07-01T05:00:39+00:00
video_description: |
  Did you know that "slang" is a slang word? Or that Aretha Franklin has been given props for giving us the word "props"?
  
  Jess and Rob are exploring the origins of all manner of slang, from the rhyming slang of Victorian London, through the gay argot Polari, to today's Gen Alpha lingo.
  
  🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿 ROB'S EDINBURGH SHOW 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿
  Tickets: https://www.edfringe.com/tickets/whats-on/robwords-live
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
in rhyming slang. What is a rubbity [music] dub? What's the groove in groovy? And can you speak dizzouble dizzutch? Don't scadaddle and don't be a square. We're getting sendy with

youth [music] slang, back slang, can't Polari, and more on this episode of Words Unravelled. [music] Welcome to another Words Unravelled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel RobWords. And I'm Jess Zafarris, author of etymology books, including useless etymology. And today we're talking about some slang. It's going to be a cool time. We'll we'll give you some props. We won't

be too square. Who am I? Who am I kidding? We will be such squares. [laughter] I think being square is one of our things, but we will be square about the word square as well. And look

at where that came from. Jess has very cleverly given you an example of some of the slang terms that we're going to be getting into. We're also going to be looking at types of slang, you know, cocky rhyming slang and the like as well. But we should maybe start with the word slang itself because the word slang is slang. [laughter] Yeah, it is. It totally is. Probably it's one of those

words where we're 100% sure where it came from. Actually, I like the I like the slangy kept theory and then uh and then some of the variations on the word slang that existed in the 19th century like slang wanger was a 19th century American English word that means someone who uses abusive slang or quote unquote a ranting partisan. What was that first one that you mentioned? Slanga kept there's a Nordic phrase which means to sling the jaw but also carried the implication of abusing with words and it's probably not where the word slang came from but I like it and it could be related to at least slinging uh and terms like that like slinging words around and we can look to all kinds of languages for theories of where the word slang comes from. It seems such a coincidence that the French for language is long, right, which is slang essentially without the S in front of it. But there would be no reason to stick an S on it. So So it's not a particularly strong theory.

Another possible source is Scots, which has uh slang, which means uh to linger or to waste time. The suggestion being that we take this term originally it refers to the people that use it and then it becomes a term for the way in which they speak. This is what I'm talking about. That would mean that slang started off as slang. That sounds like the best suggestion to me because that would make it a back formation essentially from slanger, right? One who slangs does do slanging.

Yeah. And what they sling slang sl actually that's worth mentioning as well. Ling is slang a past participle of slang rather than slung. Maybe that's one of the suggestions as well. Another one is there is an old term for uh fetterss for chains that was slangs. Interesting. Could it

be a reference to the fact that slang was often used in the criminal underworld which it was I mean most you know a lot of the slangs we'll talk about start off as I mean there are other words for criminal slangs aren't there? pant, which we know is from the idea of similar to chanting. It's from the Latin for for sing. What term am I trying to think of that means criminal slang? Uh, are you talking about like an argot? Well, that is another good one. That's a different thing. That's

a French word, but we don't know where the French word comes from. Sometimes pronounced argo. I can't remember what the word I was trying to think of was anyway, but as you can see, there's plenty of terms for slang. Some of the more linguisticy terms people use for caning and for slang is like specialized jargon or cryptocts or anti- languages or secret languages or pseudo languages. These are all implying that they are uh a language used in a particular circle or for a particular purpose that then extends into pop culture or you know the previous version. Would you still call it

pop culture 400 years ago? I [laughter] think so still popular culture was pop at the time. Yeah. An interesting thing about forms of slang is that unlike you know most languages which are designed to enable communication with as many people as as as possible. Um you know a can't criminal slang deliberately designed to be obscure to anyone who is not in the know.

We should at some point probably mention Polari during this the gay London slang that developed actually from again a criminal slang then a sort of sort of entertainers slang. Um we're getting into all all of these but you already kicked off by saying we're going to have a cool time. [laughter] That's one of those words that is now on our lips all the time but started off as slang, isn't it? We obviously have more literal meanings of the word cool, but it entered a slang context as early as like the 1700s, but it was in phrases like a cool thousand for money amounts, which you would think that was a recent term, but it absolutely isn't. It the OED has it dating back to 1721. No way. And same with coolheaded, being calm under pressure, which that makes a

little more sense because we hotaded also is dates back relatively far as well. So if we're talking about like a cool thousand, what's cool about the thousand? It's probably based on the notion that it's a it's a large amount of money that has been fully counted or reckoned. So it's not active, if that makes sense. It's not hot. That's the way Yeah, that's the way it's it's explained.

But cool as playing for someone stylish or clever or fashionable or attractive is definitely a 20th century invention. A cool kid uh shows up around 1918. This is also probably thanks to, and this is going to come up a little bit frequently, but black music culture in the 1920s had blues titles like cool, kind, daddy blues. And it was more popular in black slang, black American slang than it was among everyone else until like the 1940s when jazz became more mainstream. But Zoranil Hursten uses cool as the sort of the way we use it now um as a term for approval like that's admirable that's excellent cool in 1933 and that's one of our earliest recorded instances of that in literature and is it from the same culture that we get words like square sort of antithesis of cool so square is also jazz slang it sort of connects to some earlier uses is like in the 1800s we had a square meal already and the idea is a full solid substantial meal that like gets you through the day. A square could also stand on its own for as a word for a square meal too. So if

you were having a square, it meant you're having a square meal for a little while in the US. Right. Having a square sounds like having a shocker, [laughter] right? Exactly. Having an absolute square. We've talked before like when Jess locks herself in her office and just just to read and

read and read. [laughter] Don't disturb. She's having a square. She's having a square. Um but the the earlier cousin of an old-fashioned person being a square actually dates back to like 1752.

And it's because a square toes was a precise or formal or old-fashioned person like a father or an old man. And it came from the style of men's shoes in the early 18th century that fell out of fashion. But the the slang use of square as far as we use it now is from US jazz slang in the 1940s. And it's a bad thing. It should be a good thing, shouldn't it? You know, general neatness,

reliability. Jazz is so free flowing. Squares are stiff and regular and boxed in and and jazz is imaginative and rhythmic and the opposite of that. I don't know which philosopher said a square with a horn makes you wish you weren't born every time he plays with a rinky tinky tinky. [laughter] Um, another Oh god, I'm sorry. Another fun one from this era. It says groovy, which I didn't know is

quite literal. It's it's originally from the notion of the grooves in a record. Yeah. When you're in the groove, you're you're with the with the music, right? You're in the in the groove with the stylus. I also pulled from the historical thesaurus of English some other older

words for cool or excellent. My favorite from 1828 is supernacular which is from from the sham Latin word supernoculum. Supernaculum literally means upon the nail, which comes from an old drinking game where the the drinker had to turn their empty cup onto their thumb. And if droplets of wine spilled off of their thumbnail, they had to fill the cup back up again and drink more. So, Supernaculum is an excellent wine that you could wish to drink to the last drop. And

Supernacular describes that. I'm definitely having Supernacular. That is going in my vernacular.

[music] hit us with some more supernacular historical idioms. I like I had heard this one, but I didn't understand it. Uh, this is a bit of an idiom, but all wool and a yard wide from the 1800s describes something that's genuine or authentic or of the highest quality. like cheap fabrics were made of smaller scrap fibers like shoddy pieces. We've talked about the word shoddy before I think but uh that were narrower than the standard yard. So all wool and a a yard wide means someone who is

trustworthy, honorable, and sincere like a whole yard of good quality wool. Uh another one was I I don't have an explanation on this one, but Bobby Dazzling. That one's quite well known in England, by the way, because there was a TV presenter. He presented a an antiques program called Bargain Hunt. His name was David Dickinson, and he spoke like that. And when he found something he liked,

he used to say, "It's a real Bobby Dazzler." Fantastic. This is It came from the States, so I wonder if it translenticized itself. But it sounds more British to me. It does when I when it's said like that, doesn't it? In that context as well. I also like VHC. It sounds very turn of the century.

It means very highly commended. That's VHD. Yeah, that sounds like something that would be an abbreviation written on a a school report or a a military dispatch, doesn't it? Then you can say it in your transatlantic accent. [laughter] I'm not going to do it. This historical thesaurus of

English also has some of my favorite southern isms that I still hope are in frequent usage. I've I've at least come across them a bit. But things like rip snorting for example, like a rip snort and good time. Ah, yeah. Yeah, I'm down with that. It's kind of Davy Crockett notions of of like

I don't know. I'm having trouble explaining this because what's getting ripped and what's snorting. I mean, it sounds [laughter] obvious to me that it's like Yeah, I know. It does. It It seems intuitive, but actually, if you break it down, it's not at all intuitive. [laughter] Uh I I

would I would assume it's a twist on Rip Roaring, right? which is a little bit older. Rip having a rip roaring good time is boisterous and and violent and rip snorting adds like a a horse or a cow to the idea. Yeah. You can roar or you can snort, right? [laughter] You having a good laugh,

you might be more inclined to snort than roar. Another one from this era or from the era we were just talking about like cool and groovy is props. Like giving someone someone props. It's short for propers. an interesting article that I found about this in the Atlantic. Ben Zimmer wrote about this

for a while and he he kind of called out the OED for not giving Artha Franklin credit for this. She uses propers in the term well she uses propers in particular in uh in the song respect. So, you know, all I'm about to give you or I'm about to give you all my money and all I'm asking in return, honey, is to give me my propers is uh is the line from that song. And then that led to the shortening of props. I had never picked up on that word being in that song. She famously

sang songs a different way, slightly differently every time, too, which was why it was a little bit hard for them to film her in Blues Brothers. cuz I remember this being an anecdote about that movie because she's in the film singing. It's either this song or one of her others. But either way, it was hard to get her on camera because the lip sync was was tricky with the the recording of the song [laughter] cuz she always does a little differently, which is great, right? She can lying to herself. But Zimmer called out cited William Sapphire talking about this too.

But he argues that her use of propers was the clearest bridge between the term the earlier term proper give me my propers and the slang noun props which carries basically the same meaning and then the OED updated it and it means giving credit essentially. Yeah. It means uh it means giving me the rest I deserve. They do respect their approval, the compliments, their esteem. I like it. I'm enjoying doing all these positive terms. Isn't this nice? It's good for the soul. Am

I led to believe that you have some less positive ones? [laughter] No. No, I haven't. I haven't really gone down the sort of specific um semantic zones, you know, just like one theme. What I've been looking at is types of slang. I got pretty deep into cochnney rhyming slang. and in fact

Australian rhyming slang. I want to talk about both of those. I would love that. I we've talked we've brushed the surface of cotton rhyming slang before and offered some examples, but I don't know anything about Australian rhyming slang. Well, what's happened since last time is I I found this adorable Victorian glossery of slang that includes contemporary cognney rhyming slang. So,

I thought I might try and test you on some of it. work out what any of it is. Uh, so if I were to say brown best to you and brown Joe to you, what would those two words mean, do you think? Oh, I don't know. I've heard I've heard this one before, but I don't remember. Brown best or brown joe? I

don't know. You're going to have to tell me. It's yes or no. Yes or no? Ah, very nice. It's not

very helpful. [laughter] Monosel Salavic answers suddenly become Jewelabic. But what are you going to do? Here's something. Everton toffee. Are you aware of Everton toffee? This is like a a a mint,

a candy that's enjoyed in part of Liverpool called Everton. It's actually where my brother-in-law is from. Is it uh coffee? It is coffee. It is [clears throat] very good. Oh, what else rhymes with

toffee? Just about nothing [laughter] else. But yeah, you got there. Easy. In the rhyming slang, you got various things like references to famous people, you know, items of food referring to something else. Or parts of London, which are really notable. For example, you have chalk farm,

which refers to a part of your body. Can you guess which one? Right. Arm. [laughter] I It's not as specific as that. It's just it's just arm. So, you could talk about your chalks as

your arms. Here's one, though. This one refers to an animal. And if you uh get this right, I will give you a million pounds and after conversion, you'll still be left with quite a lot of money. The place name is Charing Cross. Which animal is that rhyming slang for? Is it a horse? Oh, what?

Yep. [laughter] I don't have a million pounds. That's all right. You could just tell me about How the heck did you get that? Hoss. Hoss is short for horse in American slang. Hoss. Yeah. Okay. So,

you've got there. You got there the wrong way. [laughter] Oh, okay. Because the pronunciation of Charing Cross in London in the day was Charing Crorse. Oh, okay. So, it's Yes. So,

you would have an 'orse. Oh, man. That was an ex expensive coincidence. [laughter] I couldn't get yes or no, so I had to redeem myself somehow. What I find really adorable is looking through the the terms that are very much of their time. Now, historically, Britain has had

an insane monetary system involving various different denominations, by no means decimal, you know, the the shilling, the farthing, etc. And so, you still have lots of rhyming slang that comes from that. For example, a shelling was an Abraham's willing or a rogen villain, depending on how lazy the person was feeling in their pronunciation. You had a bottle of spruce, which was a deuce, which is slang for a a tuppence, a two pence piece. A currants and plums, which was thrums, which was slang for a three penny piece, a thrence. Camden Town was a brown,

which was a nickname for a penny. Covent Garden was a faren which was just a lazy way of saying farthing. I say lazy I just mean like a dialect way of saying it. And you had uh goddess Diana which was a tanner or a sixpence. And there's one more that speaks to some further London slang which is battle of the Nile. If you can guess what item of clothing a battle of the Nile was,

I will give you a million pounds. [laughter] All right. All right. Let's think. Let's think. What

would a No, I I can't I don't know. It's the It's got to be some kind of rhyme that I'm not thinking of. [laughter] It's a hat. Actually, a hat. Oh, okay. If you know your Cockney, you'll know that

Cockney for a a hat was a tile. Ah, is this song called any old iron? Any old iron? Any old iron any any old iron. You look neat. Talk about a treat. You look dapper from your napper at your

feet dressed in style. Brand new tile with your father's old green tie on. Oh, I wouldn't give you tums for your old watch chain. Old iron. Old iron. [laughter] Ily pom pom. That went on for so

much longer than it was supposed to. [laughter] Sometimes slang on slang, right? So like tile is flying for hat and then you don't you've got layers thrums juice far and tanner. These are all slang upon slang. And then because we get the transportation policy this new and horrible way of punishing people by sending them to the other side of the world. I don't mean because Australia is

horrible. Although at the time it would not have been a pleasant place to be sent. this becomes a policy and a lot of the criminal underworld gets transported to Australia and so the slang that they've been using to basically hide their intentions from the police is also taken over to Australia and so there is a a very rich rhyming slang tradition in Australia too. Some of it is the same as the Cockney rhyming slang, but also in New South Wales and and beyond, they developed their own rhyming slang, and I think it might be more fun than the Cockney rhyming slang. Oh, let's hear it. I don't know anything about this, so let's go for it. So, I like that they call a

pub a rubberty dub. Oh, that's fun. I'd be interested, actually, if anyone's watching and that they're aware of whether or not these are still in use. I mean, I I'm taking these references from again, it's 1800s, so so maybe not. But an immigrant was called a Jimmy Grant, so you could be a Jimmy. That's funny. See, that that rhymes all the way through, which is nice.

Yeah, it's very good. It's Yeah, you're right. It's It's a extra strong. They call it a rim reish in French. There's a very uh pretentious reference rhyme [laughter] more than once lang. [laughter] Here's one that could only have been coined in the antipities and that is Captain

Cook, which is to have a look. Captain Cook. Yeah. Noah's Ark, which was originally an arc but became a shark. Ah, shark. Yeah. Uh, you could describe someone as apples. You were describing them as

apples and spice, which meant nice, which I think is cute. But here's one that has made it into certainly made it into British English. I don't know if you ever heard this in American English, but it's the word chunder. That sounds familiar. So to cher is to throw up. It's to to vomit. You

can always hear the chunks in the word, can't you? Isn't that horrible? I like it. Uh, but it's thought to come from Chundloo of Akim Fu, which was a cartoon character created for an advert. I can't remember what it precisely was an advert for, but they think that Chundaloo was rhyming slang for spew and that's why chundering we talk about spewing essentially. And then another good

one is uh to do a Harold halt which means to bolt but again there's a story behind that one. Yeah. Harold Halt was a was an Australian prime minister who just disappeared. [laughter] Presumed drowned. He'd gone swimming off Victoria in 1967 and he went and since then people have been talking about doing a Harold or doing a Harry which is to bolt to disappear.

[music] Should we scuaddle to another topic? Is [snorts] scadaddle is that slang? I would say it's slang. It's it's definitely American slang. Yeah, it's hard to draw the di draw the line between dialect and slang and and all these other things, right? Yeah, it's um it dates back to the Civil War

essentially, but but in particular um the first examples we have of it are from the American Midwest before the war, particularly in Indiana dialect or or slang. I I wouldn't say that sounds like slang term to me. So, one potential source is the northern English dialectical term scattleal, which means to scare or frighten, which would make a lot of sense to scadaddle is just kind of a a reduplication of that first syllable. And then um the earliest military examples, and one of the reasons it got big in the States, at least is probably because we have newspapers from the 1860s saying that Confederate soldiers scadaddled when danger approached. Yeah. So, it's a little uh

editorialized. We've got the the very similar term vamus, which is actually older. I would think that I know it's from the the Spanish vamos, but which makes perfect sense. It's not that surprising, but it which is let's go, isn't it? Or we go. Yeah. Yeah. And it shows up in the 1830s and it's

like it's an American frontier term essentially. And it's a little less like skaddaddle is more runaway and vamoose is let's go. And if I can sort sort of shoulder barge in here just because I did say earlier that I wanted to mention Polari at least briefly. Yeah, it seems like a a point to do it. I'm not going to go deeply into it because we did go into it in a into another episode, but I was just doing a bit more research into the Italian influence on Polari, which because if there is a sort of linguistic influence or from a foreign language in Polari, it's it's Italian. I

the name Polari itself, it's got this Italian ring to it and a lot of the words have got this Italian ring to it. if you want to describe something as wonderful in Polari. So this is the the the underground gay slang used in London primarily during the 20th century to be able to talk about your life, your gay life without obviously giving away that you are homosexual which you know during periods there was criminal later at least treated as a mental illness. though prejudiced against no matter what. Um and yeah words like kazzy for example. Kazzy is a word that that left polari

and entered broader English as slang for a toilet. Ah yeah and it's from Italian. It's from Italian casa meaning house. So it starts off as meaning you know a house in criminal slang way back and then it starts to mean a house. I think Martin will beat that. She'll hate me saying

that. [laughter] And so it becomes a toilet. But also the polari for a gay man is an omi palone which is uh man woman. The omi bit there coming from the Italian which is a man for example. And then the other word that is probably the word that's most prominently sold as being a word from polari is naf which I've heard it explained as not available for effing. It almost certainly

isn't that. That's a rationalization of it. Yeah. This is one of the scourges of words unravel, isn't it? These rationalizations of things into acronyms. But you could talk about a nafomi,

right? So, we know that omi means man and naf means dreary man. And it's thought to be from the Italian nafa which meant sort of despicable person rather than it being from this you know judge a judgment based upon how sexy someone was. I think one of the earliest references, recorded references, is Kenneth Williams in Round the Horn. Uh, who's so this is a a comedian, a gay comedian playing a character that spoke a great deal of polari and a lot of the audience didn't realize that he was doing it necessarily, but they did enjoy the flowery words. Uh, and he

talks about naff little gnomes, so [laughter] garden gnomes. And he's definitely not talking about their their lack of availability for right for effing. I don't know. It's actually kind of adorable. Yeah, it is. Anyway, so I I interrupted you speaking about um you were talking about some

Spanish influence in slang in the United States. And I thought, okay, I'll just just work in this little Italian. No, I think that's perfect. I think this is a good transition too because we get a decent amount of slang modern slaying terms from gay culture in general and LGBTQ culture like um the the modern use of the word ate or like ate that up or ate and left no crumbs or you know these are compliments that mean that someone performed exceptionally well. They looked incredible. They delivered a perfect joke. They they look awesome. whatever else it is,

but it's from black and Latino slang, gay slang in New York City. And it also popularized terms like sleigh and serve and reading for example, which that one came up recently in another discussion I was having about like modernized slang. I write about these for for a dictionary publisher. We also took from a similar source, and we did talk about this before, the idea of spilling the tea, didn't we? The tea being Yeah, exactly. the truth, but also a sort of oblique reference

to transgenderism or or trans nestism. I know we don't use that word much anymore, but um and and certainly at least partially popularized by Lady Shabli, which you mentioned last time, which is wonderful. Correct. Reading means essentially in the in these contexts sharply pointing out someone's flaws or inconsistencies or behavior and like it it goes it it appears in uh reality TV sometimes too like Rupaul's Drag Race involves like reading challenges and things like that. And the the idea here is you can even say the library is open, which means you're available for being read or being being torn apart in a witty or incisive kind of way or roasting someone.

It's it's a different kind of roasting. I enjoy the extensions of the metaphor that that come with it. A lot part of the fun is that word play. It's a little bit tricky to follow whether a term was popularized through especially in the states. It's a little harder to track whether terms originated from black American culture, black gay American culture or gay American culture because a lot of these get pulled together like sleigh for example has kind of been all over the place. And

who popularized what and when is a little harder to to clock. There's another aspect of black musical culture that I did look into actually. Have you heard of Have you heard of Double Duch? I have heard about it from you. [laughter] Yeah. I mean, I mentioned it to you an hour ago. Yeah.

Disob. [laughter] So, you know how um Snoop Dog, for example, we'll talk about Shizzle My Nizzle, this use of this is as a sort of insult. Well, it is a spin-off of something called double duch, which is a way of speaking. It's a slang, you know, you know, a bit like uh pig Latin. Yeah.

You're rearranging words. Well, with double dutch, all you're doing is you're putting is and isy into every word. And the best example you'll find of this is a song called Double Dutch Bus by a guy called Frankie Smith from 1981. And there is a whole I would say verse and chorus but there's just a whole middle section of it is entirely in double dutch and it is completely incomprehensible but but at the same time when you see it written down you go okay I can work out what's going on here cuz the refrain of it is willy ilzles double dutch which is we are playing double Dutch and it starts with his A gizzles. Yizzle. Hizav to mizu is out. The whiz siz the giz can bizit bizzle.

This is very silly. I love it. [laughter] I don't know if you followed that. No, I didn't. What did you say? I said, "Hey girls, you all have to move out of the way so the guys can play basketball."

Bizet Bizzle. Amazing. That's perfect. Really good fun. if you can get your head around it, but very difficult to beard. Very much like pig Latin or like we you've talked about what's the

French metaththesis slang thing. It's called Yeah. I don't know if I'm pronouncing correctly, but it was something like that. Yeah. Because I was on about being just maestro, the two uh syllables of maestro swapped around to give the name of the very popular Belgian music artist.

That's how well it's similar to how backs slang works, right? But backs slang is is backwards, right? I was also looking up back slang. I'm very glad you led us there because [laughter] Yes. Excellent. There are a few of them that we're using all the time without realizing it. Oh,

are we? Well, I'm the most obvious one I think is yob, which is back slang of boy. Are we using yob? Oh, we're using that a lot in Britain. I don't know if we're using that in the States. We talk

about a hoodlam. We would call them a yob which is yeah and in London among British Jews they have yock which is quite similar but that's a it's koi backwards but that's the same as [ __ ] which means you know a gentile as well. But here's one that really interests me because we talk about a name as being a moniker. One of the theories behind the word Monica because its ethmology is otherwise unknown is that it is back slang for nam. Oh man, no way. Yeah. From which we get the

term nickname. Yeah. We rebracket an ignam and it becomes a nickname. But before we do that, we also reverse nam and we get monica which I think is kind of kind of amazing. Uh, and that is what's written in like the OED as a possible source for it. Fantastic. I I love it. I love it. That's one

of my favorite things I've learned today. And there a few others that I think have been used both sides of the Atlantic because they can refer to denominations of pounds and dollars. But you have Neves, which is the number seven backwards. You have a roof, which is a four-year prison sentence usually, but you also have a pinif, which is a fiverr, which is what we call a5 pound note, or it's a $5 bill, which is actually back slang of phip, which in turn is a form of the yiddish for five, which in German is f. So, it's a sort of slight alteration on the German f. Well,

that's fun. Reverse it, you get pinnif. And one more that's thought to possibly be backs slang. Very modern one. Kayfabe. Kayfabe refers to in wrestling essentially the you know the the fake

portrayal of real life. Ah the idea that this is a real sport with real beef. Um when we know it's not unless you're very young and it's important to you that it is real in which case it's real. It's real. But it's thought that might be a kind of backslang for be fake. Oh, k fabe. Yeah. So,

some of these get twisted, right? It's not just a straightforward reversal of the word. That's like you add your your s at the end when you pluralize these two. And that also makes it kind of it twists these words. Like in be slang, you correct me if I'm wrong, but like woman is was originally just nam. And so Namo is turned to Nemesis or Neamus for women. And then cool can be backslang

for to look. And then knife is eink, which I like, which I guess that one's just straight backwards. But girl is elig. And then the police is esop because that one's gotten switched around. Yeah.

Well, yeah, you have echelop and you have slop as well because slop is a so echelop is literally just police backwards, but then because they don't like the police, they call them slops. Amazing. Jess, Jess, Jess, before we finish, can you bring us up to date because I keep dragging us back to the Victorian era. Can you educate me on some some modern slang? Some that I can use to ingratiate myself to to to the youth. We could go with Gen Alpha era terms. I write about these

all the time. Yeah. that Jess is my go-to person when I I'm I'm getting confused by somebody that I I literally sometimes send Jess emails where I have not understood what the hell someone's going on about because it's [laughter] just so full of it's a sort of modern corporate dialect as well that's inspired by millennials you attempting to use Gen Z and Gen Alpha slang. Oh, it's the worst. like the the grindset. That that one bugs me so much because I've seen that on LinkedIn before.

It's the mindset centered on the grind, which is the worst. Oh, yeah. I'm not into that. Also, I had a debate with someone in a bar the other day after a few beers. Probably got more heated than it needed to uh about describing something as a vibe or saying someone has aura, stuff like this. Oh, yeah. So, they they told me, "Yeah, but that's millennial slang." And they might be

right. I don't think of it as millennial slang. I I feel it's it's newer than that. But either way, when I hear it being used, I find it tragic. Vibe is definitely millennial slang. That such a vibe

is sounds a little more Gen Z to me. But aura and aura farming is internet slang for for like deliberately or accumulating or displaying aura. Aura is older and it's this sense of like the aura around you. Of course, aura farming is from video game slang where players perform actions to accumulate accumulate like points and experience and whatnot. So the the resource being farmed in real life is social prestige and you can so you can get you can aura farm by doing cool stuff and looking cool doing it. essentially. Okay. So, yeah, you're accumulating aura. Yes. Yes, indeed.

Um, but no, I I would I would agree that aura and vibe date at least decently back to millennial era stuff, but I think they're used differently now. Well, they're used differently grammatically, aren't they? That's one of the things. Uh, yeah, you say something is a vibe. Um, and you could grammatically use it that way beforehand, but it would mean something very, very different. There's

also there was an argument about whether certain people had riiz or aura. I think we're past riz now. Yeah, sure. I I don't even think that was sticking around. Is it? One of the reasons that

these terms emerge is that they they are not understood by parents and teachers and things like that. And then the instant they're clocked at the at the journalistic level and the instant you find them in parenting magazines, then they're not fun anymore. Which is why like I mean I think people will joke about 67 at any point now, but it's not like a cool fun thing for kids to say as much. Yeah. I think only our generation is joking about it now. Our generation upwards Yeah. is is

using it at all. Yeah. They don't last very long. Like a few months ago, I wrote a piece about the word girding, but I don't think that it will stick around. And and I I haven't heard it since I wrote about it. So, I kind of feel like maybe I helped kill it by writing about it for a publication that

primarily focuses on adults. Well, at at risk of sounding the ultimate death nail for it, what does girding mean? Oh, it's it's ridiculous. It is a blend of jug meme formats. Junk talk was is or was maybe a segment of Tik Tok users who who share brain rot memes with that are like packed with inside jokes. For example, neat is much older and and was first found in memes like

this and that's pretty obvious like it it it is imitative of something being yolked through the air. Um [laughter] but girding this is the several levels of of weirdness in these memes. Girding is described as doing something smart but risky. And there there are also acronyms like I K I A G or which means I'm a keep it a GE. Again, I'm I'm having a hard hard time explaining this. Wait,

so is it gerting? Is it G u R T I N G. So Okay. It's that American thing. I've been hearing it as girding the whole point. I've been thinking about my loins. Gerting. Okay. Gerting. Yeah. And

and it makes it more obvious when you learn that there was a character in these memes called GE, which who responds to the word yogurt with the word yo. Yogurt. Yo. Yeah. Anyway, I actually kind of respect that. But you often find it over like usually it's like a blurry

or distorted image of like wildlife footage or something like a cheetah running in a blurred form and it has text over it that says girding is doing something very smart but very dangerous and but but that's also not how it's used. Like that's how it's defined in these memes but that is not how it's used at all. It's it. Yeah. Um but it's also Yeah. That's the whole point, isn't it? That

there's a disparity that it's confusing us and we can't get our heads around it. It's supposed to be confusing. Mhm. One that I actually kind of like and I I'm okay with and I think it's a little older than some of these, which is why is uh getting Cindy. You know how uh the term send it has been used in like action sports like skiing and climbing and things to mean like if you're going to if you're going to send it, you're going to commit enthusiastically to something. So you

find Cindy and send it together in sports forums well before it was picked up by like Tik Tok and whatnot. But getting Cindy means being bold or daring or ready to go big in action sports contexts. And then also just in general too. And I kind of like that one. I'm like, "Okay, yeah, I I get that." One that I wrote about recently that made me sorry that I wrote about it was mugging.

And now this is in like this is well past genpha. I I hate this word. I hate it so much. Yeah. It is short for the acronym AMOG which stands for alpha male of the group which was first appears in like manosphere and looks maxing circles and an Amog was a dominant man in a social setting who's super attractive and has a big jaw and he's got he's very successful with with women and mostly makes other dudes jealous. It's terrible. But to mo someone means to outclass them so thoroughly

that they appear inferior by comparison. And one of the things that made it escape the bounds of the manosphere was that there's a a streamer called clvicular. Terrible person. Um who [laughter] I Yeah. making some interesting life choices for sure. Yeah. He recently went to

court over a video in which he was caught shooting a dead alligator in the Everglades and the judge was really hot in a traditional manosphere kind of way like big jaw like the the way dudes fantasize about hot dudes on the internet and it was funny because he was said to have been frame mogged. You can also be like hair mogged or jaw mogged if you have better hair or a stronger jawline jawline if you Yeah. The whole point of clvicular is that he's he is the ultimate in jaw lines, right? Yes. Supposedly [clears throat] so for him to be to be mogged is uh pretty serious. Yes. Okay. So,

let's let's bring everything together here. We've talked about cocknney rhyming slang. We've talked about polari. We talked about criminal slang and now we've talked about Gen Alpha, Gen Z. We've talked about Manosphere slang. What do these all have in common other than the fact they are slang

is that they're deliberately exclusive. The point is that you have to be in the know to understand them. And if you're not in the know, they don't want you to understand them for various reasons. And that's what unites the slangsters, the slangers, the slang slangers, the the slang wangers of the Victorian era [laughter] and today. Yes. Well, this has been fun. And uh I'm sure was

that what was that word that you thought? Super supernacular. Oh, yeah. That's a much better word. This has been supernacular. [laughter] Yes, it has. It's It's been quite expensive for me,

but it's been fun. Thanks a lot, Jess. We'll see you next time on Words Unravelled. [music]