---
video_title: "The ancient origins of Sci-fi and tech words"
video_id: vrZwAuQ6X0c
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vrZwAuQ6X0c
video_date: 2026-01-14T06:01:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Thinking about switching to tech? TripleTen helps people go from zero experience to real tech jobs: https://get.tripleten.com/WordsUnravelled
  Book a free career call to find out which role fits you best.
  
  Rob and Jess are talking tech! In this episode, they explore the linguistic origins of terms from technology, Sci-fi and the internet.
  🧌 Who was the first internet troll?
  🤖 What does 'robot' literally mean?
  🔫 Does Jedi actually mean something?
  ⌨️ Are we pronouncing 'meme' correctly?
  These questions answered, and a whole lot more, in an extra nerdy episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  🚨ROBWORDS LIVE🚨
  Ticket: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bloomsbury-theatre/events/2026/apr/evening-etymology-rob-words
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
Who was the first internet troll? [music] What does the word meme mimic? And what language does the word Jedi come from? We're getting [music] technological and a little science fictional as we spam you with the etymology of the internet, cyborgs, and the digital verse. Log [music] on, it's time for another episode of Words Unraveled.

>> [music] >> Welcome to another Words Unraveled. I'm Rob Words from the YouTube channel Rob Words. And I'm Jess Ferris, author of etymology books including Useless Etymology and Let's Get Digital. We are exploring technology and sci-fi and internet themed words on this episode. Yeah, words from the internet age and from the well the many worlds of science fiction. This is this is going to be uh

even more geeky one than usual, Jess. >> [laughter] >> I think so. I think so. Though we've already done AI-themed topics before, but I think this one's a little more celebratory because we we both poo-pooed AI a little bit. Yeah, indeed. So where should we start

when we're talking about tech in the internet age? >> I think we should start with the word technology, which is is a very very old word and and meant almost the opposite of what it does now. Not not exactly the opposite, but certainly a different meaning. A Greek technologia was a discourse or treatise on the arts and the root here means to weave or fabricate, things that are made. And then we get to mechanical and industrial arts in the 1700s. A A 1787 political

survey of Europe, for example, described technology as a new branch of scientific knowledge involving the theory and accurate description of useful arts and manufactures. That's our technology covered. Let's zone in on some bits of technology. We're talking about the internet. Do you have some internet-y words at your disposal? I have the word

internet. Oh, that'll do. >> [laughter] >> Yes. Yes, let's go with that one. It's not much of a revelation, but the progress of its development is interesting. The earliest known use of

this word would be is actually in a past participle form. Interneted meant connected or interwoven as early as the 1800s. And then the tech sense of internet was first use in used in 1945 when the war department in the US used it as a shorthand for internet work in a radio operator manual. So a small interconnected network and then a network, of course, is a system that is shaped either physically or figuratively like a net with a network dating back to the 1500s. And like spider webs described as networks and nets and ar- art- artistic elements and things. And

today an internet can still be a smaller network, but it's also the capital I global internet as well. And we talk about intranets as well. Although that's kind of interesting cuz what you said there is that internet is a kind of a portmanteau sort of contraction rather than it actually having the etymology that its elements suggest, which would be like across networks, right? Whereas the intranet does effectively have that etymology, right? Because the intra means within yeah, between within something.

Internet is is more etymologically pure, if there's is it possible to be such a thing, than the word internet. It was I mentioned a minute ago capital I internet, but that's actually not a thing anymore. That was that's kind of a 10-year-old thing. Even the AP Stylebook ditched that in 2016. So it's been a decade since we stopped capitalizing internet formally. There are a lot of

things like email that that originally had a capital letter that we don't use anymore. But there was such a rebellion against that idea that we started for some reason putting the capital letter as the second letter of [laughter] the word. So we ended up with all various e-prefixed thing or i-prefixed thing, of course, anything that came out of the Apple corporation. It's more of a subject than you might think, isn't it, the capitalization of of techy words. It is a recurring theme in at least the last 200 years or so to take a word, coin it, capitalize it, and then let it fade into normalcy and therefore become un- uncapitalized. It's

almost a badge of honor if your brand's name becomes lower case, but at the same time it's pretty quite quite irritating, isn't it? You know, for example, that in Britain we call a vacuum cleaner a Hoover, named after a a specific brand of vacuum cleaner. That's great for the the Hoover corporation or whatever they were called. You know, they're so ubiquitous that their name becomes the word for the thing, but also it means at the same time they get zero credit, right? If if other people's products are also being called Hoovers.

They call that trademark death or something like that when and that happened with things like zipper and well, maybe not Velcro quite yet, but Band-Aids, things like that. Jacuzzi and windbreaker, TV dinner. Can I talk about a word that I can't see how we'll get to it more organically, so I'm just going to sort of throw it in, but it's the word data. People watching this will notice that I'm in different environs to usual. That's because I'm at my in-laws' place in France. And we were talking

about something too boring for me to tell you about, but >> [laughter] >> just during the course of it, the French word for data came up. The French word for data is donnée, which literally means givens, things given. I thought, "Oh, that's a that's a weird way to approach the idea of data." No, it's not. No, it's not. The etymology of

the word data or datum it A datum is a thing given. It means exactly the same as the French word donnée. So the idea that data is actually the things that you give to something. So actually it's come really full circle, the concept, because one thing we think of data as now is information that we have given to some corporation that is now taken control of and and and is supposed to be looking after it for us, but now we worry about whether or not it does. Whereas, you know, previously data has just meant any sort of input, but really really does feel like it's something you've given nowadays. It is related to the

word date. So I was assuming maybe it had something to do with time, but date just means it it given time. And then it's >> [laughter] >> data is related to words like anecdote and dowry and donor and things like that, which is endow. That's cool. Yeah, well, donor is related to that French word donnée, right?

>> Mhm. Yeah, that's what I was thinking. the French verb for to give. By the way, I would like to to appreciate the fact that we are doing this very future-forward episode of this historically themed podcast while you are in probably the most medieval setting I've ever seen you in. >> [laughter] >> Just a little bit austere. I mean, I'm

in a loft bedroom of a very typical Provencal household. I think it's rather beautiful with the beams and the >> the the whitewash walls. Yeah, it's very cozy in here. It's got the winter >> to mind was monastic. >> [laughter] >> You you did say that. You said, "Oh,

that's where are you? It's very monastic." >> [laughter] >> I'm allowed to be a little bit cheeky monkey. We can't talk about data, by the way, without talking about the you know, the whole plural singular thing. datum >> that data is technically etymologically is the plural, but is clearly the singular now. I mean, it's it's

used like that. You know, I was looking this up and I found a quote someone complaining about data being used incorrectly from as far back as the 1940s. So we shouldn't get too worried about it. 1949 in uh the journal Nature data was a plural noun for literate English writers. It's still is and I contend that it always should be.

One of my favorite creators to follow is Paul Ferry and he assembles newspaper clippings of people complaining about things over the centuries. So like short skirts blamed for blank, short skirts blamed for this, children outdoors blamed for this, dating back like hundreds of years. It's fantastic. And it's amazing how that there are complaints that people would lodge, the particularly grammatical ones or or relating to word usage that seem very modern. It's like, "Oh, I really hate the way people are using literally or whatever." Yeah. And and

you do find the same complaints from before the person who was complaining was born, before their their grandparents were born sometimes. Jane Austen's novels contain jokes about people misusing figuratively and literally. Doesn't surprise me one bit. Speaking of bits, uh can I move >> [laughter] >> on to volumes of data, which I just briefly wanted to look up because I was thinking, "Okay, so we've got the the gigabyte. We know about the the terabyte. People perhaps know about the

petabyte. Where does it go after that as like the our capacity to store data increases?" And I was looking these up and after petta you have exa exabytes. So the exabyte is a thousand petabytes. Then you've got zetta- bytes, which is a thousand exabytes. And yotta- bytes,

which is a thousand zettabytes. And I was thinking, "Why Where do zetta and yotta come from?" Because my knowledge of the classic languages isn't extraordinary, but I do know that those are not related to any of their numbers. Do you know about this, Jess? Cuz this this is really extraordinary how they came up with these names. What I know is

that a byte, at least originally, was eight bits. And then bit was chosen because it's a combination It's sort of a portmanteau of binary digit. So, maybe something to do with that, but yeah, you're well past where I was thinking. Yeah, I mean, yeah, once we get into the zetta and yotta. So, zetta and yotta were officially accepted as the where we're going next with these big numbers in the '90s. But, the reason that they

are zetta and yotta are not what you would expect them to be based upon So, they're but they're they're related to the Latin roots for seven and eight, right? Wait, we're not looking at Greek letters? No, yeah, that's a very good point, yeah, because you've got obviously got zeta, which is a a Greek letter. No, zetta is a deliberate bastardization of septa. And yotta is a deliberate bastardization of octa or octo. And the reason that

they've been changed to these other things is that they realized that if you had S as the abbreviation for septa, then it would look like seconds, because they're not just looking at using these prefixes for data, they're looking at using them for very large periods of time, as well. So, that's why they put zetta bytes or zetta as the prefix, because the Z is not going to interfere with the S that you have as the abbreviation of other units. And they also came up with the zepto prefix and yocto prefix. So, whereas zetta is 10 to the power 21, zepto is 10 to the power minus 21. So, really, really small. And then, whereas

yotta is 10 to the power 24, yocto is 10 to the minus 24. And they were not concerned about confusing these Zs and the Ys on those, just because that they're talking about such different magnitudes, you know, in in complete opposite directions. But, that was that was a weirdly arbitrary way to come up with these words that up until this point So, generally, you know, it divisions of a thousand if you're dividing something up, you're using Latin words, and if you're multiplying it, you're using Greek words, but they're pretty reliable and they're you know, they're pretty true to those original classical words. But, after we've reached a certain point, we've gone, "Okay, now we've actually got to start making up words." Or we've got for the prefixes for these vast digits, these vast values that we're getting into that humans were never supposed We were never supposed to get into. We were never supposed to get to

10 to the minus 24 of anything. Come on. It also occurs to me with the Z versus S that an S could look like a five in a digital format. So, perhaps something to be said there. That's the only way that boobies works, isn't it?

>> [snorts] [laughter] >> That's true. It's true, yes. What I've just said is is scientific. >> [laughter] >> Yes, yes, indeed. Um well, on that note I'm sorry, [laughter] but how where are you going to go on that note? I don't I don't know

I don't know where I'm going to go on that note, but but uh What about cyber boobies? Can we talk about like um Could we talk I was going to talk about the word cyber. That's what I had next. So, cyber is from the word cybernetics. Every use of the piece cyber that gets tacked onto a different word is from cybernetics, but it is a rebracketing that steals a letter, because the Greek root here is kybernetes, which means steersman, and the N belongs with the kyber bit. That the like etics is the

ending, not netics. Presumably, that is due to a folk etymology assumption that the netics bit is related to the word net as an internet, but it's just a part of this Greek word that became cybernetics. And the root of that word is meant to imply guiding or governing things, and it is also likely partially inspired by a French term used famously by physicist and mathematician André-Marie Ampère, whose name came to inspire amps and amperage. And he wrote that the future science of government should be called cybernétique, the study of governing things. But, anyway, as a prefix, cyber got added to pretty much anything in the '90s to indicate a relation to the internet. It's almost

old-fashioned sounding now, cuz like cyber snob, cyber friend, cyberpunk, cyberfeminist, things like that. There was a a 1996 article in New York magazine that said, "Cyber is such a perfect prefix, because nobody has any idea what it means. It could be grafted onto any old word to make it seem new, cool, and therefore strange and spooky." An interesting offshoot of cyber is the word cyborg, Yes. which is actually a contraction of cybernetic organism. I was trying to work out, is

that technically a portmanteau or is it not? Cuz if it was a portmanteau, would it need to be cyb- cyber nism? >> cyborg nism Yeah, >> [laughter] >> yeah, yeah, exactly. Yeah, so it's it it means cybernetic organism. And I I the word's first citation is actually in from 1960 in the The New York Times. "A cyborg is

essentially a man-machine system in which the control mechanisms of the human portion are modified externally by drugs or regulatory devices, so that the being can live in an environment different from the normal one." Astronauts. Like, the context was we were talking about things that keep up people alive in space, which has lent it some like sci-fi cred, even though it was hard sci. And then you then you get things being referred to as borgs as well, don't you? Which is Right. which

is again a bit of rebracketing. Yeah. >> [laughter] >> We're into a new year, and that's often a time when we start to think about what we are doing with our lives and whether it's time to make a change. And maybe you've had a resolution to travel more or to find more flexible work or to land yourself in a future-proof job where you're not about to be replaced by AI. Yeah. Well, here we are discussing tech

words, and a job in the tech industry might be exactly the change that you need. And this video's sponsor, TripleTen, can make that happen for you. TripleTen is the platform where you can get a tech education and jump into the industry. It's flexible courses can fit around your schedule, including your current job. And when you're done, TripleTen guarantees a full refund if you don't find a job within 180 days of graduation. Although, 82% of graduates

do find a job within the first six months. So, I do fancy your chances. And actually, they've got a starting salary median of $70,000 a year. So, click the link in the description of this video or scan our QR code to get a free career consultation with TripleTen. They have a flexible payment rate, they have no massive college loans, and that money-back guarantee. So, give it a look.

>> [music]

[music] >> While we're talking about sort of humanoids, we should talk about android, robot. Those those are both really interesting words with really interesting stories. Would you like to take one of them? The word robot more or less means slave, right? Absolutely, it does mean slave, and it and it it has meant slave in Czech, robota. It first

appeared in English in a 1923 translation of the 1920 Czech play R.U.R., which stood for Rossum's Universal Robots. And it refers to the robot neck means forced worker, originally from an Old Slavonic word for slave, which speaking of Slavonic and the word slave, that's also an an interesting connection there that I think we've addressed before. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's a tricky

one, that. But, the play was by Karel Čapek, and although it was his brother, Josef, who came up with the term. And the robots in the play are androids, essentially, sort of like what you see in Westworld. They've got They got meat. But, before that, robots were called automatons, right? Automaton was a

broader word than robot, referring to any supposedly self-operating machine, but it was famously associated with like automatons from Greek mythology, and then later with like the mechanical Turk, an automaton chess player, also called the Turk, that was first displayed in 1770. And could play chess, supposedly autonomously, but apparently not. Yeah, I mean, there are various tales from down the centuries of people who supposedly created human-like machines that can perform I mean, stuff that even AI can't do now, right? Um and and I think it's fair to say that we're just sort of at the moment we are peaking at our with our abilities to replicate human behavior with with machines. Actually, you mentioned that say it was it was Karel Čapek's brother who came up with the idea of using that Czech word for these slaves, these Yeah, they're not mechanical, actually.

Yeah, they're they're organic, aren't they? Basically. But, what Karel actually wanted to call them before that was laborers. Uh his original idea was to use the Latin for work for their name. So, we might be calling robots laborers rather than automatons, as we were calling them before. If uh you know, if his word for

what he called his man machines was destined to become our word for for an android. Oh, hey, hold on. Android. Okay. Yes.

>> about borgs being a rebracketing, but android as well gave us the word droid, didn't it? >> Yes. Which is kind of interesting. Can I talk about the the the history of the word android? Yes. Cuz it's also

again, it's weirdly specific, you know? So, the word was first used to describe Well, it was first used is a bit confusing, but it was first used in the 1600s by a French guy called Gabriel Naudé. He was actually a personal doctor to Louis the 13th. But, he used to also He was a theologian, very rational guy, right? And he was talking about the story of a guy called Albertus Magnus, Albert the Great, right? And legend had

it that Albert had somehow managed to create out of metal, out of bronze and other metals, a human that could talk. Ooh. He He created Some stories say he just created the head, some say he created the whole thing. It could do various things like offer him sage advice. It could even potentially have dictated some of his writings.

And so, when it comes to writing about it, Gabriel Naudé uses the word androïde, the French word androïde, to describe this human Well, this metallic human that Albert the Great supposedly created. However, he is using the term pejoratively, and he's using it as he dismantles the idea cuz it's obviously nonsense that this guy created out of metal, something that could form human noises. And it's so We're so darn complicated. Like our vocal tract and our tongues and all of this stuff going on. I mean, it's really, really hard to replicate human sound mechanically without using human bits and bobs, which is not what Magnus the Great did. But

anyway, that that use of the word androïde specifically to describe Albertus Magnus's spooky talking head is the origin of the word android. Man-shaped, right? It means man-shaped. Yeah, we talked about that -oid suffix before. So, it's at the end of a lot of things. When you see

-oid, you know that something is shaped like the thing that comes before the -oid, not necessarily is it. We see that frequently in humanoid. We are humanoid because we are human-shaped. We are also humans, but you can also be human-shaped from Tatooine or something like that. And not be an ape-descended life form from Earth.

But -oid is just a really good sci-fi sounding ending to a word as well. >> [laughter] >> I mean, asteroid I think did did a lot for us. Yeah, absolutely. Asteroid, star-shaped. Although, ultimately they're not.

>> [music] >> Should we move on to uh meme? Oh, meme. Yeah, meme's a good one. You know I like about us doing this tech subject. There are words here where we know precisely when they were coined. And we can even read the words

of the people who coined them. I mean, I I I just mentioned, you know, the android one, but meme is an even better one because it's coined in a book written within the last half century or about a half century ago. When was When was it written? Hold on. Don't do that to me.

It's 1976. [laughter] 1976, very good. Okay, so I was right, just within the last half century. The book, of course, is Richard Dawkins' The Selfish At least 25 years ago. >> [laughter] >> I know. I know.

Uh it's bad, Jess. It's bad. It's ages ago. >> [laughter] >> Anyway. >> Sorry, I I couldn't believe it. I

honestly couldn't believe it. Yeah, so so and he he coins or uses the word meme to mean an idea that spreads, obviously not not a a photo of a jealous girlfriend. [laughter] >> [clears throat] >> But it has obviously come to mean that. But he was very specific about why he'd chosen that word as well. Can I read the quote? Is that okay?

Please. He says, "We need a name for the new replicator." Cuz so so the whole point, right, is that memes are like genes. He's trying to make a this this point and that they they spread like genetics, you know. We need a name for this new replicator, and now that conveys the idea of a unit of cultural transmission, of a unit of imitation.

Mimeme comes from a suitable Greek root." So, the word he's talking about there is the one that gives us words like mime and mimic. "But I want a monosyllable that sounds a bit like gene. I hope my classicist friends will forgive me if I abbreviate mimeme to meme. If it is any consolation, it could alternatively be thought of as being related to memory or to the French word mème, which means the the same." But

he's, you know, he's just saying it it looks like those. It's not related to those. What he also says, "And this is important." Cuz I remember in the early days of internet memes, people pronouncing it like meme and stuff like that. He does say in this book from 1976, so people had plenty of time to check, "It should be pronounced to rhyme with cream."

There you go. >> [laughter] >> "Examples of memes are tunes, ideas, catchphrases, clothes fashions, ways of making pots >> [laughter] >> or of building arches." So, the point is it's it's any idea, and he absolutely is not thinking about the internet that as yet does not exist when he coins that term. He also described God, or any god from any religion, as an ancient meme, a shared character, figure, or idea that appears many times and with many variations throughout history as people attempt to rationalize their purpose and the source of their existence, which I think is neat. This book ultimately gave us the whole field of memetics, which is like genetics, which seeks to explain how ideas propagate, which is cool.

>> [snorts] >> Yeah. Yeah. I would say I mean, people aren't aware of Richard Dawkins. He's very much not a god guy, right? So, >> [laughter] >> his his other most famous book is called The God Delusion. So,

nevertheless, applying this this term to God or gods themselves uh is significant. Anytime that I have talked about this word and its source before, I've had a lot of people respond with a lot of Dawkins hate and from both sides of the religious spectrum. Yeah, it's funny. Yeah, because people who agree with him, he tends to rub them up the wrong way as well. It's interesting. Like I'm just here for the

word origin. >> [laughter] >> Yeah. Do we need to Do we need to go there because this word is everywhere now? It's a It's astonishing. It's in around 1998 that it takes hold as being used to refer to bits and bobs that are sent around on the internet. There's a quotation from

1998. The next thing you know, his friends have forwarded what he's talking about, by the way, an animation of a dancing baby. It says, "The next thing you know, his friends have forwarded it on and it's become a net meme." What's interesting there is they use the word net before it. And you find that a lot of the early usages of the word do have the word internet web net in front of them because you do have to specify that that a meme, you know, is not exclusively an online phenomenon. I mean, it

basically is now. You'd really struggle to use it outside of that context without people thinking you meant something from the internet, though of course you still could. I think it's interesting that net meme was used in that context because nowadays I think people would say the full word internet meme. And I wonder I have noticed that in the past, when you read discourse about the internet from a couple decades ago, people tended to use net a little bit more, like on the net and whatnot. But internet seems more common now, so I wonder why we cycled back. You know, this is a a funny thing

it's to watch like during your lifetime words become passé. And net is very much one of those. Same with cyber, right? Yeah. We still I mean, we still get like cybercriminals and things like that. And

and it's cybertechnology in general is still a word used in many cases, but it's not used as colloquially as it was a couple decades ago. No, you wouldn't dream of setting up a brand with cyber or net Mhm. in the name now. It just would immediately seem fusty. Calling someone a cyber cyberfriend would be >> [laughter] >> Oh.

a little cringe. >> Yeah. Actually, I I This reminds you of chat rooms. Net chat rooms. Yes. Who which have

spawned various terms that have have really caught on, you know. Um one of which is spam. Yes. Spam spam spam. Yeah, spam spam spam. Spam spam

spam. Which is the source of it, right? Yeah. Yeah, it is. Yeah, Monty Anyone who doesn't know, there's the Monty Python sketch where for for reasons that aren't are not ex- explained, there is a cafe an English cafe, a greasy spoon as we would call it, serves, you know, food, technically it's food. Uh

>> [laughter] >> This particular one is populated mostly by Vikings who will interrupt your conversation with a chant of spam spam spam spam spam spam spam spam spam and it's spam, wonderful spam. >> [laughter] >> And yeah, that's where this idea of of spam comes from. It is a reference to that sketch in the way that it sort of drowns out everything else. But what I think is quite interesting is that the reputable sources all say that that is where spam in the sort of email sense comes from. Even though from as early as the 1940s, you do have the word spam being used to refer to stuff that's, you know, pointless or getting in the way or a waste of time. Low-quality mixed meats.

>> [laughter] >> Yeah, well, exactly. I mean, we should actually mention the etymology of spam itself. It's spiced ham. >> [laughter] >> Actually, the product was called Hormel Spiced Ham. Then they held a a com- a competition to find a new name for it. And it was a

gentleman from New Yorker, an actor called Kenneth Daniau. I don't know if it's Daniau. I mean, if he pronounces it like the French name, it's Daniau, but he he might call himself Dagnew or something like that. Yeah, he suggested spam. He won $100 for it. He did. [snorts and laughter]

That seems That seems like not enough. >> [laughter] >> Lifetime spam. I guess there's a lot more money in those days and spam very very cheap. But but I I got us into this discussion of spam talking about chat rooms and the like and and and forums. And that's because it was a spam message sent to a Usenet group that is is often said to have been the first instance of spam. It was

accidentally sent by Richard Depew, who was a software developer, on March the 31st, 1993. He accidentally sent the same message 200 times. And yeah, one user said that it was email spam. >> [laughter] >> Yeah, from there we probably the word the word takes hold. This Usenet forums What were they called? I I didn't

use them myself. It was actually just slightly before my time. So I'm sorry if I'm getting the nomenclature wrong with the Usenet stuff. I wasn't an AIM messenger kid, so I can't help it. Yeah, [laughter] yeah, that's it. I wasn't an

AIM messenger yet. BRB. You know, in 2004 Bill Gates said that spam would be eradicated within 2 years. >> [laughter] >> Oh, that's cute. I know.

One of the things that we brought up on the word of the year episode of Grammar Girl's podcast. Ah, which I did watch. It was very good. It was fun. And and I I won't get into it too far in this is the only AI thing that I will really address, but spam gives the same it has the same energy as AI slop. It's

low-quality, mass-produced AI output that accompanied the first wave of accessible inner conversational AI tools and image generators. And one of the things that we mentioned is that slop spawned a lot of portmanteaus. Since we keep bringing these up, but I really like them. Like sloptimism, which is AI optimism, usually used in a mocking way. Slappertunism, slopaganda, and slapperators.

>> [laughter] >> Slopaganda is beautiful. Yeah, right. But I mean I know all of these must have been coined within the within the last sort of 18 months or something like that. >> Oh, yeah. No, it's the slop must flow.

Yeah, I mean [snorts] there was always slop before that. I mean there's always been like PR slop. This slop word has really really taken off. And it's amazing how it is that very specific term slop that has been for for some reason just captures the sense of it being you [snorts] know, worthless, a little bit sort of dirty feeling. I just want to mention mention one more thing though about these Usenet forums because were they forums?

I That sounds right. Servers. >> Yeah. >> That server is the phrase that I typically hear. But again, I am wrong era for me. So Usenet is also the

source of the word troll. There is an original troll. Ooh, tell me. There was an original user on Usenet who called themself troll and would patrol the forums, the newsgroup trying to incite people into arguments. So they were trolling like a like a ship trolls. Yeah,

exactly. But also like a bridge troll. Like a bridge troll. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, it's not actually related to like the the word patrol. They see me

rolling, me trolling. So 1992, uh from Yeah, this is a group about something called flaming and counter flaming. I don't know what that is. Sorry. But they're discussing And aggressive.

>> Yeah. Uh >> [clears throat] >> okay. >> Insulting and aggressive behavior, pestering, things like that. So in the context of that, this is what troll wrote on the Usenet newsgroup. You wouldn't know a good flame or counter flame if it leaped up through the swiveling chairs you're sitting on and scorched your large asses. That That is

a That is a good insult. That is a good insult. Yeah, it it was good. Straight from the mouth or the the fingertips of the original troll. And so suddenly on the Usenet forums this idea of a troll gets transplanted from this individual user more broadly.

Obviously that is 90s and I think most of us would would say that the word troll in the sense that we now use it emerged much later than that, don't you think? I mean it feels like more of a social media thing, doesn't it? When you have people deliberately And and I think there's there's really two sort of births of the of the word. You do have that one, that one attributed to Usenet, which gives you a very early example of someone literally being a troll and trying to draw people into arguments, which is the earliest use you know, the original sort of sense on the internet is that a troll is someone who's deliberately trying to rile people up. And nowadays, I think troll's just used to describe anyone who does anything that someone doesn't like on the internet. Yeah. Any bad faith

behavior. Yeah, you put it better than I did. Yeah, bad faith behavior. My Reddit username kind of sounds like a troll username, and so I am often like if if I am engaging in those spaces, sometimes people think that I'm being nasty when I'm not. I because like I picked this when I was like >> tell us what it is, Jess.

>> No, I can't. I can't I absolutely cannot. No, I cannot. [laughter] That is not That's not That's not something we can do. Okay.

No one can say I didn't try, okay? >> [laughter] [snorts] >> Honestly, someone's going to find it in like 10 minutes cuz it's like not also It's not even that secret. And I haven't done anything scandalous over there either, so. >> [music] >> I would like to go to the word meta as we use it today because the way we use meta today is partially based on an error of interpretation. When you when you stick the Greek-derived suffix meta onto another word, it often means beyond or transcending, but meta in Greek did not mean beyond. Like that's so meta or

or metaphysic Like we'll get there. Meta in Greek could mean in the midst of, by means of, in pursuit of, between, after, or behind, but not usually beyond, which is kind of how we use it today. You might say that after is pretty close to beyond, and you'd be right, but they don't mean the same thing, and here's why that's important. Between the 3rd and 5th centuries BCE, Greek scholars arranged Aristotle's works into collections. One of them is called the physics. It addresses physics and

natural sciences. Another one covers a range of abstract topics, including the essence of being and the immaterial and immaterial existence. That collection is called the metaphysics or metaphysica. And that title inspired the name of the whole field of metaphysics. And metaphysics comes from the Greek name given to the collection, ta meta ta physica. Because the collection dealt

with abstract topics, the Greek term was understood by Latin scholars to mean the science of what is beyond the physical. But that's not what it meant. The Greek title ta meta ta physica literally just means that which comes after the physics. The collection's title wasn't referring to its contents, but its sequence of publication. The Greek title meta meant after, not beyond. So that's

why that's important. So the misinterpretation of the Greek title infused the word-forming element meta with the sense of beyond or transcending or dealing with the most fundamental aspects of things. And it's this meaning that also appears appears in words like metacommunication, metahistory, and metaverse. And of course, the long-standing adjective meta, as in that's so meta. I guess not long-standing, but stand-alone. This I

think just goes to show that even these bright disciplines can end up running with folk etymology. Metaverse is a word that I can't actually think of another I struggled to think of another word that seemed at one point so futuristic and now seems so in the past. Like the metaverse was the future. I and within touching distance. I made a whole video about it for a for a the international broadcaster I was working for. And it's it's, you know, I went

into this special lab where they took loads of photos of me from different angles, and I got to wander around the metaverse. And I was like, "Wow, this is it. This is Let's all put our money into metaverses cuz that's where it's all going." And then chat GPT, it's all gone. It's all gone.

>> the concept still exists. Like virtual spaces and interactions are still exist. So like elements of what they called the metaverse are still a thing. It's just we don't need a a word for it because it they're they're kind of ubiquitous elements of gaming spaces and things like that. I always thought it was silly that we needed like a the metaverse.

It's like, "Well, yeah, Roblox has a metaverse, and so does World of Warcraft, you know?" Like Yeah, I mean we tend to just call those universes as well, don't we? We just say it's Yeah. You think how Facebook was so dedicated to the idea of the metaverse that they changed their name to meta. Yeah, now metaverse feels like whatever spaces exist on platforms that Facebook owns.

Like Yeah, I mean yeah, I mean that's that kind of is it, isn't it? They've taken full ownership of it. And very I mean that was very much their intention was to take ownership of that term because it was going to be the future. But I mean maybe it still is going to be the future, but it it don't feel like it right now, does it? Speaking of verse and universe, I do think this is kind of neat outside of, you know, the specialized context of poetry and music, the verse is is a back formation of universe, right? Which is made up of

Latin elements meaning turned into one. So verse literally means turn, but over time it has become a word forming element meaning world or realm and you can stick it on to other words to give like fictional universes like Buffyverse or Whoniverse or Duneiverse. And according to the book Brave New Worlds, the Oxford Dictionary of Science Fiction, verse was first used in the used in this way by Orson Scott Card who referred to the Ender's Game universe as the Enderverse. But I would argue that that usage of verse is older than that because philosopher William James coined the term multiverse as far back as the 1890s. And lots of those are again examples of re-bracketing, aren't they? Because when

they've put the -verse on the end of something, that is a re-bracketing because it should it should be verse as the the final element. I say should be. I mean Does it matter? No, but >> [laughter] >> because no one's actually trying to invoke the idea of turning when they use that that suffix. [clears throat] Anyway, well, so it doesn't really matter.

You've kind of just touched on words from science fiction there, but let's talk about some more because there are actually words that get created for science fiction that have got quite interesting etymologies. You know, I'm really interested in so I I will say I don't spend any of my time watching, reading science fiction. I've nothing against it. I just I read and watch other things. I think probably if I did get into it, I would really enjoy it.

They're obviously very There's some marvelous storytellers involved in these things. So, it must be great. But I'm aware of Star Wars. I'm aware of a few of the words that are in there. >> science fiction. It is a space opera.

>> [laughter] >> Yeah, okay. It's It's also It's also a western cowboy wizard space story. >> [laughter] >> I I sort of sort of a space costume drama as well. I mean it was cuz obviously it's set in the past, right? Which is the the the strange thing. And

and it it is the the choice of words that are inspired by classical languages and old languages that I think makes Star Wars seem ancient like the places and the people Oh yeah, it's wonderful world building. That's why everybody enjoys it whether like depending on There's a lot of discourse. I'm not going to anger any Star Wars fans. I just got finished rewatching the the the first two trilogies and I have a dog named Obi. So, um after Obi-Wan Kenobi. So, I I am

I am a fan, um but I'm also, you know, I think people get really invested in it because it's such an easy universe to insert yourself into. Mm. So, very well thought through when it comes to sort of the languages that are that are involved. There are words inspired by Hebrew. I think one of the theories is that Yoda actually is is a Hebrew word yota. Although I'm not sure if that's

actually true. That's one of the theories floating around Well, quite easily George Lucas could just go through all of these theories and say yes, that one's right, that one's wrong. That was hasn't happened yet. And Yoda's one of them. But Yoda's name wasn't originally Yoda. It was Minch Yoda. He was a kind

of sort of little wise toad frog sort of character. But what Lucas has uh been quoted as saying about that character is that the name Yoda was chosen because he envisioned a character that was a bit like the Dalai Lama. And so he wanted an Eastern sounding name. Which I think is kind of interesting. So, that would not suggest that you he would have taken the Hebrew word, I don't think. I mean obviously Hebrew is

uh Eastern, but it's not that sort of Eastern. But when we're talking about them much further east, the word Jedi very much does come from well, Southeast Asia. It's from Japanese. So, the Jedi were originally in the very first form, I sound like I know what I'm talking about here. Um I've only just researched the words here. I don't really know what

I'm talking about when it comes to the actual canon. But but Jedi The first Jedi that Lucas wrote about were called the Jedi Bendu. Uh and they were based entirely on samurai. Like they're basically samurai. And there is a genre in Japan uh called jidai-geki, right? And jidai-geki basically means

period drama. And it's from jidai-geki, obviously, that we get the word Jedi. And they and they are to start with, you know, sort of a a protectorate. They're protectors of uh the emperor. As very much like a a samurai. So, that's

where the word Jedi comes from. They are samurai. And then there's this other thing. Uh and then we're we're going to get away from Star Wars, I promise. Um We don't have to.

>> So, Darth Darth Vader, right? Darth Vader. Ah, I love this one. I know this one. It has to mean dark dad, right? It

has to mean that. No, but it doesn't. I mean like >> it doesn't. I don't have >> [laughter] >> Vader is literally the Dutch for father. Right. I know. It's so funny. But it's

it's So, you have Darth Sidious and Darth Vader Darth Insidious Darth Invader. Like that's the logic. Is that it? Is that really it? Uh That is what I've read before. I I'm going to need to

I don't have this in front of me and so I'm fact-checking, but this is what I've read before is that the intention was really wasn't dark daddy. Yeah, I think I I buy it cuz he does seem to he does seem to stumble across these things. A bit like the Yoda one, right? The Yoda the idea that it's from Hebrew yota falls apart when you realize that his name wasn't originally Yoda. You know, that doesn't >> Also, when he when he named Vader, he didn't have the plan for him to be Luke's father yet.

Uh Is that true? I mean it looks like a big spoiler to anyone who speaks a Germanic language. [laughter] That is what I was thinking. I was just thinking [laughter] The Dutch know. I All the Dutch they already know.

And again again, I'm remembering I I am remembering this from an earlier conversation earlier batch of research. So, please by all means fact-check me check me, my dear sci-fi and Star Wars nerds. >> [snorts] [music]

>> Jess, can you give us some words that we use that are originally from science fiction? This is debatably science fiction. I would say this is more a vestige of comics, but it has a science fiction edge to it. So, you know, in comics we have illustrated onomatopoeia like bam, pow, zap. That those things like that. The word zap wasn't a word

that people used for zapping things until Buck Rogers in the 25th Century used it as an illustrated onomatopoeia. This dates back to the early 20th Century and historians often credit Roy Crane who was the creator of Wash Tubbs in the 1920s as being one of the first cartoonists to create bold sound effects in his panels. Like he would letter gunshots and crashes and punches into the artwork. And these effects became core to the comic book medium and so they were they were conventions. Like we see boom a lot and the way it's illustrated is similar across most, but we also like we get like slash and zip and things like that where the words stretched into to streaks and things.

But zap was popularized as like a ray gun basically from sci-fi comics, which I think is really fun. It it just was not popularized as a a word for electrocution or other related effects until that was illustrated in that way. And now it's a verb, right? You can zap something. You can get zapped. Another

fun speaking of zapping. I have I believe I have addressed taser before, so I won't go into it that far. But it means Tom A. Swift's electric rifle. And the rifle is a fictional weapon wielded by the character Tom Swift who made his novel debut in the in 1910. Also, to

because every time I mention Tom Swift, somebody's like talk about Tom Swifties. I do think I would like to very briefly mention what a Tom Swifty is. Do you know what a Tom Swifty is? I know what a Swifty is. Tell me what a Tom Swifty is. A Tom

Swifty is a phrase in in a in which a quoted sentence works with the attribution in prose to create a pun in the attribution. So, I'd like my money back and then some, said Tom with interest. Don't ask me why I was at the mausoleum, Tom said cryptically. We're out of flowers, said Tom lackadaisically. Oh yeah, I like these. I like these.

Right? [laughter] I also like I forgot what I needed at the store, Tom said listlessly. Or Get to the back of the ship, Tom said sternly. Aha, I love these. [laughter] Oh, these are so up my street.

And some of the Tom Swift books are really fun to read. So, I I would recommend that. It's goofy silliness. >> [laughter] >> And they were particular They were a particular recurring trope in that series with that character. Well, Jess, I for one I'm feeling a bit zapped.

>> [laughter] >> Are we done with this episode? >> electrically. >> [laughter] >> Very good, Jess. I do like those. I'm going to look at more of those. That's

that Yeah, >> [laughter] >> that's a that's a rich vein. I really enjoyed this exploration of terms from science fiction in the internet age. It's time to bring this episode to an end, she said conclusively. And uh and we'll see you next time. >> [laughter] >> On Words Unraveled. And just before we

go, can I just say something? Oh oh oh oh, I just want to plug a thing. I've never had an opportunity to plug something like this before. But I'm doing a a live show. It's in a live in person on on a stage show April 11th at London's Bloomsbury Theatre. So,

you kind of need to be the right side of the Atlantic to go. Although I mean, you're well welcome to cross it if you're feeling particularly like you want to come and see this in person. Um >> to. Oh, that'd be so exciting if you came over. I really hope you can make it. Uh

so, you might get to see Jess there as well, although I can't promise that. That is not included in the ticket price is presence [laughter] of Jess Zafarris. But, I'll leave a link below if you would like to get tickets for you and a I don't know a wordy, nerdy pal to come along. April the 9th, Bloomsbury Theatre, London. See you there.

Thank you for letting me do that, Jess. Oh, [laughter] I'm so excited. I can't wait to see it. >> [music]