---
video_title: "How cities got their names"
video_id: fR7IIZAy4Js
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fR7IIZAy4Js
video_date: 2026-01-28T06:00:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Enjoy exploring these city name origins 🌎 And learn languages for 7-days FREE at Lingopie! https://learn.lingopie.com/words-unravelled
  
  Rob and Jess are touring the US and the UK in search of the most interesting city name origin stories.
  
  💨 Does 'Chicago' have anything to do with wind?
  🗽 Is New York actually named after York?
  🚇 Does anyone know what 'London' means?
  🏹 And what was Nottingham's hilarious old name?
  
  Find out as we climb aboard the etymological city-hopper in another wordy, nerdy Words Unravelled.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
Is New York really named after York? Artosa and Tallahassee the same word? And does anyone actually know what London means? From the place where the oxen forward to the city of angels, we're taking flight to visit the major and warm in a school metropolis names across the US and the UK in this city-themed episode of Words Unraveled. Welcome to another Words Unraveled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel Rob Words. And I'm Jess Zafaris, other of etymology books, including useless etymology. And today we are visiting some of the major cities across the US and the UK and exploring their names. Yeah, place names are fascinating, aren't they? Because they do tell you a great deal about a place's history and obviously linguistic history. They tell you who's been there, what they noticed about that place or who they wanted to commemorate with what they named it. I think this is going to be an exciting one. It will. Definitely worthy of the plane tickets to get all of these places. Yeah, if we don't mention the city you want us to mention this time, don't worry, we will do more city name episodes. For example, this time we're just going to focus on the US and Britain. And we can't even be comprehensive with those. So we'll start with the most populous and the most well-known around the world. But let's get stuck into it. Where do we go first? Being as myopic as possible, I feel like I should start with New York City because it is the nearest metropolis to me. And it is also one of the world's most recognizable metropolis lie. Metropolis. Metropolis. Metropolis. Metropolis. Metropolis. That doesn't make any sense because that is definitely a Greek. I actually had a bit of research the other day on a different podcast that said that New York is actually the city that has been mentioned in pop and rock and roll songs more than any other. Which is not surprised. So if that's not justification enough for us to go there first, what is? Now hold on, where are we going to go with the etymology of New York? Well, well, I mean, it sounds like it might be more of an English story. Right. It's nice. It's nicely transatlantic, but it's also quite Dutch too, right? Because originally it was not New York. It was New Amsterdam and it was named by the Dutch named for Amsterdam because there were a lot of Dutch people in New York. And we see that frequently in many of the words and terms. And we've just we discuss New York Dutch and Pennsylvania Dutch and other folks of that nature frequently on this podcast. And it's because it comes up a lot in the American lexicon. But New York City traces its origins to Fort Amsterdam and a trading post founded on Manhattan Island by Dutch colonists in 16, around 1624. The settlement was named New Amsterdam in a couple of years later and it was chartered as a city a few years later. And then it became it came under English control in 1664 and was temporarily renamed New York after King Charles II granted the lands to his brother, the Duke of York and Albany, the future James II before his name, the name was permanently adapted later. But where did New York come from? Good question. So his name after the Duke of York is not named after York. Isn't that interesting? Although the Duke of York is of course named after York. The place York does have an interesting history as a place. Actually I went to university in York. I feel like I know the place quite well. The oldest name that we know for it is the Roman name for it, Iboracum. But that is probably an adaptation of whatever the Celtic name was before that. The Romans were very good for just adapting local names. It's one of the ways that they ingratiated themselves so there are many, many different types of people that they took control of during the course of their time. It kind of almost kept the local names or at least they kept nods on them. So you have Iboracum, which becomes when the Anglo-Saxons take over England after the Romans left. It becomes Yorfor a week, which means place of the wild boar that Yorfor a bit means wild boar. But Iboracum did not have anything to do with wild boar. The Roman name, as I've said, it probably comes from the Old Celtic name. So it seems like the Anglo-Saxons got a bit confused by the sound of the Roman name and thought the way that they should Anglo-Saxonize it was to make it place of the boar. It doesn't quite work. But then the big thing that happens with York is when the Vikings take over Northumbria and large swathes of England down the east, they make York their capital. And they call it a Norse-ified version of the Anglo-Saxon name. Yorfor a week. It becomes Yorvik. And yeah, and York is just what happens to the word Yorvik when you have the Normans come with their French accent. And also just a millennium of a crude laziness. It becomes York, which is what it is now. Your mention of Iboracum reminded me that there is a fun word you can use if you're talking about things that pertain to New York. It is an adjective and it is Nova Boracanian, which means something that pertains to New York. And it has that Iboracum bit in it. Yeah, okay. The Enzi. And Enzi is an ending you get in demonims. We talked about enims, the word for people from a place. And actually the next city over from York is the city of Leeds. Luke's name for the river there, even though the river's name is the river air. It's got nothing to do with Leeds. But that is a long story that's not even that interesting. So I'm not going to tell it. But people from there are called Leo Denzian. I think it's quite interesting. There's another fun transatlantic naming thing happening with New York. And that is one of its nicknames, which it has many, many nicknames. One of them though, which I think we've addressed before. But I it's one of my favorite word origins, but I want to talk about it again if you're up into it. And it's Gotham, which was first used to refer to New York City by Washington Irving, who also had many Dutch type characters in his various storytelling and editorializations and satirical pieces that he wrote in New York City. And in the larger New York area. Anyway, he had this satirical periodical called Salmgundi and he called New York City Gotham in that periodical. And he drew the name from the Mary Tales of the Mad Men of Gotham, which was a middle English collection of stories about an English town whose inhabitants pretend to be idiots. Yes. And that town is still there and they pronounce the name locally Gotam. Right. Because it means goat hamlet. Exactly. Yes. Gotham isn't just not correct. The story goes that the people of Gotham once fainted the SC in order to prevent King John from establishing a hunting lodge that would he would reach by traveling through the town on a regular basis at the time any road on which the King traveled was made a public highway. So it would disrupt the peace quite a bit. So they started doing things like trying to drown an eel in a pool of water whenever the King's messengers would arrive or rolling cheeses down a hill in hopes that they would find their way to the market for sale. And thereby they convinced King John to find a different place for his hunting lodge so he wouldn't have to go travel through a town filled with mad people. But that's also the notion of Gotham as the home of Batman, which is a New York City-esque city in the comics and the films and the TV shows. Also draws on the same idea and it was identified or named so by Bill Finger who co-created the character Batman with Obcane. Right, so it's the idea that is a sort of city of madness. Yes, I mean, and think of all the characters in Batman. That Joker, Kookie Fellow. If all this talk of faraway places and out-and-familiar languages has given you a bit of wanderlust or just made you think I should really finally learn another language. There is a tool we've genuinely been enjoying that makes the whole process a lot more fun. Yeah, it's called Lingopai and they've kindly sponsored this video. Lingopai is this streaming platform that's built specifically for language learners. It's got over 3,000 TV shows and movies on it that you can watch in a whole range of languages. They've got French, Spanish, German, Korean and another nine different languages. What I really like about it is that it lets you learn the way people actually do in real life by watching and listening and slowly picking up things in context rather than staring at a textbook and trying to memorize rules. Yeah, I really like French comedy. I think they've got a good sense of humour over in French. They're not recognized for it. So I've been using it to watch French comedies and try and pick up a bit more French on them. There's this program called The Silly Associations Club. They're actually really short videos and in them you're introduced to a handful of people who tell you their story and then you're supposed to guess what unites all these people. What club they're a part of. For example, one I watched, the club was actually the secret alliance of useless superheroes because they all got some major skill that they couldn't actually use. It's weirdly addictive. I bet. And while you're watching, you get dual subtitles so you can see both the original language and English at the same time. You can click on any word and instantly see what it means, hear how it's pronounced and save it to review later. Yeah, and if a scene is going too fast for you, you can actually slow the video down. You can also loop the line so you can see them over and over again and even repeat the words out loud. And then lingo by will tell you how close you are to the right pronunciation, which can be humbling but is actually very helpful. Those words you click automatically turn into flashcards and review quizzes. So instead of pretending you'll remember them later, lingo pi actually makes sure you do. Yes, so if you would like to try it out, lingo pi is offering words unraveled. You as a free seven day trial plus a discount if you decide to keep going. You'll find the link in the description below. While I was looking into American place names, we've got a number of trends. There are places named after other places or other people like New York City, mostly dudes, occasionally famous ladies. We have Native American names, Spanish names, miscellaneous local lore and geographical features. So maybe we go over to Chicago. I think that's probably one of the next bigger cities. I lived in Chicago for five years. I love it. It's it's in a beautiful city when you're not in the dead of winter. The name Chicago is this is one of our Native American city names and it is a French rendering of the Miami Illinois word. Sikakwa, I believe is how you would say that or shikakwa. Basically it means garlic. It is it is a word for the the quantity of like wild garlic that grows within the regions and it was originally French explorer Robert de la Salle whose name is all over Chicago who traveled to the Great Lakes region in the 17th century while mapping routes for New France and recorded the site as shikaku in the 1600s and later it was reduced to Chicago because of the quantity of garlic in the region. Wow, I had no idea how to do fragrant name. Speaking of fragrance, it's also known as the windy city not because of fragrant winds but it ever wasn't funny enough. So it is a very windy place. Like if you're walking in between the buildings you may you may be swept away but that's not what it's named for. It's not interesting. This is something that I have heard that it's it's not actually anything to do with the the gustiness of the place. Yes, it actually the the first instances of it being used are around sports beef with Cincinnati. Cincinnati newspapers used it and Chicago too used it repeatedly during these intensiveic and baseball rivalries that framed Chicago as loud and boastful and politically windy full of windbags rather than meteorologically windy. One of the fun things about Chicago too is when you give Chicago an insult it takes it to heart makes it its own and then stands on it for all eternity and that also happened with the term second city which originated as an insult from AJ Liebling who is a journalist and cultural critic writing for the New Yorker. He wrote some essays collected as Chicago the second city in 1952 which portrayed the city as culturally subordinate to New York City and burdened by corruption and decline and the city was like that's fine and then made at the name of an improv troop it developed a city slogan later called second to none. This is quite similar to what happened with Big Apple right for New York. It was originally a reference to the fact that it sucks the nutrients out of the rest of the apples you know leaving nothing for everyone else but again it's been adopted by the locals. It has some we've discussed this one in in our idiom episode on food so it also has some horse racing nonsense but yes he talked about the difference through naming trends that was a Native American city name. It was it was there are some others that I could go through relatively quickly. Milwaukee comes from indigenous languages of the Western Great Lakes and it means gathering well let's see there are a couple of options it's often described as good land or good place or gathering place which is pretty neat and then I like Seattle because it's one of the rare cities that's named after a specific Native American person the name Seattle comes from chief Seattle who was a 19th century Native American leader. He played an important role in Native American and settler relations as Western expansion happened. Another fun pair of city names that are actually the same city name is Tulsa and Tallahassee which share the same route they're both from the Muskegee Creek word Tallahassee or Tula Hassee I believe meaning town or old settlement completely different states but mean the same thing from the same word. One of the things that you mentioned about about Milwaukee about not there being various interpretations and that's because it's not necessarily possible to tell which language the term came from. Yeah and it's a for or to know which term it is a European attempt to render which is what which is where the problem comes from and probably I'm conjecturing here tell me if I'm wrong probably the reason Tulsa and Tallahassee are not the same is that they're just two different interpretations by outsiders of the same phrase. Yes and also and this is the case for many of these words it's for a very sad reason too it's after their forced removal during the trail of tears Creek families from Tallahassee Florida resettled together in Indian territory what so called Indian territory where the name traveled west and shifted through spellings like Tulsa Hassee and Tullis before becoming Tulsa. So right very sad and for all this too. So their links they're directly linked it's not a coincidence that two places went it up at the same name. What were some of those other categories that you were telling us about so places named after people you mentioned. Yes and I bet you have a lot of those as well. I do but then they're just not obvious like apart from so the only city I think with a obvious name in it okay so you've got Peter Bra which is like the fortified town of St. Peter which is named after an Abbey and you've got St. David's which is the tiny tiny city in Wales guess who that's named after but tell it tell it about some of the American ones and then I'll get into some of the sort of hidden names in some of the English city names. So the most obvious one is probably Washington I don't think you need to I can't imagine who that might be named after but the ones that I've come across are also not very obvious either like New Orleans is from Philippe the second Duke of Orléale who governed France as a region for Louis the 15th. So that's interesting so that echo is what happened with New York and so far as it's named after a person who's named after a place. Yes absolutely. Then we've got there there are many names and districts that are Columbus Columbus Ohio being probably the most Columbus Ohio and then the the district of Columbia being the most obvious ones as best known ones and usually those names come of course much later because Ohio didn't exist it's like a no-hio lawmaker admired Columbus and persuaded other people to adopt it Houston is after Sam Houston Dallas's interestingly some of these are unknown like they forgot who they named it after and one theory is George M Dallas who served under president James K Polk was the namesake of Dallas Jackson villas after Andrew Jackson Fort Worth is named after William J. Worth who is a senior officer who commanded us forces in Texas Charlotte is one of our female ones was named after Charlotte of Mecklenburg's Drelitz gonna have to correct me on that one wife of King George III it was incorporated in 1768 while North Carolina was still a British colony Denver was named after James W Denver Nashville was named after Francis Nash I could go on there tons of these Well I mean I can help you out with one American one because it is also the name of an English city Birmingham oh excellent yes indeed there's a hidden person in that it is Biorma hmm so Biorma is it Birmingham means settlement of the people of Biorma so when you see Ing in a name it means the people of so whoever came whatever comes before that is the name of the person so it's basically there they're tribe and then Ham is one of the many different suffixes that broadly as just say they mean they mean settlement they can mean homestead they can mean farm stead they can mean collection of houses but basically they mean they mean settlement so you've got Birmingham being one of them another one is notting them so you've got that ingen there again it's the people of not no it's not the people of not nothing and was not its name until fairly recently its name was snotting them oh no no no snotting which is a fact we love in Darby because notting him is the city next door that we don't like right so knowing that it was for a long time called snotting him sort of great-merthing Darby but yes so snotting him means settlement of the people of snot this is this is this is an underrepresented fact in Robinhood adaptations as we talk ready this one but another one that I wanted to mention because it is the only English city named after a woman and I actually did mention this fact in a our episode recently where we did a little quiz and it's Wolverhampton which is thought to be named after a woman called Wolfen who was granted the land by Ethel Red the Unready so one of the kings and so it's actually what it was originally called after she was given the place was Wolfen Hiantorn so the Hampton is not the same Hampton as you find elsewhere with the sort of Ham and Town so two basically was saying settlement but anyway over time it becomes Wolverhampton from that which is a darn side easier to say than Wolfen Hiantorn. Wolfen is a cool name though that's cool I feel like that should come back yeah exactly and it's a lady name as well I don't know you see it written on the page you'd immediately think that it is and by the sounds of which was kick ass you know what's another neat city that in the US that has a relation to a European city do you know the original name of Austin Texas can you give me a hint at the language it has to do with the Napoleonic Wars that was probably too easy what was it was it new Paris it was waterloo a little way was yeah it was it was when the the Republic of Texas saw it it was seeking a new capital in 1839 commissioners selected the area that came to be known as waterloo for its central location it was ultimately renamed Austin to honor Stephen F Austin who was a political leader who organized and led the first major Anglo-American settlement of Mexican Texas in the 1820s and sometimes called the father of Texas though they're like five other dude two are also called that why it was called waterloo originally is unclear but it wasn't long after the battle of waterloo that it was named this and the other waterloo it means like watery clearing or wet forest and Austin does have water and rivers around it compared to some of the terrain there's apparently a long running joke in the area that claims that Mirabobi Lamar who was then the vice president of the Republic of Texas which was a sub-prone country in North America for like 10 years pushed the change because his middle name was Bonaparte and no Bonaparte would tolerate a capital city called waterloo so what do you want of the main railway terminus is in London what do you station and actually their like trains from from France used to terminate there which is really sore yeah they don't know I probably leave it more tactful I mean I should do London at some point you know London is a really interesting one but also a very frustrating one because no one does know where London comes from the earliest form of the name a bit like it was with York as the Roman name for it Londonium where did that come from to know to know so yeah it's based somehow on a Celtic name for the place but people have tried and failed to find a convincing Celtic term that would fit there's been like done which you can kind of make bit which I think means something like pull hell something like that because the Lin would be the same as you find in Dublin which means black pool and done would be the same as you find in like Dundee which is hell fought at the river tea incidentally I'll be diverting all over the place on I've just come to Ireland he's gone then but no one knows whether it what Celtic word it came from and it's a theory that might even be older than the Celtic languages and actually it might go back to a language we don't even know about aliens that was that was in the early in the 40s aliens whatever those guys from Star Wars or quality it was that yeah London's quite a quite a frustrating one yeah that is sadly unsatisfying it might be the oldest city name in England an interesting one that I think that it has another Roman tie so to speak is Cincinnati so it was first called Los Santaville the name was ultimately changed in honor of the Society of Cincinnati which was this veterans organization founded in 1783 so revolutionary war officers basically and it was named for Lucius Quinkchis since in attis fifth century Roman hero who saved the city from a crisis and then famously like he went he was like I'm done being a Roman hero I'm gonna start a farm and then they were like no no you have to come back and save the city and he did apparently by himself in like 10 days and his name basically means like curly hair with curly hair so since and as Kinn Kinnos means curly hair so since and Adi is the curly hair city oh that's wonderful do people say Cincinnati know that I'm sure I'm sure some of them do in curly hair city I've just thought of another good transatlantic one if I may Lincoln people with the surname Lincoln must have some ancestral link to the place that is Lincoln our Lincoln named after our most famous Lincoln yeah exactly everything's all Lincoln together oh yes yes yes yes wow wow the where does Lincoln come from where did Lincoln get its name well let me tell you so Lynn is I already talked about Lynn means pool same as at the end of Dublin but what the Romans called Lyndon at Lincoln was Lyndon Colonia so Lyndon is from the Celtic name including that Lynn that pool thing but the Colonia bit at the end so it's two word phrase Colonia it's like a training facility I suppose for centuries right it's it's a depover for centuries is a column it's got a column it means it means column and so that gets contracted to become Lincoln so the the pool besides such a thing or so it would be that the you know the geographical area had this name that referenced a pool there and then the Roman name is the column at that place so the Romans maybe don't even know that it's named after the pool there potentially I'm not sure how how verse they were in the local language they may have been you know it's another mysterious city name Baton Rouge Louisiana which you know in French means the red stick so white is what's the red stick so French explorer Pierre Lemoine D'Ibeleville while traveling up the Mississippi River in the late 17th century and countered a tall red painted pool marking the boundary between two tribes hunting grounds the native term for this pool is probably a Choctaw one also meaning red pool so it's almost it's almost a it's almost a a transliteration or a borrowing or something we have a couple of records of it two of a carpenter who was traveling with D'Ibeleville who wrote in 1723 that the site was called Istrumah which is from that Choctaw word which means red stick and marked the dividing line between these two territories and I think it's neat that that concept has still stuck to that place name what we covered so far so we've done we've done a Viking one we've done some Roman ones we haven't done that much about Anglo-Saxon city names which are actually they make up probably the majority of city names because apart from the the Normans who actually don't change place names very much after they take over the Anglo-Saxons have kind of had last dibs on the big settlements in terms of the names and there are two massive very widely used suffixes in English city names that don't look like they're really two of them because they they're so many variants on them the first one is Burr which is the Anglo-Saxon word for a fortified town in old English it tends to get spelled B-U-R-H but you see it manifested in the names of cities in the forms of berg, beri, burr so you know pita bra edim burr which is a sort of actually a Celtic Anglo-Saxon hybrid name, love bra then you've got the place that's just called beri as well but all of those are places where at one point there was an Anglo-Saxon fortified town, the other suffix that I wanted to mention is caster or caster which yeah yeah so so there are a lot of these you've got manchester you've got Lang caster also all those ones that are really difficult to pronounce because they don't match the spelling lester wester the caster at the end of that is the same as caster and caster and so the place called caster is the embodiment of what I'm about to tell you that word means which is Roman fort it's from the Roman it's from the Latin casterum however the interesting thing here or the complicated thing here is that the Romans did not put the caster or casterum at the end of these place names the Anglo-Saxons put them to say hey look this is where the Romans had a fort my favorite of these is manchester because the man bit actually is not related to men far more related to women actually because it's thought to mean breast shaped hill so manchester means the Roman fort at the breast shaped hill is literally related to words very distantly like mammary or even mother perhaps yeah manchester aren't most hills booby shaped yeah I would say so I would say so and it's in that it's in the peak district there's sort of pointy hills because a lot of hills around there the nipple district that's called canal street that's a joke one's been out in manchester on Friday night the northern one about booby I also lived in manchester for a for quite a while I really love that city I'll mention Leicester as well because it comes up a lot as why the heck is it's felt like that and it's actually named after a local tribe that lived there they were called the lagore Celtic tribe it becomes Lager Chester right in anglais accent and that contracts over time to Leicester and people like to come up with a sort of lazy way of pronouncing the name for their place and that's why these things do do shorten two other cities that I'd like to mention the famous worldwide because of their universities Oxford and Cambridge because they both actually got quite quite interesting stories I'll start with Cambridge actually because I just said that the norm has didn't change names very much and that is true but one of the names that they did change is Cambridge because bridge means what you expect it to mean it means bridge that makes sense yeah it does the Anglo-Saxon word for bridge was bridge like BRI CG pronounced bridge that word has barely changed in every thousand years which is pretty cool but it was originally called granta bridge because the river that ran through Cambridge was called the granta people watching this who are aware of Cambridge will know that the city that runs through Cambridge isn't called the granta it's called the cam that's why it's now called Cambridge but the story goes that the Normans couldn't pronounce granta now just try and imagine a French person that I was saying that grrr at the start they would struggle with it they would struggle with it I mean I guess no one knows whether they changed the name of the river or the name of the city first but one of them had to go and the city continued to be named after the river and the river continued to share the name of the city fluid nicely into the modern it isn't very good and let's continue our flow but let's forward that flow with Oxford because the Ford in Oxford does mean a crossing means a Ford and guess what they were leading across the river at Oxford yeah correct it's actually potentially the most boring city name of all but I want to mention it because there's another place called Heriford that I like because there's this word that we've lost from old English because it was replaced by a French word the French word that replaced it was army army but the anglicic accent word for an army was a Herra right so Heriford is actually where you would where the troops would cross the river and so basically a Ford is where the water is usually just sort of shallow enough that you can walk through it rather than you know a bridge there's just a couple of extra suffixes we should talk about we should talk about WIC which is just another Anglo-Saxon settlement name basically so Norwich which is a city in East Anglia and air it like a region that still has the name from when the the anglers were there it's just updated but that just means northern WIC right and and turn when you see turn that that is a precursor of the word town yeah everywhere that's called Norton is the north one everywhere that's called Sutton is the south one so if your surname is Sutton it means south town and then there was one of the other ones it's a bit oh south hampton it's just a sort of real mess because it's it's south you've got ham in there as well which is one type of settlement and then you've got turn which is another one that ends with that ending is Boston which oh Boston in the United States is named after the Boston and Lincolnshire and that was the the hometown of the person who named it Isaac Johnson the English Boston gets its name from St. Botalf's town named for St. Botalf I hope I'm pronouncing that right a seventh century East Anglia and St. who's associated with travel and protection and whose name over time was shortened to Boston I don't know why but it's typical it's absolutely typical that it would be shortened to that isn't it the names associated with the American Boston it had two names because it's quite a large landscape but they were Native American names well the the first one is the Native American name and I'll bongon word translated as living waters or places springs because it's got freshwater resources and and an arrow land connection and then trimontane which was used by early Puritan settlers which is French meaning three mountains because the peninsula has its get hills and tree mountain street in Boston is also also still carries that name which is kind of neat yeah geographical features a big thing here and we've already come across a lot of the references to rivers and that's who pills yeah yeah so hills are good places to build settlements because they give you a good vantage point rivers are really handy for human beings who require water transport and stuff want to get away yeah exactly yeah might want to get the ship their stuff off briefly would you be open to me talking about a couple of Spanish city names in the United States no no absolutely yeah hit me with some the biggest one being las angeles do you know the full name of las angeles no 1700s alcueblo de noestra senora de la rena de los angeles so this group of 44 settlers known as los Pablo Dorres from new Spain or Spanish Mexico founded the Pueblo that they called alcueblo de noestra senora la rena de los angeles the town of our lady the queen of the angels which that is lovely you know it's beautiful too long no it's very long there are longer versions too there's also del Rio porno porchin cula which is our town of our lady the queen of the angels of the porchin cula river it also has that that's also one the pronunciation of this one is interesting over time the the local English pronunciation of the name of the city has varied in 1953 the American name society asserts that the pronunciation loss angeles was established following the 1815 corporation of the city and that since the 1880s the pronunciation loose angeles was sort of a trend that emerged in california to give places that are that have more more more Spanish sounding names and pronunciations how do you say this this word by the way what loss angeles yes so you say angeles yeah yeah i mean i don't there is in my brain there is no connection between the way i pronounce it and Spanish well one of the reasons apparently that that pronunciation is common in the uk in particular is that loose angeles as a spelling pronunciation was more familiar because it sounds more greek Latin so we would never think that's the loss bit is loose though that that strikes that is a very lost and american english way of pronouncing that that vowel like we're quite keen on the oh sound in british english so we have no like qualms about going with it my husband is from la and calls it la or more Los Angeles if he's gonna say the whole thing yeah we're gonna be smarter so that's what i should have said when you asked me right here's one here's an interesting one so so Viva los vegas yeah los vegas it's but it's obviously it's it's less right because the the the a s does need to kind of match the a s at the end of the the vegas right because it's it's feminine but i'm thinking of the song and and it is quite commonly pronounced los vegas isn't it hmm it is yeah in las vegas that word means the meadows which were like the fertile lowlands that were sustained by water and what was otherwise this very arid terrain we have the sands which are all after the saints so we've got san francisco after saint francis and then we have san diego from san diego to alcala apparently it's from the saint diedaticus of alcala we've got a number of others along those lines as well we talked about how so many city names are geographical references and actually quite quite dull ones like you know the the Ford where you cross the ox names who city cities in Wales are actually you know very literal cities and towns i should i should say because i'm going to cite some of these that are actually towns maybe one day's though they will be cities as well but car diff for example which is the Welsh capital right so care means fort and you see it also in the the english city car liel and diff is actually just an alternative rendering of what in english we call the river taff but actually the the river in Welsh is called the the div right so car diff means fort on the river taff but they're a handful of really common and they're they tend to be prefixes rather than suffixes i was talking about with the anglic sacks and so when it comes to Welsh names so you've got abba which means rivermouth so for example abba ristwif is the rivermouth of the river istwif it seems like it's a mystical name abba ristwif and so sort of unpronounceable if you've never tried as well and certainly very difficult to remember how to spell but actually it just means yeah the mouth of the river that's called that you've got clan i'll get it end up saying that clan five fifth gwingeth go get her if you're going to say you've got one right because that one nearly came i nearly mentioned that when we were talking about the four name of los angeles but the clan at the start of that means church i mean that that place name it means it begins why you're talking about the church of of Mary some Mary but also you've got clan did know which just means the church of st. dudno or st. dudno and then you've got cum which means valley and actually where's itself is called comrie right which is actually related to other words like comrie and stuff and oh yeah i was going to say comrie yeah yeah exactly it's the same word it's just a different linguistic rendering of the same word it's a term that the brithonic languages and the britonic people the people that were on the on Britain before the angeles accents and deepened the Romans probably turned up it's something that they are identified with and then there's a so the like called cum bran for example which is a town but it's thought to mean the valley of the crow oh needs crow valley that's a surprise for you there here's one uh have are you aware there's a city in where it's called swansey no is does it have anything to do with swans well let me tell you it doesn't have anything to do with swans good it also doesn't have anything to do with a sea as well this is big revelation swansey has nothing to do with either it's actually an old Norse name how about this because actually the Vikings did make their way over the top of Britain and settle a bit it's amazingly an origin one and so swansey the sea is actually we should actually think of it as e and it is a very common suffix for places that the Vikings stopped off at because it means island and the swans be attached it means swans swain being a person so swans it means swains island here's a thing there's something strange happening in Welsh soccer Welsh football American celebrities keep buying up shares in Welsh football teams in December it was revealed that Snoop Dogg had bought a minority stake in swansey FC yeah do you know who else has got a minority you would never guess this in a really years who has got a minority stake in swansey FC Martha Stewart Martha Stewart has that doesn't super surprise me seeing her latest trajectory let that that tracks it's also become sort of a fashionable thing for American celebrities to like invest in football clubs so exactly because the other one is another Welsh club Rexham FC which is the one that's owned by Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElenny if you're interested Rexham is actually an Anglo-Saxon name and it means Rayox settlement so it looks Anglo-Saxon it's got that ham at the end of it so that's that's some Welsh places for you can I briefly do some Scottish ones as well I wanted to mention Edinburgh because I did briefly touch on it because the bird is Anglo-Saxon but that eddin bit is so it's not Gallic which you might think when we're talking about Scotland because actually the Scottish Gallic is kind of a it's a western Scotland thing right it's not an eastern Scotland thing which is where Edinburgh is so the eddin bit is thought to probably and almost certainly the Bratonic Celtic word right and no one knows what it is though right yeah the eddin like the eddin might be a person's name but it it seems unlikely that it is but Welsh has the word Athen which is about EITHIN which is very similar to the EIDYN that is thought to be the source of Edinburgh and that means Gorse being a sort of yeah I don't know like a rough bush fortification at the rough bush that's my own interpretation what it's the roughest bush I mean it could also that wouldn't play maybe like a fortification amid scrub lens or something like that right yeah I know exactly that yes it's a reference to the greenery that would have been present at one point and and actually the area was once called din EIDIN right din being a version of Dun which I already talked about and actually there's a place in New Zealand it's very famous for rugby called Dun Eden and that is another rendering of that old place name for for Edinburgh so Edinburgh is as I say like an Anglo-Saxon Celtic hybrid which across over to Glasgow the other major like really major city in Scotland people think about when they think about that Scotland anyway which is which is a Gallic place for names so Scottish Gallic is the descendant of a language that is brought over from Ireland so it is directly related to Gallic spoken in Ireland and it is a Cure Delic language and Glasgow comes from the Gallic Glasgow and I'm almost certainly saying that wrong because what I've basically done is just put on a glass of eagin accent to say it which can't be right that rhythm and all of us with a little offensive that that meant green Glen that's not a million miles away from what we're saying Edinburgh meant maybe those guys could get along just a little bit better if they knew I think we've talked before about that glass bit being a relating to what was it color names it's one of those sort of collectified it can mean green it can mean blue it can mean pale and watery colors and it's one of those collectified words for blue greens and whatnot that is such a breakthrough well spotted very cool very cool we haven't got round to doing any Irish place names or Northern Irish place names we'll do that when we return to talking about cities in another episode you mentioned a couple of cities ago you mentioned Crow Crow areas bird cities and non swan related cities yeah we're definitely talking about bird cities yeah bird bird cities yeah so and my I think one of the cooler bird city names is probably Phoenix right because uh-huh and it's named that because some settlers particularly I believe his name was Jack Swilling who was a civil war veteran who had it was working in in the area at the time or in Arizona territory he helped build this new city on top of the irrigation system of an earlier civilization so the salt river valley had been engineered centuries earlier by I believe the Hohocomh an indigenous culture that built hundreds of miles of canals to support large farming communities by the 1800s this canals had been abandoned and there but their roots were still visible on the landscape so in the 1860s some settlers with Jack Swilling's group suggested the name Phoenix after this mythical bird that rises again after destruction yeah that's that's very sweet I like that well we've stayed within the comfort of our own homes and countries for this city centric etymology episode of Words Unraveled but we will travel to other cities in future episodes so thank you for joining us this time yeah yeah join us next time when we rise like a Phoenix from the ashes of this episode to explore some more fascinating etymologies Jess can I just do another quick plug sorry yeah I did this before um but for my live show that I'm doing in London are you gonna come over for yes yes I am I absolutely will be there well we've sold enough tickets to the show in the evening that we've decided to put on another show on the same day but earlier on in the day so more tickets available for that if you want to come and see an evening that is now an afternoon of etymology there's still actually tickets left for the evening as well 11th of April at London's Bloomsbury Theatre sorry if you're not in that city whose name we don't know where it came from if it goes really well maybe I'll come to somewhere close to you at some point but Jess thanks for letting me plug that again oh of course don't don't miss Rob Boards live it's gonna be excellent and and I highly recommend it I will be there too I would hope to see everyone there would it be totally ghoulish of me to mention myself myself I was talk as well don't go do it do it all right if you're if you're state side and you are interested in in an etymology presentation I will be at South by Southwest EDU on March 9th speaking about word origins and the utility of etymology through fun facts at uh and and talking about the pedagogical uses of etymology so if you happen to be at South by if you're coming to South by Southwest EDU which is focused on educators I would love to see you there it's in Austin on March 9th I should come over for that I'm speaking at an education conference so it has a more narrow audience I think but it should be a pretty good crowd I'm a featured speaker so I get to stage all to myself hey good morning I was really patronized good good good good yes wonderful it will of course be marvelous if you're able to go to that do go to it thanks a lot for joining us for another words unravel we're gonna go now bye