---
video_title: "English has more Latin words than you think."
video_id: 52GtCvS7HCU
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=52GtCvS7HCU
video_date: 2026-08-19
video_description: |
  English has more Latin words than you think – so let's build our Latin vocabularies! 🎯 Learn languages 1-on-1 with native teachers on italki. Use code WORDS2026 to get $5 off your first lesson ⌨️ Web:  https://go.italki.com/words2608 📱 App:  https://go.italki.com/words2608app
  
  You speak more Latin than you think. Not only are the many French words in English derived from Latin, but almost 30% of our vocabulary comes directly from the language of the Romans. In this episode, Rob and Jess explore how those words got there, what they literally mean, and whether we are using them correctly.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #Latin #language #italki
---
Which English words are really from Latin? Why do we call the language of the Romans Latin? And are we getting [music] our Latin plurals wrong? We'll ponder roots like pendere, examine the contents of contain, and find the road hidden inside impervious [music] in this loquacious episode of Words Unravelled all about Latin roots and relatives [music] in English.

[music] Welcome to another Words Unravelled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel RobWords. And I'm Jess Zafarris, author of etymology books including Useless Etymology, and today we are headed to Rome for a bit of a Latin lesson. We were just discussing that actually almost a third of the words in the English language come from Latin, just shy of 30% of them, which is amazing. And there are a multitude of reasons for that. But even words that aren't

straight up from Latin come via French from Latin, which is like another 30% of them. And then other words we just tacked Latin pieces onto Old English stems. There's going to be so much to talk about here about how we've got so many Latin words and what they mean. But I think we need to get into what Latin even is, don't we? Right, right, right. So

we call them Romans, right? And they spoke Latin. But why why do Romans speak Latin? Why why does that Why is this word different? It's a really good question that I hadn't even considered. Why

Why [laughter] is it called Latin not Roman? So Latium was the ancient region in which Rome stood. It covered Rome and the lower Tiber area. And people The people of Latium were the Latins, and Latin was their language. [laughter] And modern Italians still call the region, I believe, Lazio. Ah. Rome began as a Latin city, though Roman rule later carried Latin across all of

Europe and North Africa and and even parts of Western Asia. So so Latin is the language word, Latium is the place word. Latin latinus means of Latium. And then it also means the language word, too. So in English, Latin appears in Old English meaning like in in Latin as a noun for the language of the Romans and Rome as a political and civic label spread separately. And that word Lazio

will have rung bells with football slash soccer fans, I believe, where there's a football team called Lazio, as well. But then we also talk about Latin Latinate languages, descendants of Latin, and we sometimes call those Romance languages. What are we getting at with that? English borrowed the word romance from Old French, which meant even in late late Latin, in the Roman manner. So this is not in the time of the Romans. This is This is post-Rome people

talking about things that were supposedly related to Rome. In some In some cases, that's true, like Romance languages are indeed from Rome or or adapted from Latin. But then novels and things are sort of are called romances originally, and that that's sort of a broad application of storytelling that celebrates the classics, but may or may not have that much to do with them. And we should nip it in the bud and say English is not a Romance language, despite the fact I've already said that more than half of its vocabulary can be traced back to Latin. It is itself not a Romance language, but nevertheless we do have all of these Latin derived or directly pilfered words.

And it's all kinds of interesting reasons for that that go back even further than the English language itself because the English language is born already containing some Latin words. What do I mean by that? What I mean is the dialects that were brought over to Britain by the Angles, the Saxons, the Jutes, these Germanic language speaking speakers, their languages, their dialects already had some Latin words in them. Why? Because they met the Romans. The Romans were hanging

around everywhere. Everywhere. And they brought with them for example, their wine. We get our word wine from the Romans before the English language really exists cuz the English language exists once we're in Britain and those dialects start to merge with one another. And cheese as well.

We get cheese from them. They were having They were living the good life. They gave us wine and cheese. English has always had wine and cheese at its disposal. Lots of other words like mile.

Mile has been in English for a long time and from mille passus, which means a thousand paces because a Roman mile was a thousand paces long. Uh our word camp or they're specifically in the usage of a battle. We don't really use it that much like that, but that does come from Latin on the continent before it comes over here. Well, it's like it's related to the German word Kampf famously in the title of a a book by a certain Mr. Hitler. But also like a campaign and a champion,

right? Yeah, we adopt those words a bit later on from French, but they're related to them. We're we're just borrowing the same words again and again and again sometimes. Loads of doublets here. Yeah, absolutely tons of them. So more words that we adopted before English was English,

uh street. Street, of course, which is from strata, which does mean straight. You would have a via strata, which be a straight road. So when we say street, we are actually saying straight essentially, which is funny because we also talk about a straight, as well. Yes, indeed.

A wall, from Latin vallum or wallum, because we got to remember that in classical Latin, you're supposed to pronounce these as W's and C's as K sounds, rather than S sounds. So, then you get ecclesi- ecclesiastical Latin, where you pronounce them more like they look to us, with V and S sounds, instead. The one I hear about a lot is castle. Ooh. Originally from Latin castellum, which is a a castle or a fort or a stronghold, that came into relatively late Old English from uh usually biblical usage for some of these, too. That's right. And then we

end up borrowing it again from the Normans in the form of château, [laughter] as well. Actually, I think that might even even later than the Normans that we get château, because it looks almost a bit too perfectly French, doesn't it? I guess it's probably later than the Normans. Once English has been established and the Anglo-Saxons are hanging out in Britain, you have Christian missionaries arriving from Ireland and from Rome, bringing yet more Latin vocabulary with them, because that's the just a the holy language then. And so, we get all of these words associated with Christianity from Latin starting to flood in. Words like altar,

which is from the Latin altare. What's interesting about this is, I think it's reasonable to assume that the word altar comes from altus, meaning high, like when we talk about altitude. You think, "Oh, maybe this is some sort of high platform." But it's actually thought that it doesn't come from that. It comes from adolere, which means to burn, which is the sort of thing you would do at an altar, rather than a description of the sort of physical height of the altar, because it's where you would yeah, carry out ritualistic sacrifices. You'd set things on fire

there. Excellent. get angel, as well, during this time. The word shrine, as well, is from Latin scrinium, which is originally a sort of chest. And then it becomes a chest containing a relic, for example, the body parts of some saint or whatever, and then it becomes, you know, a place, a venerated place in itself. Uh and temple, as well. All enter English having been brought by

Christian missionaries to the Anglo-Saxons as they tried to convert them, which they successfully did. Another one that I've heard about is pillow. Pillow? Yeah, pillow. Maybe introduced to other Germanic languages first, but it's ultimately from Latin pulvinus, meaning little cushion or small pillow. Do you not find it hard to imagine people using pillows back then? [laughter]

No comfy for you. Yeah, exactly. You're supposed to be miserable lying on, at best, a bed of hay. But by no means is your head supposed to be elevated in any [laughter] ergonomically helpful way. Oh. Oh, well, good for them. [laughter]

I just there comes a point in learning a new language where it's time to stop just collecting vocab and actually try to have a conversation with a real person. Which always makes me freeze up, especially if they're native or fluent speakers. And over here in Western Connecticut, I don't have as many non-English speakers to practice, say, Latin or French or Arabic with. Well, this episode's sponsor, italki, can help with that. It is an online language learning platform that offers personalized one-on-one lessons with native speaking teachers. So,

you can practice in a friendly, low-pressure setting with lessons tailored to fit your needs and your goals. Yes, real human people. They offer lessons in more than 150 languages. I took a beginner Latin lesson the other day, and I had so much fun with the instructor, Brian, who is incredibly knowledgeable. Uh how do you say that I am? Oh my goodness. So. [laughter] via. via. via.

That's great. And with over 30,000 teachers worldwide, you have plenty to choose from. In fact, a while back, I managed to find a Scottish Gaelic teacher on there to teach me a few words. I also especially like how specific the filters are. You can search by availability, budget, languages spoken, even interests. So, you can find somebody who likes books or history or

films or whatever you'd actually like to talk about in real life. And if you are a beginner, you can find a teacher who also speaks your language, which does help when you have those sudden moments when your brain empties itself halfway through a sentence. These are real conversations, so you sharpen your listening, practice speaking naturally, and get immediate feedback, which is especially helpful because I don't always notice my mistakes when I am practicing alone. Another great thing is that you pay for each lesson individually, so there's no subscription to manage, and the flexible scheduling means that you can book around a busy week and learn from practically anywhere. So, if you're trying to learn a language, click the link in the description, use the promo code WORDS2026 when you purchase 10 italki credits, and you will receive $5 off your first purchase. The offer is available to the first 50 users,

so follow the link and find a teacher you'll actually enjoy talking to.

We talked a lot about just straight-up words from Latin. But a lot of the time we're using Latin elements in words, aren't we? And sometimes the same Latin element in multiple words that without it being very clear. This is something that you know shed loads about cuz you always impress me with this sort of stuff. Can you tell me about a few more of these like all-purpose Latin roots? I mean, I feel like the most obvious and and exciting one, which I may have mentioned

before because it's one of my favorites, but it's probably via, the the word for road. I'm just remembering that I just said via stratum, but I should have said via stratum, right? Technically, should I? Well, if you're speaking classical Latin, then yeah. I was speaking ecclesiastical Latin. You were speaking ecclesiastical Latin. [laughter] I didn't study Latin, by the way.

I should I feel I should point this out. I didn't go to that kind of school. Uh okay. I It's been a long time for me. I think I only did it in in junior high, but uh but the roots end up coming up a lot. And it it's also a thing. So, uh lately I've been doing more etymology for for kids. Like

lately I did a I did a workshop at a school for fifth graders. I get asked a lot by adults and pedagogical folks how you would teach kids etymology in a fun way that doesn't make them fall asleep. And I actually love doing Latin roots with kids because they're so good at it. And I taught this class in New York not that long ago. It was a group of fifth graders. I gave them

a list of words with the same root, and I asked them what the words meant. And the words were eloquent, loquacious, grandiloquent, soliloquy, and somniloquy. And it was cool because they knew eloquent, and some of them knew soliloquy, and from there they guessed loquacious. And they didn't know grandiloquent or somniloquy, but at that point I asked them to guess what the root of the word meant, and they got they all got to talk or or to speak. So, I asked them grandiloquent first, which is grand mean? It means big. So, they got to grandiloquent, big talking. And then

for somniloquy, that was the last one, I asked them what insomnia meant, and they got it there. Yeah. That's not surprising to our listeners, I think, but it is a fun way that you can If this interests you and your kids, that can be a fun way to do that. Cuz you wouldn't necessarily spot the common element in those words, would you, until you started to pull them apart. Right? You like you know it, but you don't think about it until you are until you're using it. Um

but I was talking about the word via, which in Latin was via, and it's a word meaning way, road, path, or can mean channel or course. But, the way it shows up in the middle of our words, hides it. Like, if something is obvious, it's clear and easy to see. So easy that you might figuratively trip over it because obvious literally means in the way or in front of you on the path or road. And then, impervious, im, not, per, through, via, roadway. So, it's literally something that is resistant

to attack because there's no way through it. Brilliant. It's so much fun. And then, previously occurs earlier on your route or path. To [snorts] deviate is to stray away from the course, and to be devious or deviant is to stray from the moral path. Uh a voyage, which we know is pretty

well that one has our our our French influence in it, but it's from viaticum, meaning a journey. And then, conveys to carry something with you along a road. An envoy is someone sent somewhere to represent someone else. It's also related to the word invoice, which is which you use to request that someone send along a payment, which is fun. Oh, that's brilliant. So, there's no voice

in invoice. [laughter] Right, right. No invoice in no voice in invoice, but there is a road in it. My favorite though is is trivia, which is three roads, a place where three roads meet, which is the the Roman Empire was famously connected by big awesome public roads, many of which are still there. But, the intersections of those roads, especially three or more, were gathering places for people to meet and hang out and trade goods and news. So, the crossroads became known as a

commons where inconsequential and then, the notion of of trivial things were said and done. And then, a bunch of people are going to jump in and be like, "But, what about the trivium?" Which is a term from classical education representing the three arts of grammar, logic, and red and rhetoric. And those were the fundamental areas of study before students began studying more advanced topics in the quadrivium. That would be arithmetic, astronomy, music, and geometry. And

that's the older of the two terms coined by like medieval philosophers. But the idea of grouping these disciplines has been used a long time before that and does date back to Rome and Greece even. So trivium was coined a little bit later during the Carolingian Renaissance and that's our like our liberal arts of today are based on the trivium. But trivia wasn't a common word for a fun fact until 1902 when a book series called trivia was published by Logan Pearsall Smith. And he was known for his clever sayings and his essays. And his trivia books were

full of little interesting observations about public life and human behavior. Like what you might observe people talking about on the street. Okay. But when we describe something as trivial, we're talking about it being the sort of nonsense that the Romans might have spoken at one of these meeting points of the roads. Is this it? The discussion of commoners, street talk. Yeah.

Isn't that cool? That is very cool, Jess. That is very God, you took us to so many places with just those three letters of via. That's incredible. I I love this stuff. I mean, it's also like there

there are a lot more obvious ones as well. Like the word pendere meaning to hang. And once you expend a little energy pondering etymology or in a propensity for recognizing that this compendium of words depends on one another. Sort of a pendulum. Like a suspension bridge. It's a

little perpendicular, too. And your penchant for recognizing those connections leaves your friends and colleagues in impending suspense that they can depend upon you for a dispensation of knowledge. It makes you pensive like you're compensating for something, too. Wait, hold on. Pensive. So,

as in the idea of thinking has got the same origin as pendulum. Ah. [laughter] Oh, wow. That was 14 words from pendere. So, thinking is in like Is that what that is? To think is to

to to pendulate. I [laughter] That's from pensare, isn't it? It's not from pendere. It's from pensare, which means weigh or consider, which is the frequentative case of pendere. There we go.

So, it is that. So, it's like it's like it's like you've got something ticking in your head. Yeah, yeah. [laughter] Almost. Well, it's more like it It's something is hanging upon your mind, yeah.

Yeah. That's brilliant. That is fantastic. And And my favorite one in there was ponder was in there as well. That was a good one. What is that? I mean, is that just a like a weird We've spelt

it like a French person might say it, right? That may be the case, so let me double-check that one. Yeah, it is it is. And then Latin had ponderare, which meant to weigh, and it's a from the genitive version of pendere. Right, because talking about the the origin of the word pound, right? It's from

libra pondo. Uh-huh, yeah. Pondo being weight. are weighty, heavy, hangy things. And they're related to gosh gosh How can all the I mean, this isn't This isn't [laughter] massive, Jess.

Are there only three Latin words? We're just repurposing them in a million different ways. This There are tons of them like this. I mean, tenere is another big one, like to It's in maintain, abstain, entertain, obtain, detain. All of these mean to hold, basically. Yeah.

Yeah. Like maintain, to hold in the hand. A lot of this stuff is just way more literal than you think it is, too. Like we we have English equivalents for all of these, but they mean the same thing, like Historically, we've been much more okay with building Latin compounds than with building English ones, cuz they seem so darn obvious. So, Highfalutin. [laughter] base, yeah.

Well, this is one of the things that we should mention about Latin words is we will often take Well, there's always there's always like a sort of three-layer thing sometimes where you take sort of the the Old English is the most basic reference to it, a French as a slightly fancier reference, and a Latin word as an even more fancy reference. But, you know, in a lot of medical situations, you can talk about your heart, which is an Old English word. But, if you want to sound be taken seriously, you talk about your you know, cardiovascular system rather than your heart and vein system. It just has more weight. Why do we do that? Why do we do that? I I was

I was pondering this ever so pensively, [laughter] uh cuz it's quite a weighty question, I think. Uh [laughter] Um I one of the reasons or at least one of the positive side effects of using Latin is at least that no living language has ownership of these things, right? So, it does mean that you know, in a German hospital, they might be using similar words too. Although, I've talked in the past about how I wish German would use a few more Latin words to obscure their rather blatant descriptions of certain body parts that can be quite [laughter] unpleasant. Do we need to talk about the Muttermund again? [laughter] Yeah, we should mention that there was a backlash

against all of the the classical terms borrowed into English during the Renaissance through art and science, etc. Words like demonstrate, illustrate, encyclopedia, temperature. I mean, we take demonstrate, illustrate, particularly temperature, these words as so much for granted, but there were it was a whole movement that was really irritated by us taking on these classical words rather than trying to just create alternatives from the elements that we already had in English. It's called the Inkhorn Jess knows full well about this. It's very [laughter] funny.

I why it was called Inkhorn isn't exactly settled, but perhaps because these words are all quite long and you would require an inkhorn is what you dip your quill into fill it with ink, right? And so maybe you're having to go back and dip quite a lot of times to write out these long words. That's one of the possible explanations for it. But one of the proponents of this movement was a guy called Sir John Cheke who wrote a whole version of the Gospel of I was trying to remember who it was. It was the Gospel according to Matthew he wrote. And he wrote it with where none of the borrowed words

that he thought were excessive. [laughter] But there's plenty of other borrowed words. I mean yeah, they're they're just in there. He's not he's not perfectly got rid of them all, but he does use hundredder instead of centurion when talking about Romans. And uh Yeah, that's uh that's cool. Yeah,

he describes Jesus as having been crossed rather than crucified. I it's not helpful, is it? That sounds like a euphemism, honestly. Yeah, yeah, it's not right, is it? Because you can cross someone as well in a in a different way. I don't know if you could at the time.

I was having a look through this. I think I might have it open on my computer somewhere. Hold on. Yeah, here's a little bit of him. Jacob begot Joseph, Mary's houseband on whom Jesus was born, who was called Christ. Therefore, from David unto Abraham there were 14 degrees. And from David

unto the out peopling to Babylon Out peopling degrees, yeah. And from [laughter] the out peopling to Babylon unto Christ And then he uses a load of Roman numerals that hypocrite. Uh Listen, out peopling isn't a shorter word [laughter] than any other word that we would use for that. What is that? Like diaspora or something like that? I mean I think it's the Exodus,

isn't it? Is it the Exodus? I'm not entirely sure. But that's then that is not a shorter word. Would he have called the book of the Bible out peopling? Maybe he would. Out peopling.

And he didn't finish his entire version of the Bible, but that's just I literally just started reading there and we came up with a slightly slightly mad usage. I mentioned him before, but I I like William Barnes' Germanic terms more. He has like star lore instead of astronomy and bird lore instead of ornithology. And I mentioned grandiloquent. He has high talking for that one, which is nice. That's nice. Another one that was preferred was witcraft over knowledge,

for example. Oh, I like that. That's quite nice. witcraft. Some of them are pretty good, but not all of these inkhorn alternatives were thrown out. Some of them really did catch on.

Um but many more of the Latin and Greek terms did stay with us. Wait, why do we have witcraft instead of knowledge if know is a Germanic term? [laughter] Okay, yeah, that's a good question, isn't it? So maybe it wasn't What was he using it for then if it wasn't for knowledge? Yeah, you're right cuz I mean that obviously is is Germanic, at least the start of it, isn't it? That just sounds like a more romantic word for knowledge.

He used witcraft for logic. That's a good good spot, Jess. 100 points for that one. Yeah. And that makes more sense too because like logos for for logic is reason or idea. That seems to be a

more one-to-one with the original meaning of wit. And reason and idea are both French words, so you can't have those. So yeah, you have to go back to to witcraft. Yeah, good shout. Good spot. [music]

We just had to take a little break there because my my daughter came in the room because I'm not in my usual filming location if anyone hasn't noticed. Yes, where are you? I am in Edinburgh because I've been doing RobWords Live. I'm now using one of my own flyers as a placemat for my [laughter] cup. cup of coffee. Cuz I've got quite a lot of them. But yes, um I've

got another four shows left, but uh by the time this goes out, I will have completed them all. I've had a smashing time doing RobWords Live. Yeah, lots of uh friendly fans have come up. Lots of people said they're fans of you as well, Jess. Aw. Hello, everyone. Oh, that's nice. I'm so happy

you've been having a good time. I have. My nerves have been all over the place, but it has been uh an incredible experience. The festival here is unbelievable. Thousands of performers here. Every pub is turned into a venue. They've all got like a number attached to the outside

that says, you know, Edinburgh Fringe Venue number 263 or whatever. You just go in there, see what's going on. Sometimes it'll be something a bit rubbish. Sometimes it'll be something surprisingly incredible. Uh had an absolute blast. I think our listeners probably would be surprised

to learn that you have as much stage fright as you do, because especially when you're on stage, you you you're a natural. Like it's it's it looks effortless. But uh I have also seen you right before you went on stage, and you looked like you you might you might puke. [laughter] You were with me the day before I went on stage in London, and [laughter] uh yeah, you you had to keep me very grounded. [laughter] I There were points where I could just tell you were just trying to distract me from my own my own thoughts. Squirrel. [laughter]

[gasps] Oh, you were lovely. [laughter] Yeah, well, I mean, it was great to have my my hype man there. Jess Zafarris. Uh missed you here. Aw. Wish I was there. [laughter] Anyway, enough about me.

Uh let's get back to to the Latin. We both did a bit of research into prefixes and suffixes, because we we use them. We add them to words that shouldn't have them, actually. But tell us about some of them. Yeah, okay. So, the the high-yield prefixes from Latin

shouldn't be surprising. It's like ad, con/com, de, ex, in, sub, re, trans, etc. Like this is this is basic stuff. Wait, we can probably guess all of these things. The cool bits, I think, come when they change. We've got these two things that happen called assimilation and dissimilation.

One is when you smash like like if you take the prefix sub and you smash it onto a word that begins with like c or f or there's a whole mess of them. Then that b changes to look like the rest of the word. Like suspect is sub and specere meaning like to be under observation. And then another one is succeed with a sub and then cedere meaning come after. So, that's a bit fun. And then dissimilation is when Suffuse. Yeah. I'm just trying to think of other ones. Yeah,

exactly. Suffer, that's a cool one. To be under a burden. To ferre meaning it's meaning to carry. That's a cool one. Very good. Dissimilation, this is a little more rare, but it's when

the prefix or a word segment starts to look different so that you don't end up repeating a sound. And that's a little bit fun, too. And also we have to bear in mind that we have these prefixes repeated sometimes in the French words that we incorporate as well. For example, we have lots of words with dis at the start of them which are the Latin prefix meaning well, well, not or away cuz it can sometimes be like into to distribute is essentially to tribute away or or broadly or something like that. But then you have French words that begin with de for example, d e or d e s they're actually using essentially the same Latin prefix. It's just gone through

a French filter. I mentioned obvious earlier, but ob does a lot of work in English and it has some really fun results like oblivio and oblivion. That literally means forgetfulness. The idea of sending something into oblivion means into like sending it into a state of empty nothingness, wiping it away completely. That's a a similar idea to obliterate which means to erase or blot out writing. That

element there is littera. Obnoxious means toward noxa which in this case means hurt or injury. It means annoying now, but the Latin predecessor was more intense. It meant injurious or hurtful. So obnoxious is a lot softer now than it was in Latin. In a recent episode about magic, we talked

about the word occult as well. Yeah. And the O at the start of that is actually an ob, isn't it? So is that is that an assimilation? There we go. of our assimilations. Fantastic. [snorts] Uh another

cool one is obfuscate which breaks down into ob and here it means like in front of or before and the fuscare means to make something dark. And same with obscure. Obscurus means covered. And we also see that in chiaroscuro from our our art episode which means bright dark. Just fun.

And one you might not know is obambulation which means to walk around. [laughter]

Very good. Very good. And then we're back to what was it? Um umbilical some some No, no, that's That's that's some Somnambulation is what you're thinking of. Getting somnambulation. I'm confused.

But sleepwalking. There we go. This is a dreamy episode. [laughter] It's all quite um spacey stuff, quite um It's all it's already fundamental to English weirdly despite English not being a Latin language. I've It's so fundamental that we do feel like we can slap Latin suffixes onto what we could call natively English words. For example, we don't feel

at all strange about putting -able or -ible at the end of a Germanic root. For example, visible, portable, they are Romance words, but watchable, winnable, or knowable, that's putting a Latin suffix onto a Germanic stem, which is something we don't think about as being odd, but actually it is. We're creating hybrid words. Same if we just put -ify at the end of as in I-F-Y at the end of something that is actually a Germanic noun, for example. To your point, we end up with a bunch of extra words that are Latin derived because people have tried to avoid hybrid words in the past. Like

for example, the word interplanetary is a hybrid word. Inter from Latin and planet from Greek, but in the 18th century, there was a hybrid a non-hybrid word created intermundane with mundane meaning worldly. But what is interesting, I think, is that even though I did just give those examples of winnable, watchable, etc., we actually find ourselves not even in you know, knowingly putting Latin prefixes and suffixes, coining new words, and actually getting it right, so to speak, in that we do end up putting them on Latinate or Romance stems, because sometimes it does just sound odd to put it on a a Germanic word. So generally we do get it right, which is kind of kind of cool, cuz you can not understand have any even even basic understanding of where these words have come from, but sometimes some elements just don't fit together like a jigsaw.

Well, my two favorites are we say darkness and happiness because darkity and happity would sound stupid. [laughter] That's exactly what I was getting at, Jess. Exactly what I was getting at. Can I talk a little bit about uh plural ending? Yeah, let's do it. Cuz I thought I should get my

head around these because they're a thing, aren't they? We talk I talked in a recent episode about how where possible we're talking about octopus and the problems with that. Like octopodes. that. [laughter] Yeah, that's just Right, that's That's what it should be based on Greek, but also that word did not exist in Greek, so if you're saying octopi, you could sort of be correct based on Latin, but actually not because that's not how it would be pluralized in Latin.

Best to go with octopuses. It's a many-legged discussion. [laughter] Exactly. Uh but I thought I would finally try and get my head around it. So, I did do a bit of research into uh Latin plurals and it's nowhere near as straightforward as we've got it in our heads. The idea that a Latin noun

that in the singular ends with us becomes an I at the end of it is is just not true. [laughter] It is true of like oculus, uh alumnus, stimulus, they do become oculi, alumni, and stimuli, but it would not be right to pluralize prospectus as prospecti or status as stati or apparatus apparatus as apparati. Their Latin plurals are prospectus, status, and apparatus. They stay the same. So, in all those cases, we tend to put just an English ending on the end of them apart from So, we would say prospectuses and statuses, but we but in some circles you would say apparatus as the plural, which is kind of interesting. There's But yeah, I guess you could say apparatuses. It sounds

a bit odd. This has to do with declensions, I believe. Like second declension nouns take X ending and such. Yeah, exactly. There are categories going on based upon usage uh who's having what happened to whom, for example. This is before you even get into gender, etc.

So, I was looking at a few more of these that that sort of break the the rules that we think are rules. For example, the Latin for body is corpus. But the plural of corpus is not corpi, it is corpora. Ah. Uh meanwhile, yeah. The Latin

for hand is manus. But the plural is not mani. It's just manus as well. So, these things aren't aren't so obvious. But they're not the only ones, are they? The the the us to the to to the i

endings. We also have the ones that end with a. And then we put an -e on the end of them to make uh a or i, depending on how you prefer to pronounce it. One of those is correct. Let's not Let's not get into it. What are good examples of these? Uh alga and algae,

for example. The singular of algae is an alga. But what's interesting about that one is we don't have an English plural for that. We always say algae. Algae, mhm. No one ever says algas. It would sound

really weird to do that. When we say algae or algae, we we we can also use that singularly, right? Is that what you're getting at? Like this algae in my hand is is many algae, but This [laughter] is a whole extra thing, isn't it? The fact that we very rarely talk about an agendum. We can do if we want, but we will use the word agenda, which is a plural word,

as a singular. No problem. Can you pass me the agenda? Uh-huh. Oh, I have an agenda. Uh-huh.

I really that should not make grammatical sense, but it it does. Cuz that's how we're using it. Because we're not actually speaking Latin, are we? We're speaking English. And that's how we decided to use that word. I had to look that one up because I didn't know the root of it. It's agere

meaning to do. So, an agenda is literally things to be done, which is kind of fun. Yeah, it's like to act, isn't it? Yeah, actions, quite literally. And originally it was like a theological thing.

There were there were again agenda and credenda. So, things to be believed and things to be done. In a previous episode we talked about the fact that the word act or even actor and agent both come from that same Latin root. Doers. To do something. So, an actor and an agent,

that relationship is two people doing the same thing, essentially. Just doing. doing it on the stage and one of them doing it on behalf of the other [laughter] person. Yeah, exactly. Uh other ones that have Latin plurals, but we never use them. Bonus, we only ever say bonuses.

And viruses, we only ever say viruses. And campus, we don't ever use campi. So, there are some where we haven't bothered to take on a a Latin plural. Point is, don't assume if it ends with us that it pluralizes in Latin to I because turns out it doesn't necessarily. That is good to know.

[music] Okay, I think we're getting towards the end, Jess. But, you want to tell us about some of the I suppose aspects of Latin culture that echo through some reasonably mundane words that we still use. Yeah, there are some words that were that are are basically Latin words that we use for other modern things now that had sort of a different meaning. Like the word janitor, for example, in Latin was a doorkeeper or a porter and it's related to Janus, the the two-faced god of doorways, which is really cool. After whom January is named. Yeah, exactly. So, our our janitors are also are

also two-faced gods, which is cool. Um but they're they're specifically doorkeepers and porters and and eventually that became an usher in a school, someone who watches the door in a school, and then it became someone who takes who's a caretaker uh by the 1700s. Another interesting one here is the word arena originally meant a sandy place. The The exact root of it is isn't known. It might even be Etruscan, but it's because Roman amphitheaters were strewn with sand to soak up the blood in some cases. But this [laughter] uh this everything that we call an arena now is is is a sandy place,

which is fun. Yeah, that's a good one. Have we mentioned dismal before? I don't recall what was interesting about it if we did. Well, we're going to talk about dismal now. Um so, [laughter] dismal

is from and and this is another one of our extremely useful and productive roots in English from Latin. It's from the medieval Latin phrase dies mali, meaning evil or unlucky days. And they were also called Egyptian days or dies aegri. So, that would be days of illness or dies maledicti, which is cursed days. And medieval calendars noted two unlucky days every single month. So,

January 1st and 25th, February 4th and 26th, and so on. They're earlier in the month and later in the month. And they were called Egyptian days because they were supposedly calculated by ancient Egyptian scholars or potentially affiliated with the story of the plagues. But the earliest known reference to them is in the works of a 14th century of a 4th century Roman scribe Furius Dionysius Philocalus. And they are detailed in a bunch of medieval texts and calendars, including in the works of the Venerable Bede later on. So, the dies mali then came to mean

any day marked by disaster or gloom eventually and or even like the days of your old age. So, in English the first version of this word was in the phrase in the dismal. So, it was a noun meaning during the days of misfortune and then it shifted to the adjective in the phrase dismal day, which is funny because it's a it's a pleonasm or a tautology. It's literally a bad day day. Which okay. One thing that I said here I really need you to appreciate because I just noticed this today

is that the original Roman work in which these dates were referenced are called the fasti, which are calendar lists of official and religiously sanctioned events and like days you're allowed to do official business and whatnot. And you had to do that on dies fasti, which is the allowed days. So, I also just think it's funny that we find this reference in a work by Furius Dionysius Philocalus and it's So, it's so it's the fasti of Furius. [snorts] No, Furius, this cracked me up. Oh. Um but earlier I think [laughter] we're pretty much done, aren't we then? I'm I'm going to say

I'm going to say one more little bit of things. I mentioned that that dies is a is an extremely productive root in English as well, right? And we've talked about this in diary and journal, right? Which are are doublets. Which I think you you have mentioned in particular on a previous episode. Diary is originally meant lasting one day and it's it's related to this and

then journal is the is the word diurnal but like squinched through French. But I wanted to come back to the the fact that I mentioned I teased the idea of dissimilation earlier. And that's in this related word meridian, which in English originally meant noon or midday and poets and such also sometimes use the term night's meridian to mean midnight. And the original phrase here is medidies or midday, but later in Latin it became meridies, which is considered an example of dis- dissimilation. We didn't like medidies, so it became meridies. We can't do that. We can't just

turn a D into an R cuz you don't like the sound of it. Apparently we can. helping. I can get it with the other ones where it's helping you get from one vowel sound to another, but I'm not having just [laughter] They're doing the same. All right, fine. I hold my hands up. I hold my hands up.

Anyway, um it's in a ton of other words, too. But it's great. Fascinating and at times mind-blowing, I guess. [laughter] Dizzying even. We we've discussed Latin ad nauseam, I think, so perhaps [laughter] Yeah. Oh, man, we didn't even get into those. Those are for another time.

Actually, we did an episode where we talked about legal terms. I think there's quite a lot of legal Latin in there if that's the sort of stuff you're also into. Thanks a lot for this one, Jess. Thank you to you for watching. We'll catch you in the next Words Unravelled. See you then.