---
video_title: "What is a 'slapstick'?"
video_id: 56YLffYfQ7M
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=56YLffYfQ7M
video_date: 2026-05-13T05:00:28+00:00
video_description: |
  Rob and Jess are guffawing their way through a world of comedic words. 
  🎭 What does 'comedy' literally mean?
  🤡 Who should you hit with a 'slapstick'?
  🥄 What was a spoof? (It's not a type of spoon)
  These questions answered, and many many more, in this hilarious edition of Words Unravelled.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
Who were you supposed to slap with a slapstick? What dirty jokes made the tutors laugh? And for whom did we coin the [music] word zany? We're clowning around with gests, jokes, satire, and spoofs on this comedic episode of Words Unravelled.

[music] Welcome to another Words Unravelled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel RobWords. And I'm Jess Zafarris, author of etymology books, including useless etmology. And today we are talking about one of my favorite topics, comedy. Humans love to laugh. And down the centuries,

we've coined all kinds of words for laughing and the things that make us laugh. We're going to explore some of those words and their origins. And I tell you what, there's some some really good juicy stuff in this one. I'm I'm excited to get into it. We should start with the ethmology of comedy, though. It's not the most exciting ethmology we'll get into, but we should

should give it a mention. Yeah. I mean, of all the words in here, I think I think most of them have more story to them, but but comedy is is from the Greek commodios, which means an actor or a singer or a poet who performed at festivals and revalries, and they would put on commodia, an amusing spectacle that everyone could enjoy. Yeah. There's a sort of rowdiness to the thing, to the revalry. It's someone who's performing when everyone else is having a is having a good time

as a comedy. It doesn't necessarily have to be funny, but it it should be fun. Tragedy is, funnily enough, a more fun word, is it? Because [laughter] it's thought that the traos that makes the tra in tragedy, it means goat. So with the dy at the end also meaning the same as it does in comedy, which is essentially a song. Tragedy is a goat song. Mhm. And that's probably

because they were it's a reference to like seder stories, right? Yeah. Again, this is one of those things I don't really know. The the source I read said that it was perhaps that because the the original tragedies were competitions for composing ODS and they thought that maybe a goat was the prize. That's why they were calling them goat songs, which is which I think is a conceivable idea, a bit a bit of a silly one, but yeah, maybe it's that. There is a probably apocryphal tale

that thespus for whom thespians are named earned a goat as a prize for winning an acting competition. But goats also come into play with the ditheram, which is a hymn sung to Dianisis. The ditheram was a predecessor of tragedy and usually included a chorus made of people dressed as saters, right? But we should talk about saters because they both are and are not connected with comedy, aren't they? So we have the comic genre of satire. But down the centuries and including in antiquity,

that word was confused with the Greek sats. Satires not the same thing. The words don't come from the same place. The idea of you know mocking the the prevailing morals of the day or you know as it is today mocking current affairs does not come from the Greek status even though you could have you know satiric drama back in the day. It instead comes from a Latin word satura which is actually um related to to saturate and also words like satisfy and sate. But the original uh satires are collections of works. It's it's a miscellane

basically. It's it's saturated with a with all kinds of different genre be it ode or pros etc. And then it it shifted under as you said the influence of the Latin seder because it was sort of mistakenly connected with the satire that appeared in Greek seder drama. But we know better now and that these have come from different different sources. But you got us there very elegantly with that um [laughter] with that theory about the the goats in the tragedies. I feel like

we need with goat song, we need one of those screaming goats to appear on screen. [laughter] That's taken us to a place that I we could explore a little bit more though. Satire and parody and you know lampooning and stuff. These are all words that have got stories behind them as well. I've got lampoon actually on my list here. Lampoon from the French lump which is from a verb. Lon

which is to uh to drink. It's to booze. It's to guzzle. So lon with an s at the end of it. Lampons you would see it written in English uh means let's drink essentially. It's the it's the

it's the version of the verb you would use with we. So lon would be we drink. I recall reading that it's related sort of to the word like lap as in like lapping up something which would make sense. That does make a lot of sense, doesn't it? Yeah, you're definitely you're drinking something but more effusively than just a you know a gentle cat lapping at its water.

Um and I mentioned parody as well. The oddie at the end of there is the same as the endings on tragedy and and comedy. It's a reference to ods from Greek and then the par. So it's parro but para is is what we expect par to be which is besides as in like in parallel or something like that. But the original parodies were well they were parodies.

They were parodies of other genres. There were, you know, um, burlesque imitations of get into burlesque serious art forms [laughter] and and burlesque itself is also an imitation a grotesque imitation of other art forms. Burlesque first entered English as an adjective and it mean it meant like droll or odd or grotesque kind of either way but it comes from the French burlesque which was coined in the 16th century from the Italian burlesco meaning ludicrous and the root here is the Italian burla meaning joke or fun or ridicule or mockery and the esque is is in the style of in the same way that we like tack that on to other things right this the sort of sexy angle of blesque is quite a new thing that's like a 19th century late 19th century American thing where they start working in a strip tease into these grotesque performances. They're not grotesque, they're just extravagant really. Burla was a like a comic interlude or a practical joke that was inserted into a performance um often in the masks of comedia delarte which we'll get into.

It was sort of this um staged mockery you might say just to to lighten the mood, keep things lively and going and then it developed this other theatrical meaning from minstrel show structure which we can also get into minstrel shows. Um, but it became this variety show format that drew from a bunch of different music hall cabaret type entertainment. And it had things like dances and boxing matches and spectacles and slapstick and music and chorus numbers and of course people wearing fewer clothes and singing at the same time. And you [snorts] were talking about it being sort of an interlude. Is that right? Originally the the the Italian burla was the reason I I

trying to steer us in that direction is that the word far essentially means an interlude as well. I don't know if we talked about this before. I definitely put it in my newsletter. The Latin verier means to to stuff. The original fasters were a sort of silly interlude before two other performances normally more dramatic performances. So it was called it was just called

a stuffing. Particularly compared to like food stuffing, right? Yeah. [clears throat] And and and if you eat a a French dish that where something has been stuffed in something else, it is called something far, right? Something stuffed. It is the word that they use in French for

for stuffing something. Still in France, farce was this comic material that was inserted into like religious dramas and things. Yeah. You got to lighten the mood while people are getting their I don't know 18th century ice cream. The distinction here I believe is that it's I' I've seen it described that farce uses these broadly stylized characters. It's difference with

between the the distinction between satire and parody and burlesque and slapstick kind of come down to for farce situation like satire targets vice and hypocrisy and parody parody is an imitation slapstick is literally the slapstick noise when you pretend to punch someone and uh oh yeah yeah we shouldn't throw we shouldn't throw away slapstick that's quite a fun one isn't it as well cuz we're back with the Italians uh cuz it's the Italians that invent this this device these two bits of wood that are sort of hinged together almost so that they they smack together and make a loud noise, which is great for using in the wings to make a a loud noise when something's happening or for for clowns and the like when they they whack someone with it. It makes a much louder noise than the hit justifies. And just to finish the thought, Farce us Oh, no, no, no worries. We can get back to that. Um, I would love to to talk about clowns, but uh, Fars uses basically a bunch of improbable circumstances and escalating chaos and confusion to create this like big tottering stuffed up cardboard full of plates that's about to crash down figuratively speaking. [clears throat] Yeah, it's fast is still like that. If you do,

if you go to the theater to see a fast, you're guaranteed a laugh. It won't necessarily be high brow, but you're guaranteed a laugh. It won't tell you much about society ne necessarily but there will be lots of entrances and exits and misunderstandings etc. Fast is fun. Lots of uh mistaken identity and comic mis misunderstandings and escalating absurdity [music]

clowns. Tell us about clowns. The word clown is a little bit like the word villain in the sense that it literally means a or it originally meant a person from the countryside especially a peasant sort of a a coarse clumsy poorly educated person. So this is very classist much in the same way that villain is. It means like a person from the the countryside or a a peasant farmer and then later that was associated with moral virtue affiliated with wealth exact so to speak. We don't know

exactly what the root of this is, but it's a it's a Germanic word and it probably means something like lump or clut or ball or just a clumsy person. So definitely something heavy and awkward. That's interesting. It's a Germanic word because I've never looked this one up, but I I think I'd always assumed that we got it from or maybe we still I mean we still may have done got it from French. Is that right? Some of the proposed relatives they're they're all ger Germanic. So like Dutch

has a word, I don't know how to pronounce it, but it means an uncou and it looks about the same. There's also a word for peasant or country bumpkin that's very similar. It is entirely possible that it is related to the word clue which is a ball of thread and it's that ball lump sense that we've talked about before. The the clue being that that ball of thread that leads you uh through the minotaitar's labyrinth. Yeah, it's very it's very very fun one that that's some of the the better ethmologies. The OED does does say that there was an older suggestion that clown had to do

with colonists, which also meant farmer, but they ultimately reject that because it just the the chronology doesn't quite line up. Yeah. And the idea is that they're country bumpkins. Who's more hilarious than, you know, a poor person? Right. [laughter] Right.

There were in particular a number of like clownike characters in who who inspired our modern clowns in Italian comedia delerte and I think we should get into that next because there's a lot there. So many of our words surrounding comedy go back to Italian and it is because of this tradition of comedia delatte. In case you are unfamiliar it is this early form of professional theater that begins in Italy and it's very popular throughout all of Europe. It is characterized by having improvised formulaic scenes that are that use repeating archetypes and patterns both in terms of the characters themselves who often wore distinctive and recognizable masks and then also many of the scenarios repeated in a in a familiar way. The scenarios are called uh latsi or and an individual one is a lato. And so they were these well- rehearsed jokes and

stock physical gags and sometimes on the spot improvised episodes and routines, but they there are some sort of recurring ones and and people who know more about comedia delerte will probably be able to explain this better, but I looked up a few of them. So, one of the one of the recurring Lati is the Lato of the Mirror, which it it they star the same stock characters every time. One of the this one is Pentalone and Doto and Pentalone and Dotori discover a mirror and it's another character or characters mimicking them and the reflections exaggerate their movements and grow more absurd over time and and it turns into ridiculous comedy. And then there's uh there's the lasso of the food where Briela, I hope I said that right, cooks a meal and then continually tastes and adds ridiculous ingredients like shoes and books and in inedible objects and then the other characters are are either tasting and and adding their own additions and reacting in horror. And the characters from these stories, these stock characters end up making their way into other cultures around Europe, including in England. And we we've definitely talked before

about Pantalone, one of the characters who's this well, he's Venetian, isn't he? He's a sort of Venetian miser with a a high sex drive. Uhhuh. [laughter] and he's he's kind of he's grumpy and he's old and he wears these very distinctive red tights that end up becoming the namesake of Pentalutans because his name is Pentalone and then uh and then pants and another of the characters is is Zany, right? From which we get the word Zany. So Zany is again what's

Zany? Danny is a a servant really, but quite an arch servant and one who's prone to playing tricks. So, you know, it became a thing to call someone a zany as English transformed it. And then eventually it just becomes zany. You are zany. But the implication being that you are a zany. You are

this sort of quirky character. And then Harley Quinn is one of the characters as well. Arletino. And that's both the character's name and the the name of the patterned costume, right? Yeah. He's a

a Burmese manservant. I think the Harley Quinn. That makes sense. Again, though, you hear how the people that are being mocked are all like the the underlings a lot of the time. Oh, yeah. Of course, we've got Briela, who I mentioned a minute ago, is a is a masked servant who is

clever and manipulative and cruel. And Scapino is a servant figure who uses trickery and deception to help or hinder other people. And a lot of them are are servants and and lowerass people and and the characters who are higher class are like the pentalone character who's an elderly merchant and il who is a scholar or a doctor who talks and talks and talks and presents himself as highly educated and Il Capitano is a soldier things like that. But this Harley Quinn character Arcino is quite an interesting one to because obviously we we know the word Harley Quinn as something akin to a a jester I suppose but traditionally on stage Harley Quinn was sort of this invisible trickster that couldn't be seen by Pantalone and or or the the clown sort of characters. They couldn't see them, which which meant that the Harley Quinn was able to get up to all kinds of mischief.

I'm so I'm fascinated by how many words we have for the sort of jester and joker and Harley Quinn and fool. Yeah. And I found a new one the other day. I popped this one in my newsletter cuz I hadn't come across it before. A dizzard. Dizzard. Dizzard. Yeah. What's the I mean, I know what the

the ending is. It's my favorite ending, but what is what is the first part? I think the spelling has been informed by the word dizzy but it comes from a French word meaning to speak. So a dison would be someone who speaks. So originally the dizzard was a person in court who spoke. So

who entertained who told stories but then it becomes you know something akin to a fool. And then in English you know to be called a dizzard would be an insult. It would be in in exactly the same way that you get the idea of someone being an idiot from, you know, originally an entertaining fool to then just being, you know, you're a fool. The same happens with the word dizzard, but we've lost the word dizzard. Unfortunately, we still got the word fool, but we've lost dizzard.

But buffoon is a good one. Buffoon again goes to Italian buff, but comes to us from from French from buff. And it's thought that it's sort of almost um on a matapia, the first syllable of that, the bof being sort of the idea of puffing your cheeks to to to get a laugh really sort of, you know, say it's like a puffer. That oon ending is interesting. We've seen it on lampoon and buffoon. And it's a little bit of a moving target. It's usually an interpretation of

either the French or the Italian on ending just o ne or o n. And uh in English it gets tacked on to all kinds of things and [clears throat] it's in this weird form in middle English where it's usually it goes from the French to the English un usually spelled like o u n isn't it words that have come I don't know if that a sort of an Angloorman hangover I think it perhaps is that the the dialect of French that is being spoken in England has sounds where the French that we're more used to now has sounds. I suppose it probably did. You tend to find it on sometimes porative words, but then it also ends up on sort of an agent ending as well. Like you'll see it on chabaroon and spatoon, but then you have see it on quadrun and things like that which aren't aren't negative. So, it's it's interesting. Good point. Mhm. Did you say you'd got

some revelations about jesters? Oh, I sure do. The word just in general. Um so a jest is not originally a joke. So a jest gest t which is the predecessor to this word was originally a story of achievements or adventures. One of the most famous medieval gests is this piece called

jesta francorum which is the jest of the Franks by Fulture of Chartra Chartra uh who is a which is a Latin chronicle of the first crusade written by this priest named Fulture uh who participated in the crusade and jester was originally a word for a professional storyteller or a minstrel or a professional reciter of romances and not until the 15th century. This started in like the 13th century, but by the 15th century it was any sort of court entertain entertainer and of course they were quite silly and a just meanwhile shrank down to a a less grand story just something you would tell over your ale. So actually that's quite similar to the story I was telling about dizzards by they start off as a storyteller and then become a teller of silly stories and then a teller of silly jokes. I also looked up joke, by the way, the origin of joke. I mean, it's not one of the more controversial origins. I mean, it's from Latin Jous, but it's got some relatives in

other languages that are quite interesting, like the French and jouer, which mean respectively. And obviously, more directly from the Latin, we get joulcular and jacund as well. One thing that we didn't quite address in comedia delarte is that the word punch in the in the context of comedy like the character punch and Judy and then I believe the the punchline as well ultimately is from the notion yeah is from committ I was looking up whether I I'm not convinced anymore cuz I I got it in my head that punch line was related to punch and punch and judy I think It's older than that because there was a character in Comedia Delarte called Pulchinella and Punch and Judy is based on that. There were both of them involved a puppet essentially. I'm not sure the term punchline goes back far enough though. Do you know what I mean? Oh, okay. That might make sense. It's an a

20th century term. It could be that it is invoking that idea of punch. But I just think it's far more conceivable that it's because it is the line that is the that gives you a punch. you know, the line at the at the end with the impact. Do you have Punch and Judy shows in America? Uh,

no. But I'm familiar with them because I read a lot. [laughter] That's I mean, they're not unfamiliar to your average person. I don't think so. I I I think most Americans probably have heard of Punch and Judy. And the magazine Punch in particular also made its way across the pond.

Yeah. Satirical magazine named after the one of the two main characters in the Punch and Judy shows. I I mean I saw a lot of Punch and Judy shows as a as a child. For people who if you don't know what it is, it is a a small puppet show done in sort of like a little a little shack that they put outside with a little window and it's it's essentially a little stage and it involves a lot of domestic domestic violence. Basically Punch and Judy beating each other with sticks. There's always a a policeman involved as well chasing them around. Kids absolutely love it.

It's not terribly politically correct, but like we talked about about pantoime as well. Somehow these things manage to endure. Nevertheless, the word punch is not specifically from comedy. It means like puncture or or poke something. And it it's originally from the French ponch, which means to punch or prick or stamp or something. And ponchon is a pointed tool or a piercing weapon.

Do you use the word gag in the states for a joke? Yeah, sure. It's one of those ones that people don't know. It might be from the sound you make when you laugh. But again, we keep mentioning the OED because this is where we do like to look for these things. And it says that it's possibly

invoking a thrusting something down the throat of a incredulous person because this is a key detail. Gags were not originally jokes. Gags are tricks. I am. Mhm. By gagging someone, are you figuratively

seeing how much they can swallow? [laughter] What they would swallow? you know how far you can you can push the the trick, how far you can push the scam. Oh, that makes sense. That's good. I like

that. But but it might be on a pier. It might it just simply might be like a lot of our words for for laughing are like giggle, snicker, snigger. Uh gour. Gor is a good one. Gor is a Scottish word.

Scott had um a verb g which is to laugh. Oh, that's great. And from that we get we get gor. Totally unrelated, but it reminds me that chortal is uh is a port mento coined by Louiswis Carol. Yes. And we just use it regularly. I guess not in everyday conversation, but it comes up, you know.

Yeah, it's a good one. They they do like a comedy awards in Britain called the Chortal Awards. Oh, that's fun. That's cute. Snort chal is chuckle and snort. Is it a port manto of those? [music]

Could I pause to tell you a couple of gests from history? I know why. Just because your name is Jess. I [laughter] when you mention that Jess from history, it feels like there's an extra S in the middle on [laughter] the poster. Go on. Give us some Jess's gests from history.

I found a work called there there are a couple different works called Shakespeare's justest book from the tutor period that were collections of humorous anecdotes that were published within a few years of each other and they're framed as having influenced some of Shakespeare's humor. We have no idea if they did if they did or not or like what era all of the the jokes are from, but there was 100 Mary tales from 1526 and the merry tales and quick answers from 1530. So there are um and they're they're compiled into to one sometimes called Shakespeare's just book. And we do see things like our our Mary Tales of the Mad Men of Gotham referenced in this, not in full, but there will be a little short blurb about the the man of the the men of Gotham doing ridiculous things to convince the the king not to build his road through the town. But some of these jokes are filthy. Like absolutely filthy. Like there is one

I uh it's in it's in it's in Elizabeth's in English so I'm going to translate it to modern English but there is one about a woman standing by a river and washing her clothes and because she keeps squatting down her dress gets caught in her butt crack and shows off the outline of her other bits and a frier comes up and makes a joke that's like the horse is biting his bridal and she says master frier he's just wiping his mouth so you'll come and kiss [laughter]

absolutely filthy. And that's that's not the worst one I read. But on the lighter side, I also looked up a a mid9th century selection of jokes called The Just Book by Mark Lemon. And this one has tamer ones. Um, some of them are a little they're not not politically correct by any means, but they're they're definitely um they're meant to be more familyfriendly. But there's one per for example that uh that says the following admonition was

addressed by a Quaker to a man who was pouring forth a volley of ill language against him. Have a care friend thou mayest run thy face against my fist which I feel like that joke is re like that sounds like a modern joke right? Yeah [laughter] it in archaic language. Yes. Watch it mate or you're going to run into my fist. It's [laughter] great. This one's uh

this one's fun. A a loving husband once waited on a physician to request him to prescribe for his wife's eyes, which were very sore. I don't know what's wrong with your eyes if they're sore. And the doctor advises her to wash them with a small glass of brandy again. I think that might make it worse. Anyway, a few weeks later, the doctor chanced to meet the husband. Well,

my friend, has your wife followed my advice? She's done everything in her power to do it, doctor, said the spouse, but she never could get the glass higher than her mouth. [laughter]

Very good. Very good. Um, [laughter] this one I I I'm going to do one more and then we can move on. But I have I've I'm enjoying these. I'm enjoying these. Well,

to be honest, the first one was was far too raw, but [laughter] um

anyway, really could really see it. See it. Yeah. [laughter] H. Anyway, I just want to like the framing of it is not politically correct, but it's actually the the punchline is profound. So, I'm I'm and not even funny profound, just like actually profound.

So, the the joke goes, a a lunatic in Bedum was asked how he came to be there, and he answered by a dispute. Someone asked, "What dispute?" The Bedlamite replied, "The world said I was mad. I said the world was mad and they outwitted me and I'm like like my goodness. It's clever. Yeah,

it is. It's clever. It's clever. It's not a joke though, is it? No, it's not a joke. More like

social commentary. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it is. That's That's [laughter] what it is. Whoa.

[gasps] Anyway, we should move back to forms of comedy. When we were in when we were in England together, we you mentioned a a panto and I was like, you mean a pantoime? Because I hadn't heard of a panto before, which maybe I should have, but I I hadn't. And it sounded like something that I've been to in the States. But first, can you tell us what a panto is and what it has to do with pantoime? Well, it's panto is just short for pantoime. But our understanding of pantoime

in Britain is not the traditional understanding of pantoime. Pantomime is just a mime really, but a British pantomime is it's a Christmas play. It's usually a fairy tale story, a fairy story told um with music, bright colors, a lot of crossdressing. There are like in the comedia del arte there's a stock characters like the dame which is always a man usually a middle-aged man dressed up as a woman usually plays the mother of the leading man who is always played by a woman uh and there's also they're incredibly good fun and I mentioned a panto it was during my show that I mentioned it I think because there's an interlude it always ends almost always ends no let's say always ends with a a wedding between the leading man and the leading woman and that is always quite a sort of um extravagant affair requires a set change. So during the set change what they do is they bring out the words to a song and everyone gets to sing the song. So this is in front of the is it called the envelope in front of the curtain.

Mhm. Uh we'll do a sing song while they get everything ready for the wedding at the back. Uh yeah, and there all these little traditions like that. There's a lot of back and forth with the audience. A lot of call and response. Oh no, he didn't. Oh yes, he did. Oh no, he didn't.

A lot of shouting, he's behind you. He's behind you. Honestly, these are shown around Christmas. A lot of amateur companies will put them on. It'll be their big production, their big money spinner.

A lot of amateur dramatics companies, it's the only way that they stay afloat is that they put on a pantomime each year because it's one of those things where you can see it done badly and still have a very very good time. And we'll have to get you over at Christmas one time and take to panto. That sounds great. It's It sounds a little Rocky Horrorish as well. I mean, certainly got all the crossdressing and music of Rocky Horror Picture Show interaction bits as well, right?

But the thing about it is it's it's targeted at children as well as adults. So it's filled with dubalon tandra like the jokes are never overtly sexual or at least if they are there's a way that the sentence can be interpreted by a child that is innocent. So I was looking at the kind of the evolution of the term um in it like you said it means a mime originally the the notion is performing. I'm not sure I'm not sure if the sense is you perform with your whole body or you can perform anything. A pantoime in the Roman Empire was a performer who acted out mythological stories through kind of expressive gesture and dance and movement. So they might make sound,

but they were still acting out through uh through their their bodies. And then in um the 18th century, it it it sort of um it moved into ballet and movement based storytelling. again could have sound and things, but then the the British pantoime sense seems to have come primarily from committee dollar like applying the same notions that we mentioned before. Apparently, it's tied closely to the harlequinade a which is a a comic stage form based on those figures as well. Apparently in those Harley Quinn often receives a magic wand and then he drives the action through a bunch of changes and chases and tricks and transformations. In the states

you have this theater tradition of of vaudeville. We don't really have it in Britain. I think it's I think our equivalent is called music hall. Can you tell me about vaudeville? I sure can. It

it comes from Shanson Duvier. It is the [snorts] song of the valley of year which is in the is which is in Normandy and the phrase was applied to these satirical popular songs that were associated with Olivier Besselon which was a 15th century poet from Ver. That's one potential option. A second explanation might be that it's related to words like vod meaning to go and v meaning to turn. But the verier valley explanation is one that you see a lot. The idea here is

that it's a country song essentially and that that's what you experience when you experience uh it's funny you you would say vaudeville right and I have heard both vaudeville and vaudeville in American English dialects apparently both are are okay it's interesting from what you were saying about the origin of it that the vil at the end of it is sort of a misunderstanding either in English or or or I don't know earlier in French because it should be v Not Phil. It's correcting, but it's correcting to another French word. Yeah, [laughter] they done well. They didn't the right language. Phonos semantically matched to the wrong language.

Hey, there we go. Hey, there we go. [laughter] Photosemantic matching. Hey, anyway, um, Vivville is basically a variety show and it tends to involve dancers and singers and musicians and magicians and ventriloquists, which did you know that ventriloquist originally meant? It it means belly talking essentially. Yeah. It wasn't a word for

what we now call a ventriloquist. It was it's not an entertainment. It's it's like a a possession by a demon, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah. Like [laughter] a a rumbling internal speech like the exorcist.

Yeah. Yeah. And then it was extended presumably because the the notion is like you can't see their mouths moving. They're doing a lot more of the speaking down down here. Can you do it? Can you Can you talk without oozing your mouth? No. That there's that

joke. Would you like [laughter] Would you like a bottle of beer or a wine? I'll have a wine.

[laughter] You can't say bottle of beer. The hardest thing is not bringing your lips together. Ville also covers things like Wild West shows and riverboat shows and music halls and burlesks and circus acts. You could kind of do everything with with Vivville, but it wasn't it was typically considered more family entertainment than burlesque shows. [music]

We already talked about parody and lampoon, but there's another word in that sort of dialectic, isn't there? Which is which is spoof. It's a funny word, right? Yeah, it's a spoof. Again, it's a it's a word that doesn't go back that far. It's based on a game, right? Yeah. It's

a card game. Yeah. Called Spoof. So, either invented by or just resurrected by a music hall comedian. So, I've talked about music hall. So, basically calling him a comedian,

but he could turn his hand to everything. These people could they could sing, they could dance, they could do everything. His name was Arthur Roberts. And in the 1880s, he popularized this game of cards called spoof. sometimes spelled SP O F, sometimes spelled SP O U F. And it would appear that a large part of the game was tricking people, which is

common in card games. [laughter] Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. So, actually in a similar way to we can talk about trumping someone that comes from the game of trumps. You start being able

to talk about spoofing someone from the game of spoof, you know, tricking them. That's where spoof comes from. Mhm. And then and so how did we get from spoof to like parody? It's it's not parody, but it it has elements of parody. You know what I mean? Well, spoofing, for example,

radar. So if you spoof a radar, that means you have tricked that radar into thinking something is there that is not there. So from those kinds of usages of trickery via spoofing, you then end up with the idea of faking something that is real. And that's what so a film spoof is a fake version of the the real thing, you know. So that's like scary movie taking the whole genre of horror films and making a fake funny one. They spoofed it. Exactly. I would love to talk about the word

travesty because this was first in English a word for a comedic form as well right travesty means uh it's trans and vestier so to clothe a cross it's crossdressing something reclothed or cross-dressed and the in English literary use it was a burlesque treatment of a serious work especially one that kept the subject and the characters while making the language low or grotesque or absurd. So like parody changes the subject while imitating the style and travesty keeps the subject and the characters but then drags everything through the mud. And so a travesty became any distorted or inferior or grotesqually inadequate version of what something should be. So we have like travesty of justice which is like one of the the earliest phrases that we have. That is one of those ethmologies that is going to change how I use that word ever so slightly. Ethmologically it

means the same thing as transvestism basically travesty but it's it's a figurative wearing of someone else's clothes is it yeah it's figurative we have lots of words that figuratively use that sort of idea of vestment don't we like invest it is basically a dlet of the word transvestite but with a different ending in a different sense right but uh but it in French it went from like French and Italian dropped the N and the S. So it became which mean meant dressed in disguise but not necessarily cross-dressed just like different dressed. All right, I will round us out with a few more jokes that I pulled from history. Uh but there's a [laughter] These are not a laugh. These aren't bad. I promise. No um horses nibbling at anything. [laughter]

Those centuries old cameltoe. [laughter] Yes. Oh, I've just said the word cameltoe on a microphone. I've said it twice. Oh, beautiful. Anyway, these are a little less ridiculous, but uh these are

Vavville jokes that were collected by the Weman Brothers, which was this New York-based publisher active in the early 20th century that specialized in lowcost paperbound entertainment jokes and parlor tricks and magic and song books and things like that. So, uh, I have a couple of these. One of them, George Washington was the bravest man in the world. He was never licked in his life. Oh, yes, he was. He was licked on a on a postage stamp. Then they had to do it behind his back.

[laughter] Okay, that's funny. Very droll. A lot of these and they're meant to be very family friendly. Um, like for example, it has been asked when rain falls, does it ever get up again? Of course it does. in due time. Ah, I actually I like that one. Oh, yeah, [laughter] that's fun.

I love that one. Yeah. Okay, that's a that's a good pun. And you know, we really didn't do pun. Yeah. I I don't think it's a very interesting story pun. I think it's one

of those not really sure where it comes from. It's just a syllable. Not not a lot to go on with where the word pun comes from. Anyway, I think that was a a fine good a rollicking good time. [laughter] Yes, a much needed bit of comic relief for us all.

Thank you so much, Jess. You made me laugh. I've made me blush. [laughter] Another episode of Words Unravelled completes the full bingo card. [laughter] We'll see you next time.

[music]