---
video_title: "Lexical gaps and English word endings"
video_id: akTX_0mcLI0
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=akTX_0mcLI0
video_date: 2026-02-16T18:00:14+00:00
video_description: |
  Why don't we say darkity or stupidicy instead of darkness and stupidity? Rob and Jess discuss.
---
We try to stick to Germanic suffix on Germanic root. I'm sounding a little dorkity here and we can't say dorkity because dorkiness instead, because that's one of those dramatic endings that we put on a Germanic word. Same thing like darkness instead of dorkity or kindness instead of kindity. You also get there are other endings here. Like you can say stupidity, but we don't say stupidity or, you know, we'll say width or wideness, but not whiteity as much. You'd say stupidness. Would you say stupidness? But it's stupidity sounds a bit odd and maybe it sounds odd because you are getting this French word and sticking a Germanic suffix on the end of it. Stupidity sounds better. It also has a ton. One funny thing is we have these verb and agent noun gaps too. So English often adds ER to verbs. I mean someone who does X, right? Teach, teacher, drive, driver, right, right? But we have something that we just don't use. Like we don't say stealer for someone who steals, we say. Or liver for someone who lives, right? Because that's already an organ. So English doesn't like a, if you discount liver because who the, who the heck says liver to refer to someone who's alive. That is a proper lexical gap. We don't have a word for just a person who is alive. A person who's alive. Do we? I can't think of one. A person who's alive. A mortal, that just means someone who will die. That's not the same thing. Person who exists being maybe, but that's the closest we've got. Yeah, but you could have, could you have a dead being? You're definitely not being. It's got to be a bit. Or you're being dead. You are being dead. Being is close. Being is place, all right. We're going to get into philosophy, Rob.