---
video_title: "How did The Beatles get their name?"
video_id: JlgQIDxufh0
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JlgQIDxufh0
video_date: 2026-06-03T05:00:10+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's explore some Rock 'n' Roll word origins. And start learning a language through TV with Lingopie today. 55% off + 7 days free: https://learn.lingopie.com/words-unravelled
  
  Why is it called "Rock and Roll"? Who came up with "The Beatles"? Which bands took their names from literature? Rob and Jess are answering all manner of musical etymological question in this off-beat episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
How did the Beatles choose their name? What's the juke in Jukebox? And how are you supposed to spell rock [music] and roll? We'll jam with genres and bang on about band names as we riff about the etymology of rock, metal, blues music, and more on this episode [music] of Words Unravelled.

[music] Welcome to another Words Unraveled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel RobWords. And I'm Jess Zafarris, author of etymology books including useless etmology. And today we are rocking and rolling into music history. But don't worry, we won't get the blues. We'll

dig into band names. We'll talk about genres. It'll be a good time. We're jamming. Yeah. We're

going to translate some foreign band names as well. I thought that might be a little bit fun, too. We'll explore some of the genres that became rock and roll and where they got their names as well. But where do we start on this this highway to hell? This this stairway to heaven perhaps. [laughter] I suppose we should start with rock and roll and what it means. As you

might imagine, rocking and rolling. The notion of that began far before it was a a music genre. The the earliest records we ever are like seas rocking and rolling or [laughter] ships rocking and rolling on the seas, which is not surprising. Um, but in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, African-American communities began using rocking and rolling individually in gospel and blues and general slang. We have this early example from the 1930s that was documented by a folklorist from before the turn of the century. He he had this retired Welsh seaman who was named

William Fender who sang a traditional folk song, the baffled knight. And he had learned this during his years at sea. and he uses rock and roll as a sexual euphemism while describing an encounter. And and then it was that that term also appears throughout kind of turn of the century slang. Yeah, there's something defin I mean in rocking rocking and rolling is definitely a a sexy sounding movement. I mean a lot of this is is uh definitely in that vein. You find when you look

into the names of genres that a few of them have been descriptions of uh the beast of two backs as well as [laughter] you know a less filthy movement. I backed myself into a sexy corner there just stopped talking. One of the things that's kind of fun to talk about with this one as as word people is how to spell it because I think if you had the average person write down rock and roll, how do you like how do you think they would format it? You know, I think it's everywhere. It's all over the place. Your options are to just write rock and roll. Mhm. Aren't they? Which that's fun.

That's not how you say it. And [laughter] you write rock and roll, right, with an N. But you also might want to put an apostrophe either side of the N to show that you've removed those letters. But that has kind of a pleasant symmetry to it. So, I think I would opt for doing it like that. The OED agrees with you. It's it's rock space apostrophe and apostrophe

roll as the main headword, but like it also there are variations with the amperand. There's there's the version with no spaces but the equal number of apostrophes. And then there's also just the like apostrophe n with no apostrophe afterward, which you see I I find that when somebody is saying like n as a as a word for and in most other contexts, it only has one apostrophe. An early use of rock and roll is obviously in song lyrics it it turns up and there's a song that was recorded by Ella Fitzgerald. It was written in 1938 by these twins called Kay and Sue Wernern.

This is what the OED has as its first written citation of the usage of of rock and roll. Uh the lyrics are now it's true that once upon a time the opera was the thing but today the rage is rhythm and rhyme. So, won't you satisfy my soul with the rock and roll? And in the lyrics, it's written despite opera being spelled op apostrophe. Huh. Are a rock and roll is written

out in full. That's great. That's awesome. Yeah. But that's obviously before rock and roll as a as we know it comes into being because that's a thing that happens in the 50s and this is 1938.

So, what's Ella Fitzgerald singing about? Well, I was thinking about sort of jaunty rhythmic music in that case, but could also be talking about the dance of rock and roll, which bizarrely predates the music genre as we know it because dancing. It's essentially done to Yeah. Well, it's done to swing music, isn't it really? It's not done to rock and roll. And it does make more

sense. Rock and roll sounds like a movement more than a more than a singing. As you were saying, it's like Elvis's era that is the the big breakout for rock and roll as a genre. And it's also really the breakout the rock and roll as a genre is the music being accepted by white people, right? Yes.

That's a key thing. The guy called Alan Frerieded, a DJ, is is often credited with being the one that helped him make that crossover because obviously was touring groups, putting on big events of black artists, but also some white artists. and he was describing the music they were playing as rock and roll. I think today we would describe it as a lot of it as rhythm and blues, but but he was calling it rock and roll. And this caught on with white audiences and that's when rock and roll really takes off in the in the 50s. Yeah. It's like it's gospel influenced vocals, dance rhythms,

blues based song structures. Got like Chuck Barry and Little Richard and Sister Rosetta or Tharp and all of the the legends before that. Yeah. And Elvis Presley, of course, highly influenced by gospel music. We should mention I don't know if we how much more we have to talk about about rock and roll, but we should mention rhythm and blues. Yeah. Blues in general. Yeah.

Yeah. Well, because rhythm and blues is invented, you could say it's invented as a euphemism because it's supposedly invented by Billboard magazine who wants to stop referring to a certain genre as race music. Yeah. Uh, so they start calling it rhythm and blues, but it is music of black origins. Still, there was a whole music industry term, race records, that was marketed specifically to black and African-American audiences between the like 1920s and the '4s. The corresponding term for

white targeted music, which tended to be more bluegrass in style, was called Hillbilly Records or Hillbilly Music. That was the other industry term that they were targeting in the South. And that that turned into more more country music. But rhythm and blues speaks to the the origins of the the style of music that becomes rock and roll. But we should talk about why we called it the blues, right? Yeah. Tell us why we call it the blues. The blue the blue devils. Yes. That dates back to the

1600s. It was this word for this term for harmful spirits and hallucinations and and mental anguish. And then in the 1800s it was called the blues originally. though though as early as like 1741 we have playwrs recording that they they suffered from the blues and things like that as well. Um but even like Thomas Jefferson and Lord Byron used blue devils for sadness or despair and then I I think the blues in some contexts as well. But the first printed musical use of blues,

which had already existed in African-American writing for a really long time, is in a diary entry by a free black teacher from Pennsylvania named Charlotte Foron Grimkey. And she writes in her diary that during the Civil War, she came home with the blues after working with enslaved people in South Carolina, which is really cool. Um, in the same writing she describes the spiritual sung by enslaved people and freed men and said that the songs can't be sung without a full heart and a troubled spirit. The genre starts being called the blues really after song titles that have the word blues in them. And they're usually like the something blues like Memphis blues or Dallas blues, very early blues records with the word blues in them. And then that sort of becomes

the name for the style of music as well because they're generally singing about having the blues. Yeah, collectively it had been a little more idiomatic in phrases like singing the blues or wailing the blues and then it became the genre. We should mention juke joints because they were a big place where blues and rock and roll kind of became things that anybody could listen to. A juke joint was an African-American term originally for an informal establishment where you could go for music and dancing and gambling. And it's where a lot of this music spread through black workers and sharecroers during the Jim Crow era and whatnot. Is that where we get jukebox from? Yes. Yes,

indeed. Ah, [snorts] see I didn't know this. I did not know this. It's originally from uh probably a gulla term meaning rowdy or disorderly which looks or sounds a lot like juke which is cool. Music and culture are great ways to explore language. They are also a great way to learn

language, allowing you to immerse yourself in it. Yeah, I learned French basically by just listening to a French playlist that my wife had made for me and by watching French TV shows and French films. Yeah, I just found it really helpful to watch people just speaking it if you who could speak it speaking it. But I wish at the time I had access to this video's sponsor, LingoPie. LingoPi is a streaming platform built specifically for language learners with over 3,000 TV shows and movies you can watch in languages like French, but also Spanish, German, Korean, and nine others.

Most of the time when we are learning languages, we we tend to hit a wall where we feel like we're not making any progress. And what I like about Lingo Pie is that it lets you learn the way you would in real life by watching and listening and slowly picking up on things in context instead of just memorizing. Yeah, I've been watching a Spanish show. It's actually Colombian. It's an animated series called Extinct which follows a very stressed out dodo through his daily travailes and it's really entertaining. Plus, I'm learning stuff all the time. For example,

I didn't know that the Spanish for a tip was la propina. And I was thinking, oh, so what does that literally mean? It doesn't mean anything else really, I don't think, in Spanish nowadays other than like a gratuitity. But if you trace it back far enough, goes back to a term that meant a a drink, buying a drink or or having a drink, which is interesting because the German for a tip is trinkel, which means drink money. And the French for a tip is poor buo, which means money for a drink or a drink. I don't know why tip means having a drink in every other

language. Let's not go into the origins of tip, though. I like that, though. Anyway, while you're watching, you get dual subtitles, so you can see both the original language and English at the same time. And you can click on the words and the idioms to instantly see what they mean, hear how it's pronounced, and then save them to review later, which is really fun. And if a scene

is going too fast for you, which sometimes it will be, you can slow the video down, loop tricky lines, and even repeat them out loud. It has this say it feature that will even let you compare your pronunciation with the original. If you'd like to try it out, Lingo Pie is offering Words Unraveled viewers a free 7-day trial, plus a discount on the annual plan if you decide to keep going. Yes, you'll find a link in the description below.

[music] I've got lots more genres, but I feel like we might overdo the genres too early. Maybe we should get We've promised some band name origins. Let's do a few of those and we'll come back to some more more genres because I expect we'll we'll encounter some more genres as we talk about these band name origins. You know, one that I I that I was so embarrassed to only realize far too late in life is that the Beatles and I don't know who else needs to hear this. The Beatles is a pun, right? [laughter] And I think it's I don't know. I think for the good first good 25 years of my life,

I just didn't even spot it that it is a cross between the word Beatles B E T L E S and obviously beat B E A T L. So, I don't know if anyone else needs to hear that and have that pointed out to them, but it is a pub. That's probably because there were a lot of other like band names with animals at the time, right? Well, yeah. So, John Lennon specifically pointed to the Crickets, Buddy Holly's band, the Crickets. Yeah, I like the idea of this insect related names. Sorry.

Very nice. Um, please don't stop. [laughter] There's I mean there's there's a whole story to how they came to be to be known as that. They had various names beforehand that people would know. But the name The Beatles was one that John Lennon came up with with a guy called Stuart Sutcliffe, who was in the band at the time, but wasn't afterwards. He was he played the bass for them,

but um as we know, we know Paul McCartney is the basist. He was Paul McCartney was also in the band at the time. But anyway, uh they came up with it in a sort of late night session. They thought this was great. The band were really into it. They were advised by uh a guy called Casey Jones

who was in a band called Cass and the Castanovas which was at the time a more successful band than the Beatles. They were just starting out and he's like no this this name the Beatles it doesn't have enough syllables to it. And so he told them to call themselves Long John and the Silver Beatles because occasionally John Leonard had been going by the name Long John. Um, and so they did this. They called themselves Long John and the Silver Beatles. Then they reduced it to just the Silver

Beatles, but John Lennon was still going calling himself as a stage name Long John Silver. And um, what was Paul calling us? Paul was calling himself Paul Raone. They dropped these names anyway. And eventually they got the confidence to drop the silver bit and to respell the word Beatles to have that A in it again. And by the time they reached Hamburg,

they were just the Beatles and the rest is the rest is history. Uh, but yeah, it's a pun. I think it's Is it the most high-profile pun in the world? Potentially. You mentioned Casey Jones. Is

that Casey Jones actually named Casey Jones or was that name drawn from the the ballot of Casey Jones? His real name was Brian Cassar. It wasn't and then he borrowed it. It is so interesting how rock and roll across the Atlantic has been borrowed and rebarorrowed and names inspired one another. I think you hear you hear it in accents as well. Like British rock and rollers

put on American accents and some American rock and rollers are obviously putting on a sort of British accent like Prague rock and and such. It's really it's really funny. I mean it helps things rhyme too to be able to either use or drop a hard R at the end of a word and things like that. This [laughter] is true. And Elton John always said that he wouldn't be able to hit the notes he could hit if he wasn't putting on that American accent. It's a It's a means of getting you there.

What's funny to me is he still sounds so British in many many of his songs. [laughter] Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I mean Yeah. He's very clearly putting on an accent to me, but uh big fan of his. I could have

worn I've got a I've got an Elton John t-shirt. By the way, we're both turn up in our sort of rock and roll. Mine's actually a punk punk band called [ __ ] Sparrow. I'm not very punk, but I do actually quite enjoy a punk gig. They're very loving places to be. A lot of uh good feeling

in the air as a punk band. A punk gig. It's so punk to be accepting, and I love that. Um but this is the this is a t-shirt dedicated to the legendary Kingston Mines in Chicago, which is a a blues club. Very cool. More bands. We've done the Beatles there. Well, they would they were also

known as the Quarry Men, I think, at one point. And they were known as Johnny and the Moon Dogs. That was it. That was one of their early names. Johnny and the Moon Dog. Uh, which is Yeah,

the Beatles is Is The Beatles better? I don't know. I think if they came to me pitching the name The Beatles, I'd go, "That is incredibly tacky. [laughter] You can't call yourself the Beatles." Maybe through today's lens. Yeah, exactly. Not a pun. Come on. You're classier than that, John.

There were many animal names that were popular at the time as we've already addressed, but like even the kinks were originally the ravens. So, we've got that too. Do you know why they were called the kinks? One suggestion is that they needed a gimmick. So, they adopted the name Kinks in order to address like in order to allude to kinkiness. Um, another one is just that it was

just a good way of getting publicity. It was meant to be a little subversive and horrifying. Uh, and and some of them originally didn't like the idea and then they then they went for it. I actually didn't go straight to the sexual with that name, which [laughter] is more fool me. But presumably also like the the radio execs that were allowing their music on air also didn't go straight to the sexual with the name otherwise they wouldn't have played them. I mean they

they did famously have their song that mentioned Coca-Cola banned from the BBC until they changed it to Cherry Cola, right? which is [laughter] which is very funny funny because that's not the most subversive thing about that song. No, very much. That song is fantastic song. Song's great. But yeah, there there are plenty of band names that

have been intentionally subversive. The band name Butthole Surfers. [snorts] [laughter] That's not a bat. That's a band. That's a Butthole Surfers. Yeah. You haven't heard the You haven't

heard their songs? No, I haven't. [laughter] It's good music. They've been around since the since like the 80s. They originally had a bunch of different band names. They used a bunch of

different names at every single gig they played. And then the announcer forgot what they were called because of this and used the song titled Butthole Surfer, which was one of their songs as the name of the band. And then it stuck. But it was a little bit spicy. Like a number of TV stations and radio stations refused to print or mention their name [laughter] for a while. I sort

of get it. I mean, I know I'm a little bit square by saying it, but I maybe people don't want to be saying butthole over again. There's way worse than that, though. Like, Steelely Dan is significantly worse than that. I know. Like, not on its surface, but uh but the origin of that one is very spicy.

Steely Dan is named after a dildo in the 1959 novel Naked Bunch by William S. burrows because they were big fans of beat generation literature. It is pure shock value satirical surrealism, super adult themes, very subversive. It was the it was part of a landmark uh obscenity case in the US where it was not allowed to be printed for a while and then ultimately it that decision was overturned and it was anyway. But in a lot of writings about the band, it said that the dildo whose full name is Steelely Dan III from Yokohama is a steam powered or hydraulic dildo.

But I looked up the passage in the book and it doesn't mention steam power. It just says it's a strap-on made of rubber. Though it does spurt milk. Okay. [laughter] Okay. Neat little function.

Okay. That Well, actually that does bring me to arguably I think um an even more subversive name if true. The band 10cc supposedly 10 cc are named for the average amount that a man ejaculates [laughter] in [snorts] at climax. Yeah. or the amount of the average amount of of milk squirted by a hydraulic dildo. You know, [laughter] hydraulic. Why have we ended

up here? This is supposed to be nice about music. How do we end up here? Don't worry. I feel like we've probably peaked in terms of [laughter] in terms We can talk about subversion. There

are bands that are subversive, at least in how they choose to spell their names. Yeah, quite a few of these, aren't there? Lead zeppelin. Obviously perhaps [clears throat] the most obvious example of this because that is not how you spell lead. And it is just meant to be a a lead zeppelin, right? Like yeah, a a session that um is it Jimmy Page? I'm trying to remember who it

was. I think yeah, I think it was Jimmy Paige was having with among others Keith Moon from The Who, the drummer from The Who. They talked about putting together a super group and one of them said we don't know which one usually Keith Moon is quoted but but I don't think we actually know which one of them said that the idea would go down like a lead balloon. Paige liked this idea ran with it but but turned it into a zeppelin instead instead and then for some reason thought that well quite reasonably I suppose thought people would think it was lead zephilin so changed the spelling. What I understand is a lot of the sources say that they changed it because they didn't want American audiences to read it as a lead, but I don't understand why Americans would be more likely to read it as lead than anyone else. Do you use the phrase go down like a lead

balloon in the States? I mean, it's definitely not unknown, but there's a spin-off of that spelling le zeppelin because we get deaf leopard. So they come up with their name deaf leopard as in d e a f l e o p a r d in uh school art lesson in Sheffield in England and they think oh let's let's change the spelling. They just decide because they're playing around with it. They change it to d ef in leopard to another p and leopard. And then they notice they go, "Oh, hold on. this is kind of

this is kind of reflecting what Led Zeppelin did because you even got the double P now in the in the the leopard and they went yeah I think we're okay with that in fact they said we'd rather look like them than the flying lizards according to that's what [laughter] Joe Joe Elliot said later basically they they thought it was cool to have a misspelled name than to have a name that just described an odd animal and another deliberately misspelled would be Leonard Skinnard or Leonard Skinnard. I think you are actually supposed to pronounce it Leonard Skinnard. Are you? Even though it's spel even though it's spelled Leonard Skinnard. I think they're on record as saying you should still pronounce it Leonard Skinnard. It's named after Leonard Skinner who was a gym teacher at their school. Hey, I'll tell you

what. I've got a thing. Uhhuh. I've got it in in here. I've got a a musical instrument. Oo.

It's a ukulele. Don't worry, I'm not going to play it. It's not It's not tuned. But I bought this 20 years ago. Banjo ukulele. It's a banjo ukulele or a banle. Uh I bought it off uh on eBay

back in the day, 20 years ago. Uh from an account called Survivor Guitars. And Survivor was spelled S Y R V Y VR. Why not the Y in there? [laughter] smell to reflect the way the spelling of that. No,

but but it so it this is guitar shop set up by one of the former roadies of Leonard Skinnard. Okay, that's cool. Who was in the air crash that killed members of the band, but he survived it. So, he set up Survivor guitars and he spelled it using Y's instead of the instead of the vowels. But, uh yeah, interesting uh story with the the Leaded Skinner. It's named after a person, but they just

wanted to spell it a fun way. That's very metal. Actually, this is our opportunity, isn't it, to talk about another deliberate misspelling that a lot of metal bands and heavy metal bands have engaged in down the years, which is the the metal um llout, two dots over over letters in their names that aren't actually spelled out. Like Mly crew and blue oyster cult and things like that. Blue oyster cult. Mly crew. Yeah. who who were surprised that when they heard German fans

calling them Mertly Crew [laughter] when they were chatting. Mohead is another one that has them. A band that I used to really like called Maximo Park. They for some reason just had an umlout over the eye for for no reason. And one that I hadn't noticed until researching this is that Spinal Tap have an umlout over the N, which is [laughter] not a letter that you can put an over.

And there was also there was this American industrial rock band called Grotus that had an umlout over every consonant in their name. So over the G, the R, the T, uh, and the S. Yeah. But this is this is just a thing. Makes your your band name look a bit sort of Germanic and a bit dark.

I guess that's where it originally comes from. But it also is just like a a sign that you're [clears throat] part of the fraternity sticking these two dots above letters that that don't need them.

[music] You mentioned metal bands. I have a bunch of literary band names because I am more a literary nerd than a than a music nerd. But um so this is what I brought to the equation. Uriah Heap was originally called Spice. And they changed their name to the sickopantic David Copperffield antagonist Uriah Heap. apparently because it was the 100th anniversary of Dickens death and his

name was everywhere around Christmas that year, they were really selling the Christmas Carol very hard. Um, but their debut album is called Very Eye and Very Um, which is a reference to one of Uriah Heap's lines, which you know, he's a scheming little nasty fellow. I like that. Modest Mouse is from a passage from a Virginia Wolf story called The Mark on the Wall. And the passage reads, "I wish I could hit upon a pleasant track of thought, a track indirectly reflecting credit upon myself for those are the pleasantest thoughts and very frequent even in the minds of modest mouscoled people who genuinely believe that they dislike to hear their own praises."

Another fun one is They Might Be Giants, which was originally called El Groupo de Rock and Roll. [laughter] I like that. I like that more. But they got They Might Be Giants from the name of a film and the play it's based on in which George C. Scott plays Justin Playfair, who's an aptly named and wellrespected eminent judge, who retreats into fantasy after his wife's death. And

he imagines himself to be Sherlock Holmes. And the title of the film is about Doniote. So we've got like several levels of literary inspiration here. But Judge Playfair says, "Well, he Doniote had a point. Of course, he carried it a bit too far. He thought that every windmill was

a giant. That's insane. But thinking that they might be. Well, all the best minds used to think the world was flat. But what if it isn't? It might be round and bread and mold might be medicine. If

we never looked at things and thought of what they might be, why we'd all still be out there in the tall grass with the apes. That is very good. Can I Can I chip in with a really big one of these? Um, and that's the Doors. The band The Doors. Yeah. Named after aldus Huxley. essay called the doors

of perception which is about he wrote it while he was tripping. Yeah, he wrote it after being on um or after was it? [snorts] Yeah. Yeah. It was measculine he was on. Yes. It's psychotropic

monograph. I saw it referred to as but that in turn is is from a quotation from um William Blake who said if the doors of perception were cleansed everything would appear to man as it is infinite for man has closed himself up he sees all things through narrow chinks of his cavern which sounds very deep and and so do the doors. So there you go. The word psychedelic was originally suggested by a psychiatrist in a letter to Aldis Huxley, too. Um, and it was it was about their experiments with with Meascalene. Fantastic. Any more literary ones? Uh, The Velvet Underground,

which is well, it's not literature exactly, but it's after a 1963 non-fiction book about non-standard non-heterosexual sex. It's basically a report or like an expose on swinging swinging and orgies and BDSM and things and you get the idea from the text that the author thinks he's being objective, but he obviously deeply morally disagrees with the behavior. So, it's kind of cool that it's been reappropriated by or or rather it's been appropriated by queer culture and and um other things. You get a lot of references to the Velvet Underground. I got it into my head that there was a shop called The Velvet Underground. I think it might have been a shop that Stevie Nicks

would frequent and that's why that's great. There are one or two Fleetwood Mac lines that mention the Velvet Underground. Maybe there's only the one. I would I would be willing to bet that there are a lot of queer shops that are called the Velvet Underground, as a matter of fact, and so that doesn't surprise me at all. Speaking of of queer culture and stuff, too, this isn't exactly this is not literary at all, but The Village People is kind of fun as far as origins go. [laughter] They're named after Greenwich Village in New York City, which is

usually it's basically the birthplace of the modern LGBTQ rights movement because it's the the location of the Stonewall uprising. Ultimately, it turned Greenwich Village into this safe haven for queer people. [snorts] The Village People originally were meant to be this sort of like they they were meant to target the gay disco market and they so they modeled the band members around American macho and gay fantasy archetypes like the GI and the Native American and the the construction worker and the leather biker man and the cowboy. Um and they my favorite is that I found this little ad in a a theater trade paper that said it was looking for members for the band and it said macho types wanted must dance and have a mustache. [laughter]

Uh yeah, that's it, isn't it? [laughter] [snorts] It's very good. The dancing macho types with mustaches. Did everyone always get the the sort of campness of it's the US Navy considered using their song in the Navy as it's like one of its songs. One of the founding members came out like a couple years ago and was like, "The YMCA is not a gay anthem." And I was like, "It isn't." Like a

lot of people were were confused by that claim. At least one of them said he's not gay as well. Yeah, he isn't. The the person I was just referencing is not. He's completely heterosexual. But

but that was kind of the whole purpose of the band was to to target gay listeners. [music]

If we're talking about bands named after other things, we could talk about Black Sabbath. Black Sabbath is actually named after a film, Boris Caroff horror film that was showing, you know, at the the cinema across the street when they were trying to come up with with a name. Before that, they had some really sort of lame names like the Pulcat Tulk Blues Band and Earth, [laughter] two names that they they went by. Oh, you know, I guess they they probably didn't seem lame when this was the music that was coming out of them, but they sound lame in comparison with Black Sabbath given, you know, their role in generating this heavy metal genre. Supposedly, one of the members said, "Isn't it amazing how people will spend all this money to go and see horror movie? [laughter] Oh, maybe would people pay a lot of money to go and see us

if we were called Black Sabbath?" And so they were they changed their name. I always thought the the name of the band Sticks went really hard. Kind of harder than the music does. Yeah, it's a good name. It's a good um classical reference.

Nirvana as well. A word from Sanskrit. There we go. That's a nice words unraveledy one. Means means to blow away or sort of to to to wipe out in Sanskrit. I'll read what the OED says is the

definition of it because it'll be better than my attempt at explaining Buddhism. The realization of the non-existence of self leading to sessation of all entanglement and attachment in life. The state of being released from the effects of karma and the cycle of death and rebirth. So achieving nirvana is having blown away basically all the complications of of life. Sounds wonderful. Yeah. Grunge. There's a a genre named by people who didn't like it. [laughter]

Like punk as well. Punk is just a word meaning horrible. uh not up to scratch, inferior gets applied to the music, but adopted by the people who make the music because they're kind of into that idea that that that they're making something a bit raw. Oh, yeah. Ditto with grunge. This is sort of literary. Coldplay had a couple of names before it was

Coldplay. They called themselves the big fat noises, which I don't think lands quite as well. And then they went for Starfish, which also doesn't land quite as well. Oh god. [clears throat] They also created a joke band name for themselves. I don't

understand why. Someone else may be able to explain, but it was the pectorals with the S at the end replaced with a Z. That's a phenomenon we must have talked about before, the the sort of marketing phenomenon of replacing S's with zeds and C's with K's. But ultimately, Coldplay came from a a poetry collection in from 1997 called by Philip Horky which is called Child's Reflections Cold Play. and it's in this surreal and ambiguous style that explores psychological themes and has a a very fluid tone, which that makes a lot more sense with what they create. Speaking of

bands that originally had worse names, Creed was originally known as Naked Toddler. Oh dear God, this isn't that bad, but Deaf Punk was heavily influenced by the Beach Boys. They originally recorded names under the name Darlin, which was a Beach Boys single from 1967. Uh, but they got a they [clears throat] got a negative review in the Melody Maker, the publication from the UK that described their efforts as a daft, punky thrash. So, they got that there. So, they're a French band. And I was looking up names of foreign bands and

that's just reminded me of there's a German band called Fetas Bort which people may or may not have heard of. You got to be pretty deep into your German hip hop to know who they are but their name means fat bread but it comes from a fan describing their music as Fetas brought. Fat meant actually as it kind of does in English now it meant something great. Bought was a uh slang for hash. So describing them as as Fetasport meant really good hash. It was like a

it was praise and then they went we like that. We're going to call ourselves Fetasport. I do have a big list of foreign band names. Let's do it. Should we do it now? We'll do it now. I mean

probably the most famous German band is Craftvak which simply means Power Station. Perhaps already know that but it makes a lot of sense. They're very into industry and that is why they they chose the name Craftvak. There's a band called Dieta as well. The the the doctors that some people might have heard of. Uh the Toronto Horen is another band that's very popular over here which means

uh the dead trousers. [laughter] Excellent. I love it. It's from an idiom. Toro means to have nothing going on. To have dead trousers means you've just got, you know, you're either bored. You're you're

time wasting. You you have nothing on. You've got dead trousers. Trousers are dead. [laughter] Yeah, I said Crafty were perhaps the most famous, but I guess Ramstein might actually be the the most famous German band, certainly German band name, but their name is really awful because it is taken from the name of a an air disaster. So Ram Rammstein is a a US air base in Yeah, I was going

to say that sounds I I have loose familiarity with what you're talking about. I It's quite possible there's been activity there recently as as the US has been pulling its people out of Germany. There was a really horrible crash to an air show there, the Ramstein air show, and two uh acrobatic planes crashed into one another and one of them fell into the crowd and killed nearly around 70 people and the band named themselves after this. Well, firstly they wrote a song about it and then they named themselves after their own song. But Ramstein the place has got one less M in it. The extra M is basically because they misspelled Ramstein on their equipment. So

we now have Ramstein with two M's. But really dark story to the band name. A few more foreign ones I'll just reel off. I guess I don't know if everyone knows that Bork or Bjork as she tends to get called in in English. It's Icelandic for Birch and Siger Ross as well is another Icelandic name which means Victory Rose.

It's also the name of the lead singer's younger sister who was born just as they were starting the band up. Her name is Sigur Ross all as one word but the band's name is Sigor Ross, two words. Anyone who likes Eurovvision will have heard of Maniskin or Mournerskin, which is an Italian band that won Eurovvision a few years back, but their name is actually Danish and it means Moonlight in Danish because the basist is a Dane or she's half Danish and she said, "Let's call ourselves that." She suggested it. They're like, "Yeah, we like that. We like that."

Uh looking at some Spanish ones and I don't know that so I'm not really into my Latino music particularly. So the but the ones that I came up with were the singers of um the Macarena who were called Los Del Rio which you could probably work out what it means but it means them from the river and Los Lobos. I did not know what that meant. The ones that did La Amber Lambber that would that be wolf? Yeah it's the wolves. Yeah. Yeah. The wolves

BTS. Do you actually know what BTS the Korean band means? I know we're not into rock and roll here. my co-author of this this missile lady that I have coming out later this year and um actually this this was not a setup um [laughter] but uh but my co-author is a huge K-pop fan and she has told me but I forgot. So I was watching an interview with them and they said in English that their name stands for beyond the scene which is rubbish. I don't actually know I can't say that cuz they'll

find us that the BTS people will find us and they will shut us down. Okay. So, no, I I think it's a really clever initialism for beyond the scene. What it actually stands for in Korean is Bangan, which means bulletproof boy scouts, which is Oh, that's cool. That's That's perfect for a boy band.

Yeah, just leave leave it at that. It's fine. But that's awesome. I very well packaged for the for for Western audiences. So, I'm actually really enjoying the rise of K-pop. I feel

like I'm seeing things in the music scene that I I I don't know. They are more exciting than I've seen in a while. I don't know. I think it's just feels like a replay of like '90s pop culture boy culture. Is it way better? I don't know. It seems like it's even more factory than

than literally the hit factories. I have never been Okay, that's not true. I was about to say I've never been a big boy band person, but like the second album I ever bought was the Backstreet Boys Millennium album. Um, [laughter] not since then. Um, my my first one was Abbeby Road, so defend myself with that. Another boy band. [laughter] Yeah, exactly. Oh, yeah. So, maybe

maybe I do have something there. Um, but no, I I actually don't I don't know very much about K-pop at all, but I do love learning about it from my friends who are very into it. It's a fascinating social phenomenon and something that we're going to have to get very very used to. I think I was saying this about well while while we were hanging out together in England. I think I I said too I also don't know very much about Taylor Swift, but I have a lot of Swifty friends and some of my grad students were also Swifties. I didn't realize that I had started picking up on some idioms

that were from her songs and I didn't realize they were. [laughter] Yeah, this could happen. I think you I remember you telling me about this. You'd said, uh, I'm the problem. It's me. [laughter] realizing it cuz it had become a meme and that's where I got it and I didn't which

I should have. I had heard that song and I just it didn't it didn't stick. See, you're so good at tracing things back but that one that slipped slipped under the radar. Can I mention just one more foreign act because it just introduces a phenomenon that I think is really fascinating. So there's a a French No, he sings in French. He's Belgian and he goes by the name Stromi. Big fan

of Stromi. But what I did not know was that his name is using something called verong, which is a French back slang. It's a way of rearranging words. Yeah, maybe. Um, but is the word maestro with two syllables swapped around. Yeah, I didn't know this. I had no idea about this until

researching this, but I was looking up some other feron things. So these are you do hear like young French people referring to to women as mirth, right? And the French for a woman is fam, but if you swap the sounds around, you get something much closer to murf. But also they'll say something is uh zi which means bizar bizar or there's a greeting which is [laughter] you could guess what the greeting is actually. See if you can work it out. Wait, what? So a French greeting

but do it in furong. So what's the most obvious French greeting? It's [laughter] excellent. That's exactly what it is. Oh, that's fantastic. And they would talk about France as uh

and instead of me you say s this is not a new thing. This is a sort of historical French way of of playing with words for long. That's really cool. And actually I didn't realize that there's a French artist that I I quite like called um and he had an album called Le Betton and I always that means like leave bet is concrete leave concrete. Uh but what it actually is is of which means let it go let it fall which is what you say. You say just just leave it just leave it.

Anyway, that was a little discovery for myself. More interesting to me than than most people. But the stroai thing is awesome. Maestro, but uh with a little word play. Rob, is this is this is this band and rock and roll themed episode gratefully dead? [laughter]

Yeah, I think it's time we ended for creative differences. [laughter] It's time to go our separate ways. This has been a fun episode of Words Unravelled. Thank you very much for joining us. We'll hear you next time. Oh, and this is the this is the end of this

season. We'll be back in a few weeks. Yeah, you'll be fine without us. Don't worry. [music]