---
video_title: "What does 'espionage' actually mean?"
video_id: fq4Jc8UCR-g
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fq4Jc8UCR-g
video_date: 2026-01-21T06:00:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's explore the origins of spy terms. And take back your personal data with Incogni! Use code UNRAVELLED at this link and get 60% off annual plans: https://incogni.com/unravelled
  
  Rob and Jess are going deep undercover to unearth the origins of words from the word of espionage.
  🕵️‍♀️ What's the difference between a SPY, and ASSET, and an AGENT?
  🔍 What does ESPIONAGE literally mean?
  🇬🇧 Was there ever an MI4 as well MI5 and MI6?
  These questions answered – and many more – in a supremely secretive episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  🎥 Dr Geoff Lindsey's COVERT vid: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NeHRN6GlNOs
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
What do spies [music] have to do with your eyes? What's the difference between an agent and an operative? And is it pronounced covert or covert? Join us as we go undercover [music] to declassify etymological intelligence, decrypt historical ciphers, and conduct surveillance on famous spies in this >> [music] >> espionage-themed episode of Words Unraveled.

>> [music] >> Welcome to another Words Unraveled. I'm Rob Words from the YouTube channel Rob Words. And I'm Jessi Ferris, author of etymology books including Useless Etymology. And today we are doing espionage etymology, aren't we? Yes, we are. We're talking about the covert, or

should that be covert? I think we'll probably get into that at some point during this. Yeah, the words related to what those in the game call tradecraft, espionage. Sneaking around and spying on people. [laughter] Sharing a little bit of intelligence on this etymology. Indeed, true

intelligence as well. Where should we start? Should we start with that word spy, Jess? >> Oh, absolutely we should. Does it relate to just, you know, espying someone? I

guess it does. >> Yeah, no, absolutely. The word spy is older in English. Like we're talking about espionage here. The word spy is older in English than espionage, as you might guess, by about 400 years. But we

had a lot of words like that for a long time before, and they're all from the same Germanic source, espying and things. It's also related to words like inspect and suspect and spectacles. So it's all about looking. Espionage, which we will get into, you know, it comes from exactly the same place as the word spy. These words are related, for sure. I was looking up when

the word spy was first used in English. I think it will surprise people, particularly if your image of a spy is is James Bond, for example, although I think maybe he's a secret agent rather than a spy. But the first citation is in a 14th century translation of the Bible, which I thought was kind of interesting. In that Genesis and Exodus. Okay, I this is in >> Like Old Testament.

>> [laughter] >> Yeah, yeah, yes, indeed. Right up right up top of the Bible. It's written in Middle English. I'll read it in the Middle English and then I'll sort of translate it, but it's it's basically it seems well that ye spies been and into this land come to see and for to spy your lord the king. So it's it seems well that you are spies and you've come into this country to see the lord your king. So it's more just

like looking at that you are the people who have come to look at things, spectators you might say. Spectators, exactly. A word related to that Germanic word that you mentioned earlier. And yet to espy, we don't use the word espy very often, but it's very much linked to the idea of being a spy. A spy is one who espies things.

You mentioned about espionage. Espionage enters English quite a lot later, doesn't it? 400 years later. It becomes the word for the overall craft of spying, organized spying, and it's borrowed from French in yeah, the the 18th century. There's there's some really interesting spy stuff going on in France in the 18th century. I don't know if you looked into

this, Jess. >> Yeah, a little bit. A little bit. We get some um some words that we use today sound a little more French around spying than you would expect because of the Napoleonic Wars and things like that. It was also something that was set up by the the French king at the time who really sort of pushed who who who's responsible for a whole network of espionage across Europe. He

was Louis the 15th, so not Louis the 14th Sun King, but the one after that. And he had an organization known as the Secret du Roi, which means the the King's secrets. And this organization dispatched French spies all over Europe. A lot of them were in Russia, for example. But I I was looking this up and and who these spies were, because they were they were famous, you know, in their day. Some of these spies, and one

of them absolutely [clears throat] fascinating character called the Chevalier d'Eon. They go by two names, Chevalier d'Eon and Chevalière d'Eon. The masculine and feminine versions. It is interesting, too, that you're using they as a pronoun for this person, and I think I know why. Yeah, indeed. It's an

anachronism, obviously, to think of people from that period as non-binary. However, if anyone was, it was the Chevalier d'Eon, known as both Charlotte and Charles in their time. They were a spy who managed to sneak into various places by pretending to be both a man and pretending to be a woman. They presented in their daily life as a fella, and they had manly jobs throughout their life, but they did, for example, manage to con their way into the court in Russia, court of the Empress, by pretending to be a woman. And you look at drawings of the Chevalier, the Chevalière, and they are, noticeably androgynous. You can see how

they did manage to present as both male and female. What a fascinating character, and a character who lived in London and was, you know, subject of much rumor while they were there and much fascination. Ultimately, I think the pronoun would make >> [clears throat] >> the most sense is she, because in 1777, they she started living fully as a woman and was recognized by Louis the 16th as a woman. I didn't know that. I don't know they spent most of their life presenting as a man. But if

they [snorts] ended it as a woman, let's let's let's let's go with that. All of the illustrations and art of them has has them androgenous or in one particular one half in a dress and half in a in men's wear. Yeah, it was an aspect of the curiosity around the Chevalier {slash} Chevalier around Charles {slash} Charlotte that they were this androgyne, I suppose. One of the other French terms that I think is worth bringing up here and and was introduced due to the Napoleonic Wars is the term reconnaissance. Like it is basically an etymological doublet of recognizance in English because it literally means recognition and it's from the same Latin words and elements, but recognizance now means something else and and always meant something else and reconnaissance was used mostly during the Napoleonic Wars in French in relation to spies.

Right. So if you go on a recce, you you basically you're checking out an area before you attempt to to go there, aren't you? Right. Meanwhile, recognizance is older, but originally referred to an obligation which you are legally or to which you are legally or formally bound a formal bond of recognition that you're going to do something as part of an agreement or acknowledge the allegiance of someone else. And then today we have it in the phrase discharged upon one's own recognizance, which means you're being released without bail due to good behavior and your signature is the recognition of that and your promise to come back. The variation of this word

that I hate due to the pronunciation is reconnoiter. I just I don't like how that rolls off the tongue. >> Yeah, I I really don't like it. I would I would never attempt to say it. I find one of the reasons I think people say recce is to avoid having to say reconnoiter cuz it's it's horrible.

No one here that I have ever heard. Maybe I I travel in non-espionage related circles, but no one says recce here. >> [laughter] >> Well, you know, it's used a lot in broadcasting. That's that's one of the things and they probably I expect they use it at television stations in America as well. Basically, if you want to go and check whether a place is a suitable place to film, you you do a recce there.

I maybe I'm wrong about that, but I expect it gets used over there, too. I haven't heard it in TV stations that I've been in, but I don't know that it isn't in use and I would love for someone to tell us, too. >> Please be do. But I reckon I reckon that the pronunciation of it is influenced by reckon, which is not related to any of these words, as we've discussed before. It's a Germanic word meaning to count or recount or consider. After the feast,

the reckoning, the calculation of the bill. >> [laughter] >> Yes, indeed. Now, all this sneaky spy business brings us to this video's sponsor, Incogni, which helps you to disappear from the online records of vendors who store your personal data, including your home address, phone numbers, and even old emails. That's right. Incogni starts by scanning people search sites and large companies that collect and sell personal data and then sends removal requests on your behalf.

After setup, everything lives in your dashboard and you can see requests going out, removals finishing, and online monitoring in real time, and updates arrive through notifications so you can see the progress. Yeah, I signed up over a year ago now and I've been getting these regular removal notifications and it is extremely gratifying to see that your name has been removed from these various lists that are being, you know, sold between different brokers. Yeah, me, too, and I I just signed up. Incogni keeps sending repeat removal requests over time because personal data often gets reposted and some companies add you to suppression lists, so that they stop collecting your information altogether. And with the unlimited plan, you can also submit custom removals, meaning that if you find your info on a specific site, you then paste the link in and a privacy expert handles the rest for you.

To start disappearing from the internet today by visiting incogni.com/unraveled, that's with two L's, and use our code unraveled to get 60% off the annual plan. That is incogni.com/unraveled.

>> [music] >> We're jumping all over the the map time-wise, but I do have some of the first famous spies that were called spies as we know them today in English. And this is from the 13th to the 15th centuries during the Anglo-French Wars. Edward III of England and Philip IV, sorry, Philip VI and Charles VI of France notably ran wartime intelligence through multilingual courtiers and merchants and soldiers and and household servants who gathered military information by listening inside courts and camps. And some of the bigger medieval spy scandals were really fun. first Englishman to be executed for espionage as a crime was Sir Thomas Turberville, who was a knight captured in 1295 who spied for France and sent intelligence on English defenses. And he

was horribly and publicly executed after royals found incriminating letters that he had written about his spying. Uh don't I surely the first rule of spying is don't write down that you're doing the spying. Surely. >> Well, well, we can talk about lots of different ways to write down spy information in a few minutes. But another fun one was in 1386, the English sent a soldier named Hennequin du Bois to infiltrate French noble households connected to invasion planning in Flanders, and he was also captured and tortured and executed in Paris, and his interrogation exposed a huge English spy network operating across across northern and western France. Yeah, you've got to

be brave to be a spy in those days, haven't you? Well, you've got to be brave to be a spy full stop. >> In general, but the it was it was socially acceptable to draw and quarter people. So [gasps and laughter] You're saying socially acceptable like people were doing it on a Friday evening. >> [laughter] >> I mean I don't think it happened that often.

I mean we read about it because it was horrible, I'm sure. I don't fancy it at all. No, thank you. What do we call the um the information that these spies gather? So you mentioned it just then in your description, and I guess it's again it's sort of anachronistic to call it intelligence. I

guess they wouldn't have called it intelligence in those days, but is intelligence the word you're looking for? >> Yes, but the the notion of undercover spy intelligence actually dates back to the 16th century. Intelligence, I mean that does mean knowledge, doesn't it? As as we otherwise know it to. And in this sense, that is like a transferred the the the way we talk about it is in like military intelligence or secret intelligence and stuff. Is that

basically, you know, gaining knowledge about something? Oh, basically, yeah. And this is just a jargony use of the term intelligence, right? Right, okay. Though, I will note that counterintelligence, the act of preventing enemies from obtaining secret is from the 1940s, so that one is more recent. Ah, there we go. I guess this is

more of a detective term, but I feel like these are tied pretty tied up together. We could talk about the word investigate. I am sure this is easily observable, but I hadn't thought through the notion that the word investigate includes the word vestige. Oh, okay. Now now you mention it. So I I suppose I'd

always thought that it was and this is related to it. Investment, right? Is to put is is basically to put clothes on, isn't it? Like to put a vest. But investigators from a different route entirely.

>> Yeah, and now you now you've said that, that's a revelation to me. I just I assumed, never bothering to actually look it up, that it must have something to do with clothes. >> in the case or something like that. >> Yeah. Yeah.

>> [laughter] >> Exactly. Yeah, you're getting stuck right in there, like you're almost so into it you're wearing it. So, tell us about how Vestige fits in. Vestige is ultimately from the Latin vestigium, which means meant in Latin footprint or trace. So, the first use in English of the word vestige was describing the visible place where a building existed once, but doesn't anymore, and that's how we got the sense of something that is no longer present or active, like vestigial organs and things. But to

investigate is literally to follow somebody's footprints. Oh, I like that. Isn't that nice? Isn't that satisfying? >> [laughter] >> Cuz that's exactly what you've got in your head when you think of an investigation.

Following footprints. Oh, that's adorable. I like that idea, too. Yeah. There are a few other sort of basic terms associated with with with spycraft that we should mention. Things like the

difference between a an agent and an asset, for example. These are these are mildly different things. The word agent is is pretty versatile, right? Like it's generally speaking it is someone who acts or performs an action, and it's related to the word act. And it's a really old word in English, and it's not necessarily affiliated with what we would call secret secret agents until the early 1800s. Apparently during the

Aaron Burr conspiracy in the United States, which was a vast plot led by a former US President Aaron Burr, who planned to work with a number of powerful American figures to create their own empire in the American West. And that's when we got agent as like a secret agent. Yeah, I actually a an agent is someone who's like is working on behalf of a secret agency, but is not like an official employee, right? This is quite a key to key distinction. They're not like They're not a pen pusher.

>> [laughter] >> And then you've got assets, right? Which is anyone or thing that provides information to a secret service. Yeah, and I think all of these are supposed to be originally neutral terms that you wouldn't recognize as being elements of like criminal activity or or or secret stuff. And now they've just become through spy fiction and through popular use and the popular imagination words that we affiliate with spycraft entirely. Yeah, the definitions are deliberately mundane for these words, yeah. And and for

example, spies referring to what they do as tradecraft is a really good example of of choosing the sort of most dull, non-specific terms they can come up with so that, you know, if they get overheard, no one knows really what they're talking about. Right. And it's like because we read novels about spies, we start to we start to affiliate those words ourselves with that. Actually, um I had one here, one fact here that I thought was really interesting. The notion of a mole as a sleeper agent is first found in the 1920s with most sources like The Morning Post writing about the underground burrowings of the Bolshevik moles, but it wasn't fully popularized until the Cold War. And the thing that

got me though is that the OED says that it's likely that the world of espionage took the word mole from spy novels and not the other way around. >> Yeah. John le Carré's novels in particular, like Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy, appear to have played the biggest role in popularizing mole as a word for a deep cover agent. You know, there's a lot a lot of terms that I think people only you from John le Carré's works. I, for example, only know what a dead drop is from John le Carré's books, right?

Although, I was having a look through, if you'll indulge me on this, the CIA actually publishes a glossary of their terms, presumably not their most secret terms, >> [laughter] >> but among them are terms like dead drop, for example, which the CIA describes as a secret location where material can be left, sometimes in a concealment device, for someone else to then retrieve. Often used between an intelligence officer and their asset or agent, those terms we've already mentioned. So, it's like it's like you leave a message behind a bush or underneath a lamp post. You can't put something underneath a lamp post. These are terrible dead drop examples.

[laughter] For someone else to then come along and [snorts] pick up later. They usually public places. But, I didn't know a dead drop was until Yeah, until I can't remember which of le Carré's novels it was. All right, cuz I You read one of le Carré's novels, you end up reading all of them. >> [laughter] >> That was one of the terms in there. But,

another term I hadn't come across from the CIA um CIA glossary was flaps and seals, which is what they call the the tradecraft of clandestinely or clandestinely, however you like to pronounce it, uh opening, reading, and resealing envelopes or packages without the recipient's knowledge, which does make sense, flaps and seals. But, um I mean, it does sound funny, doesn't it? Speaking of which, the word clandestine, it's been around since the 1560s, and of course it means secret or private or furtive. The word it's based on is a it is an adverbial version of the the Latin calare, meaning to hide. That word is clam.

>> [laughter] >> The Latin for secretly is clam. Clam, which is also amazing, cuz like that's not where we get the notion of to clam up, because it's just like being like a clam and it's not related to the word clam as in the clam but it is neat that it does both. It's serendipitous. Yeah, I think I remember you telling me this actually in another episode. >> think we were talking about clams. We

were. Yeah, and the idea of clamming up and this this coincidence of Latin word for for doing something secretly being the same as a clam. Yeah, the the clam our organism animal mollusk is named after it's an Old English word that means grip or grasp. Can we talk about other words for doing things clandestinely and see in fact we should talk about the word secret as well it's kind of an interesting word in itself you know it's very obvious it seems what it means but but but when you look in the into the etymology it takes you to a place you might not quite expect because the root of the word secret it doesn't mean secret it means set apart like something that has been set apart. So I had a revelation while I was looking this up.

We've talked about contronyms before. Words that are their own opposites and I think the word secrete might be one. Hear me out on this. So to secrete something can mean to hide it right? To secrete something away. But secrete can

also mean to emit something to put something out there. Yes, okay. So that makes it a contronym. >> Yeah, no I agree with that. I agree with that. I I accept this this proposal. I'm

glad you do. [laughter] So how can how can it be a contronym is what I was looking up and and the reason is that we get the idea of you know a plant secretion or an animal secretion from the fact that these goos it's usually a goo that's being secreted. Yeah, separated. It's not that they're separated on the outside it's that they usually come from some sort of organ inside the body that has secreted them, that has separated them apart for all of the other goos inside >> Gross. of that particular animal. So, a

a bladder, for example, separates, you know, your your urine in a way from from other stuff, and then you sec- it is secreted, and then it is ejected, like that. This has gone to a kind of gross place. Sorry about that. >> [laughter] >> Yummy. But there we are. Uh and yeah.

>> Secretive secretions or the the secrets of secretions as told by Rob Watts. >> [laughter] >> So, the original secrets were things that were set apart, that not everyone was allowed access to, which kind of makes sense.

Speaking of secrets, what about the word covert? You mentioned when we were we were hinting at this earlier that covert and covert are also are equally valid or Yeah, okay. Covert and covert, yeah, or or covert, if you want to have a nice erotic American tongue to. And so, here's here's the amazing thing. By the way, shout out to Professor Jeff Lindsay, who made a whole video about this, a very very good video that is well worth a watch. He managed to find

recordings of all kinds of people, for as long as they've been able to record things, pronouncing the word covert, and right up until the '60s, the 1960s, they're pronouncing it covert almost exclusively. >> It's just the past participle of covert, like cover, right? Covered covered. Yeah, you're right. You're right. So,

covert is to covert what burnt is to burned. Right, so it's it's something that is in that state. So, probably a spy movie did this for us, right? Well, I don't know, but in the in the 1960s, for whatever reason, an American pronunciation of covert appears. Probably influenced by overt, right? And

and then you do get this dichotomy of overt and covert, which is an extremely elegant one, isn't it? The idea of something being open and something being closed. And rhetorically, it's very useful. They Jeff Lindsay in his wonderful video that we will of course link to plays a a clip of Martin Luther King using covert and overt in the same sentence as that beautiful trade-off that I was just talking about. Yeah. Yeah. So so

then after this sort of 1960s boom in the pronunciation covert, it takes over in America and it's taken over in Britain now. And actually, you don't hear people saying covert very often at all. It's by far the, you know, the more common pronunciation now is covert. But to explain why they're different as in overt and covert, you know, they shouldn't be pronounced the same cuz they are from different places. They're from different French words that are not really related. You

have couvert, which is covered in French or cover, and you have ouvert in French. But isn't it weird that those two words look very similar? And it's thought that they look very similar for the same reason that we pronounce covert like overt. And it's that at some point someone has decided that those two French words, so some French scholar has decided that they should be spelled similarly because they're probably related. But they're actually not. And

you said spelt instead of spelled, which is same concept. Yeah. Good shout. Yeah, that's a really good one. Is is that a is that a transatlantic difference, spelt and spelled? I would believe so.

So if you're talking about spelt, it's fish, right? >> [laughter] >> Over here. Oh, is that Yeah. Is that a fish or am I making that up? No, it's wheat, sorry.

It's wheat. It's not a >> [laughter] >> I don't know what fish I was thinking of. Yeah, no, it's it's a that I do that. Type of wheat. Although I feel liberated in that.

And I think most British people shop and change between spelt and spelled. I was thinking of smelt. Smelt is the fish. >> [laughter] >> Ah, yeah, okay. Who's Whoever smelt it, spelt it.

Right, right. And then yeah, exactly. So, we've got smelt and smelt, so. >> [laughter] >> Okay. Anyway.

Spy. >> We're just We're just saying words, clearly. This podcast is just saying words, but >> [laughter] >> Take us Take us somewhere else, Jess. Another thing you might do if you're a spy is you might surveil things or conduct surveillance. And surveil is an an English back formation of surveillance, though it is also a French word. It's

It's a little bit of both. Anyway, surveillance means to or surveil means to watch over. Surveiller. It's related to the word vigilant and vigil through the Latin root vigilare, meaning to watch. And it was introduced in English during the Terror in France, where surveillance committees were were formed to monitor people. I like how we have a

little bit of French history throughout like all of spy history. It's very French. Yeah, and I don't think nowadays we necessarily associate, despite the word espionage being overtly overtly French. We don't necessarily think they're not the first nationality that we think of when it comes to to spying. Like, who are the big spy agencies?

KGB. I have a thing here. Yeah, the KGB. We've got Which it doesn't exist anymore, obviously. They're not called KGB anymore. But like, they're still the

villains in a lot of [laughter] spy movies. Yeah, so they were the Soviet spy agency. The You know, the big behemoth of Soviet spying was called the KGB. It's more fragmented now. You have the FSB, for example, which does a lot of what the KGB did did, but there are other agencies that also do other bits and bobs that they they used to all fall under the banner of this big scary banner, this terrifying umbrella that would probably shoot a poison dart at you >> [snorts] >> um of the KGB. For the spy agencies in

the UK, you've got GCHQ, which is the government listening service. Government Communications Headquarters, GCHQ stands for. But then you've also got MI5 and MI6. MI6 was the one that James Bond's involved with. So, MI5 is sort of internal.

MI6 is spying all over the world and that. So, I was wondering, okay, well, was there an MI4? Was there an MI3? Was there ever an MI7? The answer is yes. There were all of

those. It's quite a smart move when you're setting up a secret organization to put a number that is not one because then your enemy, if they do find out about it, thinks there's loads of these organizations. >> one. Yeah, and they get really scared. They're like, "Oh, I've got to find all these other ones."

>> [laughter] >> That has the same energy as during senior pranks when people are about to graduate. I've seen it common to like set three pigs loose on campus and number them like one, two, and four. >> [laughter] >> That is exactly the same idea. It's exactly the same idea. But, uh there were these other MIs. So, the MIs, they

all come out of the Secret Service Bureau, which is set up in 1909. So, it's just before the First World War, but they really come into their own during the First World War for the British. And you had MIR, which is the first one, which was concerned with information about Russia, Siberia, a lot of parts of of Asia as well. MI1 was the Secretariat. So, that's basically filing documents and stuff like that, distribution of such things. MI2 was

information concerning more specific countries. So, the Americas, the Ottoman Empire, showing its age there. MI3 was information concerning European countries like France, Belgium, Austria-Hungary, also Germany as well. So, it would have been pretty key during that period. MI4 [snorts] was responsible for collection and distribution of topographical information. So, the

the drawing of maps, sending of planes over enemy lines to draw maps based on, you know, where their trenches were running, etc. MI5 and MI6 are as now. They're concerned with internal affairs and external affairs. MI7 was concerned with press censorship as well as military propaganda. MI8 was cable censorship.

And MI9 was postal censorship. And that's it, as far as we know. If there was an MI10, it was even more secretive than the rest of them. At some point, I want to get to encryption. But, for the moment, I would also like to note that while I was looking into different types of encryption, noted that Ultra was the designation for wartime signals intelligence by the British military. They were meant to

encrypt enemy encrypt and decrypt enemy radio and communications of all sorts during the 1940s. And one neat thing that they did is they used the code name Boniface as a cover name for Ultra. So, to ensure that the code breaking wasn't clear to the Germans, British intelligence created this fictional MI6 master spy named Boniface who controlled a fictional series of agents through through Germany. This was Operation Boniface. Mhm. Cuz they got some quite

fun code names from down the years. I think we should finish on those cuz they're they're quite fun. Let's get into decryption and the like and and and ciphers and such. Before we do, I have I have one interesting thing to note here. So, someone who works for these agencies is sometimes called, if not an agent, then an operative, right?

>> Yeah, good point. Before the 1930s, the word operative was just a word for someone who operates things, [laughter] and it became a word for a secret agent or spy because the Pinkerton Detective Agency found itself to be very unpopular due to its late 19th and early 20th century participation in violent labor disputes acting as armed and strike breakers, and the accompanying bloodshed and anti-union tactics led to widespread criticism in labor circles to the point where there was a piece in the New York Press from 1905 that says the word detective became so offensive because of the Pinkertons that it was dropped by many successful detective agencies, and the Pinkertons, which were called the Pinkerton Detective Agency, started calling its agents operatives instead. I thought the word operative wasn't in use in that context at all. >> Not as like a secret agent or anything like that, or someone who works for a spy agency. That's interesting. And

again, it's almost deliberately mundane and non-specific, right? An operative is someone who does a thing. And to be fair, operative, I think, is probably more broad than agent, right? Because an operative can be someone who is doing something on behalf of the organization without being a secret agent. >> [music]

>> I keep diverting you away, and then you just diverted yourself away from [laughter] talking about decryption and encryption because obviously that's some of the really fun stuff when it comes to to to spy business, ciphers, and the like. >> think we've Oh, yeah, we should talk about cipher and crypt first. Mhm. Because crypt means hidden. In Greek, it was the full phrase crypti camera, which was a hidden chamber, also related to the word cha- which means a chamber. And

the shortened Latin crypta meant a vault or a cavern, just like crypt today. And so, something encrypted therefore relies on the earlier Greek meaning. Encrypt means to hide. We've got cryptography as the practice of designing or breaking those systems. And then a cryptogram, which is a message that is hidden. And

cipher is worth a mention because it's related to a word you wouldn't necessarily think it was related to. Like a fundamental word, a very fundamental word. It's related to the word zero. The word The word zero and the word cipher come from exactly the same Arabic source, which I'm going to let you pronounce because you're good at the Arabic pronunciations. I believe it's sifr or sifer. It was the word for the

number or the arithmetical notion of zero. And it was adapted into medieval Latin, then Spanish and Italian, and then Old French and English. And the Arabic word was a loan translation of the sans- a Sanskrit word meaning empty. Right. Exactly. And that's key in both

the sense of what zero means, obviously being empty as in there being nothing there. But also ciphers, a ciphered message looks like there's nothing there as well. >> [laughter] >> Cipher came to mean or the version of cipher at the time came to mean any numeral in the 15th century. And then first in French as chiffre, it came to mean a secret way of writing or a coded message because early codes often substituted numbers for letters. And another fun connection to spy fiction here is that chiffre is also the name of the poker-playing ball-busting villain Le Chiffre in the James Bond film Casino Royale, and as well as the parody version from the '60s. And that's

because chiffre is the French for number. It's just the French for any number, which is again quite interesting. Should we talk about some famous ciphers? Yeah, I don't think I know any famous ciphers. So, enlighten >> I I'm sure you know at least a few of them. Uh one of the more common ones

that you see and the first few I'm going to talk about are very easy to decode. The pigpen cipher is a big one. It's also called the Masonic cipher, Freemason cipher, Rosicrucian cipher, which is the Rose Cross cipher, Napoleonic cipher, and tic-tac-toe cipher. And it involves setting letters on a grid and then representing the letters using the shapes of the grid with the letters removed. And the result looks like a set of geometric angles, squares, and dots. And the pigpen style

cipher, they started appearing in writing as early as the 1530s and it's super easy to break or decode. So often that you'll see it in logic quizzes and kids games and things, but it is a fun sort of like early introduction to code-breaking. Yeah, actually just before we came on you show you flashed it up to me and I didn't immediately work out the system. It is one of those ones that like if you've spent any time doing like IQ tests or stuff like that, it's just a very quick one to work out. It's a classic. And also it's effective because

if you do not have the relevant grid, you cannot work out what it says. Right. Or you have to you have to assume you have to to treat it like a standard cryptogram and then figure it out in that capacity, which isn't also isn't super hard to do, but but does take an extra layer of logic. I love cryptograms, by the way. That's relying on like frequencies of letters and and such, right?

>> Yeah. So like if if you have a totally scrambled like randomized letter substitution cipher, then that's looking at the words in the the sentence or the the word, whatever the the entry is, and determining based on the spaces and the frequency of letters what they might be. I created a bunch of cryptograms and in in 2020 I I wrote all of the pages for the Writer's Digest 2022 or sorry, 2020 page-a-day calendar and about a fifth of it was puzzles and things like that. So I made a bunch of puzzles and and a bunch of them were literary quotes as cryptograms. Very smart. Very smart.

Let's talk about a little bit about the Caesar cipher. The Caesar cipher works by shifting each letter in a message forward or backward by a fixed number of places in the alphabet. And Julius Caesar used the substitution system when corresponding with allies in Rome during his military campaigns in Gaul. And each letter was replaced by another a set distance away. He often used one according to these sources with a left shift of three. A left shift of three

for the word W, for example, would be T. So, words would be T L O A P. Yeah, it's it's not really effective, is it? I No. It's it's more of a a game than an actual way of trying to get a secret message across of a thought. We're going

to talk about another one. This is a Greek device that was used to send encoded messages. And it was called a scytale. A scytale was a pair or more of identically sized wooden rods, equal size and thickness of which um and around which would be wound parchment strips or leather straps with letters written all down the length. And if you have the right size rod, you wrap it around and the letters line up to create your message. But if

your rod is the wrong size, then it doesn't work as well. And you it's a series of these, so you have to make all of them fit correctly. I would have one rod and you would have the other one and I could send you the just the strips and people might not interpret that the strips were anything other than leather or parchment with letters on them. All the objects involved are completely useless without the rest of them, right? That's why that That's why it's effective. It's like two-step

authentication, right? Definitely. >> You need a like a physical thing on your person as well to be able to Well, I mean, everything was physical in the days we're talking about, right? They're not sending texts and that's right. That's one another. You have a point.

You have a point. It's good point. >> also whether these were actually used with any great frequency is debated because we only really have again indirect evidence of Spartans and Athenians in particular using it, but Plutarch did write about it happening later. So there's there's that. One of the more successful and actually difficult to decipher ciphers, which is still some elements are still debated today, was the great cipher of Louis XIII by the Rossignols Rossignols Anyway, they were a family of French cryptographers and instead of using one symbol per letter, the great cipher used 587 numbers to represent French syllables and some numbers represented things like deleting other letters. So you had to

have the code. The cipher was eventually broken in the 19th century, but there is still some elements that people talk about and in one of the letters between the king and one of his officers appeared a possible solution to the mystery of the man in the iron mask, who was a real person, a real prisoner who was kept imprisoned in an iron mask for 34 years during Louis's reign and the cipher suggests that it might be a French general named Vivian de Bulonde because there is a numerical code group that has been speculated to mean mask in it, but most historians think the man in the iron mask was actually Italian diplomat Ercole Antonio Mattioli. I thought it was Leonardo DiCaprio. >> [laughter] >> Him too. Has anyone seen that film? Does

anyone remember that film? The Man in the Iron Mask. >> Oh, that was that was a formative experience for me. That and The Count of Monte Cristo were were some of my favorite >> [laughter] >> books and movies back in the day. Oh, okay. So so it's it's Rossignol by the

way is the is the is the Rossignol. Yeah, I wasn't I hadn't come across it. Rossignol. >> The Jefferson disk is another It's called a It's the Jefferson wheel cipher or the Jefferson disk, and whether Jefferson himself invented this first or it's based on earlier technologies or whether he invented it all isn't completely known, but he did have one. It's a rod with little disks slid onto it and sort of corn-cobbed together, and you rotate them to align them with different things. And so, the

original version had you sitting on one side taking notes and me entering the code on one on the other side. Like the the actual message over here and then you write down the code that appears on the other side. But, the Jefferson disk has 36 wooden disks mounted side by side on a metal axle with each disk having the alphabet in a different scrambled order. So, it works like a combination lock on your luggage where you rotate to unlock, but more elaborate. And to use the cipher, the sender aligns the wheels to spell a plain text message along one horizontal row, and then with the wheels left in that position, you copy down a different horizontal row that appears meaning and that you send only that string, and the person you're sending it to has to know which row you're looking at in order to decipher the coded the encoded message. So, they'd need to know

the the row, and they would need to have their disks in exactly the same order as you've got them as well. Now, there is a similar device in the film The Da Vinci Code and and in the story and everything, and it is called what I think it's a crypt exit the puzzle box. It's not quite the same thing, but it does have kind of the same mechanic to it. And I mention that because the main character of The Da Vinci Code and and Angels & Demons is named Robert Langdon, and he is named after John Langdon who designed the ambigrams that are feat that feature heavily in those novels. And and they're like on the covers, and we see them everywhere. And he's often

credited with being one of the more influential figures in the development of the modern ambigram. And I mention that, too, because I am wearing a an ambigram shirt that we carry in our store. This is not an ad for this, but it is cool. And this one was designed by Nikita Prokhorov who studied uh who who was mentored by John Langdon, who unfortunately passed away on the 1st of January in 2026. Rest in peace, John Langdon. And I I'm I he I I exchanged

emails with him not too long ago, and he loved coming up with uh with imaginative or or digging into etymology possibilities that weren't necessarily true, but were interesting and tied into design. Like he found a cool serendipitous link between the word zigzag and hieroglyphs and things like that and sent me like some wonderful uh storytelling about it. Oh, that's wonderful. Yeah, we've we've we've lost a true lover of words there. And not his first mention on this podcast, either.

And uh yeah, immortalized in at least the surname of the main character of one of the most popular books there's ever been. >> Not to mention I I think if you see the the word Illuminati, there is a very good chance that it is done in the ambigram style that he designed. We don't want to seem crass, but but your your hoodie's cool. It My hoodie's cool. It's It is cool.

>> This is This is brand new in our shop. It's the word So, if you don't know what an ambigram is and silly this one is anyway, it reads the same upside down. It says the same thing, although some ambigrams say a different thing when you rotate them through 180 degrees. Very elegant. That one that says etymology. I

shall be getting one for myself. That's for sure. Lovely. >> Maybe. I can't do a handstand, but maybe Martin can turn me upside down.

>> [clears throat] [laughter] >> He's definitely He's definitely just done that, and I'm now talking to an upside down Jess. And with that, should we say goodbye? Should we Oh, yeah, I'm good with that. One of the reasons I bring up John Langdon, too, is I was actually wearing this shirt when I found out today about his passing. So, here's to John Langdon and may you all appreciate his ambigrams in the stories and beyond. Thanks for

watching. Yeah. See you next time.

>> [music]