---
video_title: "Why is NYC called Gotham?"
video_id: WG7mk94ckLk
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WG7mk94ckLk
video_date: 2026-02-02T19:15:33+00:00
video_description: |
  Jess and Rob discuss the transatlantic origins of Gotham City and its use as a nickname for New York.
---
There's another fun transatlantic naming thing happening with New York. And that is one of its nicknames, which it has many, many thick names. One of them though, which I think we've addressed before, but it's one of my favorite word origins, but I want to talk about it again if you're up and doing it. And it's Gotham, which was first used to refer to New York City by Washington Irving. He had this satirical, periodical called Salma Gundi, and he called New York City Gotham in that periodical. And he drew the name from the Mary Tales of the Mad Men of Gotham, which was a middle English collection of stories about an English town whose inhabitants pretend to be idiots. Yes. And that town is still there, and they pronounce the name locally Goatam. Right, because it means goat hamlet. Exactly. Exactly. So Gotham is not correct. The story goes that the people of Gotham once fainted the AC in order to prevent King John from establishing a hunting lodge that would he would reach by traveling through the town on a regular basis at the time any road on which the King traveled was made a public highway. So it would disrupt the piece quite a bit. So they started doing things like trying to drown an eel in a pool of water whenever the King's messengers would arrive or rolling cheeses down a hill in hopes that they would find their way to the market for sale. And thereby, they convinced King John to find a different place for his hunting lodge. So he wouldn't have to go travel through a town filled with mad people. But that's also the notion of Gotham as the home of Batman, which is a New York City-esque city in the comics and the films and the TV shows. Also draws on the same idea. And it was identified or named so by Bill Finger who co-created the character Batman with Bob Kane.