---
video_title: "Why don't we have words for these things?"
video_id: PH64PZAjK_s
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PH64PZAjK_s
video_date: 2026-02-11T06:00:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Enjoy exploring the gaps in our language. Then start speaking a new language in 3 weeks with Babbel 🎉. Get up to 55% OFF ➡️ Here: https://bit.ly/WordsUnravelledFeb
  
  Why doesn't English have a word for someone who is alive? Or a general term for your aunties and uncles? Should we bring back the word 'uhtceare' from Old English or steal 'Torschlusspanik' from German?
  
  Rob and Jess answer these questions and more as they investigate the words that English has forgotten to invent. Join them to explore silly sniglets, outrageous orphaned negatives and untranslatable terms in another nerdy episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #wordfacts #English
---
What do you call your sister's husband's brother? What exactly is a word fugitive? And does English really have no word for someone who's alive? Today we're filling lexical gaps by discussing the words English doesn't have on this episode of non-existent words unraveled. Welcome to another word unraveled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel. And I'm Jess DeFarris, author of etymology books, including useless etymology. And today we are talking about lexical gaps and words that English doesn't have. So end of episode, have a great week. Ricky, isn't he? Try to do it in time, I'm actually saying. There's just about words that don't exist. Words that don't exist. That is what we do with Tim. Because normally we do. We do. We talk about, oh, the rich vocabulary of English. But today we're kind of exposing English's weaknesses. Where it doesn't have terms of certain things. Yeah, we're going to talk about lexical gaps and accidental gaps. And we're going to talk about words that other languages have that we don't. I hold on lexical gaps, accidental gaps. Jargon, help us. What does it mean? So lexical gap or an accidental gap is when a word could or even seems like it should exist. Because grammar allows for it. And the words and sound patterns exist. But we just don't for various reasons. And there are a lot of different reasons, which is really fun. So we have all of the ingredients to make this word, but for some reason it doesn't exist. This can be sound-based, meaning based. There are a bunch of different variations. But a really simple sound-based gap would be that we have words that begin with spray, like spring or spread. And we have words that end with ick, like sick or flick. So we could have the words sprick, but we don't. But that's basically a niche that can be filled, right? So we have sprick. What are we going to apply it to? I mean, it sounds like it should be something pointy, doesn't it? Yeah, it does. Whatever it is, it needs to be pointy. Maybe it's like a spring stick. Yeah, a springy stick. Yeah, maybe one of those things that you used to throw a tennis ball for a dog. Oh, yeah, those are fun. The only word I have for that is chuck it, which I'm pretty sure is brand name. Now, there you go. Now, well, yeah, we talked about this. Haven't we? Yeah, it could have been in the future, we've always saying, did you know that a chuck it was originally for brand name, but no, sprick it is. Well done, us. Gosh, we've invented a word. We also have these meaning-based gaps too, right? Like, so concepts that exist within our realm of experience, we don't have words for them. And a big one, I'd say, in terms of things that many people have, is words for different family members that we just don't have a word for. Like your niece or your nephew, we don't have a gender-neutral version of that word. So people have made up a neologism, nibbling to fill that gap, right? So this is, this is one of the fun things about lexical gaps, is you get new words out of them too. Yeah, so neologism literally does mean new word. I mean, the etymology of that is new word. You know, I want a word for, I want a word for my sister's husband's family. Now, I know they're sort of technically a kind of in-law, but it doesn't really work for me, right? My brother-in-laws brother should therefore also be my brother-in-law, but that can't be right. Can it? My mom. I mean, it's not a fairly method. Yeah, exactly. It's in-law-in-laws. We need a term for that. You know, a language that's got a lot of these terms is Korean. Korean is really good at nailing down the specifics of family members. For example, they do have separate words for your older brother and younger brother, an older sister and younger sister. And we just have too many syllables for that, I guess. Yeah, well, I mean, we require a minimum of two words to do it, which could be better. It's a lexical gap. Maybe your additional in-laws could be your out-laws. Oh, I like that. Yeah, you could be in-laws. But the more distanced of out-laws, then you've got the younger-laws. Heather-laws. Heather-laws. Heather-laws. Heather-laws. Here's another lexical gap for you. Jess, English, have you noticed this, has no way of differentiating between your aunts and uncles on your mother's side and your aunts and uncles on your fathers side. Other languages do. For example, Swedish has forbrew and for stair for your father's brother and sister. They're kind of like, almost like portmanteaus. And it also has mubrór and muster for your mother's brother and sister. And you know why I know this, Jess. Why is that? Because I've been using this video's sponsor, Babel. Excellent. Babel is one of the top language learning apps in the world. It's intuitive lessons help you learn a language through real-life conversations. They'll be prepared for practical situations like travel, business, and of course, familial relationships. And I've been using it to learn a little bit of Swedish because my wife works with a lot of Swedes and basically I just want to impress them when they're around by saying things like your school of illure whore and oud tack, which is mouthful. But it means I would like a beer, please. Now, the barmen never understand, because I live in Germany. I'm just getting Swedish to the bar, which is not very helpful. But hopefully, any Swedes within earshot are impressed. With Babel, you can set yourself a goal and it'll give you all the tools to meet it. Flashcards, podcasts, games, and of course, lessons you can do wherever and whenever you want, which might include the bar. Yeah, indeed. And it has done. So do click on our special link to get up to 55% off your Babel subscription. There's also a money-back guarantee, which is worth mentioning. So why not just give it a try and begin your language learning journey today with Babel? You also get lexical gaps around emotions, right? So we have a lot of emotion words in English. We've got fear and anger and joy and sadness and even ambivalence and things like that. But ambivalence is a relatively recent coinage from psychology. We don't really have single common words for some mixed emotions, like happy regret and anxious excitement. And I mean, I guess you could say, buzzing with anticipation and things like that, there are ways to say it, but a single word that encompasses that energy, right? Yeah, I think a lot of the time we turn to German to solve these problems. Don't think they see it going. Compound. Yeah, I mean, we all know about Shardon for Wode, right? This word that I think you can fairly safely say that it is an English word now, in that you can use it now and it's not necessarily conspicuous as switching to the German language. When you do it, and that's the idea of taking pleasure in someone else's pain, Shardon, Koid. My favorite community joke of all time, have you seen the show community? Oh, yeah. Is there, there's a German character who says, I wish there was a bird for taking pleasure at someone else's misfortune. I think along the same sort of lines, there's Fremdscharm, which is feeling someone else's shame. Ah, that's nice. That's a good one. But there are lots of these, and I will say things I'm speaking to you from Germany. I just talked to you through some of my favorite German words that we don't have. I mean, these are all a product of the fact that German just puts words together differently. We would put spaces, Germany doesn't put the spaces in. There are rules you have to obey to create these long compound words, but really there's no limit to them. Like a German dictionary is theoretically an infinite document, because right now we could coin a German word if we were smart enough. No problem. You could confidently say a word that has never been said before, but if we did that with English, then no one would understand it. So there's one that some of these are quite well known if you're into your words, and stuff, Kummerschbeck, you're aware of this one. It's not actually a feeling, but it's the result of a feeling. When it gets translated as grief bacon, although I think it's more like grief fat would be a better way of translating Kummerschbeck. And it's the way to put on from comfort eating. Right, so you're a bit of a bacon. Oh, you know, you put on a bit of weight. Yeah, it's just a bit of Kummerschbeck. Yeah, I never want to be terribly sorry for you. It's good to have a name for that rather than say, you're a part of the, I really part of the house, and since she left me, a really vivid term is Torschluss Panic. Have you heard of this one? No, but something panic. Correct. Yeah, the end is panic. And Torschluss is gate closure or door closure. It goes back to medieval times, right, when the gates of the city would literally be closed at a certain time at night. Oh, no, so you're going to get through before? Yeah, exactly. So the original Torschluss panic would be the panic you feel, if you think I'm not going to get back into the city before night. I'm going to have to spend the night outside of the city walls. I'm going to get assaulted by a highway, but... That dovetails beautifully with the origin of the word panic, which basically is from the god Pan of the wilderness. So like at the notion that you're trapped outside with the wilderness. That's a lot. They do like their classics in Germany. Yeah. It might not be a coincidence that it works out like that. In modern day German Torschluss panic is... The anxiety that time is running out to achieve life goals. So the doors of life are starting to close, it's sort of in danger of slamming shut. It gets talked about a lot when it comes to having children before you're too old to do it or not finding the love of your life before you're too old to appreciate it. If such a thing is possible. But it might be more banal than that, but there's this idea of Torschluss panic. Time is running out and it's just this sort of niggling anxiety or maybe overwhelming anxiety. I think the closest equivalent we have is way more specific about probably like your biological clock. And again, that's two words. But and that that is more specific and it is two words, but it's definitely getting to the same idea. But I do like this medieval world city origin of the... Yeah, it's very evocative. That's great. And that also that's kind of neat because it's a hybrid word, right? And a hybrid word is made up of components from two different language families. It has been considered in English to be bad form to combine Latin Greek endings with Germanic words in the past, but we have loads of them too, like harpist and intertwine and forefront. And it will necessarily happen in German just through the way that you build compounds. So if the word exists as a legit noun in German, then it can easily find itself in a compound with any other Germanic adjectives, for example, as well. I mean, yeah, it's not a faux pas to create one of those. This reminds me of what's the word for it? It's phonosomantic matching. This is a little bit in the weeds, but like very briefly and very simply. We like the weeds, Jess. We like the weeds, it's okay. It's when a word gets ported over into another language to creating theologism and then the non-native sounding elements of the word are altered to make it sound like it's not a foreign word. And this has some overlap with folk etymology, which we talk about a lot like the word outrage is not from the words out and rage, but it's from the French boulevard, which is from the Latin Ultratica, and it means extremists, but we interpreted it as a compound word in English and re-spelled it that way. A couple other good examples would be words for animals and plants that we get from Native American words. Like the muskrat was from a word that was more like mousquash or something like that. And persimmon was more like pasimmonen. And both of those are Native American words that now look fairy, Germanic or Latin derived. Cockroaches one that we always come back to as well, isn't it? Cucaracha, right? Let's just assimilate that into our language by using two existing words in our language, even though it's got nothing to do with fish or cocks. Right. There must be occasions. I can't think of one of the top of my head, I don't know if you can. Where a word has been borrowed from English, it has been changed in another language to fit that language. And then we've borrowed it back from the next now. It's an exotic exotic. Oh, go on, go on. Okay, well, it's the other way around. Okay, so artichoke, artichoke moved from Arabic to Spanish to Italian to English. And then the word was eventually phonosimantically matched back into colloquial, levantine Arabic in Syria and Lebanon as artichoke, which means earthy thorny, which is really cool. Right. Yeah. So this is also wrapped up with boomerang words. So if you combine those two things, you get this little ultimate to boomerang. Yeah, we have a lot of overlap between like hardcore linguistic terminology and then like the more fun etymology terms that we use. Sorry, I'm going to keep my eye out for for one of those. I bet Japanese has taken a word an English word has made it something strange and then sent it back to the light. You know, the end of karaoke is from the Japanese assimilated version of orchestra is orchestra. Okay, e at the start of that is the okay at the end of the empty orchestra that is karaoke. We've taken that back. So that's almost there. We're almost there with that one actually. Can I mention another German feeling? Yeah. So we have homesickness, which is the feeling you have when you're away and you would rather be at home, but the German as well as van der Lust, which is a term that we have taken from German already for a desire to sort of get out and about. In German, it means to be out in the hills quite sort of specifically to be out. Das Van der is hiking. But they also have this term ferne, which literally means far pain. Das tut we means it hurts. Right. That's the idea of it's a yearning to travel, right, to be far away. And there are I think a few of these in other languages, this sort of this sort of whole area, there are words in other languages like French has Dippie Easy, right, which means to be discontrid. It's the feeling you get when you are not at home. It's not quite the same as homesickness. It's more just sort of feeling a bit strange being somewhere else. And there's this particularly beautiful Welsh word that I need to mention. Here I, don't know if you've heard this one, it's beautiful one. It's usually only really used in the context of Welsh people yearning for Wales when they're not there. But it's actually kind of much broader meaning in Welsh and in use by English speaking Welsh people. To mean really a yearning for anything that's absent, so person that's absent, think that's absent. You feel here right for for their absence, right. It's really beautiful. And I don't think we have a single word for that. We do have homesickness, we do have nostalgia, we do have missing someone, but we don't have a word that encompasses all of those. Nostalgia originally was a translation of Heimwea into Latin and Greek by a Swiss medical student who wrote a dissertation about a condition that was thought to be common to Swiss soldiers and mercenaries who were fighting another parts of Eurick. It was called the Swiss disease for a while because apparently they thought only it, what it probably was was PTSD and things like that. Yeah, we chose to guess renamed as, guess, falsy, guess called shell shock in England. That's cool too because that happened, that study happened in the 1600s before most people were taking depression and PTSD and the causes of war seriously. A century, so they called it Heimwea, right, which is literally home sickness. It is the flip side of the fan ve coin. And nostalgia means homecoming grief from Latinized Greek words, which is a little bit neat. The reason it changed is because in a medical journal from 1830s, it said that the symptoms of nostalgia arise in people when they're seized with a longing desire of returning to their home and friends and the scenes of their youth, which is how it kind of moved from medical diagnosis to popular culture, you know, things that make you remember that time when you were a kid. Nostalgia sounds so clinical. It sounds like a disease, but I've never thought of it as one. It's much sadder in origin than marketing uses it today. Yeah, then radio stations that play 50s of music. Right, not quite. But you still get that sort of little like gut tug, you know, you know, that finishes got a word for drinking alone at home in your underpants with no intention of going out. I have heard this before. I think I encountered it on like an Instagram post or something like that. Yeah, it's been a bit sort of memey in recent years. It's Cal's Ari Carnit. It tends to get translated into English as pants drunk. Yeah, and it is the idea of drinking at home in your underwear with no intention of going out. Actually, in 2023, so the word must have been doing the rounds in an episode of The Simpsons Homer claims to have been doing it before it was fashionable. That's again very evocative. Yeah, yeah. Another popular one to point out is that the Swedish lag on means just the right amount. So it's not like adequate. Adequate there's a negativity to an adequate isn't there? Yeah, it's not. It's not. It's not. So the idea of lag on, which I'm definitely pronouncing like Goldilocks. It's the Goldilocks zone. Yes, it's ideal as well as just the right amount, if you know what I mean, whereas adequate is sufficient. Point is I'm struggling to explain it because we don't have a spot on, you know, alternative for that. So that would huger, you know, the Danish huger. It describes the word I want to use is coziness, but they'll tell you it means much more than that. But it's the idea of, you know, it being cold outside your indoors with a roaring fire with all your friends, the drink is flowing and the good times of rolling. That is the most cozy huger. An idea that supposedly the Danes have and none of the rest of us do. I like it. You know what? I'll allow you to claim that. I wish I aspire to Danish coziness. Yeah, oh man. Yeah, they know how to get cozy. There are also words that English has had in the past that we don't have anymore. You know, often when we talk about words that were in old English, it's like there's only other than one sort of citation of it. And I don't know how many citations they were with this one. But you know, uchtkera, dawnsorrow. So it's the feeling of sort of dread or sadness that comes before before sunrise. But really, it just comes from, as far as I know, someone could correct if I'm wrong. It just comes from a single poem called The Wife's Lament, where a woman is lying in bed, wondering where her husband is. He's been exiled, but she's gone with him. But somehow managed to lose track of him. So she's lying in bed filled with this sort of dawn care. Uchtkera. We did a spooky words episode at one point. And we mentioned that Old English had a lot more words for witches than it does currently. Like Lubestra meant like Poisoner. And they are similarly from like a single or one or two sources. And it tends to be like these are terrible people and things like that. But then it also had a galdoor craft again, I believe, which was something about, I think an enchantress or something along those lines. So there were like five or six different kinds of witches. And now we just have kind of the one which or, you know, maybe sorcerers implies something slightly different. Yeah, there are nuances to them, but they serve our purposes, don't they? And there's also this Old English word, a Hradweirder. It means speaking too fast, as in, you know, speaking before you've thought, I'm not convinced we've got a word for someone who is quick to speak, quicker to speak than to think. I can use that word. I don't know what you're talking about. Sure. And there's this word, Grog as well, which is a yeah, actually, I would say it's dialect. So it's in use in some places, I think. But it's to stare at someone's food. And I hope that they'll give you some sort of thing that I imagine occasionally one of your lovely doggies is guilty horse. All of them at once is a matter of fact. I was thinking it might be nice to talk about why these happen the different different kinds of gaps that you don't necessarily think about in English. Is there a reasons that we don't have these words, right? It's not just that necessarily that we just haven't thought to. One of the reasons is that we are a Germanic language that also has a lot of influence from French and Latin and some Greek introduced at different points. So like endings, we have multiple noun forming endings that you can attach to a verb like recital or recitation. We can use both of those words, right? But we don't use arrival and arriving as much. And we might use proposal or proposition, but we might not use refusal and refusation. It just doesn't sound like a word and like approval we have. But we might not have approvation, but we have the assimilated form approbation because we just joined to the Latin word wholesale with the TIO and on it. So the V has turned to a B because that's how you would do it in Latin. It's the explanation for these sort of where there's three options, but for some reason we've only got two of them. Is it that we have borrowed this one and this one, but we just haven't bothered to borrow that one and that's why we don't have it, rather than as not having constructed, you know, the other two from this one. And doing finger gestures that are very helpful for people watching, but not terribly helpful for anyone listening. I'm not even sure that that over to the water. Emotionally useful. But anyway, oh, yes, you're getting at it. A lot of these happen, especially with the TIO and ending because of back formations and the way that we create back formations, which we've talked about before, like escalate is a back formation of escalator. But many Latin derived nouns that end in TION, like elevation were adopted directly into English from French and only later did we make them into verbs, making it seem as if there were English verbs corresponding to these fancy Latin French nouns all along. So evaluate, regurgitate, exploit, and destruct entered English after evaluation, regurgitation, exploitation and destruction. And we've got words like, I think we've mentioned this one before, but resurrection was adopted into English from old French in the 1300s, but the verb form resurrect isn't recorded until 400 years later. And in fact, as recently as the early 1900s, resurrect was considered to be incorrect because the Latin root verb of resurrect is research Gary. So if you're being prescriptive about Latin forming word patterns, the verb form of resurrection should be research, but we also have that word. So we made resurrect instead, which is really fun. You get these like, this explains why we have an inconsistency about it. And one of the reasons here is English has about three times as many nouns as verbs. And so does French, eventually though, we got around to making specific verbs corresponding to these nouns. We invented words this way all the time and Shakespeare did it all the time too. That's how he invented the sum of his words, right? One of my favorites though is destroy and destruct. We have both of them, right? And they mean kind of the same thing, but also not. Destroy is ultimately from the Latin distraire, meaning to tear down or demolish, which literally means to to unbuild. The stuere is also the root of structure, construct, abstract, things like that. So why does destroy have a different ending than obstruct destruction, obstruction, things like that. Why is destruct less common in some contexts than destroy? We say we destroy something and we destruct something sounds wrong, right? So destroy is by far the oldest word among the ones that I just listed, structure, construct, abstract destruction, etc. And it came to English in the 1200s with the Norman French spelling. So as is the case, as is usually the case, the nouns, destruction, obstruction and construction entered English first and the verbs came later. They all share this base root, but because English adopted the nouns first, we hung onto that struct part when creating the English verbs for construct and obstruction words like that. Now the verb destruct is a back formation of destruction, but because we already had destroy, we usually say we destroyed something rather than we destructed it. And in fact, destruct didn't appear in English as a verb until 1958. You have any mentioned deconstructed, by the way. Right. Which is a whole thing. By the way, the phrase self-destruct, which we use more frequently than destruct as like a plain verb, didn't show up until 1966 in the voiceover at the beginning of the TV show Mission Impossible. No, you mean this message will self-destruct? Is what the coining of the word self-destruct? Self-destruct, that's right. No. Yes. That's very magnificent. But there's so much fun, right? The other thing that happens, like back formations can also happen with other parts of speech, like the verb sulk is a back formation of the adjective sulk-y. The adjective grand eloquent is a back formation of the noun grand eloquence. And then lazy is older than laze. Hesitation is older than hesitate and editor, as we've talked about before, is older than edit. And I also like that you can make funny back formations, like before a match, the situation before a significant event, event was a joke from Collier's in the in 1911. But what about the aftermath? Inquired Mr Wilson, oh, said Melvore with a shrug, we haven't got anything to do with that. There's bound to be an aftermath. We'll do our part if we can avoid a before match. I've got a couple of these actually, because in Indian English, you can prepone something, as well as post-pone it, right? That's something moving something forward. And that's perfectly legit word from Indian English. People do use it. I've heard it. It happened. It makes perfect sense. Well, one that we do use quite a lot, though, is underwhelm. Actually, overwhelm is a word, right? To overwhelm is to flip something over. To overwhelm something is to do that with great gusto. But if you know thatwhelming means turning something over, the idea of underwhelming something doesn't really make sense. We've invented underwhelm just as an opposite to overwhelm. But not to the sort of original meaning of overwhelm, to a figurative, extracted, transferred meaning of overwhelm, which is to astonish or what have they. I mentioned this in a recent video of mine, by the way, if anyone's thinks they're getting deja vu, which is also a term that we didn't have in English word for. So we had to borrow. So we had to borrow one. These are like unparad words, right? They don't have a, they're also called sometimes last positives or orphanegatives. Which we've addressed before, but they're very fun. We have exuberant, but not uberant. And yeah, not so long, not shallow. We have improvise and provision, but not provise as a verb. That's kind of a fun one. We have ineffable, but not effable. We just say effort about effable. But those are fun. Gormless is a favorite one of mine. I like. Yeah, that's a good one. Yeah, because gorm was like paying attention, right? So you would, Niemann Gorm was the old English, which means take gorm, which is pay attention to something. So if you're gormless, you're not attentive. You're inattentive. Oh, interesting. It's kind of fun. To be full of gorm would be to be paying an awful lot of attention. Another fun one, I think, is wistful and wist, wist is an archaic term meaning to know from the old English we tend, I believe, of the same meaning. It came to be associated with bittersweet melancholy or nostalgia actually through middle and early matter English term. Had I wist or had he wist, which is a noun meaning regret for a rash action, especially in the turn of phrase, had I wist comeeth ever too late, meaning essentially regret for the knowledge or the rest, rashness of your actions always comes too late. So to reeling this to our sort of general theme of words that we don't have, but could have. You do have these words that have these prefixes or suffixes. That could be swapped out for another prefix or suffix, but for some reason we don't choose to do it. One of the main reasons too, especially with adjectives is where you see it a lot is we try to stick to Germanic suffix on Germanic root. Again, there are lots of, I'm sorry, what's the word I'm looking for? Exception. Right, the rules. Exception. There we go. I write words, books about words and things, you know, anyway. I think words good normally. I do the words good. Anyway, I'm sounding a little dorkity here. And we can't say dorkity because dorkiness instead, because that's one of those dramatic endings that we put on a Germanic word. Same thing like darkness instead of darkity or kindness instead of kindity or you also get there are other endings here. Like you can say stupidity, but we don't say stupidity or, you know, we'll say width or wideness, but not wider, he as much as they stupid, would you say stupidness? Would you say stupidness? But stupidness sounds a bit odd and maybe it sounds odd because you are getting this French word and sticking a Germanic suffix on the end of it. Stupidity sounds better. It rolls off the tongue. One funny thing is we have these verb and agent noun gaps too. So English often adds ER to verbs, to mean someone who does X, right? Teach, teacher, drive, driver, write, writer. But we have something that we just don't use. Like we don't say stealer for someone who steals. Or liver for someone who lives, right? Because that's already an organ. So English doesn't like a, if you discount liver because who the, who the heck says liver to refer to one who's alive, that is a proper lexical gap. We don't have a word for just a person who is alive. I can't think of one. Person who's alive, a mortal, that just means someone who will die. That's not the same thing. Person who exists being maybe, but that's the closest we've got. Yeah, but you could have, could you have a dead being? You're definitely not being. Or you're being dead. You are being dead. Being is close. Being is close. We're going to get into philosophy, Rob. So when we find these gaps in our language, concepts which we don't have a term, we've got a few options, haven't we? We can, we can borrow word for another language. Or we can invent one. There are all sorts of ways in which we can do that. Tell us about a few of these because there is some funny invented words around that. The easiest way to fill a lexical gap, and this can also just fill a gap for a word you don't know or can't think of in the moment, would be, think of a jig, what's it do Hickey? These are placeholder names or dummy words or fillers, though they're different from and like which are also called filler words. They're also sometimes called categans, but no one knows where that word came from. So hold on, that's funny, isn't it? Right? So someone who's made up a word for this type of made up word. Because there's a lexical gap around what you call a thing of a jig, a thing of me, Bob, a do Hickey or what's it? The nice thing about categans, too, though, is they can also cover words that we kind of do have. So for example, the generic names, John Doe and Jane Doe are placeholder names. They're also categans because they take the place of actual names. You could also consider a recurring fictional brand to be a categans. The company Akmi, for instance, is there are real companies called Akmi, but the Warner Brothers cartoons, much to this dismay of Wiley Coyote use Akmi as sort of an ironic, because it means the highest point, you know? So in an actual company name, it's a good thing, but in an ironic, exploding, coyote cartoon, then it's ironic. Right. But rather than having to go out with a different brand name each time or to invoke a real brand name, they just they slap Akmi on every product. Exactly. And it also it ends up being sort of a recurring joke, of course. Lauren Ipsom text is technically a categans or placeholder name or placeholder text, right? It's it's a nonsense corrupted version of Dafini Bus Benorum at Melorum, which was a first century text by Cicero. Yeah, if you can read Latin, that does not mean you can read the Laura Ipsom it's gibberish. Right. The Laura Ipsom itself is a truncation of Delorum Ipsom, which means pain itself. Nice, huh? We can also have numbers, placeholder numbers like umpteen for the umpteenth time. Oh, the nth degree. Yeah. Mm hmm. We've got placeholder locations like Podunk is a town that exists in the middle of nowhere. And it comes from the name of the Native American Podunk people, interestingly, who lived in a marshy remote area of Connecticut near what is now Hartford. In their language, Podunk means a place where you sink in my ear and the notion is just that it's very far very hard to get to. Right. So this is a bit in another situation. So one might use Timbuktu, right? Yeah. Things like that. You know, distant place or in the old days they would talk about Guinea, it's just being in this sort of summer really really blooming far away. We have a bunch of names. We've talked about Ellen Smithy before, who's the the fake film director. The name that you put in the credits if you don't want to be credited. G.I. Joe was originally a name for your average American soldier before it was the name of the toy and the character. That makes a lot of sense. Yeah. Got like Joe Schmoh, John and Jane Doe, which we mentioned, John Cue Public, Tom Dick and Harry. Here in Germany, if you look at say, say you want to apply for for example, like a citizenship card or a residency card or whatever, and you know, they're showing you like a picture of what it's going to look like. The name that'll be on there. I can't remember the female version of it, but I think the male version is a Max Mustermann, usually or something Mustermann, which means template man. The surname means that. Yeah. So that's like Joe blogs. Another way that you can maybe not fill a lexical gap, but you can invent a new word. It has been studied by psycho linguists. Have you heard of the Wug test? No. This shows that we can kind of put any syllable together to give a name to something. So researchers showed children a simple illustration of a non-specific creature that says this is a Wug. It looks a little bit like a very basic illustration of a verb. And then you show two of those illustrations side by side. And you say, there are two of them. There are two blanks. And the children had to answer with the answer, which would be Wugs. So we have this notion that you're able to complete sentences using forms, even if you don't, even if the word is entirely new to you. So a man who zips is blank, is zipper. So you have these unfamiliar pseudo words, is what these are called, that show that we internalize morphological features of language at a very young age, which I think is kind of cool. So you can create these words. Speaking of made up words. I think it would be fun to discuss word fugitives and sniglets, which I think we've mentioned before. But they're very fun to play with. Basically, when you create a word, especially a funny one for a concept that lacks a name, it can be called a word fugitive, so called by Barbara Walriff of the Atlantic Monthly, because they're wanted words, so to speak, or a sniglet, which was coined by Rich Hall. There are tons of examples of these. The notion behind Rich Hall sniglets, which debuted on the HBO series, not necessarily the news, they're created when you make up an intentionally humorous word for something with no existing word in the dictionary, and usually the definition makes the word funnier. Like, dork with two o's as a person who pushes on a door marked pull and lot shock is the active parking your car walking away and then watching it roll past you. Yeah, they're terribly whimsical. Aren't they joke salt when someone insults you, you call them out on it, and then they say it was just a joke. Yes. Snack mosphere is the pocket of air found inside a potato chip bag. Aqua dextrous is possessing the ability to turn the bathtub faucet on with your toes. I don't know why that has to do with toes necessarily though. Well, it doesn't actually, does it, but if you're not actually up on the proper etymology of an ambidextrous, that is really does it really matter? Does it? I mean, that's not sort of not the point, right? These don't hold much like the baths having question. They don't really hold water necessarily, etymologically speaking. Like, you've got an ice lanch when ice at the bottom of an upturned glass suddenly moves toward the mouth as one attempts to finish drinking the liquid. You need a term for that. We've all experienced it. It's an ice lanch. So it's ice avalanche. I like these. What I also found while I was looking this up though, so I think these are invented in 1982, four somewhere around there, early 1980s, or at least the term Sniglets was coined by Rich Hall. And there's this The Onion article from 2001 with the title, man won't stop coming up with new Sniglets. It's really, it's only four cents a day. Yeah. Nearly 20 years after the briefly popular lexicographic fad made its debut on HBO's not necessarily the news, like Jess said. Local resident Paul Afelby continues to create new Sniglets. I was drinking coffee with Paul in the break room and he had forced me that the non-dairy creamer residue at the bottom of the cup ought to be called the creamerass. A worker gale farmer said Monday. Then a few minutes later, he says, you know that little pop-up safety button on the cap of juice drinks? That's a snubbler. Adolfana, he's working on these things like there's still some place you can send them. Is that Rich Hall guy even still alive? Yes, Rich Hall is still alive. I think he's like 71, so he's not even that old. He's still making his laugh over in Britain. He's quite popular in Britain, Rich Hall. Or at least he was 10 years ago. There's also a similar, a similar game is a Daffy mission, which I think was from the BBC Radio 4 comedy quiz show I haven't a clue or I'm sorry, I haven't a clue. Yeah. And those are the definition is the funny part of that one because like it's just that it already exists, right? But you give them a different definition. So like decadent means possessing only 10 teeth. I actually like these quite a lot more than the Snigglets because the Snigglets maybe you do anything with, right? But these are those are clever. That was always my favorite round of I'm sorry, haven't a clue. Snigglets are, they're also just portmanteaus, right? So like my co-workers and I used to come up with these and the few that I wrote down from back in the day were which I'm sure other people have come up both before too. But one was Sarah Inquipity when you accidentally stumble into it, this is a mid sentence. And then, uh, Optimization when an error simplifies a process and then blankruptcy, the point at which every intelligent thing you were planning to say leaves your mind entirely. Oh, I see. I do like that. I mean that word. Well, that wouldn't be able to think of it when the moment came. Oh, I like it. But more of the daffy missions were this one's you have to kind of break it down into you have to re-brek it yourself. So impolite is a flaming goblin imp a light. In distinct is where one places the dirty dishes in the sink. In distinct. Oh, dear. That's not as weak as weak. I don't know. I don't know that information is how geese fly in formation. Very good. In you endos is Italian supositories in you endos. But their insides are great. That was a term that was very similar to Snicklets that you mentioned. Word fugitives. Yeah. Barbara Wallruff coined that term in I believe it was the Atlantic or the Atlantic monthly. And for example, pandaphenium is I believe that's when you're anxious about your phone alarm going off. I don't think it's these are only silly because they don't catch on, right? There must be in our language terms that have been created in much the same way that we still have. If they're created by the right sort of writer like Lewis Carroll or someone like that, then they might find their way. Oh, yeah. Of course. These are very much the same ideas. His his words that he created for Jabberwaki and Ellis's adventures in Wonderland and other works like that. Like Paul Mantoe indeed. Yeah. Like Portmento and like some of the words that have caught on unironically from those works like Chordel and Gellumpt were originally these Portmentos and then they and then we started using them normally. We need a term for a Snicklet that catches on. Well, that's your homework. Come up with one of those. I think if we done with this one, Jess. Yeah, I think we can wrap up on that made up note. I mean, Joe, this one, actually, it's been very silly. It's been very fun. And we hope that you learned something and nothing today in the Lexical Gap field. I don't know. There are no words to say how much I get to miss you until the next time we see you. Take care. Better.