---
video_title: "Could tensions 'escalate' before the escalator was invented?"
video_id: qheviaPndXU
channel_name: "Words Unravelled"
channel_id: UC8R3ZnESMdsuTevq4ib9CvA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qheviaPndXU
video_date: 2026-02-04T06:00:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Is necessity the mother of invention? NO! Latin is, etymologically speaking. That's just one of many revelations as Jess and Rob investigates words for innovations.
  🛗 Could you 'escalate' something before the escalator?
  🍞 When was sliced bread actually invented?
  🩹 What connects zippers, band aids and aspirin?
  These questions answered – and many more – in another inventive episode of Words Unravelled.
  
  👕 OUR MERCH 👚
  US SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.com/
  EU/UK SHOP: https://wordsunravelledshop.myspreadshop.net/
  
  👂LISTEN: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris
  or search for "Words Unravelled" wherever you get your podcasts.
  
  ==LINKS==
  Rob's YouTube channel: youtube.com/robwords
  Jess' Useless Etymology blog: https://uselessetymology.com/
  Rob on X: x.com/robwordsyt
  Jess on TikTok: tiktok.com/@jesszafarris
  
  #etymology #inventions  #English
---
What do ping pong, TV dinners and windbreakers have in common? Was escalation possible before the invention of the escalator? And what unit of power did James Watt invent? From the wheel and the compass to the Xerox machine and the motorized ice cream cone, we'll explore the etymology of humanity's strangest creations and most important innovations in this inventive episode of Words Unraveled. Welcome to another Words Unraveled. I'm Rob Watts from the YouTube channel Rob Words. And I'm Jessica as author of etymology books, including useless etymology, and today we are getting innovative onwards unraveled with some human inventions. Yeah, we're going to be looking at the invention of the inventions, but also the inventions of the words for the inventions, which is obviously something that we're a bit more into. Etymology podcast. Etymology podcast. We'll get into some of the machinations. I think one of the things we learn is that certain inventions are named after people, that was surprised to find that they were, and that some things we take for granted were originally the names for brands, etc. But anyway, let's get straight into talking about some inventions. And where do we start when talking about inventions, Jess? Well, we should probably start with the thing that most people consider to be the first human invention or the more fundamental one, and that's the wheel, right? Yes, I looked this one up, and I made what for me was a surprising discovery, Jess. Oh, oh, tell me. So if they're old English for real, real, and actually the way I'm pronouncing it, they're actually reflects rather well the old English for the world. Wow, exactly, though. Because you know, English words that begin W-H were almost always usually H-W words. They were pronounced for worse. It's happening. Yes, you're cool whip. There's actually a whip, my well-appered whip at one point. Cool whip. Anyway, the wheel in old English was pronounced a quail or quagol, right, with a sort of G sound in the middle of it. If you trace that back to Indo-European, you find that it's got a root. So we're talking about going back like thousands and thousands of years to the common ancestor shared by English, but also lots and lots of languages across Europe. You go back to Arutes, which is quirclaw, right, quirclaw, quirclaw, old English quirclaw, proto-Indo-European. Now, the thing that amazes me about that is that is exactly the same source of the word circle. Oh, I believe it, yeah. So the words wheel and circle, despite seeming totally different and despite the objects being identical, are actually related. And that's also cycles and things like that as well, right? Indeed, yeah. The Greek quirclaw comes from the same original proto-Indo-European term as old English. And what's extra neat about this is that the wheel is kind of responsible for the fact that a word in the British Isles is related to a word from Greece, because it is the invention of the wheel that allows the culture that exists where proto-Indo-European is being spoken somewhere around the steps to spread, not only because it makes farming better, so those people are more successful, but also because you can, I mean, it's a physically moved people. So because of the wheel, the word for wheel in one part of modern-day Europe, it's related to the word for wheel in another very different part of Europe. And I like that. Speaking of agriculture, by the way, the word agriculture, do you know the old English word for the word agriculture? No, was it something like mudcraft? Awesome. Basically that. It's earth-tilf, meaning earth-tilling. Oh, right. Okay. So like, yeah, the turning over of the earth, the soil. I wasn't that far off then. I was like, so what would one use to do that? A plow, probably. Oh, it is. Which a plow wasn't a word for the tool originally, but was a measure or unit of land that equaled the amount a Yokovoxin could plow with a person in one day. That's fascinating, because another one of our measurements, it means exactly the same thing. Acre. Acre means an area of land that can be plowed by a Yokovoxin in the space of a day. So it means it etymologically the same as plow. Acre is also related to the agro in agriculture. It's field there too. So it's a measure of a field, probably. That's amazing to me that plow can mean the same thing. Because plow meant that. It wasn't the tool. The word for the tool in Old English was stool, and it may have been introduced by the Romans, because the Latin word for a furrow was stool-cus. I just can't get my head around the feather. We've got two words in English that mean the area of the Yokovoxin can plow at a day as plow-cus. Speaking of which, the culture in agriculture, it's the same culture as in cultivating land and cultivating the mind. And the root verb here is cholera, meaning to tend or guard or till. It's closely related to colony, the land that is tended by farmers or settlers, originally intended to describe tenant farmers, a colonus, who went to two areas around Rome to settle new lands. And then the figurative sense of culture as in cultivation of the mind or manners came around in the 1500s. Oh, oh, also it's the same predator you appear if he en route as the word wheel. That's right. It is. It is. It is. Culture has the same root as wheel. Yeah, yeah. But it means to revolve or move around or dwell the notion of like hanging around something to tend it. I hate it when there are these sorts of associations. Why? It's wonderful. I don't understand how dwell and circle can be related. I don't use it. You said hanging around. But I don't think there was, there were using the idea of hanging around. Well, dwell isn't, but it means to dwell. Like the word dwell is not related to these. No, I get that. But why would the say, you're saying that this Indo-European root means circle and means dwell? Why would it mean both of those? No, no, it means revolve or move around or dwell like to live and inhabit a space to move around it. Not necessarily to move around it. It also meant that. Oh, man. This is why it sometimes seems like the the Indo-Europeans, the proto-Europeans must have only had about five words. Because there is so many interpretations of individual ones obviously does work like that. But amazing. So when we said we were going to talk about inventions, I was thinking sprockets and all this. So far we've got we've covered soil and circles. Sprocket is a terribly satisfying word, though. It's very fun to say. Sprocket. I would name a creature sprocket. I do have one more like ancient technology one like agricultural technology and it's very brief. But the word mill is also probably brought into English by the Romans. It's from the root verb molare meaning to grind, which you might guess is related to your molars. Your grinding teeth. Oh, that's very good. Yeah. And actually Miller and various different translations of it that like the most common surnames in a lot of countries. I think the most common Italians surname, I might be wrong about this, is Molinaire, which forms. Yeah. And in Germany I think the most common surname is Mula, which is, they both mean Miller. Miller. Yeah. And Miller is a surname. You've always needed the right. It's how you get bread. Can I take a side step and talking about bread then? Yes, let's talk about bread. Just because they give out inventions. There was an adium that popped into my head, which is the best thing since sliced bread. Right. And when was sliced bread invented? Well, there's a question when was sliced bread in better place? Presumably knives and bread have existed. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, so the slicing of bread, it's very difficult to date that, but we do have a date for the first year. Exactly. This commercial industrial bread slicer. Right. And the first one actually only lasted six months. It fell apart. God bless him. Poor fellow called Otto Friedrich Rolveder, right? Who was, is an American, a jeweler from Davenport in Iowa, but he also liked to invent things when he wasn't joling. And in 1928, he invented the first automated bread slicer. It was used in a bakery in Chilacothe, Missouri. So Chilacothe baking company became the first to use a bread slicer. And therefore, has the claim of producing the first sliced bread in terms of pre-sliced bread. It actually fell apart after six months, though, his intention. So his first prototype, he'd been working on it for a while. It was lost in a fire in 1917. So actually, he didn't have a lot of luck with this invention. But at least it has gone down in history as a benchmark for brilliance. So he's done quite well that way. If I may brag on my ancestors for a moment, I have the benefit of being related to my great grandfather was an inventor who created a number of agricultural tools, mostly that are still in use. You can find Charles Fletcher, Warren, and Kathleen Huffman, my great grandmother on several patents in Google patents. They owned a peach orchard in the 1930s and they created a basket turner. It was primarily him. We've got the sketches and everything, an industrial ball and socket joint that's still in use. He also developed an early hydraulic hammer, which was used by his business partners. They had a deal with the US military where they would use this hydraulic hammer to smash up roads so that the Nazis could not get to the places that they were trying to go. Oh wow. He did his bit, didn't they? Wow. By the way, the word hydraulic. When we say hydraulic, we are always alluding to an ancient musical instrument, much in the same way that when we talk about galaxies, we're always talking about milk while we have other, obviously, hydro-related words pertaining to water, the full word hydraulic entered Latin and then French and then English from the Greek phrase hydraulicos organon, meaning water organ, a musical instrument. The word hydraulicos meant pertaining to a water pipe. The Greek word is formed from hydro, meaning water and alos, meaning pipe or flute, which is why hydraulic specifically pertains to fluids in motion, often through pipes and spillways, involved in tools and powering things. Very good. Yeah, that is neat. That is neat when you can trace it back to a specific old term. We should dial back in time. Well, I don't know, the ancient Greek inventions are pretty old, but we should talk about, I think, maybe paper next. We should talk about the tools of our trade. I mean, they would be. I can't remember really the last time I wrote something down on paper, but to be honest, Jess, I'm more of a... I always have no pen next to me because I have to keep my brain in order. That doesn't surprise me, Jess. That doesn't surprise me, but I actually, I would have to ask my wife for a pen if I need to be. Yeah, paper. So we know where the word paper comes from. I think quite broadly, people are aware that it's a descendent of the word papyrus as such. What's interesting is we're so sick papyrus with ancient Egypt, rightly, because that's where papyrus was produced. It was where the read that was known as papyrus was cultivated and turned into paper by... How would you describe that? By interlacing it, and then you would write on it. But papyrus, if you think about it, doesn't sound like an ancient Egyptian word, and indeed it isn't, it is a Latin word for that read. In turn, that Latin word for that read comes from the Greek word for that read, which was papyrus. So actually, yeah, there were associate papyrus with the Egyptians. The word is not Egyptian by any means. But also papyrus isn't paper. So who invents paper? Well, the Chinese, right? Yeah, indeed. We've got, we have them in a huge debt of gratitude, specifically to a eunuch named Sinelun. So if you want to know what a eunuch is, like a castrated man who has been castrated basically to sort of pacify them so that they can devote themselves entirely to the protection in this case of the emperor. But also, if you found time to invent paper by mixing mulberry bark, hemp, rags, fish nets, just sort of anything you've vined with water. Exactly. Make it into a pulp, squeeze it, make a sort of film out of it, hang that up to dry, and what have you got? You've got an invention that is going to change the world, is paper. And yeah, a great debt of gratitude to Sinelun for that. Wow, that's so cool. I didn't know that. Another related word is parchment, right, which is made of skin, typically hide. It literally means of Pergamon, or from the city that is now called Bergamo, which is located in Turkey, where parchment was supposedly first adopted and used as a substitute for papyrus in these seconds entry BCE. I definitely thought that it was from parched. You've been tried. Yeah, it makes far more sense. It must have influenced the spelling of it. Can I talk about another Chinese invention? By all means. This was developed probably independently. It kind of depends on how you determine like who invented what went, but the oldest compasses were invented in China during the Han Dynasty for land navigation. And they were made of load stone, which is a naturally magnetized stone of iron made to float in water and point self. And as a result, they were sometimes called self governors, or in the song Dynasty, when the load stones were often made to be shaped like fish, or occasionally turtles, they were called self pointing fish. So you would float your little fish in your bowl of water, and it would point self. And it was called a self pointing fish. Probably a victory for this other hemisphere, right? The first compasses pointed self. The word compass itself was originally for mathematical measurements. It means a device that steps together, implying the pacing out of things across a distance, like measuring around the circumference of a circle with a mathematical compass. It means like to pace out. It was applied to the directional tool, which in English speaking regions was first used in nautical environments, not land navigation, like in China, about a century later, probably because it is round and has points like the mathematical instruments. So compasses for navigation are named after compasses for mathematical circle measuring. So is the path at the end of compass is that related to words like path and pace? Yes, yes it is. We talked about paper, can I briefly mention the printing press? I know we were talking about sort of ancient inventions, and we're not going quite that far back. We are going that far enough, though, about the 1440s, right? And to Johannes Gutenberg, what does Gutenberg invent? Because they're already printing stuff in China at this point. They've got their paper, and they're stamping stuff on it using press machines. It's the method by which you can rearrange these sorts and create movable type, that is what Gutenberg invent in Europe and enables us to all have lovely books, because they're not having to be handwritten. The number of books published in like a month after the invention of the printing press is more than had been printed in the entirety of history up until the invention of the printing press. I don't mean the first month of the printing press, but now we definitely print considerably more books than had ever been written. You know, we probably print more in a day now than had been written in the entirety of human history by the time. Oh sure. You can better get invent of the printing press. But you know, he invented it because he needed a project to help him make up for the fact that he had a failed venture trying to sell metal mirrors. His mirror business had taken off. We might not have got the printing press, and we wouldn't have had the enlightenment, for example, which is sort of amazing. We certainly wouldn't have this podcast. That's for sure. Oh certainly not. Yeah. And so the episode about printing, too, if you want to check that out as well. Oh yeah, absolutely. We did go into all of that, but weirdly, we didn't go into into this bit. But no, he actually, he actually to start with, he's using it to print indulgences. What it is, is it's a document entitling you to free passage that purly gates into heaven. It's one of the big reasons why the Protestant Reformation happens is indulgences. The idea that you can just literally pay your way into heaven is something that Martin Luther greatly objected to. But that's one of the first uses of the printing press, sort of tragically. And then we do get the Gutenberg Bible, which is the first book that's printed using his press. His press is inspired by the presses used by wine makers and olive oil makers. And if you have a look at the early presses, they look just like it. Well, it's actually it's twist, twist, twist, like that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And it doesn't just presses down. And that's why it's called the printing press, if you're interested. Every time that we mention the press, we're ultimately talking about pushing the newspaper presses. It's not so much pressing anymore as rolling. Yeah, anyway, I don't know any mentioned the printing press because we've got it. It's a wordy podcast. Could I briefly touch on inventions that are older than you might think? Oh, yeah, no, please do. One of them is vending machines, which existed in ancient Greece. No, they didn't. I'm not, I'm in this. I'm in this. I mean, it's Socrates bashing on the side of a box to try and get a polar out. So Aaron of Alexandria designed a coin-operated device that dispensed a fixed amount of holy water in temples. Yeah, all right. There's also batteries from 200 BCE, the so-called Baghdad battery, was a ceramic vessel containing a copper cylinder and an iron rod. And some people say it could generate a small electric charge if filled with an acidic liquid. Though we don't know what it was used for. So there's that. Actually, famously lemons are also passable batteries if you really don't acquire an awful lot. Instead, we should mention the inventor of the modern battery, I suppose, or the pile, as it was called, which was a Alessandra of Volta, after whom Volts are named, which is actually a whole genre of its own, isn't it? Units named after inventors. Speaking of which isn't what? One of those? Mr. Watts? Yes, it is James Watts. I think Watts, I think my surname is essentially a contraction of Watts' son. So I could claim some dynastic invention, you know, inventive pedigree myself at this point. But yeah, James Watts invented, well, actually, here's an interesting thing about James Watts. He has the what, the unit of power, named after him. But he actually invented a unit himself that is not named after him. Because he invented the concept of horsepower. Oh, no. Yeah. Yeah. It was a marketing technique. He said, look, if you use my new improved steam engine, you will be able to replace X number of horses. That's how much horsepower his machine has. But no, he ends up having one jewel per second named one watt. Other inventions that were older than you might think include automatic doors, you might say, for a century. This is another Heron invention. This guy was insane. He built temple doors that opened when priests lit fires on adjacent altars and the heat generated the steam that moved weights via pulleys and opened the doors. That's a proper invention. Alexandria had several alarm clocks are also from the third century. So the idea of this to be honest, when is it combined a water clock with a mechanism that dropped pebbles onto a gong at set times, which was basically an automated timed wake up call? Contact lenses are also older than you might think, but also I would never, never, never, never wear the first contact lenses. It is also wild to me to think that like for many centuries, people who had poor vision just couldn't see all the time. Yeah. I mean, what are you going to do? Just just accept it and move on and bump into that wall. Yeah. The first contact lens. What's it made of and when was it? Glass. That's a relief. Leonardo da Vinci sketched concepts for these in 1508, but he didn't actually make them. The first ones were made by German ophthalmologist Adolf Fick in 1888. And by someone else in 1888, but I think they were using Fick's model. He made Fick made and fitted what were considered to be the first successful contact lenses, which were an a focal scleral contact shell made of heavy brown glass, which he tested on rabbits and then himself out and then on a small group of volunteers. And they were so large and unwieldy that they could only be worn for a couple of hours at a time. I would not be in that test group. I mean, I wear contacts and I just the glass. No, no, no, no. His name was Mr. Fick. FICK. That is the German equivalent of a very similarly spelled English word. So there we go. I've worked with metamology into it. And then toilets with flushing mechanisms date back to like 2500 BCE. The city of Mohendredaro had brick toilets that connected to flowing water systems, which is pretty dope. And precedes any existence of Mr. Crapper, let alone not notwithstanding the false association. Have we mentioned Mr. Crapper? He was a sanitation worker, but he doesn't have like a patent for a toilet, but he does have patents for other things. And the word crap certainly predates. And Crapper Crapper came later, but not related to him because nobody at the time had ever heard of Thomas Crapper. But Crapper is older than his name too. So the story comes around because of the convergence of the word crap and the existence of a sanitation worker called Crapper. Should we speak about other proprietary names for things that the end trademark death? Yeah, because I'm a good crossover one here because I was surprised to find how old the escalator is. Oh, I love this one. This is one of my favorites. Because escalator is a proprietary name, which seems amazing because it is such an accurate, well, I mean, I take it for granted as an accurate description of what it is, right? I think, oh, yeah, if he takes you up, it's escalating. So it is therefore an escalator, which may well have been the logic applied by Jesse Wilford Reno when he invented. Actually, he didn't know this is not true. He didn't invent the escalator, did he? No, he called it the endless conveyor elevator and it was Charles D. Seaburger, who coined the term escalator. The implication here is that the word escalate didn't exist until after the invention of the escalator, which is hilarious because we use it in terms like describing warfare, like escalating tensions all the time. But we wouldn't have said that before the late 1800s. That's amazing to me as well. So the first escalator was not called an escalator. As you've said, as he gave it various names, he called it moving stairs, the inclined escalator. This is 1892 invention by Jesse Wilford Reno. This patent is called the endless conveyor elevator. Okay, there we go. And it's first installed on Coney Island as an attraction for a couple of weeks. Thousands of people turn up to go up and then presumably come straight back to Alagon. And then it's tried out on the Manhattan end of the Brooklyn Bridge. They put it there and people have a go on it there for a bit. But the first sort of proper use for it is in blooming tails of all places. And then Otis, which is a name you will still see on, I don't know if you see it on escalators because you don't have to be confronted with the brand name on those as much. But if you get in the lift, you'll often see, well, I often either see Shindler written on the lift, which is always funny because it's Shindler's lift. Shindler's lift. Or Otis. Otis is still a big brand in machines that take you higher than you currently are. And they had the trademark for escalator. And they bought his design, boy's company. And it became, yeah, to start with a brand, a branded product called an escalator, which I love that really surprised me. A couple of other sort of mind bending chronology terms around this would be that so escalated didn't exist before the invention of the escalator. But we did have a verb escalade, which was not the brand name of a kettle, I guess you be, but was used in the 16th century as a word for scaling fortifications with ladders. And that brings us to the root of all these words, which is, it's related to scale as into scale a cliff or a wall. And it's related to an Italian word for ladder, Scala. Well, also, I mean, the French, the French for the staircases is Scallier. So it's basically a moving escalier originally a word for ladder than a word for stairs, then for scaling anything. And then we've got all this. Yeah, scale anything. But speaking of things that lift you up and down, the word elevator is probably a lot older than you would think, like the 1600s. And at that time, it meant a person or a muscle that lifts things, elevator muscles, which we still describe in that way today. And then in the late 1700s, that was extended to inanimate technology like would grain elevators, which were are quite old. Right. And although escalate is a back formation of escalator, elevator is not a back formation of elevator, it predates the word elevator by about a century, but elevate may be a back formation of the word elevation, which is recorded yet another century before that. Goodness, Mae. I mean, elevator to pick me up off the floor. It's got a lift anyway. So it's a lot simpler, shorter lifts you up, doesn't it? It also lowers you down again, but no one ever talks about that. Yeah, we don't call it a de elevator. Well, this is an interesting thing, because one of the first proper applications of the elevator is to take you down into the New York subway. Right. So it really was a de escalator. How would you call that a de sander? Most people probably know that things like Kleenex and Bandaid are genericized trademarks or proprietary epinems, which is another another way of saying that bubble wrap ping pong and TV dinner, I think we're the most surprising ones to me. There's also breathalyzer, jacuzzi, rollerblade, super glue, windbreaker, and zipper too. Those are all quite quite well known, but you've really blown my mind with the ping pong one. I know that it had an alternative name in England with Waff, which is just rich is a fantastic neighborhood. It's on a mutter beer. One more that gets me to is the word moxie, as in like you've gotten moxie kid. It's the name of a soda and it still is the name of soda. You can do my moxie soda still in some regional grocery stores around here, but it was the name of a soft drink. And it's originally from a Native American abanaki word, meaning dark water. So the soda is named after the rivers and that are called that and then and it was marketed as maxi nerve food. Is you've got moxie? Was that some sort of slogan for it or are people just invoking the idea that you've got a sort of bubbly spirit or something? Yeah, the word moxie in general for like bubbliness and for like the way moxie makes you feel. It wasn't necessarily a slogan, but it was borrowed from the soda. It's interesting that you mentioned zipper because zipper was used by the company's Xerox. So Xerox is in severe danger of trademark death itself. Trademark death by the way is just when you know you basically your trademark brand name loses its capital letter because it becomes so generic. In fact, they sometimes call it generic side, you know, it's when you basically it's become so widely used for something that is not specifically your product that you lose your trademark, you lose control over that word. And Xerox is very scared of this happening. So it actually ran a public facing ad campaign telling people not to use Xerox as a verb. Right. And one of the slogans it used on this was if you use Xerox the way you use zipper, our trademark could be left wide open. That's very funny. I feel like in order for that death to officially die, people would have to use Xerox machines more often than they do currently. But you know where the word Xerox comes from? Do you understand the sort of etymology of that word? Xerox is an other word. Yeah, that's right. So basically what photocopying was called because before we called it photocopying was zirrography. And the zero at the start of that is from the Greek for dry because you're not using wet ink. You're using this dry powder to print these copy after copy after copy after copy. So it's just heat dry powder. Essentially sort of melting it onto onto the page. It's pretty pretty cool. And also what comes out is dry as well. Dry to the touch immediately and lovely and warm on your face. Usually. I feel like the word Xerox sounds like the sound that a Xerox machine makes. Another of the slogans used by Xerox by the way was when you use Xerox the way you use aspirin, we get a headache because aspirin is also a proprietary name. It's formerly owned by buyer, the big German pharmaceuticals company. But again, you're not going to see it written with a capital A anymore. How you said that? Xerox is by the way the Russian word for photocopy. I've got another proprietary name if I can just mention one because we're talking about them in different territories. So this is a surprise to people in Britain and a lot of English speaking parts of the world, but maybe not a surprise or not even worth mentioning to people in America. And that is that the word Byro is a proprietary name. More importantly, it's the name of the inventor. In fact, Lazlo Byro is the inventor of the ballpoint pen in England. We call it ballpoint pen a Byro. I didn't know that. So his surname is Byro, but he wasn't born Byro. He was born Lazlo Schweiger in Hungary in the early 1900s, but his dad, he's born into a Jewish family. Right. And I don't know how much you know about Europe in the first half of the 20th century, but not always the Nassau pen production. What it is, is the sort of this rising anti-Semitism thing going on. His dad's very keen for them to Hungarianize, as you could describe it. So he changes their name to the Hungarian word for judge, which is Byro. His dad's an inventor and he invents a pen as well. He invents a pen where you can use water instead of ink, which is kind of interesting. There's like dry ink in it and you fill it with water instead of liquid ink. So it's a bit less messy. There it doesn't really take off, but his son does a better job and it's credited with inventing the ballpoint pen. Others had invented something almost identical before, but he's the first person to nail the combination of having a ball at the end of your pen and also having ink in it that is neither so thin that it just sort of seeps out and blots or so thick that it dries up inside of the pen. It's brilliant. It's inspired. He releases to the world this idea of his ballpoint pen. He's called it the go pen. He's been working with his brother on it and all of a sudden word or two breaks out. Ah, hungry's Nazi allied government is cracking down on the country's Jews and so he and his family then move to France. Then France gets invaded so he has to move away again and he moves to Argentina where finally he manages to bring his product to market and it's under the name Byro.me because he's working with a local guy whose surname begins with me. So in a lot of Spanish-speaking countries, a ballpoint pen is still called a birame. The reason that in England it's called a Byro is that he's one of his first big sales is to sell tens of thousands of his ballpoint pens to the royal air force. So for the very people fighting against the people he's had to flee Europe to escape and it turns out they're really good for use in planes. So the navigators using them because they work at high altitude. Oh, yeah. Oh, they're using one of these Byro pens and from that up until this day here we call it a Byro. But what do you call it in America? Mostly just a pen but I would say the equivalent would probably be BIC. If someone were to say like what is the most iconic or recognizable pen brand it would probably be a BIC. Well, there is something almost identical happening with the BIC but you have to fast forward a bit to the 1960s and it's a French baron. His name is Marcel Bich, BICH but he does start the company BIC, BIC. He really perfects the ballpoint pen and he produces this model called the crystal which is when you think of what we would call it Byro but the sort of archetypal ballpoint pen, this transparent pen where you can see the inc inside. It's got like a little sort of golden nib with a blue lid and another little blue plastic bit at the other end. That is the crystal. It is one of the best selling consumer products of all time over 100 billion of them sold and yeah, that's the reason that you might call it a BIC and that they call it a BIC in French as well. This isn't exactly etymology related but it is a little bit fun to see what lies in the archives of the US patent office because there are some really obscure and strange and occasionally at least in retrospect funny inventions and patents in the US patent archives. One of them for example invented or patented in 1965 is an apparatus for facilitating the birth of a child by centrifugal force which is a spinning delivery table that uses. It's spinning somewhat around. It's a baby like a baby out of a birth canal into a safety net. There's also a safety net. It's better than not into a safety net. There is an apparatus for the 1994. There is an apparatus for simulating a high five in case you were sad and don't have anyone to share your wins with. You can get a mechanical arm on a spring loaded or make a mechanical arm on a spring loaded pivot that slips your palm back when you need to high five someone. You've got two hands. Most people have got two hands. Maybe you don't have two hands. Fine. Then I'm okay with them buying it but I don't think them I would suggest the market. It's not big enough. There's a motorized ice cream cone which is a battery powered cone that rotates the ice cream so your tongue stays put and the ice cream turns. Yeah, okay. I want to be able to relax with my ice cream. I don't want the effort. There's a leash for a snake which I bet herpithologists and snake owners probably would find to use for this. No, a snake is all neck. Where are you supposed to put it? A snake kind of it's body is kind of a leash so maybe I don't know how this works. There's also a I don't know how this one works at all but a life expectancy timepiece which is a wristwatch program to countdown your approximate remaining lifespan based on personal data and mortality estimates for your demographic. No, I mean a smartwatch could really easily do that now, right? Yeah, probably. So this is 1991 so yeah, I mean pressed I mean pressed they came up with the idea back then but maybe that's something to resurrect now. And then finally the sanitary device to prevent male genitalia from touching the toilet water which is a still the toilet water. Yeah, yeah, the like you know what I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I just see how it's I mean I can understand like not touching the the rim. I don't want to give too much away about myself here. It's quite a long way down to the actual water and the water's back a bit. I mean you really got to be packing for that. Oh, you know, how does it work? It is a stilt seat that is raised up and insert so they hover above the bowl. I'm sure it's been a problem for someone before. It sounds like some yeah, I mean if that happens to you once, you're definitely looking for a solution for it. I would think that the solution would be squatting but hey if you are maybe if you were disabled or something like that then then I could see if you're so very accommodated. Oh, no. Okay, no, I'm glad you went there. Yes. That's so bad. You're a topology involved. Could we close out with the invention of the word invention? Yes, we simply should. Is it an oh, I mean it's got to be a French word, right? Well, it's a Latin derived French. Yeah, totally. It's a Latin word. It means it's from Invenieré, which means to literally to come upon. So it was more about discovery than devising something necessarily, originally. The context we see it most in English is discovering the remains of saints as holy relics. This came to be associated with the feast called the invention of the cross, which celebrates the stories of the third century finding of the true cross, which typically centers their variations. But it typically centers on Saint Helena, the mother of emperor Constantine, who at least according to a few accounts, went to Jerusalem to find the Christ's cross and is made aware of its location by a heavenly sign. She tears down the temple of Aphrodite that's been built on top of it and finds three crosses and one of them cures a terminally ill woman. So invention originally meant physical discovery by searching for something. But earlier in Latin invention was a rhetorical term, the process of locating arguments from laws and precedent and history. So the five components of rhetoric along with invention were arrangement style memory and delivery. So originally discovery and then it became discovering ways to create things and processes that solve problems over time. Right. Okay. Another Latin word that's close to the modern use of invention is the word figment, which literally means something invented, formed or fashioned. And in English it came to also include things that were like made up stories like myths and fables and deceit and falsehoods, hence figments of imagination, which were far more tangible things in Latin. Right. So it's an invention of your imagination. Another neat one here is the word machine in Latin and Greek invented device or tool or an engine or contrivance, but in English it was a word for any structure. In the 16th century English machine was in some of its earliest senses used for any large structure or system, including the whole world as a constructed frame. And the OED has a bunch of works from the 1500s describing the whole machine of this world divided into parts, the celestial and the elemental. And it's not talking about like the functions of earth. It's not it's just that that's the whole thing. And that kind of smacks of the device called a Dave's ex machina, which in Greek is God from the machine. But that was way more literal. It was like literally like lowering a person's rest as a God via a machine crane over the stage. The word engine itself is actually quite an interesting one as well because an engine we use it now to describe technology, but its essence isn't really in technology at all. But it is it is about things that more figuratively drive things. When you say a gin like a cotton gin, it's a machine for separating cotton from seeds. It's short for engine. And the word gin has actually been used for other machinery since middle English and even in Old French, which is kind of cool. But it was especially used for war machines and torture devices. Yes, yeah, exactly. Yeah. Oh wow. Yeah. This is all coming back to me from when we did our episode about trains, planes and automobiles as well. I think we may have also mentioned this in our alcoholic episode because we mentioned that it's not related to gin the drink, which is for more meaning juniper. Yes. Yeah. On that tasty note, is that a good place to end? Yeah, let's do it. I've enjoyed this one, Jess. You've enlightened me about so many things that I know idea about. The idea that like to escalate comes from the escalator, which in itself is a word invented by a man in the 1890s is kind of kind of amazing to me. I've had people get angry about that when I've said it before. Like they're like, no, escalating tensions have existed forever. Like probably, but we didn't call them that. Eskillating tensions. That sounds like a journalistic cliche to me. So I know difficulty in believing that that is a modern invention. Should that be innovation? Innovation is better representation actually isn't it? Because that is the idea of generating something you, right? That's the ultimate meaning of to innovate, right? Thanks for joining us for another episode of Words and Raffles. We'll see you next week.