---
video_title: "5 simple morning habits that make Your Life Happier!"
video_id: ei3nabLxPDI
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ei3nabLxPDI
video_date: 2023-12-15
video_description: |
  Hi! Today I would like to introduce you to 5 simple morning habits that make your life a bit happier!
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  【Chafinity】
  www.chafinity.com
  ・You will receive 11% off your entire order!
  ・The discount code is 「SAMURAI」
  → https://chafinity.com/discount/SAMURAI
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  BLOG  https://samuraijourney.com/​
  BE MY FRIEND:
  BLOG  https://samuraijourney.com/​
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Hi! Today I would like to introduce you to 5 simple morning habits that make your life a bit happier! They are very simple but so powerful habits that might change your life! I highly recommend them, especially the third one, so please look forward to it. Ok then, let’s roll!

Open the windows. This is such an important habit that you can feel happy in the morning. Not only can you breathe in the morning fresh air, but you can also replace the “ki” at the same time. That’s why it’s important. Have you heard of “ki”?

To explain it simply, “ki” is a unique Japanese belief that stands for energy. For example, if you hold a lot of “ki” in your body, your health will improve. We Japanese call that condition “元気, a source of ki. On the other hand, you lack some “ki”, when you are exhausted. And we call it “気が尽きる”, (you’re out of ki).

In other words, you can paraphrase “ki” as “life energy”. Japanese believe in the existence of “ki”, not only in humans but in various things such as plants, animals, water, space, and even stones. That’s why in the anime Dragon Ball, Goku is able to collect “ki” from all over the earth. In Japanese we call this chunk of energy 元気玉 (genki-dama)”. Anyway, let’s go back to where we were lol So Japanese also believe that between those “ki”, there are good ones and bad ones.

For example, in abandoned houses or haunted places, some bad “ki” stays and good “ki” lives somewhere holistic like temples, shrines and clean and organized places. Now, here’s the question: What happens to the “ki” in your room in the morning, after you sleep ? (tik tok tik tok…) The room you just woke up in - you can say the “ki” is pretty bad since it’s filled up with all the tiredness that came out of your body throughout the night. That’s why you need to let go of these bad “ki” out of windows, and take in the morning fresh and clean air instead, which has the good “ki”. So your room will be filled with good energy, and you’ll have a happy start to the day.

It’s very simple, so please try it out! Try to find something you are grateful for today This is a method I do every morning to create a slightly happy feeling. It's about finding things that are usually taken for granted but can be appreciated. For example, a peaceful morning. The fact that I woke up healthy again today.

The clean water flowing from the faucet. My smiling face in the mirror. Being able to clean the toilet. Taking a shower in the morning. Being able to see.

These may seem ordinary to me, but there are many things that are not ordinary for others. If I think about it in this way, Isn't it amazing? Aren't we happy enough? In order to notice these kinds of things, I write down at least one thing that I’m grateful for every morning in my journal. I’ll show you! I always write M G L.

M: This is about today’s highlight, I call it Today’s matcha moment nowadays, so I write capital M. G: This is what I am grateful for. For example, morning fresh air L: This is something I want to let go of from my habits. This method works for me, so maybe for you too:) Please give it a try:) Whisper the magical words when you drink water. Ladies and gentlemen!

This is actually the most amazing method my friend, who always seems happy, told me about recently. I’ve been doing it these days, and I realize it’s working pretty well. In the morning, when you drink a cup of water, instead of just drinking it, try whispering,something like, “Thank you so much for making this wonderful miracle happen today.” and then drink water. And it’s so magical that a real miracle happens.

You might find it sketchy, but it’s true! For example, there was a miracle that happened on that day when I filmed this video. I was at the house of Kentaro in LA. He’s the owner of the organic matcha company called Chafinity, who loves matcha very much and is also a tea practitioner as well as a samurai in LA. I’m a Japanese samurai as well as a Youtuber and a tea practitioner who loves matcha very much.

He and I had a lot in common in the first place. We both love matcha, and today we were enjoying some outdoor matcha by hiking the mountains in Hollywood. Ok, let me briefly introduce the matcha he makes. I was shocked when I first had his matcha for the first time. Because I’ve never had such a delicious organic matcha before.

First, you feel the profound aroma before you drink it, and then the mild taste of matcha as it comes into your mouth goes through your throat so smoothly... Whoa, what a high quality matcha is this? I asked him for the secret, and he told me the tea farmer cares about making a healthy land so much that the soil with rich minerals makes such a good matcha.

I’m drinking this matcha with lots of their love every day now! If you use the discount code “SAMURAI” at checkout, you can get an 11% discount on your purchase on the Chafinity website. I put the link in the description, so please check it out if you’re interested. Ok, back to the story of a miracle I had. We went to a cafe after enjoying the matcha outside.

And we started to talk about our birthdays. And then the miracle happened… Our birthdays were on the same day! Moreover, we found out that one of his employees has the same birth time as me! This is how we reacted at that moment!

I can call it anything but destiny if you have so much in common! Yes, this is what happened when I took a video of this. Of course, this drinking water method is not based on any scientific proof. But based on my experience, these miracles do happen often. So believe it or not, try it by yourself 🙂 4. Picking up the trash

After drinking the water I usually go for a walk. And while I take a walk, I pick up one or two pieces of trash on the street. “Picking up the trash? Ew! No way!”

You might think like that. But, this is the method that I always do and it makes me happy in the morning. So, why does picking up the trash make you happy? Because this is something many people aren't willing to do, and that’s why you’ll feel such a great accomplishment after doing it. Also, you can clearly see that the city got a bit cleaner!

Plus, the best part of picking up the trash is that it makes our neighbors happy too. PS: Nowadays I’m struggling with finding trash on the road around my house though. So I feel simply grateful for the clean environment. If you do this while traveling, you can clean the world! Isn’t it great?

I usually do this without gloves so that I can be more humble and feel even more accomplished! But you can also wear gloves, of course! Why don’t we pick up the trash every morning together? 5. Make a routine of preparing a good drink.

A lot of you watching my channel might be drinking some matcha in the morning. Some might prefer coffee as well. It’s ok to make it simple and sip it quickly, but I recommend making a routine of preparing it and enjoying fully drinking every single cup. Why? Because that routine makes you calm down, almost like you’re doing zen.

And if you focus on each step of the process, you’ll be released from the anxiety and rush. The busier you are, you need to make your drink neater. And the happiness goes through your whole body as you drink the cup you made with your heart. “Oh, I could drink this cup of matcha this morning again.” Even this fact makes me appreciate my life today.

Okay, today I talked about 5 morning habits that make your life a bit happier. How did you like it? Each habit is very simple, so please give it a try 🙂 Do you have any morning habits that make you happy? Let me know in the comments! Well then, have a lovely day, everyone!

Bye bye!