---
video_title: "Best Matcha in Canada!🇨🇦 Surprise Visit at JagaSilk Teabar 🍵"
video_id: EEhlTVdMU-4
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Travel & Events"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EEhlTVdMU-4
video_date: 2023-11-10
video_description: |
  In this video, I want to share the surprising events that happened when I visited the former workplace of a matcha wholesale company in Victoria, Canada, where I used to work five years ago. 
   
  -----------------------------------------
   
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
   
  ------------------------------------------
   ・Victoria Tea Festival Revival
   https://www.victeafestrevival.org/
   
  ・JagaSilk
  https://jagasilk.com/
  The teabar is open on Fridays and they have an online store too.
  
  ・Jaga Vision
  https://www.youtube.com/@JagaSilk 
  ------------------------------------------
   
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
   
  ------------------------------------------
   
  BE MY FRIEND:
  BLOG  https://samuraijourney.com/​
  BE MY FRIEND:
  BLOG  https://samuraijourney.com/​
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
   
  ------------------------------------------
   
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Hi! Welcome back to my channel! I’m Aki! Recently, I went on a matcha journey in North America and just returned to Japan the other day!! Thank you😄

In this video, I want to share the surprising events that happened when I visited the former workplace of a matcha wholesale company in Victoria, Canada, where I used to work five years ago. Even though it was just a surprise visit, I ended up working for a day, filming for a YouTube video, and even becoming a host in a tea ceremony at a tea festival. There were many unexpected events, so please look forward to it!

five years ago I used to work at a wholesale tea company specializing in matcha, called Jagasilk. I decided to pay them a surprise visit!

When I arrived, there was a waiting line in front of the store, so I was hanging around outside, looking like a complete weirdo. Finally, I’m going inside.

The surprise was a big success! Jagasilk had evolved a lot in the five years since I'd last been there. One of the most surprising things was this small matcha mill. They grind fresh matcha right after you order it! While there are many matcha Cafés around the world, there are few where you can enjoy freshly milled matcha.

Doesn't this matcha look delicious? While chatting with the owner, we talked about me doing a guest shift next Friday? So, even though I came as a surprise, I ended up being surprised myself. [One Day as a Jagasilk Staff Member] It's been five years since I worked at Jagasilk. Let's start with making daifuku.

I remember making them like this five years ago. It's nostalgic. Making daifuku is quite a labor-intensive process. Especially because you have to wrap the anko (sweet bean paste) while the mochi is still warm, it's a race against time. Hurry Hurry!

Alright! It's done!!

I was really nervous, but luckily my body remembered how to do everything.

What's incredible about Jagasilk is the meticulous quality control they have over their matcha. Let's take a look at how matcha is made at Jagasilk.

Because matcha's flavor changes with heat, the machine is constantly cooled with water. They pay close attention to temperature control, pressure management, and the fineness of the matcha. Of course, they also taste it every time they make matcha packs.

Anyway, this was my guest shift at Jagasilk for a day. I was really glad that two of my followers even came to visit. Thank you so matcha! [JagaVision Filming] Today, we filmed for Jagasilk's YouTube channel, Jaga Vision. Just between us, when I make videos, I always create a script.

I have very kind friends who check it for me every time. So, honestly I don't really have confidence in my own English. However, today, I spoke in English without a script for JagaVision,

and it gave me a bit more confidence! If you're interested, please check out JagaVision too. [Tea Festival] One month later, the Victoria Tea Festival was held, and I had the privilege of serving as a host for the tea ceremony. It had been a while since I had performed as a host in front of such a large audience, so I was quite nervous, but I managed to do it ! This is between you and me I made some mistakes...

But it's ok. The guest enjoyed it. Victoria is like a second home to me. I'll be back again next year, so for those I couldn't meet this time, let's catch up then! I will also create a video summarizing my matcha journey in North America, so please look forward to it!

I hope to see you in the next video!