---
video_title: "8 things that make me happy in 2023!"
video_id: wkdl0mMoq7w
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wkdl0mMoq7w
video_date: 2023-12-30
video_description: |
  Correction: ON is a Swiss brand! I'm really sorry about that!
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  I'd like to introduce you to 8 small items that made me happy the most this year, as well as the top item above all. I'm sure they will bring some happiness for you too, so please watch this video until the end. Ok, let's get started!
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  THINGS IN THIS VIDEO: 
  
  For someone interested in my things:) As a minimalist, please allow me to introduce you, but only purchase items when you truly need them!
  
  ・KINTSUGI SET  ▶︎ https://shop-kintsugi.com/
   This is not exactly the same one as mine, but I found it on Amazon USA
  ▶︎ https://amzn.to/48B5xni
  
  ・BULLET JOURNAL(Rhodia A5 Note) ▶︎ https://amzn.to/3RDBFzY
  What is bullet Journal ▶︎ https://bulletjournal.com/
  
  ・KINDLE ▶︎ https://amzn.to/3GY1MN2
  I use Kindle Paperwhite with holder.
  
  ・KINDLE HOLDER  ▶︎ https://amzn.to/3tyfdjE
  This is also very useful with this Kindle.
  
  ・SONY VLOGCAM ZV-1Ⅱ ▶︎ https://amzn.to/3NIFvXg
  This is also useful that when I go travel!
  
  ・On Cloud 5 Sneakers（Swiss 🇨🇭brand, not a Swedish 🇸🇪 brand. Sorry about it.）
  https://amzn.to/48bLQmn(Men's)
  https://amzn.to/47f2iAX(Women's)
  
  ・INCENSE HOLDER ▶︎ https://amzn.to/3tF2eN2
   This is not the exactly the same one as mine, but I found it similar one.
  ▶︎ https://amzn.to/48udLh0
  
  ------------------------------------------
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  ------------------------------------------
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  ------------------------------------------
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Since this is the end of 2023, I’d like to introduce you to 8 small items that made me happy the most this year, as well as the top item above all. I’m sure they will bring you some happiness for you too, so please watch until the end. Ok, let’s get started! Kintsugi set Do you know what “kintsugi” is? "Kintsugi" is the Japanese art of repairing broken pottery, usually with lacquer mixed with powdered gold.

Normally there is not a good image on chipped or scratched plates, right? Some people might just throw it away thinking it cannot be used anymore. But in ancient Japan, people embraced even these kinds of scars, viewing them positively and transforming them into something beautiful and valuable. Here, you see the patch has become like a new pattern, and it makes the cup even more unique. How incredible!

Old tea practitioners referred to this as the 'flow of the river,' recognizing in it the unique beauty of wabi-sabi, characteristic of Japan. Well, this year, I’ve traveled the world while making matcha, so I broke some of my tea cups. But there’s no way I can throw away the tea cups with everyone’s memories in them! So I’m really grateful that I have this kintsugi set. By the way, since direct contact with lacquer can cause skin irritation, Now it's spreading whole my body.

It's terrible! make sure to wear gloves ! Please don't end up like me! here too Kintsugi is the process of breathing new life into an object. When the work is complete, it feels as if you've just met a new best friend!

Thank you for bringing back a new life. Bullet Journal This journal has been a great asset this year. A bullet journal is a note-taking method devised by American designer Ryder Carroll. Scheduling, to-do lists, wish lists, and even diary entries – the Bullet Journal offers a high degree of flexibility and can serve various purposes. I started using this Bullet Journal this year and have been experiencing numerous benefits.

For example, Scheduling becomes incredibly enjoyable. Writing by hand helps organize thoughts. All of my personal history is compiled in this book, making it feel like Omamori, Japanese lucky Charm. Moreover, this journal gives you the relief that an electric notebook doesn’t. Thank you for giving me this relief.

By the way, if anyone is thinking of starting a journal, I recommend these RHODIA dot-patterned notebooks. I personally thought this one was easier to use after trying various journals. So why don’t you start using it next year if you’re interested? ;) Matcha set Thankfully, I was able to hold quite a few tea ceremonies throughout the world this year. And this matcha set traveled with me all the way.

Because of this matcha set, I was able to connect with a lot of people all around the world and build a community. Thanks a lot for making such wonderful connections. This tea box looks tiny, but actually it holds this much: Natsume (tea caddy) Tea Bowl A, Travel Tea Bowl Tea Bowl B, KINTO Kensui Chakoshi (tea strainer) Chashaku (tea scoop): white butterfly shell Chasen (tea whisk) Case Chasen (tea whisk) Chakin (tea cloth) Chakinire (a tea cloth container) or holer of chasen And in this cαse, I have Fukusa (silk cloth) Tenugui This matcha set is made by combining some tea utensils I already had. And I am thinking about selling a matcha set like this under my own brand someday. So please look forward to it!

Leisure blanket This leisure blanket is another item that gave me happiness. I bought it for matcha events, and because of it, a lot of connections have been made. Thank you for making everyone comfortable. The great thing about this one is that this could be used not only as a leisure mat but also as a blanket when it’s cold. Thank you also for keeping us warm.

Kindle Generally, I prefer books with the tactile feel of paper. So, I usually read a lot of physical books, but... paper books can be bulky and heavy, making them unsuitable for travel. So, what proved helpful is this:

With the Kindle, you can easily carry thousands of books without taking up space. Since I traveled a lot this year, I came to appreciate the greatness of the Kindle all over again. Even during my travels, thank you for always providing knowledge. Running shoes from On I used to fix and wear the shoes from New Balance, but they got beaten up, so I bought a new pair for the trip. This pair of running shoes is from a Swedish brand called On.

I happened to come across it at a sports store in Tokyo and bought it, and it turned out to be even better than I expected. It’s very flexible and light and even durable. Shoes connect us to the outside world. And when they are lightweight, they enhance our mobility and initiative. Thanks to these shoes, I've been able to take a lot of action and seize many opportunities this year.

Thank you for providing me with so many chances. SONY VLOGCAM ZV-1II As a Youtuber I have several cameras, but if I were to pick one and appreciate it, it would be this one. SONY VLOGCAM ZV-1Ⅱ It’s not only compact and easy to take on trips but also capable of capturing high-quality videos, just like a DSLR. It helped me so much during the trip. From YouTube recordings to personal moments, this camera has captured almost all of this year's memories for me.

Thank you for capturing wonderful memories! Incense Finally, I'd like to introduce something I've recently become obsessed with. This Is an incense holder and incense sticks, which I received as gifts. Aren’t they incredibly stylish? They are so easy to use, and I love the design that complements any room.

Lately, I've been using this incense while stretching, and it provides the ultimate relaxation. Scents have a direct impact on the brain, making them a fantastic way to relax. Thank you for making me relaxed every day. The Most Outstanding Item of the Year Okay, everyone, it’s time to announce the most outstanding item of the year!!

It's a tough decision because they all made me happy... But a choice has to be made. And this year's winner is.... (drumroll)

Ta-da!! The Kintsugi set! The reason is that it breathed new life into my beloved tea bowl. And it made me appreciate the wonderful aspects of Japanese culture once again.

Thank you so much. Oh no I don't kiss Lastly, I truly love the concept of Kintsugi, where one cherishes the scars and uses them to become stronger and more beautiful. Because I believe humans are the same. I think those who have endured many wounds in the past exude a beautiful humanity. So, everyone, don't see your past scars as ugly, but cherish them with love.

Because those scars make you special. Okay then, see you next time!