---
video_title: "13 things that surprised me in the Netherlands as a Japanese person | vlog"
video_id: KrPCs9Ygxw4
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Travel & Events"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KrPCs9Ygxw4
video_date: 2023-11-26
video_description: |
  In this video, I would like to share 13 things that surprised me, as a Japanese person who visited the Netherlands for the first time!
  
  ※Girl in a white kimono is by Breitner, not Van Gogh. Sorry about it!
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  BLOG  https://samuraijourney.com/​
  BE MY FRIEND:
  BLOG  https://samuraijourney.com/​
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Hi I’m Aki, a Japanese minimalist who has recently traveled from the Netherlands to Italy using a bamboo bicycle. In this video, I would like to share 13 things that surprised me, as a Japanese person who visited the Netherlands for the first time! Also, I’ll be comparing my experience in the Netherlands with Japan, so you might also learn things in Japan too. Let’s get started! The Roads: The Netherlands vs. Japan

By catching a train in Germany, I made it to the Netherlands. First time ever, yeah! I’m going to ride my bamboo bike through the city of Amsterdam! So exciting! When I got off the train at the station, I saw something surprising right away while I was riding my bicycle.

It was bicycle lanes. No matter if it's the countryside or a city, they're literally everywhere! And the roads are flat too. Well sometimes those crazy speeding bicycles scared the hell out of me but in general I thought it was super practical. The reason why I got so surprised is because the exclusive bicycle lanes are not common in Japan.

The roads of the city I live in (Nagoya pref.) are like this. You don’t see many bicycle lanes here. And the roads are not flat either. Under the Japanese traffic rules, bicycles need to be ridden on the roadway, but you also may ride them on the sidewalk too.

Which means you have more options in Japan. But I still hope one day we can have more exclusive bicycle lanes like the Netherlands as well. The Bicycle: The Netherlands vs. Japan What do you think the typical Japanese bicycle looks like? It looks like this.

This is the popular bicycle called, Mamachari, which means moms bike. We see some road bikes nowadays but still these are the most common bicycles people have. That’s why I was amazed by the variety of bicycles in the Netherlands! I didn’t see any bamboo ones but I saw many custom ones. I thought it was super unique and cool!

3. People living on the river? When I took a boat tour in Amsterdam, I doubted what I had seen. I saw a lot of “boat houses” floating in the river.. with people living in.

What is this? I’ve never seen anything like it in Japan. You might think “but don’t you have a lot of rivers in Japan?” Yes we do. But I guess living in the house on river in Japan would be suicide lol Why?

Once upon a time, in Meiji period, there was a Dutch man called Johannis de Rijke（ヨハニス・デ・レーケ）, who was outsourced to Japan for river construction. And what do you think he said after looking at the river in Japan? He said, “This ain’t a river, it’s a waterfall.” Yes, Japanese rivers are pretty aggressive looking in general. PS: Living on a boat How is it living on a boat anyways?

I was wondering, so I just tried it out by myself when I was in Brussel, Belgium. I stayed at this Airbnb on a boat. I thought it would rock more but it didn’t. You can have a decent living with a shower and a toilet. How surprising is that?!

So living on a boat isn’t bad after all….thinking at first, but there was some downside… It’s to be spotted easily. It’s not that you have walls like a house, people can see you immediately as soon as you come out. In fact, I was embarrassed when people around me watched me drying my clothing on the boat lol 4. Van Gogh’s Painting Today I went to the Rijksmuseum.

And something surprised me. It was a painting of a woman wearing a kimono drawn by Van Gogh. I’ve heard once that he got influenced by the Japanese ukiyo-e but I never thought he actually painted a woman with a kimono. Anyway, this woman happened to be my first kimono buddy in Europe! lol Mr. Gogh, thank you for drawing my friend 🙂

5. This is Being Japanese Japanese are earnest, modest, and shy. People around the world say that about us like that a lot but if I were to add one more characteristic, it would be this. Japanese lack the idea of crime-prevention. As you may know, one of my bags was stolen at the guest house in Amsterdam.

I thought it would be fine only fo r a short time, so I put my bags next to my bicycle and left there for a few minutes. And it's vanished. I went to the police station after that and I bumped into another Japanese family. Their bags were stolen just like mine. Everyone, this is being Japanese lol 6. Guest house fees are too expensive

I realized how I was spending a lot of money on the guest house while I was staying in Amsterdam for a while. For example, I paid about $80 for a 12 person dorm. Wow, this is so expensive. Can you believe it? Is that because the commodity prices are increasing in Europe?

By the way, the commodity prices are not increasing too crazy in Japan unlike Europe. You can probably stay in a dorm for $25 in Tokyo. Actually, the Japanese Yen is getting weaker so now is the perfect time to visit Japan! 7. Legal Marijuana I heard marijuana is legal in the Netherlands.

It seems you can even find some marijuana cookies in cafes. It’s absolutely prohibited in Japan, so I was surprised by those facts. To be honest, I wanted to try some marijana cookies…but I got scared and couldn’t do it! If you were expecting me to try it, I’m sorry. Maybe next time when I visit the Netherlands again…maybe..

8. Using boats as transportation! Everywhere you go, you find some rivers in the Netherlands. And I often saw some Dutch people using boats as transportation. We don’t really see it that often so as a Japanese person, it looked awesome.

As I mentioned earlier, the rivers in Japan are rushing, so we don't consider boats as a means of transportation that often. But of course, you can still enjoy some tourist boat tours in Tokyo around the Sumida river. Also I heard that there is one boat in Fukuoka prefecture. with a boatman acting like a ninja. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ytznoimFs4

So please check it out if you ever visit Japan. 9. The high quality products at the Japanese market Today I rode my bicycle from Amsterdam to Laiden to peek at the Japanese market. All right then, let’s go! Wait a minute, what is this?? The quality of the products are so high!

From antiques to kimonos to stationaries, everything is good quality! For example this fancy stationary from the Midori Company is famous in Japan. I see lots of genuine kimonos. Not only goods, but also some ingredients like the “magical seasoning”, shio-koji (salted malt). I saw a lot of those things that are usually hard to find abroad.

OMG, the quality of the Japanese Market in the Netherlands is so amazing! I would highly recommend going there if you are living in Europe.

Through this trip, I met many Dutch people. They are completely different from Japanese so it was a very new experience for me. I found 3 main personalities that Dutch people tend to have: They tend to be more graceful than Japanese people Generally, Japanese people tend to rush more due to time but Dutch people seem to be more relaxed. Respect individuality I was mostly wearing kimonos in Amsterdam, but I didn’t get weird stares or racial tension. I felt they respected my individuality in a positive way.

Actually I get stared at more in Japan if I'm wearing a kimono. Hey, it’s our traditional clothes? lol Kindness I made my trip with a lot of help from people in the Netherlands. Some would welcome a stranger like me to their home, or some give me a tour even if they're busy. And some came to see me all the way from afar to hand me gifts.

I was impressed by their kindness. Thank you so much! 11. Dutch Ninja I arrived in a city called Hague. After sightseeing for a while, we decided to eat some traditional Dutch cuisine called, “haring”.

We bought some herring at the store and were about to eat them… A ninja suddenly appeared before me! He (a bird) came in a flash and stole my herring. Nobody told me there were ninjas in the Netherlands? lol The herring was so delicious though. v Today I stayed at one of my followers’ houses.

As I entered the room, I thought I was dreaming. WHAT?? I see a tatami in the room!!

I never thought I could see one in the Netherlands. I always think tatami is an essential item to live a simple life. Why? The answer is simple. Because it's versatile.

You can eat, play or sleep on it. And of course, you can make some matcha too! Tatami has infinite potential, I would say. 13. Animal Paradise I’m taking a ferry to go to England today.

I remember this trip I took in the Netherlands on the ferry. And I thought I saw a variety of different animals in the Netherlands. Cows, horses, sheep… Were they wild chickens? I even saw some alpacas and emus that are not common to see in Japan. You are able to encounter some rare animals once you go outside of your country.

That’s another factor that makes trips more fun. There are a lot of special animals in Japan too, like snow monkeys. So please look for them while you’re in Japan! Conclusion What did you think about it? It was such a short trip but the Netherlands surprised me a lot.

I will train myself better for the next time a ninja (bird) tries to steal my food lol I’ll be back for sure in the future! Next video will be about things that surprised me in Italy. Please look forward to it! So stay safe, have fun, and thank you always for watching my video. I hope to see you in the next video!

Bye-bye