---
video_title: "34 things that surprised me in Italy as a Japanese person - Part 1"
video_id: mCnJSs3_k0M
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Travel & Events"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mCnJSs3_k0M
video_date: 2023-11-28
video_description: |
  In this video, I would like to share 18 out of 34 things that surprised me when I visited Italy for the first time.
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  BLOG  https://samuraijourney.com/​
  BE MY FRIEND:
  BLOG  https://samuraijourney.com/​
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Hi, I’m Aki, a Japanese who has recently traveled across Europe riding a bamboo bike. In this video, I would like to share 18 out of 34 things that surprised me when I visited Italy for the first time. You might also learn more about Japan as I will compare those two countries. Please enjoy the video until the end! On July 7th, 2023, I entered Italy for the first time in my life.

And the first thing that surprised me was… The Sound of Cicadas What makes that even a surprise to me? Because I’ve traveled around Europe and I barely heard their sound. But I heard this as soon as I got to Italy. To be honest, I was really pleased. I felt at home because they sound just like the Japanese ones.

Perhaps Italy and Japan have a lot in common. When I got excited about this trip, I realized one thing… Trash on the street Honestly, there is not so much trash on the street in Japan. So I was kind of surprised when I saw a lot of trash on the road in Italy. But I don’t think it’s totally a bad thing. Because It depends on the place and time.

For example in Japan, it’s usually clean but it’s pretty dirty after hanami parties somewhere like this lol In any case, there’s no doubt that less littering makes our lives better. Let's work together to keep the Earth clean! An outdoor museum As I rode my bike, I found an art, fully drawn on the wall. It looks like this art wall will never end...Almost made me think it was a museum outside.

This is so cool! I thought the level of creativity in Italian art was very high. After arriving in Milan, I hopped on a train and went sightseeing. And I saw some things happen. You can bring your bikes on the train?!

I saw some people get their bikes ready to ride the train. Huh? Could that really happen here? If that's the case, that would be great for someone like me! Because in Japan, we have to keep the bicycle inside the exclusive bag to be carried on the train.

so I love the trains in Italy. Unimaginable View So I'm in Milan and I'm going down the famous covered passageway that has shops all around it. Huh? What is this? I’ve never seen such a huge one!

I only see the world's best names and a lot of stylish people getting together. This is nothing like the Japanese one. I felt myself being such a country bumpkin who came to the big city for the first time. That was totally something unimaginable…yup,

Warm-hearted Italians Before coming to Milan, I stayed at an airbnb in Como. And I’ve left one of my favorite t-shirts there. When I told the owner about it…he came all the way from Como to Milan to hand it to me! I can’t believe it, there’s like 50 km distance between these cities! “No worries, I just happened to stop nearby for my work,” he said.

What a wonderful person…Thanks a lot.. He really represented how warm-hearted Italians are. Having Italian pasta for the first time ever. I ate pasta from Italy for the first time ever today.

The pasta came from a fast food place. This is what happened after I ate it. Omg, it tastes like really good cheese! Wait a minute, If it tastes this good at a fast food place, what will happen if I eat it at a real restaurant? I was looking outside thinking about such things.

Then I realized something else. 8. People wearing suits in the heat Even though it was July, Italy was very hot. That's why I mostly wore short sleeves. But I saw lots of people in suits!

Take a look! There it is! I thought businessmen in Japan were the only ones who wore long sleeves in the summer. But, It was the same in Italy. Oh, I see, I was right when I said that two countries share things, right?

I guess that Italians who wear suits look much classier than Japanese people who do the same. 9. Having Italian coffee for the first time ever. Usually I prefer matcha tea more than coffee. But of course, I’m keen on trying the real Italian coffee here.

Actually the owner of the airbnb made one for me so I tried it. And this is how I was..

(video) It was SUPER bitter… Oh ok ok…this is Italian coffee. 10. My view of italians Today I held a casual tea ceremony at the park in Milan. Some of my followers joined and I found everyone there so out-going! They all accepted me saying “Welcome to Italy!” so I could get along with them immediately.

We went to a local restaurant after that. 11. Eating pizza margherita for the first time ever At that restaurant, I experienced the real Italian pizza margherita for the first time in my life. And this shows how I felt. (video) Mmmm….!!!! The food in Italy is really tasty!!

I truly like both Japanese and Italian food. Thanks a lot, everyone! 12. A sushi place that is evolving When we walked around the mall, we came across a sushi restaurant. What is this?

At the bar, sushi is moving on its own. How? By use of magnets? Sushi restaurants in Italy are amazing. It seems to be evolving even more than the Japanese ones!

13. Venezia = maze I headed to Venezia the next day, by catching a train. I put on a kimono and am now ready to go! Venezia was a lot like a maze! I didn’t know where to go so I just followed my intuition.

And that’s how I got lost lol Where am I??!! It was scary but it was also fun.

But I had fun. I think this thrill of getting lost in a maze is part of a good trip in Venezia. 14. Samurai meets tough guy When I walked around I found a gondola (an ancient rowboat) terminal so I tried it out. And I met a GONDOLIER, who propels the gondola, reminds me of a Mafia-character that I know from films.

He looked like such a tough guy, so I got a bit scared of him, but in fact, he was a very sweet man. Thanks for making my trip so much fun. 15. Attack of the Italian bugs Today when I was biking towards Reggio Emilia, I got attacked by tons of bugs. They kept getting inside of my eyes and nose restlessly.

Look at my t-shirts!

Ooohhhhh…. Sorry for getting in your way! 16. Unbelievable car parking distance After arriving at Reggio Emilia, one of my followers took me to the local festival in his car. It was full of surprises since the festivals in Italy are so different from the Japanese ones.

But something else surprised me even more. When he parked the car on the side… What is this??!!

Why do they park so close to each other? There is only like a centimeter in between.. It’s rarely seen in Japan like this. …I was…just amazed.

17. Heat: 40 degrees Celsius I thought Italy might be a little warmer than the rest of Europe, but I had no idea it would be this hot. It was 40 degrees Celsius that day when I checked the weather. Japan also gets it, but it doesn't get to 40 degrees Celsius very often. That’s why for a Japanese person, it was really hot.

I felt like I was torturing myself by riding my bicycle. I could never drink enough water to stay healthy.

18. Japanese summer vs. Italian summer As I mentioned earlier, 40 degrees Celsius is pretty hot for Japanese people. But even so, life in Italy during the summer was nicer than in Japan. Why? Italy is dry, even when it's hot.

Japan, on the other hand, has such high humidity in the summer that it feels like you're in a sauna. As proof, my laundry dried quickly here. Yay :) Ok, that's it, everyone! Today I introduced Part 1 of 34 things that surprised me in Italy. Did you enjoy watching it?

Actually I still got a lot. So please look forward to Part 2 coming up soon.

See you!