---
video_title: "My new perspective as a minimalist: 7 items that I got rid of in 2023!"
video_id: IUlGOjH86aM
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IUlGOjH86aM
video_date: 2023-12-27
video_description: |
  This year, I embraced a new perspective as a minimalist.
  
  In this video, I’d like to introduce you to 7 items that I let go  of based on my new perspective.
  
  It’ll surely be productive for your simple life as well. So please watch until the end.
  
  Here we go!
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
This year, I embraced a new perspective as a minimalist. In this video, I’d like to introduce you to 7 items that I let go of based on my new perspective. It’ll surely be productive for your simple life as well. So please watch until the end. Here we go!

“Lightness”

This is the new perspective that I’ve gained this year for my simple life. I realized that lightness equals the ability to take action. To make it simpler, if you carry lighter things, there’s no waste of energy, and that makes you take initiative more. And you’ll be happy. For example, if you carry a kilo less stuff for your bicycle trip, you’ll be lighter physically and will be able to get to your destination easier.

And you’ll have more time to do sightseeing. On the other hand, you’ll be exhausted just pedaling with the heavy stuff, and you’ll lose the motivation to go somewhere. And by the time you get to the destination, you’ll be too tired to do sightseeing. In other words, the lightness of your luggage is directly linked to your mobility. This principle applies not only to travel but also to everyday life.

For example, between heavy boots and lightweight sports shoes, which ones would you prefer to move around in? Obviously, lightweight sports shoes, right? Simply put, in everyday life, having lighter items tends to boost motivation and initiative. And you’ll feel better if you carry less weight. All right, let’s go to the places I always wanted to go to!

And challenge some new things! It’ll also affect your mental health positively like this. I want to live a positive and happy life so I decided to take this perspective of “lightness” into my simple life. My new rule is, “to carry as much light as possible.” Ok, then, by following this rule, I’ll introduce you to 7 items that I let go of this year.

Coat Firstly, this coat. These coats are pretty heavy. It was my favorite one; I used it for over 5 years, but I decided to get rid of it. It was difficult for me, but there was another rule that helped me let go. The rule is “to let go of clothes you haven’t used for a year.”

Actually, this coat has been sitting in a closet for more than a year. And I thought I would use it one day but… That “one day” never comes. Now I truly think so. So I let it go with lots of appreciation. Car This was the heaviest thing I let go of lol I used to live in a village where a car was a must, but I moved to a city recently, so I didn’t feel its necessity that much.

To be honest, I didn’t really use it that much this year, and the car was half broken, so I decided to let go. But still , I had my doubts. Because cars are such a convenient technology and you never know, I might need it again. Hmmm…. When I get stuck making decisions, there is a question that I recently ask myself.

“Do I wanna sell it?” Simply put, if the answer is “no,” I’ll keep it, and if it’s “yes,” I will give it up. Because people generally do not want to sell things if they really need them. For example, even if you’re asked to sell one day of your life for 100 million dollars, you never want to sell it, right? So going back to the question, when you ask yourself if you want to sell this item or not and you answered “yes,” that means you might not need it now.

And also this time for my car, my answer was “yes.” After selling the car, I really felt GREAT! I realized how refreshing it feels to get rid of physically heavy items. AWESOME! Desk The next one was my desk.

I’ve been using it for more than 25 years, since I was a child. I used it no matter the number of scratches or how broken the drawers were. But actually, this was something I’ve always wanted to let go of. Because it has a lot of bad memories. I didn't like to study there lol When I look at this desk, memories of unwillingly studying for exams in Japan come flooding back.

But since my parents bought it for me, and I've had it for so long, there's a sentimental attachment, which is why I couldn't let it go until now. With the rule of "having lighter items" this time, I was finally able to make the decision to give it up. Thank you very much for everything! I chose a simple desk from IKEA as a new one. By just changing the desk, the atmosphere of the room became lighter and brightened my feelings too!

HDD For YouTubers filming massive amounts of data, it can be a serious issue how to manage all that. I used to use this Buffalo HDD (8TB) before. But it’s so bulky and heavy! There’s no way I can take it on my travels . And this Sandisk SSD and Google Drive solved my problem.

Firstly, the Sandisk SSD. It’s so small and light. Just perfect for traveling . Can you believe how much it can store? 4TB!

On this SSD, I basically put the data that I need right away for video editing. I’ve traveled often this year and filmed a lot, so I really appreciated it. Next is Google drive. It’s so useful that you can download the data, anytime, anywhere you want, as long as you have the internet. So I put some data from the past and the ones I want to share with my friends.

Thanks to the combination of this SSD and Google Drive, I've been able to work more minimally and efficiently Wallet I used to have this leather wallet, but I didn’t use it at all this year, so I decided to let go of it. What? You don’t use a wallet? How do you live then? You might have thought so.

Don’t worry, I have an alternative.

It’s the security belt from Mont-bell. I bought it this year for the bicycle trip in Europe to put some valuables in it, like a passport. The best part of this security belt is that it’s lighter than a wallet. And you can put not only money but some small stuff like a passport and pens. More than anything, you can always hang it around your neck, so you don’t have to be like “Where’s my wallet?” anymore.

When my bag got stolen in Europe, this belt survived. So I’ll be using this one as my wallet.

Big backpack Back in time, when I was a backpacker, I used to carry a huge backpack like this one. It’s so convenient to be able to carry such a large quantity, but I ended up putting in too much stuff, and it was extremely heavy. Plus, since it’s big, I couldn't carry it on the airplane. So instead, I got this bag. With this one, you won’t put too much stuff and also have a size to carry on the airplane, so your trip will be very pleasant.

I've once again realized that lightness equals motivation. Electric shaver I used to shave my beard every day with thisbefore. But electric shavers are quite heavy. So I was wondering what I should do. And then one day I thought, “If I have a longer beard, I won’t need to shave it every day?”

A-ha! I was right. So now, instead of using the electric shaver, I’m using this lightweight shaver. It helped me a lot on the trips this year! All right, that’s all, everyone.

How did you like it? I know we all have some rules for having things, but I think it’s a good idea to choose them by weight. Lightness equals the ability to take action It increases your motivation. Please try it for yourself! See you next year, then.

Bye-bye!