---
video_title: "Cooking with Japanese mother: A typical healthy homemade dinner 🇯🇵"
video_id: W6PeoX7oZug
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W6PeoX7oZug
video_date: 2023-10-15
video_description: |
  Today I’d like to introduce a typical Japanese dinner prepared by my mother who has over 40 years of homemaking experience. 
  
  Her recipe is simple and easy to make so I hope everyone enjoys making it. All right then, let’s start cooking!
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Today I’d like to introduce a typical Japanese dinner prepared by my mother who has over 40 years of homemaking experience. Isn’t it great? My mother is not a professional chef. But she’s been cooking a number of dishes every day with tons of love for my big family. So I would say she’s an expert in Japanese home cooking, in a way.

Her recipe is simple and easy to make so I hope everyone enjoys making it. All right then, let’s start cooking! This is the dish my mother made for us today. OK, mom, let’s do it! Japanese Mixed Rice First, let’s make some Japanese mixed rice.

Japanese Mixed Rice Recipe: 70%-polished rice (per person) Pearl barley (barley) “Honebuto Kazoku” (calcium supplement) Japanese Mixed Rice seasoning So you’ll polish 100% for the white rice, whereas you’ll only polish 70% for the “Shichibu-mai”, so that some minerals remain. So we wash the rice to rinse the waste away. We re-use this water with leftover waste called, “togi-jiru” for another dish. I wash the rice three times. You don’t wanna hurt the rice by scratching, so try to circulate your hand gently with the rice in the water like this.

①Trivia: Do not waste your food In Japan, we traditionally tend to not waste food. It’s based on Buddhist teachings and it’s engraved in the Japanese mindset. For example, rice that is washed has leftover waste, which is known as “Togi-jiru” in Japan. It contains ingredients such as starch, minerals, and vitamins. People from old times deeply acknowledge this fact and utilized Togi-jiru for cleaning, cooking, as well as washing hair and facial masks.

This time my mother was using the Togi-jiru for cooking daikon (Japanese radish). Also, she saves the skin after cutting the radish for making dried snacks later on. I love this habit of saving waste. I usually drain the water and keep it for half a day in the fridge to enhance the flavor, but today we take a short-cut. Aki: The rice looks sobeautiful!

Aki: Mochi-mugi (pearl barley) ? I use this to add more fiber. And I add some calcium as well.

The rice will become soft and chewy. Let’s use the purified water. Pour in the water up to the line of white rice 白米. Place it into the rice cooker and set it up to cook. About an hour later..

Once it’s ready, split the rice into 4 sections making a cross. And flip each section with “shamoji” (rice scoop). So that the rice at the bottom won’t become too squishy and some air comes in and mix all the rice evenly. Ok! It’s ready.

My mother used the packed Japanese mixed rice this time, but you can also substitute it with burdocks, carrots, any root vegetables, konjac, which is made from potato, dried shiitake, or fried tofu. I love Japanese mixed rice so I hope you try making it yourself too! Miso soup Let’s make some miso soup next, the soul food of Japan! Miso Soup Recipe (for two people): Miso paste (a mixture of Haccho and Shinshu miso) 1 block of Tofu A bit of green onion Japanese broth >2 handfuls of Tuna flakes >5 cm of Sea weed Ok, let me explain how to make Japanese broth first. I’ve soaked the tuna flakes and the sea weed in water since last night.

And naturally a mild broth is made. I just use it for the miso soup. This is how much you need for the miso soup for 2 people. You wanna try it?

Whoa...! It’s so tasty.

Strain it and only extract the broth. The last drip is the most delicious one. I re-use these tuna flakes and the sea weed for simmered veggies later. Heat it up until it boils. I add some miso once the broth is boiling.

This is the mixture of 2 types of miso (Haccho and Shinshu). The small one is for 1 person and the other one I’m using is for 2 people. And we strain the miso with this too. I guess the miso gets strained enough, so it’s good now. Let’s cut the green onion and the tofu.

It tastes better if you add a lot but don’t worry if you don’t have enough. Let’s keep them in a soup bowl. This is how I cut tofu. My mother used to cut it on her palm. Ok, let’s put them in here and boil.

But don’t let it boil too much because the good bacteria from the miso dies. All right, this is good. Pour the miso soup over the green onion in the soup bowl like this. And here we are. Miso soup is ready.

Shio-koji-marinated Salmon This is a dish with the secret Japanese recipe, “shio-koji” or salted rice malt. Shio-koji-marinated Salmon Recipe (for two people): 2 slices of salmon A bit of Shio-koji Some vegetables like sprouts and broccolis 1-2 slices of lemon 1-2 slices of tomato ②Trivia: what’s shio-koji (salted rice malt)? Shio-koji is a traditional Japanese fermented seasoning, mixing rice malt, salt, and water.It’s simple. We actually call it, “a magical seasoning” since we can use it not only as a condiment, but we can also add it to meat or vegetables to make them softer and tastier.

How crazy is that!? This means shio-koji turns the protein from the ingredients into umami (good flavor) and brings your dishes to a higher level of flavor. Try googling how to make it if you’re interested. I really love it.

All right, let’s get back to where we were. So today I use salmon, which I’ve soaked in Shio-koji for half a day. I use this fish grill for one piece of salmon. And I use the pan for the other salmon with kitchen paper underneath it. I put some sprouts and broccoli on the side.

I personally think these green colors add a good balance of color to the plate. It looks pretty good. Oops, the skin got stuck on the kitchen paper a bit. (gasp) It needs to be cooked a bit more. I guess it’d be better if we have some of these too.

I’ll use them later. It’s easier to burn it if you use the shio-koji. Does it look good?

Let’s see if it’s ready yet. This one I cooked using the fish grill. It’s still simmering. Should I put it this way? Do they look ok?

Aki: Excellent! "4. Chikuzen-ni (Simmered Root Vegetables with Chicken)" Chikuzen-ni is a traditional local food in the Chikuzen Area of Fukuoka Prefecture. This is also one of the traditional Japanese home dishes. Let’s get started!

Chikuzen-ni (simmered root vegetables with chicken) Recipe (for 6 people): -250g of Chicken breast or thigh) - 2 carrots - 6 shiitakes - 10cm of lotus root - 5 taro - Some Konjac" Chikuzen-ni (Simmered Root Vegetables with Chicken) I’ll use some chicken. By using a variety of vegetables, we often eat this dish at celebrations. Cut the chicken to the size where you can easily eat. After putting the chicken into a small bowl, I’ll add some sea salt from Okinawa. Since the sea salt contains a lot of minerals, I like using it.

It’s called “Nuchi maasu. Sprinkle some salt and pepper too. Marinate it for a while. I’ll use carrots, shiitake, lotus root, and taro. Taro need to be peeled and soaked in water.

This is the chicken I marinated earlier. I also need to prepare lotus root before cooking. So I’ll show you how. This slicer works really good so it’s my favorite. I got it as a gift :) So first I peel the skin of the lotus root.

And then cut them coarsely into chunks. This cutting style is called “ran-giri” in Japanese. The lotus root changes color really fast, so I keep them in water with a bit of vinegar I also cut the taro into chunks. Taro can be very slippery so be careful when you cut them. You’ll get a denser flavor if you use the dried-shiitake.

But we have these fresh ones today so let’s use them. For konjac, I tear them apart like this into pieces. Ok, let’s drain the lotus root. Turn on the stove and pour in some rice oil. If you add some sesame oil, you’ll get a more profound aroma. You can also use it for salad, etc.

I’m using this pan made of copper, which can transmit the heat more. First I cook the chicken. Reduce the heat when they are golden colored Once the chicken are cooked, add in the other ingredients. This is not for 2 people but 6. Once all the ingredients are slightly cooked, add some hot water into the leftover broth to boost it up again.

It’ll extract more if you use the hot water. This is called, “the second extract broth”. Pour it over the ingredients in a pot. Add some mirin (sweet sake) with soy sauce at the ratio of 2:1. Mirin tastes like a mixture of sake and sugar.

It’s made out of mochi (sticky) rice. I personally like this one from Aichi prefecture called, ”Mikawa mirin”. This is a naturally brewed soy sauce made in a Yoshino pine cask. Pour them all here and we just need to cook a bit longer. As for the flavor, since we eat this for a few days, it’s better to make it light first and then add more to it later on.

Simmered vegetables absorb the flavor when cooling down So I make it boil and wait it to cool down. Let’s adjust the flavor. Hmm. Should be ok. Now we place this weight called, “Otoshi-buta”.

It skims the foam better if you put a kitchen paper in between. There’s actually a tool called, “aku-tori” to skim the foam, but with the kitchen paper and the “Otoshi-buta” skim off the foam better. Finally Chikuzen-ni is cooked. Lastly I sprinkle some cooked green beans to make the overall color brighter. Aki: So color is very important in cooking?

Of course! It really matters. So now we have green, red, brown, and black. All right, dinner is ready! Tada-!

Let’s try it out! Tasting “Itadaki-masu” "“Itadaki-masu” (Thank you for the meal)" “Douzo” (hope you enjoy it!)

Ahhh the mixed rice is so tasty!!

Omg! The broth tastes incredible! It makes sense you soaked it since this morning. Mom: Since last night. Oh, right.

Ahhh this is the best! Gochiso sama deshita. You’re welcome. “Osomatsu-sama deshita.

Okay, how did you like it? Did you find any of the recipes interesting to make? I’ve eaten lots of delicious dishes around the world but my mothers’ are the best. If you have any recipe requests for my mother, please let us know in the comments!

Stay safe, have fun and thank you so much for watching my videos. I hope to see you in the next video! Bye bye! Aki: What’s this? It’s a little thing, where you can put the ladle and the cooking chopsticks!

Aki: Lol It’s too cute, mom. I usually keep the salt bottle here but if you flip it upside down, you can keep the lid like this. "Aki: Whaaat...sugoi (amazing).

It’s cute and fancy. Yes, these are my kawaii goods ;)