---
video_title: "9 Things to Declutter RIGHT NOW for a Simple and Mindful Life😁"
video_id: E7j894N29Us
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E7j894N29Us
video_date: 2024-10-19
video_description: |
  9 things you can simply declutter right now to make space for positive energy and enable a mindful life.
  
  0:41 1. Obvious Trash
  1:44 2. Broken Items
  2:53 3. Items Linked to Bad Memories
  4:04 4. Dirty Items
  6:00 5. Television
  7:04 6. Excessive Decorations
  8:04 7. Withered Plants
  9:05 8. Old Stuffed Animals or dolls
  10:05 9. Cables and Wires
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  REFERENCES:
  ・10 Simple Mindsets to Help You Let Go of Things!
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/JiHcIdPIw6E
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Today I will be talking about 9 things that you should consider throwing away right now for your simple mindful life. These are items I actually got rid of, and I felt so much lighter and mindful afterward. Simply put, they're things that give you negative information or trigger negative associations. In Japan, we call these objects “悪い気の物 things that carry negative 'energy.' Just getting rid of things like that will totally change your life. Let’s get started!

1. Obvious Trash Take a look around your room. Is there any trash lying around? If so, get rid of it immediately. Because people tend to associate trash with something negative, like messy, dirty or unnecessary, right?

This means that every time you see trash in your room, you end up feeling a little negative. If you could think of trash as treasure, like I do when I pick up litter while walking outside, I mean if you can see trash in a positive way, then maybe it's ok to have some in your room even if it's inside. But that’s not the case for most people, is it? So, if trash is scattered around in your room, let’s gently pick it up and toss it out. Then, your room will feel a little more positive.

2. Broken Items Do you have broken dishes, damaged electronics, or torn clothes lying around? If so, I recommend letting them go too. They might be fixable, but for now, it's something that's broken, triggering negative thoughts like "Awww I’m sad…I can’t use this." Right? So that’s why it’s better to get rid of them.

Of course you can fix them too. And the great thing about repairing is that it’s possible to transform the negative energy into something positive. For example, through the Japanese art of “kintsugi” (golden repair). Here’s my favorite cup that recently broke... I accidentally dropped it…I was so sad.

So now, I’m in the process of repairing it with “kintsugi” By doing so, the negative association of "I can’t use this anymore" turns into a positive one: "This is a unique, one-of-a-kind cup." Suddenly, it starts emitting positive energy. This is the power of repairing. So if you have broken items, think if you can fix it and if you can't, let them go. 3. Items Linked to Bad Memories

If you have things like that, throw them out. Because every time you see them, even if you don't see them, just feeling their presence brings back unpleasant memories and triggers negative emotions. For example: - Gifts or letters from an ex-partner. - Diaries filled with negative feelings from your youth. - Uniforms that remind you of tough or painful training.

These are things I’ve personally let go of. Honestly, I couldn’t get rid of them right away because, even though they held bad memories, I thought they were still a part of my life. But every time I cleaned my room, seeing those things always made me feel negative. Then I thought this is enough! Finally, take the plunge and let go of those items.

For me, it’s easier to get rid of these if I do it as a ritual. Trust me! You’ll feel a massive sense of relief afterward! 4. Dirty Items Items that are dirty usually bring up negative associations like “This is not clean, or gross” so it’s best to either clean them or get rid of them.

In my experience, these three items are especially important to check: -1. Shoes There’s a saying: “Shoes reflect a person’s character.” I used to wear dirty shoes without a second thought, but after hearing this, I started trying to wear clean shoes. Not only does wearing clean shoes feel better, but I’ve noticed it also changes how others perceive me. -2. Wallet

In Japan,some people say: “Your wallet is your money’s home.” Would you prefer to live in a dirty house or a clean one? Of course, a clean house, right? Money feels the same—it wants to live in a clean space. So, it’s important to keep your wallet clean and tidy.

-3. Clothes A friend of mine recently said something insightful: “Clothes are what wrap you.” When I heard of these words, I was like wow Think about gift wrapping. If the wrapping is dirty, you probably won’t feel very good about it, right? If so, you probably wouldn’t want something dirty wrapping you up, because that wouldn’t feel too great.

It's like a human present So, If you have these items, it’s better to clean them or change them to new ones. 5. Television Sorry, I’m not criticizing people who love TV! I know there are plenty of entertaining shows out there. Naruto, One piece and any kind of Anime. I loved watching them on TV.

But for me, It had a more negative influence than positive. For example - Lots of Ads designed that fuel desires, - Negative news, especially in Japan - Lavish celebrity lifestyles... It didn’t leave me feeling good after watching.

So I decided to let it go and felt like a huge weight was lifted, almost like my life had transformed. Since I let go of my TV, I’ve been feeling less negative, and more importantly, I found I had so much more free time. I think getting rid of TV was one of the best decisions I’ve ever made in my life! 6. Excessive Decorations Excessive decorations don’t necessarily carry bad energy, but they do sometimes diminish the flow of good energy.

In a previous video, I talked about the minimalist mindset: “Respect the empty space.” Empty spaces are key to helping you relax. In other words, they are filled with positive energy. When you fill a room with too many decorations, you take away that space. For example, imagine covering this room with lots of decorations, Oh, this isn't mine—it's my brothers.

It might look cool and stylish, but they took away the calming empty space. Doesn’t it start to feel a bit cramped? Can you really relax with these?

If you don't feel like you can relax, it’s a good idea to start letting go of your decorations little by little! 7. Withered Plants Have you ever accidentally let a plant in your room die? This is an example I made, but yes, I have… Of course it's best to keep them alive, but it happens sometimes due to environmental changes like temperature. I get the feeling of wanting to hold on to them, even if they’re withered, because it’s something you’ve cared for.

But unfortunately, withered plants tend to evoke feelings of weakness or decline, and as such, they don’t carry the best energy. In feng shui, it’s said that having withering plants in your space can lower your good fortune. So, when this happens,it's best to let it go. That said, it’s still sad, so I always say, "Sorry I didn’t take good care of you. Thank you for living with me."

8. Old Stuffed Animals or dolls I used to have a lot of stuffed animals—like a Kirby plush, for example. They’re cute! But I don’t keep any stuffed animals now. If the plush is new and clean, it’s totally OK.

But old ones tend to get dirty and carry negative energy. In feng shui, it is believed that stuffed animals can easily absorb energy from their surroundings, whether negative or positive. I don’t know about you, but there’s something a little creepy about old stuffed animals or dolls, right? I think that might be because of that! That’s why I no longer keep stuffed animals in my room.

But of course, they’re still cute! So if I do decide to keep stuffed animals or dolls again, I place them in a clean and bright space so that they can absorb positive energy! 9 Cables Finally, let's talk about cables. Cables, like trash, tend to multiply without us even realizing it, right? When you see a bundle of them, what comes to mind?

Spaghetti? If you’re able to think of spaghetti, that’s actually a positive association, so maybe it’s okay to keep them as they are. But in most cases, we associate tangled cables with “messy” or “complicated,” right? And looking at them doesn’t usually spark joy or give off positive energy. So, if you have a lot of cables lying around, it’s time to declutter and let go of the extras.

I found that clearing out the tangled mess will also help clear out the mental clutter! So give it a try! Did anything come to mind that you’d like to part with? If so, check out this video to make the process of getting rid of it even more enjoyable! 今日もありがとう！ See you in the next video!