---
video_title: "7 Healthy Habits in Okinawa, Japan🇯🇵!"
video_id: KVJ9GUgVCiQ
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KVJ9GUgVCiQ
video_date: 2024-03-09
video_description: |
  In this video,  I'm going to talk about 7 Healthy Habits of Okinawan people:)
  
  0:00 Opening
  0:31 Christal
  1:51 Food
  4:00 Ead moderately
  6:22 Alcohol
  10:05 Moving around
  11:56 Kind
  13:09 Social connections
  16:13 Nankuru Naisa !!!
  19:38 Ending
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  This is her (Christal Burnette) company!
  If you are interested in it, please check it out!
  
  ・Haitai
  ▶︎https://haitailife.com/
   
  ・Christal Burnette - Haitai Longevity
  ▶︎https://www.youtube.com/@christal.haitai
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Harahachibu But alcohol in moderation is connected to longevity. You know why? I don't know why! “Christal, you want this? You just take it.”

which goes back into Ikigai Don't cancel plans with your friends because social connections is the one of the top reasons for longevity. is the one of the top reasons for longevity. What is the secret? And I asked them and they say, Haisaii!! I'm Aki

Today, I'd like to share with you 7 healthy habits of OKinawa longevity island in Japnan For that I've invited a special guest My friend, Christal Haitai! Can you tell us about yourself for a bit? Yes! My name is Christal Burnette I’m Okinawan health and plant specialists living in Okinawa. I got my graduates degree here in Okinawa at the University of Ryukyu.

That's all in Japanese. I'm not playing games. Alright, and I got my graduate degree, and it was in the Agriculture Department because there is no Longevity Department. Cool if there was. And I studied about plants because we'll talk about this later.

I thought plants were the secret to longevity, Okinawan longevity Right? because it’s a longevity island. And then I studied and I graduated and I decided to start a company in order to promote Okinawans’ health to the world in English. That's so cool. Thank you Because not so many people do that.

No, I thought that there was gonna be a ton of people doing this in Okinawa because the longevity Island, right? Yeah. Blue Zone I came here. I was like, there's gonna be journalists. There's gonna be newspapers and videos and and YouTubers and documentaries and there's a little bit, but no one is living in Okinawa doing anything about it.

Nothing. Except me now, So without further ado, let's start about healthy habit of Okinawa. Yes. The first factor, this is everyone's favorite factor because you can control it, right? What is that?

Food. Okinawan food. I know Okinawan food is a kind of unique. So what kind of food, for example? Okinawans eat a lot of plants to keep it simple.

They just eat a variety of different plants all these different colors. We got Goya(bitter melon), right? Oh, like the rich, you love it? I love it, Goya Chanpuru. Some people can't handle the bitterness.

And then we got Chomeiso, which is my speciality, the long life herb right, that’s a part of it. We have Handama, which is Japanese spinach. it's called Japanese spinach with like One side of it is purple, the other side is green. We have just like a variety of plants that are all different colors, right? They had island carrots not regular carrots Island carrots.

They ate all these plants with all these vitamins and minerals and you would know that by looking at all the different colors. So they had their vegetables and then they had another colorful item, which was purple sweet potato. So, purple sweet potato was their carb. Purple sweet potato, or yellow. So not just everyone's kind of fixated on purple, but it wasn't just purple.

There was a lot of yellow, but again, potato is one of the best carbs you could eat. Mmm. So it's not like many longevity, centenarian Okinawan people eat only vegetables. Not like that? No, that's right.

Another thing is that they are not vegetarian. They are not vegan, Okinawans did eat meat they were trying to survive, first of all, right? After the war, there was not a lot of food even before just when you don't have a lot of food, you're not thinking what's the best diet? What how can I be, you know, the healthiest person in the world? No, you're just thinking live I want to live.

So I've interviewed some Okinawans, They said they eat rabbits. They would look for frogs. They would catch frogs and frogs Yeah, because that was all that was around chickens, pig if they could it was a big one that would eat during celebrations. there's a misconception that Okinawans are vegan but, they are not. They're not.

Especially now. When I interview so many years, Okinawans eat while we're talking and they're eating like pizza, They're eating like steak and they're 93 and they're just super lively, just fascinating I know! Okay, we are pretty much talked about food. So then, let’s move onto next. Number two.

So, the next one would be eat moderately. Don't eat don't overeat. Don't under eaten starve yourself, eat in moderation. And I say that because there's a phrase in Okinawa which is Hara-hachibu. Yes in on 腹八分 Hara-hachibu Hara-hachibu, yes!

In the main island, too. We say that. Oh, really? If you eat until we are 80-percent full, It's considered healthy. Okay.

So yeah, eating moderately, it's a given, as long as you're eating a decent diet. It doesn't matter where you are if you eat moderately. it's great for your digestive system, you know overload it or you don't want to lack nutrition by under eating, right? So just right in the middle. But...

Hara Hachibu is hard to measure Did you eat in 80 % full? And yeah! I totally did it! right? So just right in the middle.

And when I interview elder Okinawans now, I say do you do Hara-hachibu out of all the questions, the one that they say no to is Hara-hachibu. And they say they don't do Hara-hachibu. and I say why and they say it's too hard. It's too hard. It's too hard.

So but what is Hara-hatchibu to them? As an American growing up I overate with my parents all the time. I know that for fact. We would eat so much that on the car ride home, we all felt like so tired, we felt sick because the portions in America are huge. I know, we know, Japanese know.

I know, we know, Japanese know. When Japanese go to America, Wow. This massive steak here. How can we eat it? I’m sorry, I know it’s bad.

But here, it's not that big right? I think people are eating in moderation. They just don't know it. Because it's a very it's perspective. It's really hard.

But there's no doubt in my mind that eating moderately is very important for longevity. Are there any specific food considered healthy when you eat moderately? For example, sugar and sake Yes, that's a good one. Okay, so that's also Okinawans eat dark brown sugar, they drink alcohol. They just don’t overdo it.

So everyone's like sugar is the enemy carbs are the enemy they always think everything foods are the enemy but the Okinawans ate like they drank they had sugar they had sweets. They had all this stuff. They just didn't overdo it. The longevity Okinawans least. The longevity Okinawans the ones that are living past 90, will drink Awamori.

Awamori. Okinawan’s alcohol, which is very low in sugar. Oh, very low in sugar. Yes, if you're gonna drink an alcohol, Awamori is considered in healthy alcohol. I call it the longevity alcohol.

Wow. Didn't know that. So, this is point number three. Oh, right. Alcohol Okay.

Yeah, which people are surprised. But alcohol in moderation is connected to longevity. You know why? I don't know why! Tell me why.

So, like I said, it's connected here. Oh, connected here. Huh？ So, when you drink you relax. Often when you drink you're talking with people. So it's like the winding down of the night.

not over drinking not going crazy like the club, and that's it's connected to your mental health. Wow, that's why. So, for men it's considered about two glasses and woman one glass. One glass. Which is for a lot of people hard to do a moderation.

It's quite hard. Just only one glass? Yeah, so not drinking is okay as well. Just I mean you can choose. Just don't over drink.

But if you can't just don't drink then. That's perfectly fine when it comes to longevity. yeah, yeah. But also, eat moderate sugar is a good habit? Yeah.

Sugar is something that feeds our mind, right? We can't live, we can’t function without carbs, carbs are in sugar, right? We have just a little bit of sugar. There's a certain amount of grams that a human can have during a day as long as you don't go over, it's perfectly fine. Mmm.

So in terms of sugar, Okinawa has unique sugar. Yes. And you're creating that product. Yes. So my company I developed dark brown sugar using Okinawan sugar.

And, it is this! It looks like this. Haitai! Dark Brown Sugar. Like I said, this is Haitai Dark Brown Sugar, I sell it, I export it overseas and sell it.

because I want people to know what this tastes like because this does’t exist America. I'm American. A product like this doesn't exist in America. Doesn't? It doesn't exist.

No black sugar(brown sugar)? No black sugar(brown sugar), No black sugar, no real dark brown sugar, no real. No real. So, what do I mean by real? American sugar is the white sugar, right?

You strip everything from the sugarcane, and you get this purely white sugar. Brown sugar is molasses added to it. You have process it, and process it, and process it. and that's brown sugar in the States. Wow.

Didn't know that. It's not that healthy. No. A lot of process. But Okinawan dark brown sugar is just squeeze the sugarcane, boil the juices, harden it.

That’s it. So, because of that, you keep a lot of vitamins and minerals The taste is vastly different. Taste so much better. Much deeper. It's like the equivalent of like dark chocolate, instead of milk chocolate.

Oh my goodness. I really want to make a matcha latte with this. Yes, that’s a good idea. Yes, good idea. Good with coffee to you.

Good with matcha latte, Yeah. Yes. Cookies. I use these cookies. So American, I make cookies at home.

Wow, so people in Okinawa, they use brown sugar daily basis for kind of making food? They don't use on a daily basis. I'm going back in the moderation part. They use it in the famous sweets that they do eat, Sata Andagi, Okinawan Donuts. Okay, the circle.

Use a dark brown sugar in that, or a lot of them just eat it as is, not every day. But like a lot of the elder Okinawans, they have like, you know, Grandma and grandpa always have a glass bowl sitting here and it's always has dark brown sugar in it, cubes Cubes! and they give it to their grandchildren. Hahaha. Do you also create a square one, too?

I'm currently making a square one. I love it. It would be out in few months. Onegaishimasu. (Looking forward to it.)

What is the number four? The number four is Moving around! I didn't say exercise. What is just moving? Walking, getting up, cooking the food cleaning the house, helping the kids, and then leaving the house, working in the fields, going down to their friend's house, having tea, and then getting up again, walking back home, and then going home, getting ready, cleaning, just constantly moving their body, which sounds super obvious.

Oh my gosh, I do that too. But a lot of people don't do it. I can barely do it because we're now in a society where we're on our computer all the time. Hmm, surely true. You are editing your video that takes hours and hours.

So, you're sedentary. Sedentary means you're not moving. That's most people now these days so you're just not moving compared to Okinawan who's not doing anything crazy, but they're moving around Is there any reason why there can moving around a lot? So I wanted to talk about this because Professor Suzuki mentioned how one of the keys to longevity is the elders don't go into an old person's home? Hmm So when you if you imagine a person going into a caretaker's home, You kind of imagine them sitting in a wheelchair and just watching TV all day or staying in the same room and not really going anywhere.

but the longevity Okinawans who live a very long time, don't have Alzheimer's, don't have any you they're not bedridden they are at home with their family, still getting up and moving. So you see the difference? Oh, yeah instead of it's going to caretakers home. Not really, it’s hard to move. So these longevity Okinawans are moving because they have to.

They have to. The families also like try not to care them too much. Yeah, so they only help them to an extent but they also want them to be independent. Mmm. to an extent as well.

Wow. That's the secret. So what's the number five? Okay, so number five and this is from my personal experience and this is from my personal experience what I've observed with longevity Okinawans Yes. I feel that, too.

That sounds cheesy. How is this connected to longevity? But it is. It is! So, they're givers.

Yes. They're very giving all the time thinking of others. Vegetables fruits you go all the time. I just go to say hi or like just something very small and they're always throwing fruits and vegetables at me. “Christal, you want this?

You just take it.” and they do it in this like nonchalant way because I don't want to make you feel bad for taking because you know, it's like oh no, I don't want to take your food It’s all the time. but it's so kind they want you know that they want to give to you, and they have this kind of helping helping each other. Kind of culture. So again connected to people right helping each other being kind to each other not getting frustrated angry crying, you know, which happens.

Of course, they're in humans. They have emotions. A majority of time. They're just always giving just so nice. Wow！ So the sharing culture is very important, and I believe it's very strongly connected to longevity.

So, why do you think that? Why it's connected to longevity? So this is connected to the next one. Which is? Yeah, so my phrase what I've said, it's an article as well.

I've been quoted this is real. Don't cancel plans with your friends Interesting. There's a lot of memes. There's a lot of things these days and it's like, I said yes to going out with you a week ago, but tonight, I'm just like I want to stay at home and it's like funny because it's like, I've totally related to that, it's weird thing going on the internet, right now. but it's not good like you should go out with your friends.

Even if you are feeling down, you're kind of feeling I don't want to go out tonight Try to really think about why you’re feeling down try to push yourself. If you don't want to go out for a good reason don't go out. That's what I'm saying. But a lot of people are getting too much in their house, too much not seeing people, too much on the internet. Too much on the internet.

It's not good. You got to get out and see people in person because social connections is the one of the top reasons for longevity. Ah, top reasons. People. So going back to what I said is these Okinawans that don't go into the caretaker's home.

The ones that stay at home are seeing their friends, and their family on a daily basis, which causes them to get up, and walk, and move around, and cook, and maybe sometimes drink with them, and relax, and distress, like being with the people, until they're a hundred years old. What is pushing them? which goes back into which goes back into Ikigai It's all connected. It's all connected. Everything I said today is connected to people.

Wow, so, that's the one of the big big habits to become happy. I don't know how to say that. Yeah, to be fulfilled, So you're pretend you're 90 years old and you're waking up in the morning. You have no job, maybe no, Okinawans actually never retire, which is great. But let's let's say that you have no job.

You don't really have you can just chill. Why are you gonna wake up though? Like what's the reason for waking up? You kind of it's when you get older it's you can't go out and do like construction if you were construction worker all day. You have a limit.

But what he's gonna keep you going is people. Right, if you can't work anymore. It's people, or if you still working I work with someone who's 90 years old. He's Japanese. He’s Okinwan.

He sells products on on the base. And I help him because his English is good, but he's getting very old. So, I assist him. He's 90 years old, and when he looks forward to is not bringing the products on base, but me and the other Japanese guy that goes with him. Oh nice!

And when he sees me he gets so happy that's really adorable I'm like, oh this is just him. He's like super lively all the time. But my the person we work with, the guy who we all do the product selling on base with, he says and I was like what? He is only like this when you are here I was like what? A blonde girl just gets to see him because of my business partner is like 40 year old Japanese dude, which still is enough to make him happy.

But when I come around he's like like super Genki (cheerful). Oh my God, it's adorable because again, it's the people it's not bringing the products. It's the people that he gets to say hi to when he walks into the place, and he's like, and you know, People Okay, so finally, the last one. The last one is...

Nankuru Naisa I love that word. You know that word. I love that word. It's okay now in language word It's okay now in language word not Japanese right, you know it How come you know it? Ah, it's kind of like many people know it Nankuru Naisa.

I love that like sound Nankuru Naisa～ So, what does Nankuru Naisa mean? Ok, Nankuru Naisa cannot be translated into just one English word. You have to explain it. Just a lot of Japanese words and Okinawan words are like that. So it's something you say, for example, when your daughter is going to enter high school and she's got the high school entrance exam, which is in Japan, They have entrance exams and she's so worried like, oh my God, if I don't get to this high school, my life is over.

I don't know what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna be so unhappy and as a grandmother, Okinawan’s grandmother, she would say Nankuru naisa Don't worry about, don't think too much but also means what will happen is meant to happen What happens meant to happen, okay. yeah, so it has a spiritual because there's a spiritual culture is ingrained in Okinawan culture. Don't if you overthink it. even if you don't get into the high school you want to it's because it was meant to happen so don't overthink it.

Don't worry too much because that is gonna do nothing for your your mentality or your health. Even if you fail Even if you fail Yes, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Nankuru Naisa It meant to be, meant to happen.

And so what is this connected to this is connected to not stressing. Not Stressing So important. People are stressed constantly. Your body is constantly creating cortisols in your mind and you're constantly stressing your body, which is stress is the number one indirect killer of human beings. and why is that Heart attacks are caused by many factors, but stress is what's pushing them.

Strokes Strokes, yes. It's indirect and its number one is stress. Okay, so don't feel stressed. Don't feel just easier said than done. Stop stressing.

Oh, okay. I'll stop stressing. No, but if you do the Okinawan lifestyle having a glass of Awamori talking to your friend moving around all these things keep the stress levels low when I interview Okinawans and I say, okay stress is huge right? I'm stressed all time. I'm sure you're stressed.

We're not, it's hard. We're in 2024. This is hard to not stress. So, I asked them. How do you de-stress?

I think I've like I'm like so oh my God, I'm gonna get the secret. These longevity of Okinawans. They know how to not stress. They're always chill, What is the secret? And I asked them and they say, I don't stress in the first place That's not helpful. Okay.

so “I'm sorry?” Okay, how? So, they don't know because they do it, naturally. That's the hard thing about longevity Everyone thinks that Okinawans know. What the secret is.

They know because they're doing it. They don't know. They're just living their life. I have to analyze them. They're out in the field, touching the dirt, growing things, harvesting those things, giving to their friends, having less of Awamori at night, cooking for their family, eating down at the table eating with their family, moving around, going to have tea in the afternoon with their friend, nothing crazy.

it's the little things, simple things which you are very good at I've seen YouTube channel. You know about minimalism. Yeah. The simplicity of Life. Yes.

You're on your way to longevity, maybe. Oh, thank you. Yeah, I try not to feel stress. Yeah, that's it. That's it.

Yeah, that's it. Thank you so much. Yeah, of course. It's cool. Oh, maybe, the listeners learn a lot today.

I think, yeah, I hope so. It sounds so simple, but anyone can do it, no matter where they are. Like I said, it's not about the food. You don't have to like go out and buy bitter melon, these really hard to buy vegetables. It's not what it is.

It's all the methods we say today. You can do it anywhere in the world. Mmm, anywhere in the world That’s important. Anywhere in the world, you can do it. It's small habits.

So yeah, you can take some habits from this video at least one I hope this video will help you simple, happy, and healthy life. Yes! so I hope to see you in the next video. せーの（Ready）Okinawan verson ニフェーデービル（Thank you） ユタシク ウニゲーサビラ（Looking forward to it） Bye bye!!