---
video_title: "10 Simple Mindsets to Help You Let Go of Things!"
video_id: JiHcIdPIw6E
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JiHcIdPIw6E
video_date: 2024-10-12
video_description: |
  In this video, I’m going to share my top 10 mindset tips for letting go of things.
  
  0:33 1. You Find Your True Self
  1:40 2. Grand Experiment
  3:12 3. Positive Act
  4:03 4. Objects and Memories Are Two Different Things
  5:36 5. ”Someday”Never Comes
  6:21 6. Money and Things are Separate
  7:56 7. It’s Okay to Let Go of Gifts
  8:48 8. Small Steps Are Totally Fine
  9:40 9. Letting Go of Heavy Things Will Lighten Your Heart
  11:02 10. An Empty Space Deserves Respect
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MORE VIDEOS:
  ・20 Things that I let go of  to make my life SIMPLE, more MINDFUL, and FREE as a Minimalist
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/SVMv29oRKQs
  
  ・7 Tips to Keep Your Room Simple by Following Japanese Tea Ceremony!
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/aR8FA2Q_vPw
  
  ・My new perspective as a minimalist: 7 items that I got rid of in 2023!
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/IUlGOjH86aM
  
  ・7 most effective ways to let go of things as a Japanese minimalist.
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/iduPssTUirY
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
In this video, I’m going to share my top 10 mindset tips for letting go of things. These are the lessons I’ve learned after years and years of living a simple life. Honestly, I wish I could go back and teach this to my 20-year-old self! lol By understanding these, you’ll change your mindset and letting go of things becomes so much fun, and you’ll be able to live a more fulfilling simple life. Alright, let’s get started!

Letting Go of Things Helps You Find Your True Self When you let go of your possessions, have you ever thought “These were part of my life; I feel like tossing away a piece of my history.” I totally get that. But with that mindset, it becomes really hard to let things go. The truth is, it’s not like that at all. Letting go of things is actually a process of uncovering your true self not like losing a part of yourself.

Right now, you already own a lot of things. And among those, there’s probably a bunch of stuff you don’t need. These things create noise, making it harder for you to see your true self. That’s the reality. The act of letting go is about stripping away that noise.

In other words, by keeping only what truly sparks joy in you right now, you discover your unique style—the real you. That’s what letting go of things is really about. Letting Go of Things is a Grand Experiment I mentioned earlier that letting go of things helps you find your unique style. But this process doesn’t just happen in one go. For example, just because you’ve done the KonMari method once doesn’t mean that’s the end.

It’ll bring you closer to your ideal life, but one round won’t give you the perfect version of your style. It’s like one big experiment. You need to let go of things over and over again, and sometimes accept new things, to truly understand what you really need. For example, my summer wardrobe from three years ago looked like this.I used to wear slim-fit pants.

But now, it looks like this.I’ve switched to a more Aladdin-style because they’re loose and super comfortable. I feel so much more freedom! On top of that, somehow, these pants actually go well with a kimono! This is the optimal style I’ve finally found through constant experimentation.

Sure, I’ve thrown away things I didn’t need to, or bought things I shouldn’t have. There were lots of mistakes. But that’s okay. It’s all part of the experiment. You never know unless you try.

So, try things out and see what works for you. Letting Go of Things is a Positive Act People who struggle to reduce things often have a negative mindset about it. They might think, “I have to live with less and just endure it,” or “I need to save money, so I guess I’ll have to cut back.” But no no no… it just brings a sense of inferiority. The purpose of letting go should always be positive.

You’re reducing your possessions to make your life more free, simple, and enjoyable. You’re not ”forced”to give up your things. You ”could” keep them, but you’re choosing to let them go because it’s a step toward living your ideal life. Letting go of things is always a positive choice! Objects and Memories Are Two Different Things I often hear people say “ I can’t let go of sentimental items or keepsakes.”

And I get it—those things can be really hard to part with. Why? Because we attach memories to them. And memories come with a whole lot of emotions. That’s why it can feel like you’re throwing away not just the item, but the memories and emotions.

But think about it. Where do those memories and emotions really exist? Are they “in” the item? No, they’re inside “you”. They live in your heart.

Even if you let go of the object, the memories remain with you. So, you can let go of the item—it’s okay. I’ve personally let go of many sentimental things over the years. Gold medals from sports competitions. Love letters. Keepsakes from my grandfather.

At first, I felt sad. But even after I let them go, the memories stayed just as clear in my mind. Another great thing that happened? I stopped being so attached to the past, and I felt a huge sense of relief, like a weight had been lifted off my shoulders. If you still find it too hard to let go, that’s totally okay.

Don’t force it. Let go when you feel ready. ”Someday”Never Comes “This isn’t something I use right now, but I might need it someday…” This is one of the most common phrases people use when they can’t let go of things. I used to say it all the time too. But in my experience, that “someday” almost never comes.

95% of the time, it doesn’t happen. So, if you’re not using it now, it’s totally fine to let it go. “But what if it’s in the 5%?” In that case, you can buy it again. Remember, I said letting go of things is like a big experiment.

Those kinds of mistakes happen. The key is to just try it out. And you learn more and more about yourself. Money and Things are Separate “This outfit… I don’t use it anymore, but it was expensive, so I can’t throw it away.” I bet someone, somewhere in the world is saying that right now. I know I’ve said it before.

I once had a favorite, expensive coat. It cost about 30,000 yen (roughly $200), which was a lot of money for a younger me. I used it for about five years, but eventually, I stopped wearing it. Then came the question—should I get rid of it? But I couldn’t, because it was expensive.

I’d open my closet, see the coat, and hesitate again. And again, I couldn’t bring myself to throw it away. Every time I looked at my closet, I wasn’t seeing the coat—I was seeing 30,000 yen. But then one day, I came across this quote: “It doesn’t matter if it’s expensive or cheap. If it’s something you don’t need, it’s still unnecessary. Keeping it won’t bring the money back.”

That really hit me. So, I decided to finally let it go. Well, technically, I donated it. And you know what? I felt *so* much lighter.

The stress of that “30,000 yen” sitting in my closet was gone. Plus, I felt good knowing I donated it to someone who could use it. No matter how expensive something is, if you don’t need it now, it’s better to let it go. It’s Okay to Let Go of Gifts "I can’t throw away gifts." This is a common struggle I hear about too.

Technically, once you’ve received a gift, it’s yours, and you can do whatever you want with it. But I totally understand feeling bad about letting it go because you don’t want to hurt the giver’s feelings. This is where Marie Kondo’s mindset really helps. “A gift is meant to deliver the sender’s feelings more than the actual item.” What’s important is to accept the thought behind the gift and say “thank you” for it.

And the moment you receive the gift, that exchange is already complete. So, it’s okay to let go of the gift afterward. Whenever I let go of a gift, I always say, “Thank you for the joy you gave me” and then I part with it. Small Steps Are Totally Fine The KonMari Method is really famous, and I like it too, but it definitely takes a lot of energy and time. Cleaning doesn't have to be such a big deal.

Konmari method is fine, but small steps are totally okay~ Just 5-10 minutes a day is enough. The key is to keep at it daily. The best time? In the morning. If you wait until the evening, you would say “I’m too tired” then you might skip it.

Start with the areas you use the most. Personally, I recommend beginning with a drawer. It’s quick, and you feel great! Tidying up → feeling good. Move to another place...

Tidying up → feeling good. Those small steps will gradually bring your space closer to your ideal room! Letting Go of Heavy Things Will Lighten Your Heart Yes, the weight of your possessions is inversely related to how light you feel inside. I realized this during my bike journey. For example, when my bike was loaded with a ton of stuff, it made everything more exhausting. My mood would drop, and I’d start thinking,

“Ugh, this is heavy... I just want to get to the next stop.” But when I reached my destination and unloaded everything, cycling suddenly felt like a breeze—"This is so light! I could go anywhere!" I felt so great.

I’m sure you can imagine that feeling, right? Now, what if I told you this also happens even when you’re not physically carrying things? That’s right—just seeing heavy objects in your space can affect how you feel. For example, I used to have this big and heavy desk. Feels kinda heavy, right?

But I replaced it with a lightweight bamboo desk, doesn’t your mood feel a little lighter? In my experience, letting go of heavy items can lighten your mood. So, is there anything “heavy” sitting around in your room right now? If so, why not try letting it go and see how it makes you feel? An Empty Space Deserves Respect Sometimes when people see a minimalist's room, they might say, “It looks so empty, kind of sad.”

But actually, it’s the empty space that we should truly respect. Why? Because it creates room for mental clarity and peace. Take a look at traditional Japanese paintings, for example. There’s often a lot of empty space, but that emptiness creates depth and a sense of openness. Doesn’t it also help your mind feel calm?

Now imagine if it was cluttered like this: It would feel cramped and overwhelming, right? Or think about a tea room—there’s always empty space. It’s that empty space that allows you to relax, right? An empty space plays an important role in giving your mind room to breathe. So yes, an empty space deserves your respect. Which mindset did you like the most?

Feel free to share it in the comments!

I really hope this video helps you on your journey toward your ideal simple life. Thank you as always, and see you next time!