---
video_title: "How to Make Delicious Japanese Rice | Vlog (Part 2/3)"
video_id: PIEY5iHf_NY
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PIEY5iHf_NY
video_date: 2024-08-10
video_description: |
  In this video, I'll show you how to plant rice, explain why Japanese people are so meticulous, and share the secret of how to make truly delicious rice!
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Here are the links for part 1 and part 3 of the series: 
  
  ▶ How to Grow Organic Japanese Rice | Vlog (Part 1/3) 
  https://youtu.be/s3qny8lpeOY
  
  ▶ How to Harvest Organic Rice in Japan | Vlog (Part 3/3)
  https://youtu.be/dA9UYe811OE
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  ABOUT TSUJI FARM💕:
  ▶︎ Private Rice Agriculture Experience in Mie
  https://www.viator.com/ja-JP/search/417561P3?mcid=64243
  
  ▶︎ Youtube
  https://www.youtube.com/@tarafukuricefarm6709
  
  ▶︎ Tsuji Farm HP (Tarafuku Rice Farm)
  https://tarafuku.org/english/
  
  ▶︎ New Brand(Brown Rice)
  https://tarafuku.net/collections/千年玄米
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Alright, this year I've started an exciting adventure: growing organic rice! Last time, I experienced winter to spring work. Today, it's all about spring rice planting. In this video, I'll show you how to plant rice, explain why Japanese people are so meticulous, and finally, share the secret to making truly delicious rice. Enjoy watching until the end :) Just like last time, I'm taking a train to Tsu City in Mie Prefecture.

Farmer Tsuji-san picked me up at the station. We headed to Tsuji Farm by car. Changes in the Rice Field First, I was amazed by the changes in the rice field at Tsuji Farm. Look at this! Where there was nothing before, now there are seedlings sprouting up!

It makes me so happy :) The inside of the greenhouse had changed too. The seedlings have grown even more! It felt like taking care of little children—so endearing. Planting Rice (with a machine) There are two main ways to plant rice: using modern machinery or the traditional hand method. Nowadays, rice planting is mostly done by machines, but there are still few places where it's done by hand.

So, how does it work? First, let's look at the machine method! Rice planting(machine) Step 1:代掻き- Shirokaki First, we plow and irrigate the fields, called "Shirokaki," by adding water and making the soil soft and muddy, making it easier to plant. Step 2: Transporting Seedlings As mentioned in the previous video, organic seedlings need to grow larger than usual to compete with weeds. We transport these grown seedlings to the field using a light truck.

Step 3: Planting We use a specialized machine for planting. One person rides the machine while another transports the seedling blocks, working together in sync. The spacing and width for planting are all calculated and done with precision. It looks simple, but it requires skilled technique. Also, controlling the water level helps with weed management. It’s a busy time,

so rice farmers are always on the go in their light trucks during this season. Planting Rice (by hand) This time, I got to try hand-planting. Even though I'm Japanese, it was my first time! Many people who grew up in the countryside have done it, but city folks like me often haven’t. I wore ninja-style boots, and let's go!

We arrived at the rice fields! Let’s go into the paddy! Whoa, my foot is sinking. I'm nervous! Planting rice by hand is simple. Tsuji-san showed me how.

Pick a suitable amount from the seedling block. Pinch it between your index and middle fingers. Bury it about 2-3 cm into the soil. That’s it. This time, we’re planting the parts which the machine couldn't plant properly.

Alright, let's give it a try. I was awkward at first, but I got better! It’s fun moving and touching the soil. I feel like I'm part of the nature I mean it's so grounding But imagine, people used to do all of this by hand. It’s incredible.

While planting, I realized something. Why Japanese People Are Meticulous Here’s a famous photo. Can you guess which row is the Japanese one? Yes, this one. Japanese people are meticulous and love order.

Where does this trait come from? I think it comes from rice planting. Look at this field. The rows are perfectly aligned. Just like stickers!

When I realized this, I thought, “This is why Japanese people are so meticulous!” and I was deeply moved. How to Cook Delicious Rice Tsuji Farm’s staff member, Shio-chan, shared a video on how to cook delicious rice. I'll explain it in English. Step 1: Preparation You need a rice cooker, rice, kitchen scale, strainer, and soft water.

The first key to delicious rice is accurate measurements. Usually, we use cups to measure rice, but for precision, use a scale. One cup (合go) is 150g. We’re making three cups (合go), so 450g. Next, the strainer. While metal strainers are fine,

plastic ones are better for white rice to avoid over-scraping. For brown rice, metal is recommended as it scratches the brown rice and helps absorb water better. Put the rice in the strainer and add water. The key here is to use soft water. It’s more easily absorbed, making the rice softer. So choose water with a hardness of 0-100.

Step 2: Washing the Rice Let’s move on to washing the rice. First, soak the rice in water quickly and drain that water. Next! This is the most important part! To make delicious rice, don’t mix it roughly, gently pinch the rice like this..

You want to aim for about 30 pinches per cup, so in this case, 90 times. After that please check the smell; if it has a slight bran scent, it’s ready! Then, rinse with water. Repeat the soaking and draining process three times. Drain thoroughly, and it’s done.

Step 3: Storing in the Fridge After washing the rice, let it soak in water in the fridge for 40 minutes so that the water goes into the rice properly. This time, it depends on the rice you use, but use about 190 ml of water per cup of rice. After that, cover with plastic wrap and store in the fridge for 40 minutes. The reason for refrigeration is to inhibit bacterial growth at room temperature. Step 4: Cooking the Rice Now, it’s finally time to cook the rice.

The tedious task is finally over. It’s easy! Put the soaked rice and water into the rice cooker and start cooking. Once done, open the lid immediately and stir. Cut it into a cross and flip each.

This makes the rice fluffier. And there you have it, delicious rice! Tai-meshi (Sea Bream Rice) Using this method, Tsuji-san made Tai-meshi for me. I was very hungry after all the planting. Yum! Looks delicious!

Let’s try it. This is soooo goood!!! I was amazed at how different cooking methods could change the taste so much!

If you eat rice regularly, definitely try this method :) At Tsuji Farm, you can experience Japanese rice farming just like I did. So if you’re interested, come visit Tsuji Farm! I put a link in the description to the one-day experience tour.

The next video will be about the autumn harvest. I’m so excited to see the rice we’ll get!! I can't wait to eat it! Alright then! Thank you for watching and I hope to see you in the next video!