---
video_title: "7 ways my life has changed after minimizing belongings!"
video_id: ST_3P7px1OQ
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ST_3P7px1OQ
video_date: 2024-03-02
video_description: |
  Hi, everyone! Today I’d like to share with you 7 ways my life has changed after minimizing belongings!
  
  00:38 1. Less economic anxiety
  02:26 2. Your stress of ties with 
  people disappears
  04:08 3. You become healthier
  04:56 4. You can adopt good habits
  06:48 5. You get more freedom
  08:21 6. You can create YOUR life
  09:24 7. Now, Here, Full Power
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  If you would like you know more related content, feel free to check out some of my other videos :)
  How I save money ▶︎ https://youtu.be/uZTC5cOb26Q
  7 effective ways to let go of things  ▶︎ https://youtu.be/iduPssTUirY
  KONMARI METHOD Clean and Declutter with me 2022　▶︎ https://youtu.be/WL-JIW57npM
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Hi, everyone! Today I’d like to share with you 7 ways my life has changed after minimizing belongings! To be honest, I used to live in a messy room like this before. At that time, I was working at a Japanese company in Tokyo and had such a stressful life. I only had a little money so I bought some cheap meals at a convenience store pretty often.

Yeah, I had a highly unhealthy life. But one habit changed the whole situation. It was to reduce belongings. So let me tell you how my life changed after reducing them. You have less economic anxiety Have you had the experience of having a very small amount of money left even if you don’t remember using the salary so much?

Yup, I was exactly in that situation in my early 20s. So I was worried about money all the time. I just thought, “I’m anxious because I don’t have enough money!” and I tried to attend this sketchy seminar on how to be a millionaire and actually started a business. However, no matter how much I made money, the anxiety I had about it never disappeared.

But, I finally had less anxiety when I let go of things. Since I was aware of “the minimum things I needed in my life,” there was no need to spend money on unnecessary things. For example, if you know the minimum amount of clothing and shoes that you need, there’ll be less opportunity to buy them, right? If you don’t spend money on unnecessary things, you’ll be able to better calculate the minimum cost of living you need per month. To give an example, when I had a simple life at the village in Nagano, the monthly minimum cost of living was about $600.

When I found it out, I was like, “oh, I only need this much to survive,” and got so assured. I wasn’t aware of the essential items in the past; that’s why I didn’t know how much money I needed, and that made me anxious. So I tried to make as much money as I could, but even when I made some, my anxiety stayed. What matters is not to make money, but to know how much the cost of living you really need! And to find it, you need to know what the minimum items are for you!

Your stress of ties with people diseases As you hold on to fewer items, interestingly, your interpersonal relationships also become simpler. Because you can “let go” of ties you don’t need “now”. Let me share my story here.

or business seminars. I was mostly attending all the dinners and parties that I was invited to since I couldn’t say “no”. Of course, it was fun for a while, but… I kinda wasted time and stressed myself out by being overly considerate. And I got scammed once for 2 million yen lol I was so social that my interpersonal relationships got wider, but I was wasting time, willpower, and even money. Have you had that experience too?

If you’re in this kind of situation right now, please try reducing your belongings It's all about the process of letting go, keeping only what you need right now. As you go through that journey, you develop the ability to choose what's essential for your life. For example, when you're picking something out, going like, "Yeah, I love this," or "Nah, I don't really need this," over and over again, you start getting a feel for whether it's something you really need right now. And this ability can have a great impact on choosing the people I want to surround myself with. For me, I used to be a "YES" person for everything, even when I was invited by people I didn’t really know what I really needed.

But now I can confidently say "NO" and direct my energy intentionally towards people and gatherings that truly matter in my life. It's a game-changer for me. As you let go of things, you’ll be able to naturally consider them. You become healthier What surprised me the most after reducing my belongings was my health. I realized I was getting healthier as I let go of things.

As you reduce items, you’ll naturally start wondering if “you really need them or not “ when you buy them. Because you want fewer things. So in my case, I had a habit of thinking that when I buy food. I was asking myself “Do I really need this food?” and I choose healthier foods naturally.

I used to not care what I ate, so I was buying bento boxes or snacks from the convenience store, which were full of additives. But I barely buy them now. And of course, I got healthier! This was an unexpected secondary effect. You can adopt good habits “Let's start the habit of waking up early!”

Even when you started, have you had the experience of staying up late like usual and can’t keep up with that habit? Well, I have the habit of waking up early now, but I couldn’t even start it in my early 20s. But as I started having fewer things, I could start adopting some good habits. I wondered why and researched it. And I learned that reducing stress was the key.

In an experiment conducted at UCLA and Duke University, the results showed that people tend to engage in habitual behaviors when experiencing stress. Essentially, it seems that humans follow a pattern of 'experiencing stress → weakened willpower → difficulty in making decisions → inability to change behavior → repeating familiar actions.’ In the example mentioned earlier, this is how we repeatedly engage in the habitual behavior of staying up late. Therefore, when attempting to change habits, it’s crucial to reduce stress first. The quickest and easiest method is to reduce belongings.

When you reduce them... You don't feel overwhelmed by the huge amount of things when you come home. The time spent searching for items decreases.

Your attention is less scattered by belongings. It gets easier to make choices about things that you own. It becomes less likely that you will hit your little toe on objects. These may seem like small things, but the accumulation of these improvements becomes a significant stress reliever. As I said before, there's more willpower for the purpose of "adopting new habits" when dealing with less money issues and less stress on relationships.

By reducing stress, I was able to gradually develop positive habits, one by one. It all started with minimizing belongings. You get more freedom This is what everyone who has minimized possessions tends to feel. The reason is simple: It allows for greater physical mobility. For instance, when I moved rooms in the shared house, it took just 26 minutes to complete!

Even when moving homes, it can be done with just one car. Ultimately, with minimal belongings, you could potentially travel anywhere with just a bicycle. Having fewer possessions makes it easier to move around, enabling a lifestyle free from being tied down to a specific location. Do you know the three elements that can change your life? First one is to change how you allocate your time.

Second is to alter the people you surround yourself with. And the third is to shift your place of residence. The benefits of having the freedom to move are incredibly significant when it comes to changing your life. In my case, whether it was a stroke of luck or misfortune, I became homeless in Tokyo once, which forced me to minimize my possessions. Starting from there, I relocated to Canada and later ended up living in the rural area of Nagano, and my life continued to take positive turns.

Now, I genuinely appreciate the experience of being homeless, as it paved the way for a life with fewer things and greater mobility. It's clear to me now that having the freedom to move and minimizing possessions can truly change your life! You can create YOUR life Which life do you prefer to live? A life where the media influences your desires and dictates your lifestyle, or a life where you design your own way of living? Of course, this one, right?

However, including my past self, many people unconsciously find themselves living the former way. I, embarrassingly, only became aware of this fact through minimizing belongings. And that’s why, I was able to shift towards creating my own way of living. To put it simply, there are four steps. Reducing belongings.

Understanding what’s truly necessary for yourself. Not easily swayed by media ads. Creating a lifestyle based on your own sensibilities. I used to easily give in to media trends and buy a lot of things. And this is how my room ended up.

But now, having minimized belongings and gained clarity on what I truly need, my room has transformed like this. I believe that beyond the influe nce of "media", there lies a truly creative way of life. Now, Here, Full Power In the manga "Vagabond," the legendary swordsman known as Kenpou Yoshioka makes an appearance. I resonate with his words: "There is no 'next' in a fight. Now!

Here! t Translating this into life, it encourages you to "live with full intensity in the present moment." I was drawn to these words because, in my past (and still to some extent today), I carried regrets from the past and anxieties about the future. So, in this moment, the way of living that burns life passionately seemed so beautiful to me. As I mentioned earlier, letting go of things involves not only releasing things that might be useful in the future but also letting go of things used in the past.

In other words, it teaches the importance of discarding the notions of someday' and 'once upon a time' and focusing on the 'now.' By reducing possessions, I have gradually been able to live more fully in the 'here and now,' giving my all to the present moment. Of course, I still have moments where I regret the past and carry anxieties about the future. But I suffer much less now, compared to the past. That’s for sure.

Because throwing things away means focusing on what you need right now. That taught me the importance of focusing on the present moment at all times in my life. Now, here, with full power! Let’s do it together :) Okay, today, I shared 7 ways my life has changed after minimizing belongings! What did you think about them?

I'd be happy if this video made you wanna minimize your belongings. All right, . I’ll see you all in the next video! Bye-bye!