---
video_title: "7 Tips to Keep Your Room Simple by Following Japanese Tea Ceremony!"
video_id: aR8FA2Q_vPw
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aR8FA2Q_vPw
video_date: 2024-02-03
video_description: |
  Today I’ll introduce you to 7 tips on how to keep your room simple.
  A lot of my simple lifestyle is inspired by the Japanese tea ceremony called Chanoyu.
  I’m sure you’ll get a unique perspective to keep your room always clean from this video, so please enjoy until the end!
  
  0:26 1. Start your day by cleaning up in the morning
  1:07 2. Put things back to where they were before going to bed
  1:52 3. Assign addresses to the items
  3:49 4. Make the storage space small
  4:54 5. Leave some empty space in the storage
  6:10 6. Determine the theme of your room
  7:32 7. Determine the number of items
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  Chacha Japan（My teacher's Youtube Channel）:
  ・https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC77ZdLnRagS8zIurn5IdQVQ
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Have you had the experience of having your room get messy over and over, even if you cleaned it up pretty well? This video is for those of you who have ever experienced it. Today I’ll introduce you to 7 tips on how to keep your room simple. A lot of my simple lifestyle is inspired by the Japanese tea ceremony called Chanoyu. I’m sure you’ll get a unique perspective from this video, so please enjoy until the end!

1. Start your day by cleaning up in the morning In Chanoyu, it is essential to clean the utensils before preparing matcha. This practice not only expresses respect for the guests but also serves to purify one's own heart. And I adopt this rule in my everyday life. When I wake up in the morning, I open the window. And I start cleaning up a bit.

By doing this, I notice some small trash or something I don’t need and keep my room clean all the time. Also, cleaning in the morning not only makes the room tidy but also allows you to spend the entire day with a refreshed and clear mindset. If the start of the day matters, so does the end of the day.

Chanoyu is more than just preparing matcha. After making matcha, it is essential to clean the utensils and return them to their original places. When applying this to daily life, it translates to "Always return items to their original places before going to bed" Therefore, take a few minutes before bed to check your surroundings. Are there any items left out of place? If so, put them back where they belong.

By doing this, your space will consistently remain organized. It's that simple. “But, Aki! This simple thing is not so easy for me!” For those of you thinking that, I’ll give you some tips on how to put things back where they belong, which is to… 3. Assign addresses to the items

In Chanoyu, there’re very specific rules about where things should go. For example , 盆略点前 Bonryaku Temae (Simplified tea serving procedure), ¥these these are the designated original positions. Even within the actions, the Fukusa (silk cloth) is placed at 9 o'clock, the Chakin (tea cloth) at 3 o'clock, and the Chashaku (tea scoop) at 4 o'clock. These positions can be considered as the addresses of the items. Having a complete grasp of where everything is, allows the Japanese Tea Ceremony to go smoothly and efficiently.

So, what I'm trying to tell you is that you can aim for this state in your room as well. Even for the smallest items, decide on their designated places. For example, pens go in this drawer in this order. Clothes are in the closet, arranged in this sequence. This will help you decide where to put things and make it easier to find things without having stress.

By the way, if there were no rules about where things should go during the Japanese Tea Ceremony, you’ll be like, "Oh! Where’s the tea bowl? Where’s the tea whisk?" It becomes extremely stressful. And It's not mindful at all.

That‘s why messy rooms seem to be in the exact same situation. “So, Aki! Are there any tips for determining the 'addresses' of items?" Certainly. The key is to place the things you want to use within 5 seconds of reach.

For example, in my case, the broom and dustpan used for cleaning are always hung on the wall. By doing this, after waking up and putting away the futon, I can start cleaning within 5 seconds. Why within 5 seconds? Because if something feels bothersome, people tend not to do it. For example , if these cleaning tools were in the next room, just going to get them would be inconvenient, and you might lose motivation to clean, right?

However, if they are within reach of 5 seconds, you can quickly grab them and start cleaning. Therefore, I highly recommend to place frequently used items where you can reach them within 5 seconds! 4. Make the storage space small A tea room is typically a small space, usually around 4.5 tatami mats.

This compact space has the effect of regulating the accumulation of items. Have you ever packed your suitcase full of things when traveling, only to realize that you didn't end up using most of the items ? I've had that experience too. People tend to fill up available space with the mindset of "Let's put this and that in!" if there's room for it.

In other words, the larger the storage space, the more items tend to accumulate unconsciously. That's why keeping storage space small on purpose, can help keep things from piling up. As another example, I recently changed my desk. The drawers of the desk I originally had were this large, so they kept a lot of items. However, with the new desk, the drawers are smaller, allowing me to narrow down the contents to only the essentials.

As a result, my space is always organized, and I can access items without stress! So, when purchasing storage items, it might be worthwhile to choose smaller ones intentionally. 5. Leave some empty space in the storage One day, while I was in the tea room, I found myself feeling, "Why does the tea room feel so calming?" That's when I realized the importance of empty space.

In a tea room, there are typically only a few items, such as hanging scrolls, flowers, and tea utensils. Besides that, there’s just empty space. It's this absence of clutter that, I believe, allows for a sense of tranquility without feeling overwhelmed by objects. That's why I value having empty space in my room a lot. And this concept of space is crucial, not only for the room itself, but also for storage spaces.

For example, how would you feel if a storage space looked like this (packed with items)? You would likely feel overwhelmed by the volume of things. Just looking at it could be stressful, and retrieving items would be even more so. So, leaving empty space in storage is incredibly important. Having an empty space has more benefits than just making it easier to pick up things; it also allows you to promptly assign a place for new items when you get them.

So, I typically allocate around 70% for storage and leave 30% as an empty space. 6. Determine the theme of your room In a tea room, there is a hanging scroll. This hanging scroll displays the theme that the host values, and hospitality during tea ceremonies is tailored to that theme. For instance, if the hanging scroll presents the theme "Shunsui Shitakuni Mitsu" meaning the spring water fills the various streams as the snow melts, then the theme is spring.

Because of this, flowers and tea tools with a spring theme are set up. In other words, the items are decided based on the theme of the tea ceremony. So The theme determines the items. The same applies to rooms. People who end up with too many things often haven't decided on a theme for their room.

Essentially, without a room theme, they are unsure of what to place in their rooms. So they tend to impulsively buy random things ! That's why, just like in the tea ceremony, it's crucial to determine a theme for your room. For example, the theme of my room is "Resort of Heart : Modern Japanese Tea Room." So, I have tatami mats and furniture that goes with them.

With a defined theme like this, "I'll add a chandelier!" "I'll buy a TV!" "I'll put a sofa here!" These kinds of decisions never happen. Because there is a theme, people don't buy things that aren't needed.

To determine a theme, start by imagining your ideal lifestyle! Please give it a try; you might find it helpful . 7. Determine the number of items Finally, in the procedures of the way of making tea, there are several rules regarding numbers. For example, the tea scoop is cleaned three times.

The tea bowl is rotated twice before drinking. When drinking matcha, drink it three and a half sips. I thought about incorporating these numerical rules into my simple life. It's not about something like "rotate the ramen twice before eating" or "turn around three times before entering the bathroom." It's about determining the number of items.

For me, it's generally 5 or 3, depending on the type of item. Let me give you an example. I limit items like underwear, T-shirts, and socks to 5. Shoes and outerwear, on the other hand, are limited to 3. By setting these limits, I find myself not buying more than I need.

So, if you have a lot of pens, try narrowing it down to 5. If you own 4 pairs of shoes, try reducing them to 3. If you have 4 coats, try limiting them to 3. By setting these numerical limits, you can let go of excess items and avoid unnecessary purchases. Above all, having fewer items reduces the stress of decision-making.

Please give it a try! Okay everyone, today I gave you 7 tips to maintain a simple life based on the Japanese Tea Ceremony. What did you think of them? Was there any tip that might help you? Please let me know in the comments if you have any other tips to keep your life simple.

All right then, stay tuned for next time!