---
video_title: "The Secret Habit of Ancient Japanese to Make Your Dreams Come True!"
video_id: kpa-0oe4Dgg
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kpa-0oe4Dgg
video_date: 2024-01-13
video_description: |
  TABLE OF CONTENTS:
  
  1:09 ‘Pre-celebration’ that 
  athletes often practice
  2:26 It also worked for me! 
  The power of 'celebrating 
  the present'
  4:05 How to Use Pre-Celebration 
  for Business Success
  5:49 Why does pre-celebration 
  make dreams come true?
  8:11 5 Specific Methods of Pre-Celebration
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BOOK:
  前祝いの法則▶︎https://amzn.to/3TUtNNa
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  BLOG  https://samuraijourney.com/​
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Today, after watching this 10-minute video, you will achieve your dreams for the year. Because I'm going to teach you the special habits to make your dreams come true that ancient Japanese would do. It’s "Yoshuku," which means "pre-celebration." The secret of Hanami (a cherry blossom party) Do you know “hanami” (a cherry blossom party) Today, hanami is a time to enjoy the beauty of cherry blossoms, but in the past, it was held as a Yoshuku. Let me explain.

Back in time, a big crop of rice was what people wished for the most. So, they would celebrate together in spring, envisioning the fully blooming cherry blossoms as the autumn rice spikes, symbolizing prosperity and abundance. The ancient Japanese thought that they could attract their dreams by first being happy and celebrating. That’s Yoshuku, pre-celebration. Using the ideas in this book about the "Pre-celebration Rules" as a guide, I’ll share five ways to fulfill your dreams through the ancient Japanese practice of pre-celebration.

‘Pre-celebration’ that athletes often practice. According to this book, it refers to the idea that ‘if you celebrate and feel the joy now, the joy will come to you in the future too.’ Yes, it's kind of like visualization training that a lot of athletes practice. For example, they might imagine themselves winning a gold medal. They unconsciously feel the good emotions of a future success in the moment, hoping to make it happen.

In a way, they are practicing pre-celebration without realizing it. Yuzuru Hanyu, a figure skater, for example, was crying on the plain on the way to the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. Why? In his thoughts, he saw himself giving a perfect performance and winning the gold medal. He said later, after he had won the gold medal, "I was so into the visualization on the plane that I felt more moved there than the actual moment.”

In fact, he was living by the idea that ‘if you celebrate and feel joy now, joy will come to you later’, right there on the plane. It also worked for me! The power of 'celebrating the present'. A big part of the reason I started this YouTube channel was to make my elementary students happy. Because at that time, the pandemic was stopping a lot of kid-friendly events.

Then I thought it would be fun and encouraging for them if I became famous on YouTube. And this is what I saw in my mind: I'm in the gym backstage and there are about 20 kids sitting together in front of the stage. I put on a kimono and came out as Samurai Matcha in front of the kids. They yell something like "Samurai Macho!", but despite their jokes, I give a presentation and take out a box.

The kids figure it out and yell, "A YouTube silver plaque!" After that, we all open it and find the silver plaque. As the kids crowded around, smiles lit up their faces.

The kids get even happier and say, "Wow, it's real!" I had a clear, lively picture in my mind. In a way, I was celebrating and felt so happy as I thought about it. After a year, the channel had more than 100,000 subscribers, and I got the real silver plaque in my hands. Just as I’d planned, I was able to show the kids the silver plaque at a summer event.

It turned out just the way I had imagined. The pre-celebration is amazing! It worked. But apparently there was one thing that I didn’t expect. The kids were touching the silver plaque so much, and their fingerprints were all over it.

Anyway, I learned that enjoying the present moment, imagining the future really does make the future happy. How to Use Pre-Celebration for Business Success A story about a certain Japanese pub (izakaya) in this book is another easy-to-understand example of pre-celebration. Before taking part in the pre-celebration, this izakaya almost went out of business. The workers, who were all in their mid-20s, got a sudden call from their owner one day. He said that the izakaya will be closed because they’re in the “red."

The staff loved the izakaya and wanted to do something about it, even though things were bad. As a result, the five employees took a trip to a hot spring and began playing a game at the ryokan-style inn. "Let's give a speech!" Let's say that our izakaya went from almost going out of business to a very famous spot, that a book came out, and that we're now giving a talk in front of 1,000 people!” And so the talk began.

"Why did your izakaya, which was about to go out of business, become so popular?" "Well, we told every customer who traded business cards with us how much we loved this shop in letters of thanks!" They gave the speech with real happiness, like it had just happened. After this role-play, they put all the ideas that came up into action. It was surprising that in just one month, their income grew by as much as they would have made in a whole year.

In the end, the izakaya really took off, and they were even asked to give a speech in front of 5,000 people. This is how the story ended up in a book, showing how the power of pre-celebration can inspire great ideas in happy places. Why does pre-celebration make dreams come true? Let's talk about why pre-celebration makes dreams come true. To put it simply, your "current feelings" will match the frequency of the future where your dreams come true if you feel the happiness of those dreams coming true in the "present."

You can bring that future to yourself with this connection. Ok, let me explain better. To begin, everything in the world has a frequency. The author of the book "The Secret," Rhonda Byrne, says, "The whole universe is a magnetic field, and everything has a frequency, even your thoughts and feelings." That is, everything around you, including the stones on the ground, the clothes you're wearing, and your mood, all have frequencies or waves.

And there is something called resonance that happens at these frequencies. Do you know what a tuning fork experiment is? So, what it means here is that if you hit the right side of a tuning fork with a different frequency, it won't work on the left one. But if their frequencies are the same, the right one will work on the left one and the left one will start to move. So what I want to say is that your present state of mind attracts the future that will happen, just like frequencies that are similar resonate with each other.

To make it simpler, if you set your feelings to a good frequency, things that make you feel good will come your way. If, on the other hand, you vibrate with a negative frequency, you will attract things that make you feel worse. Have you ever noticed that bad things keep happening to you when you're upset? It could just be a coincidence, or your mind frequency could be at play. Within his book "The Shift," American psychologist Dr. Wayne W. Dyer says,

"People don't attract what they want, but rather what they are." The point is that if your present state of mind is in tune with the happy frequency of achieving your dreams, you'll bring those dreams into your life. So, "How can you tune into the future frequency of your mind?" Let's look at some specific ways to prepare. 5 Specific Methods of Pre-Celebration.

There are some specific methods of pre-celebration outlined in the book, and today I'll introduce five of them that I think are effective. Smiling. When your dream comes true, what kind of smile do you have? Try smiling that way in real life, and enjoy the feeling that comes with it. Making a signature pose.

What pose do you make when your dream comes true? Choose a pose and actually do it. For example, this is mine. Writing a future diary. Imagine the circumstances when your wish comes true and write a diary.

What are you doing at that moment? How does it feel? Who is happy here? Being conscious of these details while writing is recommended. Having a role-play.

This is effective when you do it with friends. Do some role-play by interviewing each other. "What dream has come true for you?" and "How do you feel now that your dream has come true?" Just like that, you interview each other.

It's not about what is said but about deeply savoring the joyful emotions. The key is to have fun with it. Ok, here comes the last one. Practice a pre-celebration of a year ahead. This is a method to celebrate ahead, as if we jumped at the end of the year 2024.

Let's try it together, since we're already here. Please get a drink, and I'll do the same. "All right, let's go. Let's toast the best year ever! Kanpai (cheers)!"

“Well, let me ask you something. What dreams came true this year that made it the best ever?"

"I'm so happy for you that your dreams came true." "Huh, me? Well, I had many dreams come true this year, but the biggest one was successfully launching my own matcha brand." Thanks for all of your support. “Okagesama desu.”

Thank you so much! Now that we've gone through this, I hope you've understood the meaning behind me saying, 'With this video, you’ll achieve your dreams for the year.' What is your dream for this year? If you feel comfortable, share it in the comments :) Writing it down might even increase the chances of it coming true. By practicing this Japanese secret of pre-celebration, I would be genuinely happy if your dreams came true.

Thank you, everyone! Until next time!