---
video_title: "7 small Japanese Habits that will bring Happiness into Your Life"
video_id: _NufpwtCVWg
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_NufpwtCVWg
video_date: 2024-11-09
video_description: |
  😁Feel free to check out these videos if you're interested!
  
  8 simple Japanese habits that will make your life so much better!!
  ▶︎ https://youtu.be/04wZNnjdURE
  
  7 small Japanese habits that will make your life so much better!! NEW!!
  ▶︎ https://youtu.be/r1NfP3vdQcY
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  🕛Timestamps:
  0:35 - 1. 有難う-Arigato-
  3:06 - 2. Respect the Space
  4:58 - 3. Wiping the Table
  6:14 - 4. Laugh Often
  7:17 - 5. Open Your Windows in the Morning
  8:15 - 6. Sunbathing in the Morning
  10:01 - 7. 只今 -Tadaima (I’m Home)-
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  🎶MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  👬BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Today, I’ll be sharing 7 small Japanese habits to incorporate daily that can make your life so much better and happier! They are small habits, but are so powerful and might make a big difference in your life. Honestly, I have to say—I “love” this video. I was moved to tears while writing the script… Just like in my previous videos, these are all easy habits you can start today, so let’s get started! 1. ありがとう-Arigato-

Do you know the meaning of "ありがとう-Arigato-"? You probably do—“Thank you,” right? Exactly! “Arigato” is a word used to express gratitude. But did you know the hidden meaning behind it?

Knowing this might change your life! Let me get straight to the point. The deeper meaning of “Arigato” is "a miracle." In kanji, “Arigato” is written as 「有難 」. 「有」 means "to exist," and 「難」 means So, “Arigato” literally means, “It’s difficult for this to exist.”

In other words, it’s something rare, something precious— a miracle. So, the real meaning of “Arigato” is “Thank you for this rare miracle.” Next time you have a chance to say thank you, keep that deeper meaning in mind. Not just say “Thank you” casually, but “Arigato…” Thank you. You can feel the power of words, right? I’m sure it’ll make the other person feel

even more appreciated. And here’s another insight. Since “Arigato” means something precious, do you know what the opposite of “Arigato” is? It’s "taking things for granted." When we take things for granted, we forget to be grateful.

But here’s the truth—I believe that waking up every day, having food to eat, meeting friends, breathing, and having someone cook for us are all miracles. At least for me, surviving a collapsed lung and almost dying made me realize that being able to breathe is a miracle. The truth is, every little thing deserves an “Arigato.” Thank you! From today let's keep this deeper meaning in our mind!

So, thank you, as always, for watching. 2. Respect the Space Have you ever seen Japanese athletes bow when entering or leaving the field in sports like soccer? This gesture is all about showing respect for the space. When I was in elementary school, I played soccer. Every day, we would play until it got dark,

until we were completely exhausted. But no matter how late or tired we were, we always ended practice the same way—lining up together and bowing to the field, saying, “Thank you!” So, why do we show respect to the space? Because being able to give our all in sports wasn’t just due to our own efforts—it was possible because the space was there for us. In a previous video, I talked about the phrase “okagesama”—meaning, to be grateful for the blessings we receive. In this case, we’re grateful for the space itself.

By bowing, we express that gratitude to the field, to the place that made our efforts possible. It makes me feel humble and gives the space a sacred feeling. And this isn’t just limited to sports fields. You can show respect to your room, a store, your office—any space you’re in. I’m planning to make this a regular habit myself. It’s bound to leave you feeling positive.

Let’s try it together! 3. Wiping the Table Many Japanese people, after eating at a restaurant, will wipe the table before leaving. Why? Because they’re thinking about the next person who will use it.

You might think, “Isn’t that the staff’s job?” But if you take a moment to wipe it yourself, the staff’s job becomes easier, and the next person who sits there can enjoy a clean table.

It creates a ripple effect—happy staff, happy customers, and you feel good for doing a small act of kindness. It’s a triple win! Japan is often praised for being clean, and I believe it’s small actions like this from everyone that help maintain that cleanliness. So, next time you’re at a restaurant, try wiping the table after you’re done—even just a little. If everyone watching this video did that, we might just make the world a cleaner place!

4. Laugh Often -There is no race as easily amused as the Japanese. -The residents are endlessly cheerful. -Watching them, you’d think there was no such thing as sorrow in the world. Surprised? These are words from foreigners who visited Japan about

200 years ago, describing how joyful and full of laughter Japanese people were. It seems that people in Japan used to laugh a lot and were very happy. Nowadays, Japanese people don’t laugh as much... but we can still learn something from this.

Let’s laugh. Laugh at the smallest things, like a child. It’s something anyone can do, and it’s a simple way to make the world a better place. While traveling the world last year making matcha, I realized something—the universal language isn’t English, it’s a smile. When you smile, the world becomes a little brighter.

5. Open Your Windows in the Morning 'You need to open the windows in the morning! That way, the golden god of luck, Kinkatsukane-sama, can come in!'" THis is a saying that my Great-grandmother used to say. In Japan, it’s been a tradition for a long time to clean the house first thing in the morning, and my great-grandmother would open all the windows, even in the winter.

There are two main reasons for this. First, opening the windows lets fresh morning air flow into the house. Breathing in that crisp air instantly brightens your mood. Second, by doing this, you welcome a golden goddess who is known for bringing good fortune. I'll talk more about who this goddess really is in another video, but for now, just remember—open your window first thing in the morning, and happiness will come in from outside!

6. Sunbathing in the Morning "Thank you for always watching over us." This is something old Japanese people used to say while bowing to the sun every morning. Afterward, they would spend a little time sunbathing. Nowadays, many Japanese people no longer do this, but I think it's a wonderful habit. Here are three reasons why:

1. Sunlight makes you happy When you get sunlight, your brain releases serotonin, which boosts your mood. Just by being in the sun, you can feel happier. 2. It helps you sleep better

Sunlight helps reset your internal clock. Humans are designed to feel sleepy about 15 hours after being exposed to morning sunlight. Personally, ever since I started sunbathing in the morning, I’ve been sleeping so much better at night. 3. It reminds you of gratitude We often take the sun for granted, but it’s one of the biggest blessings we receive. Without the sun, none of us could survive.

So, today, let's take a moment to say: Thank you, our sun! 7. Tadaima (I’m Home) "Tadaima~! You’ve probably heard this word in anime or Japanese movies when someone returns home. While it’s usually translated as “I’m home,” there’s actually a deeper meaning to it.

"Tadaima" can also be broken down as "只今," which literally means "Just now." Have you ever felt regret about the past or anxiety about the future? I get it. I’ve been there too. But here’s the thing: We can’t go back to the past, and we can’t live in the future. The only time we truly have is “right now”—“Just now”.

And that’s what "Tadaima" reminds us: the power of living in the present moment. So, if you ever find yourself feeling weighed down by regrets or worries, take a deep breath, close your eyes, and say this word: “Tadaima”. Slowly open your eyes, and welcome yourself back to the present. And I’ll be here to say: “Okaeri.”—Welcome back.

Here I am talking about Japanese customs like I know better but,I’m not perfect either. Not at all. Yesterday my face was like this I want to say you should smile! But I keep trying, one step at a time, to embrace these good habits and make them part of my life. So let’s work together to make tomorrow a little better than today, both for ourselves and for the world.

Thank you so much for watching my channel! Arigatou! Bye bye!