---
video_title: "10 Japanese Secret Customs & Unspoken Rules that most foreigners don't know about."
video_id: -1R_JwUb91Q
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-1R_JwUb91Q
video_date: 2024-03-23
video_description: |
  Today, I'm very excited to spill the beans on the top 10 that I bet you will find super interesting.
  
  Trust me, knowing these will make your trip to Japan. 
  
  So please watch the video and enjoy it until the end!
  
  0:00 Opening
  0:30  1. The Mystery of the Last Bite on the Plate
  1:27  2.  Are there people in Japan who secretly clean public toilets?
  3:06  3. Interesting Rule for Preparing Beer in Japan
  4:01  4. Why are Japanese people so uncomfortable with making eye contact?
  5:26  5. The Mystery of Shifting Glasses Downward During Cheers
  6:44  6. Why Do Japanese People Watch Movie Credits Until the End?
  7:35  7. The Magic Clap to End the Party
  8:51  8. Why Are Japanese Roads So Quiet?
  9:49  9. The Evolution of Bowing in Three Stages
  10:45  10. The Escalator Rules in Japan are Chaos
  11:55  Ending
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  REFERENCES:
  ・North America Journey: 5 Ways to Make Miracles Happen！
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/FNxv36NGC1s
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Welcome back to my channel I‘m Aki. Did you know Japan's got a bunch of secret customs and unspoken rules that most foreigners don't know about? Today, I'm very excited to spill the beans on the top 10 that I bet you will find super interesting. Trust me, knowing these will make your trip to Japan. Also it might make your life even better.

So please watch the video and enjoy it until the end! 1. The Mystery of the Last Bite on the Plate Alright, picture this: You're at a restaurant with your Japanese friends in Japan and you’ll find the plate with one bite left on it. And nobody's making a move for it. What a pity!

You might think, 'Is there poison in it or something?' Well, here's the deal: Japanese people are super considerate, so nobody wants to be the one to eat that last bite, feeling all guilty about it. So, it just sits there, untouched. And when someone finally decides to go for it, they usually ask, 'Mind if I grab this?' It's like an unspoken rule.

In Kansai area, like in Osaka they call this last piece the '遠慮の塊,' kind of “Lump of hesitation”. So if you ever get the chance, say ' Can I eat 遠慮の塊？' in front of some Japanese folks.

I bet you'll get great laughs! 2. Are there people in Japan who secretly clean public toilets? Yep, that’s true! From what I've gathered, a lot of successful people and business leaders seem to have this habit.

Why is that? Well, first, in Japan, there's this concept called 'toku', kinda like good karma in English. And there are two types of good karma. There's 'yotoku', which is doing good things openly, and then there's 'intoku', which is doing good deeds in secret. So, for example, volunteering to pick up trash and being thanked for it would be 'yotoku', while secretly picking up trash without anyone knowing is 'intoku'.

The fun thing is 'Intoku' is believed to be able to accumulate good karma more than 'yotoku' because it is without seeking rewards, so kind of a And that's why some people in Japan secretly clean public toilets. Now, you might wonder, what happens when you accumulate 'intoku'? Well, we think your accumulated good karma builds up in the unseen world, and eventually, it can manifest into things like money, connections, good health, or learning opportunities. At first, I was a bit skeptical about this, but it seems pretty legit. I mean, since I started cleaning public toilets, I've genuinely had some amazing encounters.

So, if you're up for it, give secret toilet cleaning a try. Totally recommend it!" 3. Interesting Rule for Preparing Beer in Japan Ever heard of pouring beer with a specific ratio in your country? Well, in Japan, there's a rule for that.

It's called the 7:3 rule. Basically, when you pour beer, you aim for 70% liquid and 30% foam. See, I ordered a beer at an izakaya (Japanese pub) the other day, it was perfectly 7:3 ratio. But why 7:3? Well, in Japan, it's believed that the ideal beer not only looks beautiful but also tastes delicious, and that's achieved with a foam ratio of around 30%.

I think this rule reflects the Japanese characteristic for perfection in even the smallest details.haha By the way, it was quite a shock to learn that such a rule doesn't exist when I ordered beer for the first time abroad! 4. Why are Japanese people so uncomfortable with making eye contact? Ever noticed how Japanese people don't really look you in the eyes when chatting with them?

Yeah? Sorry about that! See, Japanese people usually aren't good at making eye contact. There was actually a study at the University of Tokyo comparing eye contact between Japanese and Finnish folks. Turns out, when Japanese people are looked at by someone, we tend to feel like they are angry or unapproachable compared to Finnish people.

In simple terms, direct eye contact sometimes can come off as kinda intimidating for Japanese. So, to try to avoid giving that feeling, we tend to not make eye contact altogether. Does that make sense? But personally, I think many Japanese just feel embarrassing or rude . Because back in the day, it was considered disrespectful to make eye contact with superior Samurai or Shogun; you were supposed to lower your gaze out of respect.

So, even today, Japanese people might still have this habit. So, even if Japanese people don't make eye contact when talking or toasting, please don't take it as rudeness, okay? Oh, speaking of making a toast, there's another interesting custom in Japan. 5. The Mystery of Shifting Glasses Downward During Cheers Check out these two photos of me toasting.

One is with a friend, and the other is with my boss. Can you tell which one is with the boss' toast? That's right, it's this one. Because in Japan, there's a toast etiquette where you deliberately shift your glass downward, allowing the glass of the person of higher status to be positioned higher during the clink. It's a typical Japanese cultural consideration for hierarchy.

However, being too conscious of this etiquette sometimes leads to a funny problem: both glasses keep going lower and lower. haha If you easily recognize the status of the other person, you can adjust your glass accordingly during the toast. But when you're not sure about each other's status and both are trying to be humble, what happens then? Well, humble Japanese folks end up lowering their glasses more than the other person. As a result, you end up with this back-and-forth game of 'lower than you' during the toast.

It might be happening just around me, not 100% sure, but probably it happens sometimes somewhere in Japan. 6. Why Do Japanese People Watch Movie Credits Until the End? Are you the type to watch the credits at the end of a movie? Well, if you so you are like a Japanese.

That's because most Japanese stick around until the very end of the credits. But why? Is it because they want to check out the names of the creators, actors, or filming locations that appear in the credits? Or maybe they're hoping for a post-credits scene? Sure, those reasons could play a part.

But there's also a very Japanese reason why many people stay seated until the end. It's because they don't want to disturb others who are still watching by standing up. On the flip side, some might even consider it rude if someone leaves during the credits! So, if you ever go to a Japanese movie theater, please remember that! 7. The Magic Clap to End the Party

Guess what? In Japan, there's a magical clap that can instantly wrap up any event or festival party. It's called 'ippon-jime' (一本締め), and let me tell you how it works. Please be ready to clap your hands! When I say "yooo...!" clap your hands (in a 3-3-3-1 beat)!

"yooo...!"

And just like that, everyone claps their hands ten times. No matter how lively the party was, this 'ippon-jime' can smoothly bring it to an end. It's said that this gesture is a sign of respect for everyone who helped out or was involved in the event or festival. Oh, and if you do it three times in a row, it's called 'sanbon-jime' (三本締め). But if you just clap one time, like this: That's called 'iccho-jime' (一丁締め).

If you can pull off these moves, you're practically a certified Japanese party master! 8. Why Are Japanese Roads So Quiet? One thing that often surprises foreigners when they come to Japan is how quiet the roads are. Yep, you hardly hear any honking here in Japan.

For instance, when the car in front of you doesn't move even though the light turns green, what do you do in your country? Honk loudly? In Japan, many people simply give a gentle 'beep' to remind the driver to go. But why? Is it because they're considerate?

Well, that's certainly part of it. But actually, it's also because it's against the law to honk your horn unnecessarily(aggressively?) I didin't know that too. You could even get fined up to 20,000 yen($150) for breaking this rule. So, if you're planning to drive in Japan as a tourist, 9. The Evolution of Bowing in Three Stages

You've probably heard about Japanese people bowing, right? But did you know there are actually First, there's the '会釈 eshaku' at 15° - a light bow used when greeting friends or passing someone in a hallway. Then, there's the '敬礼 keirei' at 30° - the most common bow used in various situations, like when greeting customers or showing respect to someone of higher status. And finally, there's the '最敬礼 saikeirei' at 45° to 90° - the deepest bow reserved for occasions like apologies, the ultimate sign of respect. So, the degree of bowing reflects the level of respect.

As of now, there's no bowing beyond 90 degrees. But knowing how Japanese people love to apologize, who knows? Maybe in a few years, we'll see a 'hyper saikeirei' 120° or something! Just kidding. 10. The Escalator Rules in Japan are Chaos

Escalators have a rule in many countries, like stand on one side, leave the other side open for walkers. Apparently, most countries in the world go with 'stand on the right, walk on the left'. So, what about Japan? Well, the standing position differs between Kanto and Kansai areas. In Kanto (Tokyo, etc.), it's left standing, right open.

In Kansai (Osaka, etc.), it's right standing, left open. It's a bit complicated, right? But can I say something that will make it even more complicated?haha There's another area with its own unique rule.

It is sandwiched between Tokyo and Osaka - Nagoya, my home town. Interestingly, Nagoya encouragestand on both sides, don't walk as its unique rule... I know it's chaos for foreigners, but don't worry.

If you're ever confused, just follow the person in front of you and line up behind them. When in Rome, do as the Romans do. Simple as that! Well, today I've introduced you to 10 secret customs and rules of Japan. How did you like them?

Feel free to comment and share which one surprised you the most! Japan still has many interesting customs and rules yet to be known, like these. If this video receives positive feedback, I'd love to make a Part 2! So please let me know in the comments :) Now, let's wrap things up with 一本締め. Remember?

'Please be ready to clap your hands!' 'yoooo' *Clap clap clap, clap clap clap, clap clap clap, clap!* Thank you!" I hope to see you in the next video!] Bye bye!