---
video_title: "10 Things you shouldn't do in Japan🇯🇵"
video_id: LAq9U5SGTRE
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LAq9U5SGTRE
video_date: 2024-05-04
video_description: |
  If you're thinking about coming to Japan, there are a few things I, as a former teacher, would like to share with you.
  
  Japan has plenty of unspoken rules, so to avoid any form of embarrassment, with this video I‘ll introduce the first 10 rules (20 in total), which I think would be helpful to know ! 
  
  00:38 1. No dipping sushi 
  from the rice into soy sauce!
  01:32 2. No tattoos in hot springs!？ 
  02:33 3. Don't die in a kimono!
  03:09 4. Can’t you eat on trains?
  03:38 5. Don't step on Tatami edges
   Or else... you might get murdered?
  04:14 6. Don't drive on the right side of the road in Japan
  05:06 7. Don't chat loudly on public transportations
  05:35 8. Do not stab food with chopsticks
  06:28 9. Do not ignore traffic lights
  
  07:08 10. Do not leave food on your plate
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Do you want to visit Japan in the future? If you're thinking about coming to Japan, there are a few things I, as a former teacher, would like to share with you. Japan has plenty of unspoken rules, so to avoid any form of embarrassment, with this video I‘ll introduce the first 10 rules (20 in total), which I think would be helpful to know ! I initially made this for my friends, but I thought , why not share it on YouTube too, right? I believe it's a fun way to understand the underlying Japanese mindset.

So, relax, and enjoy! 1. No dipping sushi from the rice into soy sauce! Alright, you're in Japan, you have to try sushi, right? But here's the deal: There's an unspoken rule when it comes to eating sushi.

First of all, how do you eat sushi? Do you eat it with your hands or with chopsticks? Traditionally, using your hands is the way to go, but nowadays, chopsticks are ok too. So it’s up to you. Now, here's the trick : How do you dip sushi in soy sauce?

In Japan, even many people dip the rice part of the sushi in soy sauce, but the proper etiquette is to dip only the fish part in soy sauce. Why is that? Because if you dip the rice, it falls apart. So, dip that fish and keep the fish side down, and eat it in one bite. This is the proper way to eat it.

2. No tattoos in hot springs! I love Japanese culture, but this one rule? Not a fan. Back when I had a little guest house in Tokyo, I had guests saying they couldn't go into the public baths because of their tattoos.

What a bummer, right? The reasons are kinda uncool, too.¥ Reason 1: Apparently, tattoos used to be a mark of criminals back in the Samurai period. Ok… who's living in the past here? Reason 2: Tattoos = Yakuza (organized crime groups) = antisocial behavior, so other guests might be scared when seeing Tattoos. This is such a discrimination. But hey, there's hope. Some places are starting to open up about tattoos in hot springs. You often have to use tattoo cover sheets, but it's better

Reason 1: Apparently, tattoos used to be a mark of criminals back in the Samurai period. Ok… who's living in the past here? Reason 2: Tattoos = Yakuza (organized crime groups) = antisocial behavior, so other guests might be scared when seeing Tattoos. This is such a discrimination. But hey, there's hope.

Some places are starting to open up about tattoos in hot springs. You often have to use tattoo cover sheets, but it's better than not being able to enter. Some Hot Springs offer private use of hot springs too, so this could be an option as well. 3. Please don't die in a kimono!

What does that mean? Let me explain. You're staying at a Ryokan (*Traditional Japanese Style Inn), right? And they've got Yukatas in your room. When you wear a Yukata, be sure to wear it right side first and left side after, and not the other way around, otherwise, it will become a Shinishouzoku, which is the clothing worn by the deceased.

You don’t want to be a dead person on vacation, right? Even though there may not be many Japanese people who pay attention to this detail, it's good to know to avoid bad luck. 4. Can’t you eat on trains? The answer is, it's not that you can't eat.

Eating on public transportation is not prohibited by law. There's an unspoken rule that you shouldn't eat it. In my experience, snacks like candy, gum, and Hi-Chew are ok—they're small enough for a quick bite. But if you start eating Pocky, I think you'll start getting some weird looks. Cup noodles are definitely a no-go.

5. Don't step on Tatami edges Or else... you might get murdered?

What does that mean? Let me explain. When you go to Ryokan, for example, there are Tatami mats (traditional Japanese straw mats) in most cases. Here's the deal: don't step on the edges! Why?

According to my mother, if you step on the edge, la sword might jump out and you might get killed. Cause back in the day, ninjas would hide under them and stab you! Of course, Now, it's not like that anymore, but stepping on the edge of the Tatami mat is considered bad manners, so please remember that! 6. Don't drive on the right side of the road in Japan Japan drives on the left.

You shouldn't drive on the right. Ever wondered why Japan drives on the left when most countries drive on the right? There is an interesting story for it: It goes way back to the Samurai days, believe it or not. At that time, it was considered extremely rude for the scabbard of a sword to bump into others, and that could sometimes escalate into a showdown. Most Samurai carried their swords on their left side.

So, if they walk on the right side there is a high chance for them to hit, right? So, left-side travel became the norm in Japan. After that it’s further solidified during the Meiji era's modernization, inspired by British traffic norms. 7 Don't chat loudly on public transportations. Japanese people, whether for better or worse, are kind of masters of consideration, so we like to keep things nice and quiet on public transit.

This rule is applied for all of the transportation systems except Disneyland rides. Speaking loudly might attract some odd looks. So, let's keep the noise levels down 8. Do not stab food with chopsticks When you come to Japan, you will definitely use chopsticks. Surprisingly, it is said that there are over 80 rules for using chopsticks.

I'm not going to hit you with all 80, but here are the big 6 ones ① 叩き箸 Tataki-bashi (Drumming chopsticks) You can feel like a drummer, but don't do it. ②拝み箸 Ogami-bashi (Praying chopsticks) Even Japanese people occasionally do this, but it's also bad etiquette. ③箸渡し Hashi-watashii（Transfer food chopsticks to chopsticks） ④寄せ箸 Yose-bashi ⑤立て箸 Tate-bashi (Standing chopsticks) This is rice offered to Buddha. It's not appropriate. ⑥刺し箸 Sashi-bashi (Stabbing chopsticks) I understand the feeling of wanting to do it because using chopsticks is difficult.

But, since chopsticks are for pinching, stabbing is a breach of etiquette. Hmm, let's do our best. 9. Do not ignore traffic lights Here's something that blows my mind when I'm abroad: people don't always follow traffic lights. Cars usually follow the lights, but pedestrians often do not just in my experience.

In Japan, though, it's a different story. We always follow the signals, not all the Japanese, though. Mostly. So yeah, when you're in Japan, maybe think twice before jaywalking. Because trust me, you'll stick out like a sore thumb!

Japanese people are strict with people who do not follow the rules. So, it's wise to follow the signals in Japan. 10. Do not leave food on your plate Back in elementary school, my teacher always said, "Even if you don't like it, finish your food!" Yes, Japanese people don't think it's good to leave food behind.

There are three main reasons for this. First, We think it's rude to the person who made the food. Second, We don’t want to waste food because Japan has historically experienced many food shortages due to natural disasters and famines, so wasting food would be rather disrespectful . Third, there's a spiritual aspect to it. In Shintoism, every little bit of food has a spirit, even one grain of rice, so leaving food unfinished? Yeah, not the best move.

So, What if you end up leaving food in Japan? It might be good to say, "I'm sorry, I couldn't eat everything." Then, you’ll be alright:) Alright, That’s it! Thank you for watching until the end. Are there any rules you didn't know about?

If so, please let me know in the comments! Anyway, I hope you remember these rules and enjoy your trip to Japan to the fullest! Well then, I hope to see you in the next video!