---
video_title: "Deep Dive🧘 8 simple Japanese habits that will make your life so much better!!"
video_id: KNWxuXSrWE0
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KNWxuXSrWE0
video_date: 2024-11-30
video_description: |
  The video I posted a year ago, “8 Small Japanese Habits That Will Make Your Life So Much Better”* has reached an incredible 10 million views!
  
  0:29 ① The Hidden Benefit of Toilet Cleaning
  3:29 ② The True Meaning of Arranging Your Shoes
  4:49 ③ The Most Positive Posture
  6:02 ④ Words of spirit that make you feel empowered.
  7:19 ⑤ A Simple Way to Make the World a Happier Place
  8:38 ⑥ The True Meaning of "Ware Tada Taru wo Shiru"
  10:28 ⑦ The Deep Meaning of "Okagesama"
  11:59 ⑧ Early to Bed, Early to Rise + One More Habit
  
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  REFERENCES:
  ・8 simple Japanese habits that will make your life so much better!!
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/04wZNnjdURE
  
  7 small Japanese Habits that will bring Happiness into Your Life
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/_NufpwtCVWg
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
The video I posted a year ago, “8 Small Japanese Habits That Will Make Your Life So Much Better” has reached an incredible 10 million views! I’m so grateful for all your support—thank you so much! Since the video became way more popular than I expected, in this video, I’ll dive deeper into those “8 small Japanese habits”. I hope this video has an even bigger positive impact on your life, so enjoy watching until the end! 1 The Hidden Benefit of Toilet Cleaning Let’s watch what I talked about in the previous video, first!

In Japan, it is said that cleaning the toilet is a great habit that makes your life successful. In fact, many achievers in Japan have a habit of cleaning the toilet regularly. There are three main reasons for that. Do you remember the three reasons? 1. It brings good luck (especially with money).

2. It helps you stay humble. 3. It keeps your space organized. I also said these lead to greater success in your business and life.

Today, I want to share one more secret benefit of toilet cleaning. And that is... “it can make you more beautiful” Are you sure Aki? ” `Yes I’m sure!

In Japan, there’s a popular song called "Toire no Kamisama" (The Toilet Goddess), and the answer lies in the lyrics. Let me sing a bit for you:

“In the toilet, there's a small very small beautiful goddess. So if you clean it every day, you'll become as beautiful as she is.”

So, the belief is that if you clean your toilet, you can become as beautiful as the goddess of the toilet. Who is that goddess? This goddess has various interpretations, but she’s often thought to be “Kinkatsu Kaneno Kami”, a beautiful golden goddess from one of Japanese mythologies. There is an interesting survey. Lion Corporation conducted a survey on the relationship between "toilet cleaning" and "beauty." When asked, “Do you think

you’re beautiful?” 28% of women who kept their toilets clean answered “YES,” while only 14% of women who didn’t clean their toilets often said the same. In fact, the number of times they were confessed to by someone averaged 2.6 more for those with sparkling clean toilets. I can’t say for sure if toilet cleaning will physically make you more beautiful.

But cleaning your toilet can boost your confidence in your looks and actually make you more attractive to others! ② The True Meaning of Arranging Your Shoes "When you take off your shoes, you have to put your shoes together nice and neatly." This is a habit my mother has been nagging me about since I was little. That’s right—wherever Japanese people go, we always neatly arrange our shoes. The reason is that we see it as good manners, but there is a deeper meaning behind it.

There’s a phrase in Japan: “Kyakka Shoko” (脚下照顧). It’s a Zen Buddhist phrase, and means "arrange your shoes" and more broadly, it means “Reflect on yourself.” When things aren’t going well in life, people tend to blame others or their circumstances, right? But before criticizing others, this phrase reminds us to turn our attention inward. So, when you arrange your shoes, you can take that moment to ask yourself: “Am I too focused on others or external things?

Is there something I need to reflect on about myself?” It’s not about tidying up your shoes—it's about tidying up your thoughts and centering yourself. ③ The Most Positive Posture The wisdom of ancient Japanese people is amazing. In ancient Japanese thinking, there was a belief that correcting your body’s posture would also correct the way you think. Even without modern science, they understood the importance of posture.

In 1992, a study at Waseda University conducted an experiment on posture and mood. Participants were asked to hold six different types of postures, and their moods were measured for each one. What do you think the results were? First, it was found that slouching, resulted in a negative mood. Interestingly, even with a straight back, looking down led to a darker mood!

The study revealed that the most positive posture is when your back is straight and your head is straight or tilted upwards. Instead of holding your phone like *this* (looking down), hold it like *this* (looking up)! So, this is the posture for a positive mindset! ④ Words of spirit that make you feel empowered. In that video, I talked about the deeper meaning of “Itadakimasu”.

Today, I want to share the deeper meaning behind “Gochisousama” as well. Have you ever heard of “Gochisousama”? It’s the word we say after finishing a meal, similar to how we use “Itadakimasu” to express gratitude to the person who prepared the food and food itself. “Gochisousama” also means, “I have been entrusted with life.” In “Gochisousama”, the character "走" (sou) means "to run."

It symbolizes how you are accepting the baton of life and running with it. So, “Gochisousama” can be understood as saying, “I receive your life, and now I will run in your place.” For example, when you eat a carrot, that carrot is entrusting its life to you. When you become aware of this, you start to feel a deep sense of gratitude for each meal. And with every meal, you feel more energized and empowered!

⑤ A Simple Way to Make the World a Happier Place I changed the place. I accidentally deleted the video I took. OMG! haha

Let’s see the previous video! Do you know Shohei Otani, the famous Major League player? There was a great response to something he did during an interview. He neatly put his chair back in place afterward. Yes, I talked about how, in Japan, people often think about the next person and put things back where they found them, like chairs.

Today, I want to share a habit that takes that concept to the next level. Instead of just putting things back, leave them *better* than when you found them. For example, if you’re at a café, wipe the table down beautifully before you leave. After using the bathroom, leave it cleaner than when you entered. Or, if you borrow someone’s phone, give it a little wipe before returning it.

It’s a small gesture, but it makes the world a little happier. Even if no one notices, I’m sure the universe is paying attention. ⑥ The True Meaning of "Ware Tada Taru wo Shiru" In the previous video, I explained the meaning of it. “Ware” means “I,” “Tada” means “simply,” “Taru” means “what is enough,” “Shiru” means “to know.” In short, "Knowing contentment brings peace to your heart." That's the essence of the phrase.

Now, let’s dive deeper into this concept. Sometimes people misunderstand “Taru wo Shiru” (knowing contentment) as something negative, like suppressing desires or forcing yourself to endure and settle for less. But that’s completely wrong. In the “Yuikyo-gyo” (Teachings of the Buddha), the Buddha said: “The truth of “Taru wo Shiru” (knowing contentment) is not about poverty, suffering, anxiety, or dissatisfaction; It;s not about negative things. He said it is about wealth, happiness, and peace.

How can you feel these kinds of emotions? By focusing on what you already have and realizing how blessed you are! For example, I don’t have a fancy house, I don’t have a TV, I don’t have a car, or even a girlfriend. But that’s perfectly fine. Because I feel content.

I get to live on this beautiful planet, I have amazing friends, I can travel, I can walk, I can drink matcha. And most importantly, I have all of you watching this video. Once you realize that, you stop being driven by unnecessary desires. You stop comparing yourself to others. And that’s the key to staying calm and positive at heart.

⑦ The Deep Meaning of "Okagesama" "How are you?" "おかげ様で, I'm good"

In that video, I explained that “Okagesama” expresses gratitude, recognizing that your well-being is thanks to the support of others. Let’s dig a little deeper into this concept. “Okagesama” is written as 「お陰様」 in Japanese. The word *陰* (kage) means "shadow" in English, like the shade of a tree that shelters you from rain or the scorching sun. In essence, it’s about recognizing that, though you might not always notice it, there are always people or divine forces, like the shade of a tree, quietly supporting you.

In the past, in the present, in the future! For example, your very existence today is thanks to your mother and father. The clothes you’re wearing right now? Someone made those for you. Recently had success at work? There was likely

someone behind the scenes who helped make that happen. In other words, you are always supported by someone or something. So Let’s always strive to remember the spirit of “Okagesama” and appreciate it! ⑧ Early to Bed, Early to Rise + One More Habit Here we are, the final one! Yes, in this video, I talked about the benefits of going to bed and waking up early, as well as the importance of greeting the sun each day.

Now, I want to share another traditional Japanese habit that brings happiness: “opening all the windows in the morning.”

This was actually a habit of my great-grandmother. Every morning around 5 a.m., she would wake up and open all the windows in the house. Even in the cold winter, she did this.

One reason is to let in fresh morning air, filling your home with that crisp, clean breeze. Second reason is to welcome the goddess. Can you guess what she is?

She is the “Kinkatsu Kaneno Kami”—the golden toilet goddess that I talked about earlier! Isn’t that great? If you found it even a little bit fun, I’d be really happy if you hit the like button or left a comment! Even if it’s something like, “You talked about toilets way too much!”—anything is fine! lol Even that makes me so happy:)

From the bottom of my heart, “okagesama”—thank you so much, as always!