---
video_title: "21 Small Habits that Changed My Life Throughout The Day!"
video_id: sXeS8OwZTNQ
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sXeS8OwZTNQ
video_date: 2024-02-24
video_description: |
  Today, I‘d like to introduce you to 21 small habits that have changed my life significantly for the better, throughout the day, from morning to night.
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  【R's KOSO】Use a code 「SAMURAIMATCHA15」for 15% Off Everything.
  ▶︎https://www.dpbolvw.net/click-101110351-14494750
  
  Why are Japanese people so slim? | (Native) Japanese Perspective
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/lLvPJM4r8R0
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  【About the toilet got】
  Some people say "You are using wrong image of the toilet got! It's Agni of Hinduism! Don't insult Hinduism!"  
  The answer is not at all!!!
  In ancient times, When Agni has been incorporated into Japanese Buddhism, he started to revere as the god of purification and toilets, know as 烏枢沙摩明王-Ususamamyoou-
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Today, I‘d like to introduce you to 21 small habits that have changed my life significantly for the better, throughout the day, from morning to night. Just between us, in my twenties, my life hit rock bottom.Having depression, being homeless, and carrying debt. In a quest to change that life and myself, I gradually adopted these habits and now I’m very happy. Thanks to you guys❤︎ So if you'd like to improve your life, even just a little bit, please stay tuned until the end. Wake up early

Do you get up early? For me, it's usually around 5:00 in the summer and about 5:30 in the winter. If you're looking to improve your life, start by getting into the habit of waking up early! Why? Simply because being an early bird has many perks that can make your life better in many ways. For example, developing a healthy lifestyle,

boosting productivity and becoming healthier and so on. Personally, what I think the greatest benefit is being able to breathe in the fresh morning air. So, after getting up, the first thing I do is… Open the window Well, when I open the window... yup, it's quite chilly now lol

But opening the window early in the morning allows me to have the fresh air all to myself. This is the clean air that the earth purifies at night when there is little human activity. It’s truly a gift from the earth. If you get up early you can receive this gift which allows you to be grateful for just being on this planet. And it gives you the energy to tackle the day ahead.

Clean up the room “No way! Why would I?” I used to think so. So, I used to have no cleaning habits at all, and of course, my room was messy, and my mind was full of stress. But once I realized that my room and my state of mind were connected, I started to make cleaning a habit. In the end, as the room became tidy,

my mind also started to feel more organized. Now I really love cleaning my room! Clean the toilet Some people might say, 'Ew, cleaning the toilet? That’s yuck! ' Yep I understand that, I was like you before.

But now I love cleaning the toilet. Not just in my home; I even find myself cleaning my friend’s toilets and public toilets without hesitation. In a way, it's a bit peculiar lol Why do I love cleaning the toilet? It's because, since I started regularly cleaning the toilet, strangely enough, good things started happening in my life. For example, my relationships improved and even my income went up. In fact, there’s even evidence

Spell a magical word before drinking water This is a way to create miracles every day. In the morning, I assume many people drink water. At that time, try saying this to the water: "Thank you for always making miracles happen." You might find it sketchy, but since I started doing this, miracles really do happen every day. So, please try it out!

Take enzyme-infused smoothies I usually drink enzyme-infused smoothies in the morning. So I put enzyme drinks, we call them KOSO drinks, into my smoothie. In Japan, there’s a trend, especially among young women, to drink KOSO drinks for dieting and maintaining good health. Since I started drinking it, my digestive system has significantly improved. I previously made a video about revealing the secrets of enzymes, so if you're interested, please check it out.

I'll also provide a link in the description to the enzyme drink from R’s KOSO that I usually consume. Please check it out too! Have the exclusive morning matcha time This is not just about drinking matcha. I value my routine and savor matcha carefully. I focus on the present while listening to the sound of whisking matcha with a tea whisk.

It's like practicing Zen while in motion. Since I started drinking matcha like this every day, I've experienced fewer morning anxieties and unpleasant feelings. It doesn't have to be matcha specifically; it could be any tea, coffee or cocoa. Just consciously follow the same routine and try tasting it slowly. Take a morning walk I love morning walks.

Because in the morning, walking while basking in the sunlight triggers the release of serotonin, which makes me very happy. ˌsɛrəˈtʰəʊnɪn If someone doesn't feel happiness just by walking, I recommend giving this a try. Do a treasure hunt That's right. It's like going on a treasure hunt. But the treasure isn't gold or diamonds; it's trash. ˈdaɪmʌndz But don’t get me wrong,

I'm not doing it to seek praise. Just picking up trash gives me a sense of accomplishment, and I do it because I wanna make the world a little cleaner. YES! This is the habit that brings happiness to you, your neighbors, and the Earth. That's why I said it’s a treasure hunt.

Nowadays, this habit is one of my IKIGAI (reasons for being). Align the shoes "Make sure your shoes are aligned!" This is a phrase I've heard from my mother since I was a child. As a result, I always ensure that my shoes are 100% aligned. It's a habit that taught me the importance of building self-esteem through continuing small habits. Thanks, Mom.

Radio Taiso（Radio calisthenics） This is a well-known health exercise in Japan! It seems to be considered one of the symbols of Japan as a longevity country. Within 3 minutes and 13 seconds, it includes 13 different exercises, providing not only exercise benefits but also stretching effects. Thanks to this habit, I can start my day feeling happy. The MGL Method Every morning, I write “MGL” in my bullet journal M stands for Matcha Moment, which is essentially the highlight of the day. This is the thing that I really want to accomplish today.

G is for grateful, where I write down things I’m grateful for right now. L is for letting go of, where I list things I wanna remove from my habits. The beauty of this MGL method is that it allows me to end the day feeling satisfied. For example I achieve what I've set as a highlight and feel happy, I express gratitude for small things in the morning and feel satisfied. Recognizing and addressing negative habits brings satisfaction. By practicing the MGL method

every day, it feels like I'm gradually becoming a better version of myself. The Pomodoro Technique At work, I primarily use the Pomodoro Technique, which is to work for 25 minutes and then take a 5-minute break.prɑɪmérəli In the past, I used to work without paying much attention to time. As time passed, I would become fatigued and lose concentration, and my lower back would start hurting. It was genuinely unpleasant. However, since switching to this method,

my lower back pain has disappeared, and my concentration has been consistently maintained. Thanks to this approach, the efficiency of my work has greatly improved. Say “itadakimasu” (Thanks for the meal) before eating I made Tamagokake Gohan（Raw egg on rice） for lunch Today. Before eating, many Japanese people say, "Itadakimasu." This phrase expresses gratitude to everyone involved in preparing the food and thanks for the gift of life. While in the past, I used to say it more

as a formality, now I make sure to genuinely think of my mother, the farmers, and others, expressing gratitude for life before eating. Doing so makes the meal even more delicious. In the afternoon, I had a meeting with my tax accountant and had a great dinner in a Japanese style restaurant, then went back home. Do some workouts I often get asked, "How much do you work out in a day?" The answer is just 5 to 10 minutes a day, and that's how I maintain this physique.fɪzíːk I don't do any special workouts.

While I used to create my own workout routines in the past, these days I experiment more with various YouTube videos. Many people struggle with figuring out the right way to exercise, but the key is not to overthink it. The more you think, the less likely you are to start the exercise. “Don’t think, just do it” is the key to making it a habit. Take a bath One thing that Japanese people always miss when living abroad is the bath. Bathing has numerous benefits, such as relaxation,

improvement of lower back pain and shoulder stiffness, and enhancement of sleep quality. Thanks to the habit of taking baths, I’ve been greatly supported. Whether dealing with stress at work, experiencing depression in Tokyo, or even when I was homeless, the bath always warmly embraced me. Bathing is truly a habit that brings the best healing to life, I think. Do stretching If the morning is the golden time for work, then after the bath is the golden time for stretching. This is because the muscles

are relaxed after the bath. Just like with strength training, my stretching routine is also around 5 to 10 minutes every day. You might think it's short, but if you continue doing it you’ll surely be flexible. And these 5 to 10 minutes contribute to creating the best version of myself for tomorrow. The impact may seem minimal in one session, but without a doubt, in the long run, it has become a habit that improves my life.

Relax with some incense While relaxing my body through stretching, I also relax my mind with scents. Here's a little secret: I'm often described as positive, but I tend to feel more anxious than others. That's why I think of ways like this to relax myself. For those who are prone to anxiety, scents can be very effective for relaxation. Put things back to where they belong In the tea ceremony, after preparing tea, it's essential to return all the tea utensils to their original positions.

Likewise, I make it a habit to put everything I use throughout the day back in its original place. It was challenging for me at the beginning. However, once you get into the habit, you can consistently keep your room in the best organized state. Every morning, when I wake up, I can see the best organized state of my room, which contributes to a happier and more positive start to the day. Read some books Reading books can make a remarkable difference in your life.

The reason I always read for 15 to 30 minutes before bed is because of this. Lately, I've been reading a lot of books about habits and minimalism. And sometimes I read manga. Nowadays I read Full metal alchemist.

Imagine a bright future No matter how challenging the day has been, I wanted to end it on a happy note, so I started this habit. The method is simple: just imagine a future that makes you grin from ear to ear. Be cautious not to overdo it, as people might find it odd lol So, do it secretly, just with yourself! kˈɔːʃəs Finally I show gratitude for my heart and good night:) That’s it! How was it!? I hope you enjoyed it! And if you want to make your life better, don’t

need to rush, gradually incorporate the habits you want and keep making your life even better. Finally, I'd like to share one of my favorite quotes: "First, we make our habits, then our habits make us." John Dryden (English poet) Thank you so matcha!