---
video_title: "8 Japanese Unspoken Rules that you should know about🇯🇵"
video_id: 4p0y3t7Ep84
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4p0y3t7Ep84
video_date: 2024-06-30
video_description: |
  In this video, I want to talk about eight unspoken rules that you might not know in Japan.
  
  You don't really have to learn all of them, but these rules might come in handy when you travel to Japan, so stick around until the end!
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
In this video, I want to talk about eight unspoken rules that you might not know in Japan. You don't really have to learn all of them, but these rules might come in handy when you travel to Japan, so stick around until the end! 1. Things that you have to do when you merge into traffic in Japan Check out this video. There's a car coming from the left side street, trying to merge onto the main road.

Did you notice hazard lights blinking? This is a gesture of gratitude towards the driver behind. We often use this gesture when merging onto highways. If you don't use it, some drivers might think you're rude, so it's good to remember when driving in Japan. This is a little bit off topic, but flashing your brake lights five times is considered a sign of "あいしてる" “I love you“ in English.

Oh, this actually comes from the lyrics of a famous Japanese song, but it’s interesting, right? 2. You can tip in Japan, but...

You don't have to tip in Japan, as you probably know. But if you feel like the service was exceptional and you want to tip, it's okay to do so. It might surprise grandma in the countryside, but people in tourist areas are more likely to accept it. Here's a rule better to remember when tipping: While it's okay to pay in cash, if you want to show more respect, it's better to put the money in an envelope. That's because Japanese consider handing over money directly as somewhat uncouth, so using an envelope is considered more polite.

So it's a good idea to buy these small envelopes from a convenience store or a 100-yen shop. You don’t really have to do that, but this way Japanese feel more respected and find it easier to accept it. 3. Enhancing the potential of Japanese cuisine. When you're traveling in Japan, you might have the opportunity to eat Japanese set meals.

It usually consists of rice, miso soup, and side dishes. Do you know how to eat them? Do you eat each item one by one, like a course meal? Of course, you're free to eat however you like, but that's not the best way to bring out the potential of Japanese cuisine. There's a traditional way to maximize the flavor of Japanese food.

It's called "Sankaku-tabe" , "eating in triangles." What it means is that you use your chopsticks to pick up rice,miso soup, and side dishes in a triangular motion. By doing so, you can mix various ingredients in your mouth and enjoy the changing flavors. The more side dishes you have, the more infinite the taste becomes in your mouth. This is called "口内調味-Kounai choumi" or "seasoning inside the mouth."

Not only can you enjoy various flavors, but it also increases the number of chews, making digestion easier. It's also said prevent over eating I think this might be one of the reasons why Japanese people are slim. But anyway, when you come to Japan, please try 三角食べand 口内調味 4. Unspoken rules when parking a car in Japan Let's talk about Japanese parking lots. Did you notice something in this video?

That's right, everyone is backing into the parking spaces. There's not a single car parked front-first! You might wonder if there's a law in Japan, but there isn't. It's just an unspoken rule. Why?

Because backing into a space is safer and more efficient. Firstly, Japanese parking spaces are small. So, if you try to park front-first, you'll have to make several maneuvers, increasing the risk of accidents. It also makes it smoother when leaving the parking lot. Therefore, backing into space has become an unspoken rule.

5. What is this Food? When you go to an izakaya (Japanese-style pub), you might receive food even if you didn't order it. This is called "otoshi." Originally, it was born out of the spirit of hospitality to avoid keeping customers waiting.

However, you still have to pay for it. Even if it's something you can't eat or dislike, you still have to pay for it. I understand what you want to say. Why do you have to pay for something you didn't order? I know… But that's the rule in most Japanese izakayas.

Thinking of it as a seating fee might be helpful. Also I heard some places may allow you to decline it, so it's worth a try. 6. Eating while walking is prohibited in Japan? Japan's tourist spots offer many cute snacks.

You might want to buy them and eat while walking. Unfortunately in Japan, it's considered bad etiquette. But the good news is in reality, many people eat while walking. Personally, I don't mind if you eat while walking. But please remember these: - Avoid crowded places. - Don't litter.

- Don't bring food into restaurants. If you follow these, I don't think anyone will give you a dirty look even if you eat while walking. But let me say again, the basic etiquette is to sit and eat. 7. Making slurping sound In the West, slurping noodles is considered rude, right?

But in Japan, it's totally okay. When eating ramen, udon, or soba, whatever noodles, it's common to slurp and make a sound. It’s kind of an unspoken rule? right? You might think, "I can't do something rude and pointless!"

But there are benefits to slurping: - You can eat faster. - It helps cool down the hot food by sucking in air. - You use your sense of smell, making the taste even more delicious. By the way, in a tea ceremony, the slurping sound is a sign of "It was delicious." You may feel embarrassed, but while you're in Japan, I encourage you to give it a try!

8. Unspoken rules on crowded trains Japan's crowded trains are famous worldwide. You might find yourself on one when you visit Japan. At such times, there's an Unspoken rule you should remember:

Carry your bag in front of you. The reason is simple: To avoid inconveniencing others. In other words, when you carry your bag on your back, you won't notice if you bump into others, so you should carry it in front of you. It’s a good rule, but to me, I don't think that's the best way. After all, you're still taking up space.

So, if you can place it on the overhead shelf, I think that's better. Anyway, when you ride the train in Japan, please consider your belongings. Alright! Now you're all set for Japan. If you come to Japan in the future please remember these rules and enjoy your trip!

If our schedules align, I'd love to meet you all. Well then, see you later!