---
video_title: "8 simple daily habits that help me stay in top shape (for my body and wellbeing)"
video_id: U0Hmnm72x4Q
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U0Hmnm72x4Q
video_date: 2024-12-14
video_description: |
  Today, I’m sharing 8 simple daily habits that help me stay in top shape for my body and my overall wellness.
  
  00:40 ①Morning Walk
  02:05 ②Cold Showers
  03:06 ③Tatami Yoga
  04:01 ④Climbing Stairs
  05:27 ⑤Shinrinyoku
  06:20 ⑥Rice Koji
  08:16  ⑦Sauna
  10:21 ⑧Wear Loose-Fitting Clothes
  11:22 ⑨Stretch During Pocket of time
  12:26 ⑩ 10-Minute Daily Workout
  
  ・21 Small Habits that Changed My Life Throughout The Day!
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/sXeS8OwZTNQ
  
  ・8 simple Japanese habits that will make your life so much better!!
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/04wZNnjdURE
  
  ・8 simple Japanese habits that will make your life so much better!!
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/04wZNnjdURE
  
  ・What I eat in a week🇯🇵(Japanese food + Local village meals)
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/-jDsUyquBxI
  
  7 Healthy Habits in Japan🇯🇵
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/NbY-_583ScI
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Today, I’m sharing 8 simple daily habits that help me stay in top shape for my body and my overall wellness. Here’s me in my 20s... and here’s me now.

If you’re new here, I’m Aki! I’m a minimalist who shares tips on a simple and healthy Japanese lifestyle. I’m in my mid-30s, my body’s in the best shape it’s ever been, and I feel lighter and more energized than ever! So, what changed? Just a few simple daily habits.

They’re easy habits you can add to your routine too. Let’s get started! 1. Morning Walk 4:45 a.m. It’s still dim outside…

Every morning, after waking up, I drink some water and head out for a morning walk. I just walk at a steady pace for 15 minutes and this is honestly one of my best habits for building a happy and healthy body!

I've got three reasons for that. First, the fresh morning air feels amazing. It’s like getting a gift from the Earth, and it totally brightens my mood. Second, walking before eating breakfast helps burn fat and keep my body lean and toned. Third, light exercise and the morning sun help release serotonin, giving me a happy start to the day.

Oh, the sun has been rising later because it’s nearing winter.haha Honestly, ever since I started this habit, I’ve felt in great shape, my mood is up, and also my productivity at work has skyrocketed. Let’s walk in the morning? 2. Cold Showers When I get back, I take a cold shower.

You might be thinking, “What? Cold water? That sounds awful!” Wooooo! But trust me, doing this in the morning is life-changing.

Here’s how I do it recently: I alternate between hot and cold showers — 1 minute of hot water, 30 seconds of cold, then 15 seconds back to hot. Switching between warm and cold showers makes your blood vessels contract and expand, really getting the blood flowing. After taking a shower? OMG! I feel warm all over, and it feels amazing!

And this is just my two cents, but I feel like my normal body temperature has gone up. It helped with my cold hands and feets! I rarely catch a cold. It's gonna keep this up. 3Tatami Yoga So, every morning after the shower, I head back to my room for some yoga.

That’s when the sun starts coming up, so I get to do my yoga while soaking in the sunrise. It’s one of my favorite times because it really helps me chill out. I do yoga on the tatami mat, and it’s super relaxing because I get to enjoy the smell of the tatami while I practice. This is my original tatami yoga:) I keep it simple with stuff like Sun Salutations, and since I’m a certified yoga instructor, I also create my own routines. I’ve been doing yoga regularly since I turned 30, and honestly, I’ve got way less shoulder and back pain than I did in my 20s.

I’m super grateful for yoga. I’m still kinda stiff, though, so I’m gonna keep at it! 4. Take the Stairs Hi! I'm currently walking through the city.

Take a look! Right in front of me are stairs and an escalator. Which one would you choose? Most people would probably pick the escalator, right? but I almost always go for the stairs.

Why? Because good health is all about the little things we do every day. It depends on the weight, but apparently you burn about 0.1 calories for each step you climb. I usually take about 100 steps on the stairs. Yeah I calculated it. So that’s roughly 10 calories a day.

You might think that’s not much, but it’s like doing 25 squats a day, 9,125 squats a year! That's a pretty good workout, right? And this doesn’t even count the calories burned going down, plus if you run or carry stuff, you'll burn even more. It might just look like stairs for many people, but for me it’s a daily exercise machine. So, do you feel like choosing the stairs now?

Today, I’m out there somewhere, climbing stairs! Feel free to say hi if you spot me! 5. 森林浴-Shinrinyoku- Have you ever heard of 'Shinrinyoku'? In English, it’s called 'Forest bathing' That basically means relaxing in the forest.

I try to go forest bathing at least once a month. Why? Because just walking through the trees makes my body relax and feel completely refreshed.. Scientifically, it’s said that trees release something called phytoncides that help you relax.

It’s all good stuff for your body—like lowering blood pressure, boosting metabolism, and helping with recovery from fatigue. And if you really want to take the relaxation to the next level, bring some matcha with you! Haha. The L-theanine in matcha will help you chill out even more. 6. Eat Rice Koji

I'm currently staying at my parents' house for a bit, and my mom is cooking for me, which is really really great. Today, she made miso soup using rice koji. This rice koji has become one of my favorite health foods lately. Do you know about rice koji? It’s like a secret health ingredient in Japan.

In simple terms, it’s rice that has a special mold called ”Japanese Aspergillus oryzae” grown on it. You can mix it with all kinds of ingredients. For example, you can mix it with salt to make salt koji. There are also variations like kombu koji, mushroom koji, and onion koji. You can use them as a source, to make broth for miso soup, or as a substitute for consomme in soups.

And taste? Amazing! It gives food a deeper taste! You can make a rich broth without using any animal products, so it’s perfect for vegetarians and vegans! Not only does koji make things taste amazing, but it’s also super healthy.

Here are three benefits: ①Improves Digestion Koji contains over 100 types of enzymes! So it helps your body digest food more easily. ②Boosts Gut Health Koji has enzymes that increase the good bacteria in your gut, keeping things in balance! ③Good for Your Skin Koji produces B vitamins, which help keep your skin looking youthful and fresh! So, why not give it a try and add some koji to your diet for a healthier body?

7. Sauna Do you like saunas? To be honest, I wasn’t really a fan of saunas before. I mean, they’re super hot, right? Haha.

But one day, I had a life-changing experience. It was freezing cold in the winter, and I was hopping between a sauna and an icy river. Honestly, the sauna was too hot, and the river was too freezing—it felt like torture. But afterward, my body felt incredible—like nothing I’d ever experienced before. My body was so relaxed and my brain was super clear.

I thought I wish I could have stayed in that state forever In Japan, sauna lovers call this amazing feeling “整う, ” literally meaning “organized” . I got curious about what was happening to my body, so I did some research. In a nutshell, it’s 3 steps: ”Hot (relax) → Cold (tense) → Release (super relax).” First, your body relaxes in the heat of the sauna. Then, when you jump into the cold water, your body tenses up.

To your body, it’s like, 'Wait, I was just super hot, and now I’m freezing! This is an emergency!' So, when you get out of the cold, Your body goes out of crisis mode and enters a state of deep relaxation. But here is a secret, while your body is totally relaxed, your brain is actually super clear and sharp. Why? Because your brain releases a lot of

adrenaline to help you adapt to the intense cold water. This creates the perfect balance to enter a deep, meditative state. Getting into the sauna is a great way to reset both your body and mind, so I highly recommend it 8. Wear Loose-Fitting Clothes When I used to work as a teacher, I wore formal, collared shirts almost all the time. But to be honest, I didn’t like it that much.

The tightness was super stressful for me. In the summertime, it was super uncomfortable. The moment I got home from work, I’d just rip off my clothes. You’ve had that experience too, right? Looking back, I realize how much stress it was putting on my body.

Even scientifically, tight clothes can mess with your circulation and put a lot of strain on your body. So lately, I’ve been trying to wear looser clothes as much as possible. And let me tell you, it feels amazing! My body feels lighter, and I don’t get tired as easily. I’ve found that when your clothes are loose, your mood relaxes too, and your stress levels go down.

You should totally give them a try! 9. Stretch During Pocket of time I not only stretch every day after the bath, but also in my pocket of time. I highly recommend this for anyone who works at a desk. Even if you stretch for just one minute, it helps your body stay flexible.

For example, between working, while you’re waiting for the bathroom, waiting for your tea at a café, or waiting for the train. It might seem small, but over time, these small things add up and make a big difference for your body. Since I started this habit, I’ve noticed that I became more flexible and got way less tired. And actually, there’s another great side effect from this habit—it’s helped me cut back on social media. Past ：Oh, pocket of time → Social media Now : Oh, pocket of time→ Stretch Lately, thanks to this, my dream of getting a (full) 180 straddle is gaining momentum Let's stretch together! 10. 10-Minute Daily Workout

This is the most important habit I have for keeping my body in shape. People often say, '10 minutes a day isn’t enough!' But try this routine, and you’ll see the difference.

And that’s your 10 minutes! The key is to focus on one specific area each day and push yourself to your limit. Simple, right? but little by little.When I started my working out routine, I was like this.

If you want to be stronger, I think hitting the gym is a good idea. I sometimes go there with my friend, but for simply maintain a good body, body weight exercise is just fine. If you want to learn more about my daily habits check out these videos.

Let’s keep adding good habits together!

Bye-bye!