---
video_title: "Cooking with Japanese mother: Homemade Nikujaga meal set"
video_id: YSLdoReY6WI
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YSLdoReY6WI
video_date: 2024-02-11
video_description: |
  Today, my mother, who has been a home chef for 40 years, will be making the classic Japanese dish, nikujaga (beef and potato stew). 
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Samurai Mom
  ▶︎https://www.youtube.com/@SamuraiMatchaMom
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  BLOG  https://samuraijourney.com/​
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Hi everyone! Today, my mother, who has been a home chef for 40 years, will be making the classic Japanese dish, nikujaga (beef and potato stew). Mmm…I’m drooling already lol All right, then. Let's go and take a look!

Nikujaga could be both a main dish and a side dish, but today let’s make as the main dish. We normally use beef for the main dish Nikujaga. Since we need some miso soup and rice as side dishes, let’s extract a broth, from a miso soup and make Nikujaga with it! First, we boil the water and add some dried bonito flakes. The tricky part is that once the bonito is boiled, it makes the broth muddy.

So make sure to boil the water first, turn off the stove, and then add the bonito flakes. After a minute or two, we strain the bonito flakes, and we get the golden broth! There’re several ways to make broth. For example, we can let the bonito flakes and seaweed sit in the fridge for a night. Or we can extract the broth by boiling water, like what we’re doing today.

These thick, dried bonito flakes are good for making more profound flakes. this is Katsuo (bonito), this is Konbu (kelp), this is Ago (fish) You can choose the flavor you want. They sell even as pre-packed ones, so it can be simply dipped into the boiled water. And of course, there’s some instant miso soup, to which you only add hot water. You can even choose the miso type, like Haccho or Tonjiru.

My favorite ones are these. "This fried eggplant miso soup is amazing! By just adding some hot water, you can make a miso soup that you taste at a five-star restaurant! There are a few kinds, like the ones with bonito, seaweed, or fish. だし "Recipe: - 35g of bonito flakes for 1000ml of water" DASHI Make sure you turned off the stove, and then put a big grab of bonito flakes.

Even when we put off the fire, the bonito flakes blend naturally into the water. After waiting about 2 minutes, we strain it with gauze. Do not squeeze it too tight, as all the bitter taste that comes out of the broth gets muddy. Lift it slowly and put it in a bowl gently. This is how we get the golden broth.

Today we use three Irish Cobbler potatoes. They use more May queen in Kansai (Western Japan) area more. Use half an onion if it's big, and use a whole onion if it's about this size. Same for a carrot. I just use the whole thing if it’s about this size.

150 to 200g of beef. And this amount of Shirataki, which is made of Konjac. And we’ll use some green beans at the end. All set, let’s do it! After washing the produce, remove the potato eyes and blue parts since they’re poisonous.

Peel the potatoes and keep them in the water until you use them. This slicer does such good work. Ready? Look how the carrot stays shining! Chop up the carrots in chunks like this.

I just use the whole onion since it’s small. As I get older, I’m struggling more with these thick skins... Thanks, Aki!

Let’s cut the onion into wedges. After soaking the potatoes in water for 5 minutes, all the foam will be gone too. Let’s cut them into big chunks. Put the green beans into the boiling water with a pinch of salt. We’ll use them later by boiling them for a while.

Heat up the middle-sized pan. Once it’s done, add a drizzle of oil. I use this rice oil, which is made out of rice bran. I assume this is the secret of Japanese people are staying healthy. It’s good for your metabolism, I guess.

After adding the oil, move the pan to spread it evenly. Ok, let’s put some veggies in. It’ll be flavorful if we cook the veggies first and then simmer them. Here we go!

Let the flavors blend well. Oh, the green beans are ready. By rinsing them with water, the green color stays better. We’ll use them as toppings later. Ok, next!

We cook it well until the onion gets softened and transparent. Pour in the broth (about 400ml) we made earlier. Usually, it’s 2 TBSP of sugar, but I put a bit less. Add 2 TBSP of soy sauce. You know what “SA SHI SU SE SO means in the Japanese cooking?

So there’s an order to use the basic seasoning, and we follow it as “SA SHI SU SE SO. 砂糖(sugar)SATO 塩(salt)SHIO 酢(vinegar)SU 醤油(soy sauce)ShEyu 味噌(fermented soy beans)miSO If you put them in this order, you’ll get more rich flavor in your dish. Since the sugar particles are about 6 times bigger than salt, it’ll take more time to blend in. So we need to put it first. Whereas for miso and soy sauce, all the flavors will be gone if we put them at the beginning.

That’s why we put them at the end. Next, we put in some mirin (sweet sake). This mirin has such a good taste. It even gives a gleam to the food. About 2 TBSP would be enough.

Lastly, we put some sake! This could be a cooking sake too. All right then, let’s simmer until it’s ready. You see there are some foam coming out? They have bitter tastes.

Let’s put some beef scraps in. Try spreading each piece, as it’ll shrink when it’s cooked. I love this simmering sound. If you put the heat on high, all the foam will be pushed to the center. So make sure to remove them.

Now it’s time to add some Shirataki (Konjac). Now it's time to use the drop lid to enhance the flavor. Use some kitchen paper in between. We usually use this wooden drop lid. And also my favorite drop lid, Mr. Piggy!

It’s not only cute but a drop lid (Otoshi-buta)! It's a pig ('buta' in Japanese), lid ('futa' or '-buta' in Japanese) lol Omg it’s hot！ I use this one for now, as it’s easier to take it out. Ok, let’s lower the heat now. With the mid-heat, simmer it for 7 to 8 minutes. And then we let it cool down.

It’s important to cool it down since the flavor sits inside as it cools down. If you can touch the pan with your hands without getting burned, that’s the sign that the food is ready. Heat it up once again, right before you eat. ご飯 "Recipe for 2 people: - 360g of rice - 432ml of water *Amount of rice × 1.2ml of water (Rice) GOHAN Let’s make some rice. First, rinse it well under the running water.

And save the rice water here, where I do dishes. It cleans the dishes really well! You need to rinse it until it gets transparent, if it’s a white rice. It’s better to let it sit for 5 to 15 minutes. And then transfer it to the rice cooker pot, pour in some water. Wait for another 15 minutes before cooking so that the rice will be more tasty.

和え物 "Recipe for 2 people: - 150g of cabbage (soft part) - 1/2 cucumber - 15g of bonito flakes (left over from Dashi) - Salt" Now let’s make a side dish with a cabbage and the bonito flakes we used for the broth. I always use the soft part of the cabbage and save the rest for other dishes.

Sprinkle a pinch of salt and let it sit for a while. Then chop the cucumber like this. Sprinkle some salt on these too. And then rub with your hands like this. If the veggies get softened a bit, try squeezing them.

Scatter the dried bonito flakes we used earlier for the broth over the veggies. To add some color, let’s put some kanikama (imitation crab sticks). How does that look? More gorgeous, right?

Add 2 TBSP of mayo. Add a bit of soy sauce too. And combine them well. The flavor fits in well after a while, so let me keep it in the fridge. ふりかけ "Recipe for 2 people: - 20g of bonito flakes (left over from Dashi) - 1+ TBSP of sugar - 1 TBSP of soy sauce - 1/2 of mirin - 1 TBSP of sesame" (Sesame seasoning) Goma Furikake We use these bonito flakes once again! First, take it out of the gauze.

Chop it in small pieces. Nikujaga takes time to get deeply flavored. Without any oil on the pan, just cooking the chopped bonito flakes. Burn off the water without burning it. A wooden spatula is recommended to stir.

Season it with 1+ TBSP of sugar, and 1 TBSP of soy sauce. If the ratio for sugar and soy sauce is 1:1, then mirin is only a half tbsp. Combine all of them to get rich-flavored. Then add 1 TBSP of sesame. Sesame Furikake (Topping) is ready!

The Mizuna (potherb mustard) I grew outside are just perfect for the miso soup! 味噌汁 "Recipe for 2 people: - 50g of potherb mustard - 30g of flavored fried tofu - 1 TBSP of miso" (Miso soup) After rinsing the potherb mustard, chop it like this. And we also put this flavored fried tofu. This is the golden broth we made earlier. For miso, I have 3 types, and I’ll explain how I distinguish between them.

White miso (rice): Fish dishes "Mix (rice and wheat): Various dishes" "Haccho miso (beans): Simmered dishes" Heat it up with high, add the ingredients quickly. Turn off the heat to add the miso paste. All right. Let’s put this much miso in it, and it’ll be ready to eat. Finally, Nikujaga is ready to be served!

Here’s your miso soup. Fluff the rice and flip it over!

These are rice bran pickles I made. They’re made out of rice bran. Nuka is a rice bran made from polished rice. We keep adding more Nuka once the water from the vegetable comes out. And we leave it for over a night.

Enjoy your meal❤️ Itadaki masu! (Thank you for the meal) !!!

This furikake is so tasty. "Mom: Really? Thank you!" Nikujaga〜! Oh yeah! It’s so tasty! Love it!

Mmm...Umai! (delicious) It was incredible!

"Mom: Thank you!"

So how did you like Niku-jaga (Japanese meat and potato stew)? If your mouth is watering now, please make it at home! And now, for an important announcement. We’re making a channel for my mom! Woohoo!!

And the name will be “Samurai mom! I never told you, but my mother has not only the title of being a homemaker for over 40 years but also an intriguing background, as she is skilled in dressing in traditional Japanese kimono, a teacher of preserved flower arrangement, and has dedicated years to learning the art of tea ceremony, ikebana (flower arranging), and pottery. So I wanna create a channel, which my mother can share happiness with the world through her knowledge and experiences. But to be honest, my mother is super shy and doesn't seem to want to become too famous. She always says, "Ordinary is the best lol" However, when I passionately argued, "Let's preserve the wonderful experiences of your life for the world!"

"People around the world are eagerly waiting for your cooking!" she finally agreed. Since I can only film when I visit my hometown, there might be a new video every three months or so. But gradually, I want to share mainly my mother's experiences and knowledge with you, so please subscribe to the channel. I'll put the link in the description!

Although I may not have much influence, I want to make this world a little happier while I'm alive. Well, then, let's meet in the next video!