---
video_title: "8 Japanese Super Drinks for your Healthier, Longer Life!"
video_id: ZDYsfiXO7Po
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZDYsfiXO7Po
video_date: 2024-10-25
video_description: |
  In this video, I want to share with you 8 super drinks that healthy Japanese people regularly enjoy!!
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  I hope this video can help, even just a little, to support your health!
  
  For someone who are interested in R's KOSO, here is the link✨
  ▶︎https://www.dpbolvw.net/click-101110351-14494750
  
  Please use a code 「SAMURAIMATCHA15」for 15% Off Everything!
  
  Let's have a healthy morning habit together😁
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  0:24 1. 白湯 Sayu
  1:49 2. Pine Needle Juice
  3:31 3.KOSO Drinks
  7:12 4.Aojiru (Green Juice)
  8:03 5.Amazake
  9:23 6.Green Tea
  10:27 7.Matcha
  11:32 8.葛湯 Kuzu-yu (Kudzu Tea)
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  6 Japanese Super Foods That Will Keep You Healthy!
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/feozcEdYcT4
  
  How to make Matcha
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/QZbB1JjDLSQ
  
  Book：松葉健康法
  ▶︎https://amzn.to/3NDcLPd
  
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
So for today, I want to share with you eight super drinks that healthy Japanese

In this video, I’m going to introduce you to these secret drinks and how to easily make them. You can start incorporating them into your life right away, so plz watch until the end! 1. 白湯 Sayu Sayu is a really popular drink among health-conscious people in Japan. Look at this Google Trends! The interest in *白湯 (Sayu)* has been steadily rising since 2004.

So…what exactly is *sayu*? It’s… simply hot water but it isn't made easily with an electric kettle. First, put water in a kettle or pot, bring it to a boil(10 mins) with a fire, and then let it cool down to 50°C. That’s called 白湯。 You’re probably wondering why it’s necessary to boil with fire? There are two reasons for that: 1. To remove impurities like chlorine.

2. To harmonize the three elements. This is based on Ayurvedic principles. By doing that, it has the water, fire, and air elements—makes *sayu* a drink suitable for all body types. Actually, the water becomes gentler and smoother on the body than just using an electric kettle.

The primary benefit of *sayu* is that it warms the stomach, which can improve digestion, metabolism, and immunity. That’s why many Japanese people drink it first thing in the morning. It’s simple, but I’d say *sayu* is actually quite amazing. 2. Pine Needle Juice Wait, can you really drink pine needles?

You might be surprised, but yes!

And it’s actually pretty tasty, not to mention incredibly healthy. Have you ever visited a Japanese castle? You’ll notice that pine trees are almost always planted around them, right? It’s because samurai used them as emergency food. Because they have abundant nutrients! For example, they contain 24 different amino

acids, seven of which are essential amino acids that our bodies can’t produce on their own. That’s why pine needles are also known in China as the “Elixir of Immortality.” This book shares different experiences from people who drank pine juice. For example, some said that drinking it every day made them "feel lighter," "lowered their blood pressure without medication," "look younger," or even "grew their hair back." Pretty amazing, right?

Making pine needle juice is super easy. Recipe is here! - Pine needles: 5-10g - Water: 200ml ①Pick up some pine needles. ②Blend pine needles with water. Cut them into small pieces and put them into a blender.

Add water and mix it. ③Strain it. Then strain it, done! I sometimes make pine juice and often drink it in the morning. It’s so refreshing and it makes your body feel lighter.

Please give it a try! 3.KOSO Drinks Ever feel sluggish, foggy-headed, struggling with poor sleep, or just feeling low sometimes? If you’re dealing with any of this, the first thing you should focus on is improving your gut health! Gut health? What’s up with gut health?

Because recent studies have shown that your gut and brain are closely connected. When your gut is in good shape, your mental clarity and mood improve too! Gut health is the secret why I'm staying healthy and positive. Let me be real with you. There was a time when I struggled with depression.

I was overworking myself in Tokyo, running myself into the ground. Seriously, I felt like a complete wreck —physically drained, with constant brain fog. At that point, I went back home, and that’s when I was introduced to KOSO drinks by my mom. She was like, “This is good for your gut, give it a try!” At first, I was like, "Gut health? KOSO? What even is this?"

But I gave it a shot. Soon enough, I started going to the bathroom regularly. My gut felt so much clearer and healthier. As a result, my body began to feel lighter, and my mood lifted. Before I knew it, my depression was completely gone.

I know it's not all thanks to KOSO drinks but it definitely healed me!! That’s when I realized just how important gut health is, and how amazing KOSO drinks are. Thank you mom!!!

So, what exactly is KOSO? In simple terms, it’s a drink made by fermenting vegetables, fruits, seaweed, and more over a long period of time. During the fermentation process, tons of enzymes (or “KOSO” in Japanese) are produced. So when you drink KOSO, you get the nutrients from the fruits and veggies plus probiotics, prebiotics, and postbiotics all at once! That’s why it is popular among young women who want to lose weight healthily in Japan.

If this has you thinking, "Wow, I kinda wanna try KOSO drinks," I’ve got a recommendation for you: “R’s KOSO” Big shoutout to R’s KOSO for sponsoring this video! I’ve tried a bunch of different KOSO drinks, and honestly, this one is my top pick. R's KOSO proudly offers KOSO drinks, made in Japan, and available in the United States and worldwide What makes this drink special is that they ferment over 100 types of veggies, fruits, mushrooms, and seaweed for a whole year. It’s rare to find one that uses *that* many ingredients and takes an entire year to make! And the best part? It tastes amazing compared to other enzyme drinks!

It’s got a refreshing citrus flavor, and you can easily mix it with water or sparkling water. Of course, it’s 100% vegan, non-GMO, gluten-free, and dairy-free. When your gut health improves, your happiness hormones get a boost too! So why not start a happy morning routine with me? Please check out the link in the description and use the code “SAMURAIMATCHA15” to get 15% off. It’s a campaign until the end of November in 2024!

※After that 10% off So if you're interested, now's the perfect time to check it out! 4. Aojiru (Green Juice) If you ask me, “What’s the most iconic healthy drink in Japan?” I’d say *aojiru*. *Aojiru* is a drink made primarily from green leafy vegetables.

Think of it as a smoothie without the fruit. Japan’s oldest medical book, “Ishinpo,” written over 1,000 years ago, already mentions *aojiru*. Even today, every supermarket in Japan has an *aojiru* section. That's how popular Aojiru is in Japan! Let’s try making some *aojiru* ourselves!

It’s very easy to make. All I can do is just mix them in the blender. Tada-!!!

I usually use powdered *aojiru* from the store, it’s nice to make it from scratch occasionally. Oh, so good!! 5. Amazake *Amazake* is a sweet, fermented rice drink.

The name includes the word *Sake*, it does not contain alcohol😊 In Japan, it’s often referred to as “drinkable IV fluid” because it’s packed with nutrients. it actually contains these nutrients (vitamins B1 and B2, oligosaccharides, dietary fiber, amino acids, glucose) similar to those in IV drips. I can say that this is Japanese super food! It’s very healthy. so let’s make it together.

[Recipe] - Rice malt: 100g - Water: 250g(depends) - Heat-resistant container - Rice cooker or Yogurt maker - Tape Here’s how to make it in 3 easy steps: Mix rice koji and water in a container. This kind of thick consistency is just right. This time, I'll be making it with a yogurt maker. Keep the temperature at 60°C (149°F)

When using the rice cooker, put the container in the rice cooker with water so it floats, switch to the "keep warm" mode and leave the lid half open like this. Then weit 8h It's done!! Mmmm… so sweet!!!

You can make it like this or when you come to Japan you can drink it especially in the winter festival:) 6. Green Tea Green tea is something almost every Japanese person drinks daily. It has a lot of catechin antioxidants.

Green tea is usually made with hot water, but today I'm going to show you a way to make it even tastier—cold brew green tea! [Recipe] Green tea leaves: 10g Water: 500g You need 10g of tea leaves (about 7-8 teaspoons), 500g of water, and let it sit in the fridge for 3-6 hours. By brewing it with cold water, the theanine, which is the sweet component, gets drawn out, making the tea smoother and more mellow. One thing I want to say about green tea, green tea in Kyoto is famous, right? I love it but I personally love Yame green tea in Fukuoka. Especially Gyokuro

It's so rich! It's super easy to make. You'll needYou might already know of the health benefits of green tea, It's so rich！ but if I had to choose one, it'd be catechin. It’s an antioxidant that reduces the risk of lifestyle diseases like cardiovascular diseases, cancer, and so on, so it’s super healthy! If you are interested plz give it a try!

7. Matcha Yeah ,always matcha! There’s already a lot of information out there about the health benefits of matcha, so I’ll just share an interesting fact with you. Drinking matcha can lead to a longer life! Because I searched and realized most of the tea masters from the past lived long lives.

For example… Eisai, the monk who spread matcha culture in Japan, lived to 74 years old (when the average lifespan was 25 years). Murata Jukō, the father of the modern tea ceremony, lived to 80 years old (when the average lifespan was 28-33 years). Sen Genshitsu, the 15th head of the Urasenke tea school, is still alive at 101 years old. It wasn’t just them—most tea masters lived long lives. My grand granma too she lived to 96 yeas old.

That’s the power of matcha! Oh, yeah if you want to make really delicious matcha, please watch this video. 8. Kuzu-yu (Kudzu Tea) Lastly, we have *kuzu-yu*. When you’re starting to feel a cold coming on, drink *kuzu-yu*.

Got an upset stomach? *Kuzu-yu*. Hungover? *Kuzu-yu*. It’s a real all-rounder! *Kudzu* is a leguminous

perennial plant native to Japan. *Kuzu-yu* is made by mixing kudzu powder with hot water. *Kuzu-yu* has long been considered a health drink, promoting circulation and inducing sweating.

In macrobiotic cooking, kudzu powder is sometimes used instead of potato starch to add thickness to dishes because kudzu has warming properties. When I lived in Nagano, where the winters are cold, I often drank *kuzu-yu*. It’s easy to make—just add hot water to kudzu powder and you can add honey too. If it’s available in your country, give it a try! In this video I was able to introduce you to eight healthy drinks.

Which one is your favorite? Let me know in the comments! Remember, good health comes from daily habits. And don’t hesitate to incorporate them into your daily routine. But don't drink too much...

I enjoyed all the drinks I made.hahha Thank you for watching and see you in the next video!