---
video_title: "7 ancient Japanese Habits that will make your Everyday Life more Simple and Happy"
video_id: I4kVj-T3kL0
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I4kVj-T3kL0
video_date: 2024-09-28
video_description: |
  Today, I’ll be sharing 7 habits from the Japanese people of the past that you can also implement in your daily life.
  
  0:36  1. Having only essential necessities
  2:01  2. Laughing a lot
  3:31 3. Borrowing things
  4:43 4. Working aligned with the sun 
  6:01 5. Having a simple meal
  7:25 6. Taking care of or valuables
  8:17 7. Using Tatami mats
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  ☆Here is the link to the video where I introduce Kintsugi method to repair my favourite tea cup: 8 things that make me happy in 2023 
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wkdl0mMoq7w
  
  ☆If you're interested in more ancient Japanese habits, feel free to check out this video: The Secret of Ancient Japanese to Make Your Dreams Come True
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kpa-0oe4Dgg
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
In my simple and happy life, I have a mentor. Which is the Old Fashioned Japanese people. Unfortunately, the Tokyo that we live through now is overflowed with things and information. Which leads to a stressful and far from a simple lifestyle for many people. But the people of old Tokyo (Edo) were different.

They lived very simple and happy lives. Today, I’ll be sharing 7 habits from the Japanese people of the past that you can also implement in your daily life. No.1 Only Having the bare necessities The lives of the common people in Edo were incredibly simple. Most of the people lived in what were called “nagaya” (row houses), which is typically 4.5 tatami mats in size. About only 8.1 square meters, so compact.

And they owned just a few kimonos, a “hako zen” (a box for storing tableware), and a futon. Really not much as you would imagine. When Edward S. Morse(American zoologist) saw Japanese homes, he wondered “ ” because they were so simple. So, why did they have so few possessions?

One of the famous reasons was fires. Edo was a city of densely packed wooden buildings, so fires were a regular occurrence. To be able to escape quickly in case of a fire, people kept only the bare essentials. While we don’t face fires as often as in the Edo period, our world is still unpredictable—floods, earthquakes, wars—we really never know what might happen in our daily lives. So, it might be a good idea to live minimally, like the people of Edo Being ready to move at any time equals freedom.

It brings peace of mind. No.2 Laugh a lot It’s said that the people of Edo laughed pretty often and genuinely enjoyed their lives. I know…probably hard to imagine, especially considering how stressed people in Tokyo seem today. But it’s not like that.

Let’s go through some old records together from foreigners who visited Japan during that time. Austrian army Böwóral described them as "A tribe which are prone to laughter and cheerful to the core." Lindau from Switzerland said, "There are few races as easily amused as the Japanese. Whether the joke is good or bad, they’ll laugh heartily. And like children, once they start laughing, they continue without any real reason."

British teacher Dixon observed, "Laughter was so contagious that it would cause wooden buildings to shake" Just how cheerful and incredibly lively were they?! and it made me realize I should laugh more, even at the little things. Have you laughed today? If not, try laughing out loud together!

Laughter brings happiness to the world. So lets laugh more! No.3 Borrowing things I said earlier, people in Edo owned just a few things. You probably wondered, "How could they live with such a few possessions?"

Borrowing things is one of the big reasons. In Edo, there were people called ”sonryōya” who specialized in renting out goods. They rented out everything from cooking utensils like pots and kettles, to everyday items like tatami mats and futons, as well as travel gear, kimonos, and even fundoshi (traditional underwear). Thanks to these rental services, people didn’t need to own a lot of things, allowing them to keep their homes simple and uncluttered. This rental mindset can definitely be applied in today’s world!

If you look around, there are quite a few rental services available for electronics, cameras, cars, and even shoes (especially in Japan). Borrowing what you can. This is a tip that you can also try out for a simple life. No.4 Waking up at sunrise, get ready to sleep at sunset The people in Edo, their daily life cycle was very simple.

They mostly would wake up at sunrise and sleep when the sun would set. Wake up in the morning, wash their face, then everyone would face the sun, clapping their hands together and saying, “Today as well, please look after our day today.” as a prayer. They’d then eat a simple breakfast and head out to work around 7 in the morning. It seems that the common folk of Edo worked at a leisurely pace, without the pressure of time.

Take carpenters, for example: - They had three breaks a day: at 10 AM, lunchtime, and 3 PM. - If the weather turned bad, they took the day off. - In winter, with shorter daylight hours, they essentially worked only 5 hours a day. They worked slowly, taking breaks and aligning their schedule with the sun and weather. It was a very simple way of life.

Of course, there were probably some jobs that required long hours, As it got dark, they’d return home, eat something simple like cold rice with tea so called “ochazuke” and go to bed once it was completely dark. A simple life in tune with the sun and weather. It’s something we could all learn from. No.5 A simple meal The meals in the Edo era were also simple.

They followed the “ichiju issai” principle, meaning one soup and one side dish. Their meals consisted mainly of rice, miso soup, and pickles. That’s it! It was so simple that you might wonder, “Can they really be okay with just this?” Yeah, they are really OK!

Despite this modest diet, the Japanese people of that time had incredible stamina. For example, Rickshaw pullers at that time could run 50km a day normally, sometimes up to over 100 km a day. There's an interesting experiment by a German doctor named Baelz who was so impressed by the stamina of rickshaw pullers. He hired two rickshaw pullers, feeding one the traditional simple diet and the other a western style meat- heavy diet, and then had them work. The result? The rickshaw puller on the meat diet got tired first.

I'm not saying meet diet is bad, but I'm saying simple diet is more than enough if you get used to it. Why not give *ichiju issai* a try yourself? No.6 Taking care of valuables In the Edo period, resources were scarce, so people valued their possessions and used them with care. For example, if a plate broke, they would repair it using *kintsugi* (a method of fixing broken pottery with gold) rather than throwing it away.

With kimonos, they would recycle them through several stages: first, altering them for children, then using the fabric for diapers, then as cleaning rags, and finally as kindling. Once burned, the ashes would even be used as fertilizer. Taking good care of items means fewer things accumulate, keeping life simple and uncluttered. Plus, when you cherish your belongings, you develop a sense of attachment to them, which makes life more enjoyable. No.7 Tatami’s

And finally, we have the tatami. When it comes down to it, the essence of Edo’s simple life is all about the tatami. 19th century archaeologist, Schliemann said: “The tatami serves as a chair, sofa, table, bed, and mattress. Therefore, no other type of furniture is needed.” Because the tatami fulfills so many roles...

You can live comfortably in a compact room as small as 4.5 tatami mats. (8.1 square meters) even with a family of 4 people. You don't need expensive furniture to be happy:) They just sit together on the tatami, sharing laughter and joy.

Lastly, tatami contains a compound called “phytoncides.” The scent it releases brings a sense of calm and happiness, much like the feeling you get during a forest bath.

Tatami keeps life materially simple and spiritually uplifting. Now That is the beauty of tatami. So, what habits will you be able to pick up for a simple and happy life? As for me, I’m planning to try the *ichiju issai* lifestyle in the near future. Feel free to share your experience with our community in the comments. :)

Let’s work together to create the best life possible! Hahaha! (laughs) Let's laugh!