---
video_title: "7 most effective ways to let go of things as a Japanese minimalist."
video_id: iduPssTUirY
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iduPssTUirY
video_date: 2024-01-20
video_description: |
  ＊For those of you who don't know me, by saying "throw away" or "get rid of" I mean "let go", "donate", "sell", "recycle", "declutter", "sort out". (There are so many ways to say this in English... sorry for any confusions.) I normally donate or sell items which I no longer use, so they can get another chance to make someone else happy. :)＊
  
  This video would be perfect for those of you, who can’t throw things away, by guiding to the 7 most effective ways that I experienced through my simple life.
  
  I only picked up the ones that have a great impact so please watch until the end!
  
  All right then, here we go!
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  VIDEOS:
  # Resort of Heart - Your Room is your Personal Sanctuary: [Japanese Minimalist: extreme Room Makeover for a Simple and Happy Life - Before & After]
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/0PWHK3CH0xA
  
  # More tips on how to let go of things: [My new perspective as a minimalist: 7 items I got rid of in 2023]
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/IUlGOjH86aM
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
I know there are a lot of people who have a hard time giving up on things. This video would be perfect for those of you, who can’t throw things away, by guiding to the 7 most effective ways that I experienced through my simple life. I only picked up the ones that have a great impact so please watch until the end! All right then, here we go! A challenge to discard 12 items within 5 minutes.

This is a challenge to find 12 items and throw them away within 5 minutes. As I became a minimalist, I’ve tried it several times, but it’s so much fun, like playing a game. The best part of this challenge is getting used to throwing stuff away while you enjoy it. It could be anything, from some snack bags to medicine, a catalog, or freebies; you can count it as anything you throw away. Today I do that in my room; tomorrow I’ll do the kitchen, and living room for the following day. It’s quite fun if you swap up the area you clean up.

The reason why it’s limited to 5 minutes is that you can do it on your break. For example, I used to do that on the break when I was doing the Pomodoro Technique. And why does it have to be 12? Just because lol I thought 12 is the right number to throw away like a game, so I picked that number. It could be 20 if you don’t mind.

Set up a timer and try it now! Let go of things that are unnecessary for your ideal life. Whether you’re a minimalist or not, it’s important that you imagine the ideal room layout when you clean up. Because, based on my experience, people who hoard on things do not have any of that image in their minds. So this is how it goes.

You don’t know what your ideal life looks like. -> You have no theme in the room. -> You have no rules for holding stuff. -> Your room will be filled with stuff as the time goes by. So if you wanna let go of your stuff, you’ll need to imagine your ideal life first.

Imagine your ideal life: -> you’ll have a theme for your room, -> you’ll have a rule for holding stuff, -> you’ll have less stuff you don’t need. Like this, if you calculate backwards from your ideal life, you’ll know what you don’t need now. Well, apparently my room at the parents’ house used to look like this. I lived here until high school but I’ve never thought of an ideal room at that time. So I had too many things. However, after I imagined my

ideal room and cleaned it up, my room was reborn like this. It looks totally different, right? By the way, my room theme is “A resort of heart, a Japanese modern tea room.” After having this room, it barely gets messy or buried with stuff. So please clean up your room by imagining the ideal life.

Three ways to let go of your things with memories in them. What do you think is the hardest thing to do when you clean up your surroundings? It is to let go of things with memories. The survey I had in the past also showed that the hardest thing people could throw away was things with attachment. And I agree.

But as I started having a simple life, I gradually understood how to throw things away, so I’ll share three ways to accomplish that. Make your memories digital. Over the years, we often gather a lot of old photos and letters that hold special memories and are hard to throw away. In this case, I suggest digitizing them. You can get data at any time if you use your phone to take photos and store them online.

With this method, I’ve been able to let go of most of my old letters and pictures. I’ve also saved digital copies of certs and medals I’ve gotten in the past, rather than throwing them away. But also it’s important to keep those special letters and photos that really cheer you up in real life. Gifts play an important role. Well, sometimes it’s hard to throw away gifts given to you by your friends, right?

Getting rid of something that was given to you might make you feel attached and guilty. But it’s fine to let go of them, if you’re not using them right now though. Gifts are meant to make people happy, both when they are given and when they are received. The gift is yours to use or not, and you shouldn’t feel bad about it either way. If you keep gifts in a closet, isn’t it the same thing as throwing them away?

It’s better to thank them and let them go. Wrap it in white paper before you throw something away. There’s a way for me to let go of things that have special energy, like relics from my ancestors, charms, and other things that I loved for a long time. In Japan, wrapping things is a way to show that you care about them and are thankful. This is what I do with things when I’m getting rid of them.

You can show your appreciation by wrapping these things, and it’s also easier to give them away because you can’t see what’s inside. In this way,I said goodbye to my old wallet this year by saying, “Thank you for everything!” Please try it out! Throw away things that you haven’t used for a year. I have a rule of “throwing away things that I haven’t used for a year.”

“What? But you might wanna use it again one day?” You might think so, but based on my experience, “That ONE DAY never comes.” For example, I throw away my favorite clothes if I don't wear them for a year. “But Aki, wait a minute! Doesn’t that require courage?”

“Yes, it does. And I know what you mean.” At first, I couldn’t let go of things that easily. But one day, I realized. Clothes that I didn’t wear for a year were something I needed in the past, but I don’t need them right now.

It’s not easy, but you’ll feel so good when you let it go! After getting rid of all the clothes I didn’t need, my closet got so simple like this. By the way, I never regret throwing them away 🙂 A rule of “buy one, let go of one”. This is a rule I have when I buy things. “Do you really wanna buy it, even by getting rid of one item you have?”

In this way, you’ll be able to prevent buying things you don’t really need, and even if you buy one, you’re encouraged to throw away one item instead. To be honest, I don’t mind changing this rule to “buy one, let go of two.” Because things just piled up even if you don’t buy them. For example, when you receive gifts from your friends or some freebies, etc. I myself am in the process of experimenting with different ways, so please try it yourself and find the one that suits you.

Have a ‘pending box’. “Gah! I can’t decide whether to keep this or not. What should I do?” Have you found yourself in this situation before?

Well, in that case, I’d like to recommend you have a “pending box.” It’s a box where you can put things that you’re not sure about getting rid of. What matters is that you don’t keep them there forever, but you set up a time limit, for example, a month. Then, if you don’t use them for a month, you’ll throw them away since they’re something you don’t need at this moment. It’s a very simple method, but for people who can’t make up their minds immediately, like myself, it would be a highly effective way.

But even so, sometimes we still can't decide what to do. When it comes to expensive clothes or a collection of things that we love, for example. Don’t worry, I have a great question for you. “Can you sell this item if someone wants to buy it?” If the answer is “Yup, I can sell it,” then you can throw it away.

Because you don’t wanna sell things that you really need, even if someone asks you to “sell it.” On the other hand, if you think you don’t wanna waste it by throwing it away but don’t mind selling it, those things seem to be in need but you don’t actually use them.

Oh, by the way, I could let go of my car this year by asking this question.

If you continue this method, you’ll end up being surrounded by things that you really like and items that you don’t wanna sell. How great is that? So please try it for yourself. Okay, today I introduced you to 7 most effective ways to let go of things. What did you think about them?

These methods are all based on my experience and were actually effective, so please give them a try. Also, please let me know in the comments if you have any other ways of getting rid of things. And at last. Whatever you do, action is the most important factor. So what would be the first action you’d take?

Yes, set up a timer. And let’s try the 5-minute challenge now. Ready, set, go!