---
video_title: "6 Japanese Super Foods That Will Keep You Healthy!"
video_id: feozcEdYcT4
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=feozcEdYcT4
video_date: 2024-07-20
video_description: |
  As you know, Japan is the country with the highest life expectancy in the world. You know what one of the secrets is...?
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MY FAVORITE MATCHA:
  ・Hizoudenrai ▶︎▶︎▶︎ https://teayame.com/item/C-03.html
  This is all Japanese page, but the owner can understand English:) Please contact him if you are interested.
  ・Chafinity ▶︎▶︎▶︎ https://chafinity.com/discount/SAMURAI
  If you use the discount code 「SAMURAI」you will receive 11% off your entire order!
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
As you know, Japan is the country with the highest life expectancy in the world. You know what one of the secrets is? Yes! Food! Japan has a bunch of superfoods that support our long-living life.

So today, I'm going to introduce six of them and try to briefly explain why it’s healthy, It took me a super long time to gather all the evidence, so please please enjoy watching until the end. 1. Miso There's a saying, "Rather than paying a doctor, pay at a miso shop. " Yeah, Miso is fermented soybean paste that has long been considered a healthy food in Japan One of the famous shoguns, Tokugawa Ieyasu, is said to be Japan's first health nut. He drank miso soup every day, and as a result, he lived until 75 years old in an era where the average lifespan was 37.

There's plenty of research backing up miso's health benefits, like these. Drinking three or more bowls of miso soup per day reduces the incidence of breast cancer by 40% (2003 study by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare research team). Smokers who drink miso soup every day have a lower mortality rate (Dr. Yuuhiro Hiryama, National Cancer Center, 1981). Miso reduces the incidence of stroke, myo myocarina What is that!?

myocardial infarction, etc. (Otsuka Women's University, Professor Hiroshi Aoki, 1994). Fermentation gives miso anti-aging properties (Professor Takeo Koizumi, Tokyo University of Agriculture, 1995). Yeah, yeah yeah, there is tons of evidence that miso is good for our health. Also, …miso has special unique benefits.

Miso protects against radioactive substances. one study revealed that miso accelerates cell regeneration and protects against radiation. It's a sad story, but in studies on the aftermath of the Hiroshima atomic bombing, patients who drank miso soup every day had fewer effects from radiation poisoning. Miso's power is incredible. "Miso keeps the doctor away." This saying in Japan might actually be true.

2. Natto "What's this? Smells like Dad's socks," That’s how my American friend described Natto. It is made from fermented soybeans and typical traditional Japanese food and it’s stinky. But please don't underestimate it because I think this is the most renowned and powerful Japanese superfood. So what’s the health benefits?

I picked two that I think are important ones. ① Smoother blood flow The slimy part of natto contains this enzyme called nattokinase. One study revealed that this nattokinase has a strong thranbolitic efect. In a nutshell, it makes the blood smoother. That’s why people who eat more than 10g of natto daily have a 17% lower risk of cardiovascular diseases, especially strokes.

② Super Quality plant-based protein Check this out: per 100g, here's how much it has protein compared to other foods:(macaroni research) Tofu: 7.0g Eggs: 12.2g Natto: 16.5g Chicken thigh (with skin): 16.6g Tofu is at 7.0g. Eggs are 12.2g

And Natto is 16.5g! Chicken thighs are 16.6g! It is almost the same as Natto. Wow! This is a lot!

Also, another amazing thing about Natto protein is its absorption rate. Eating roasted soybeans: 20% Eating mashed soybeans: 60% Eating fermented (which is natto): 80% Pretty impressive, right? ③ Balancing Your intestinal flora Natto is packed with natto bacteria, which are beneficial bacteria for your intestinal flora. In fact, a study showed that after consuming natto powder for two months, both men and women experienced an increase in good bacteria in their intestines. Plus, natto is full of dietary fiber, which serves as food for those beneficial bacteria. Isn’t that amazing?

I think for vegans, natto could even be a great alternative to yogurt. And besides all that, Natto is not only good for our body it is also good for the earth. In Japan especially, natto bacteria have been said to be effective in improving water and soil quality. There are actually products of natto bacteria to improve water quality. My mother actually is using natto bacteria for cultivation.

That's natto super power!! 3. Shikuwasa Let's not forget about Shikuwasa! Shikuwasa is the original species of Mican orange, a healthy food from Okinawa, the longevity island in Japan.

I'll tell you about two outstanding effects. ① Builds a body resistant to fatigue First, it contains two times more citric acid than lemons. So, it's super sour. But with this citric acid, the body's fatigues are broken down. ② Powerhouse of antioxidants Shikuwasa contains more than 10 times the amount of a polyphenol called "nobiletin" than Mican oranges.

So, it has a very strong antioxidant effect, preventing cells from aging. When you go to Okinawa, you'll find shikuwasa sold everywhere, and there are also shikuwasa juices available, so please try buying some when you visit Okinawa. 4. Matcha Yes! It's matcha, which I drink every morning.

The health benefits of matcha have been famous in Japan since ancient times and many people drink it. Even my great-grandma, who lived to 96, drank matcha every morning. Here, I'll tell you two benefits of matcha. ① Wake up calmly You know what? Matcha contains as much caffeine as coffee. So both wake you up when you drink it,

but no caffeine crush when drinking matcha. Because matcha contains an amino acid called L-theanine, which has a relaxing effect and prevents the negative effects of caffeine. So you’re able to wake up calmly, not like a sudden wake-up when drinking coffee. I love this way of waking up calmly because it gives m e a precious relaxing time in the morning. By the way, since many people asked about the matcha I drink, let me tell you about three matcha that I love for now!

1: Hizou Denrai This is the most delicious matcha I've ever had. Very rich taste and is sweet. I love the farmer too:) 2: Matcha gokoro from Chafinity This is the best organic matcha I’ve ever had! The regular organic matcha tea is usually bitter, but this matcha is not bitter at all. Very rich taste and powerful. Owner, Kentaro-san, and the farmer,

Sakamoto-san, are both passionate about organic matcha. I love it. 3: Samurai Matcha (in the future) Sorry not yet but now, I'm trying to create my own matcha brand, tasting matcha from all over Japan. Sometimes I drink too much and feel bad.haha I'll try to find a great matcha by the end of this year, so please look forward to it :) OK, let’s move on to the next benefit of matcha!

② Regulate the intestines Studies show that drinking two cups of matcha a day for two weeks reduces

helps prevent aging, and can even help avoid obesity. Yeah, matcha is great! 5. Umeboshi Umeboshi is a dried, salt-pickled ume plum. Have you ever tried Umeboshi?

I’m sure if you eat it, your face would be like this. It’s super sour! I’ll tell you two main health benefits. ① Your good post-workout buddy Umeboshi is rich in citric acid and malic acid, amino acids that break down muscle fatigue. So, umeboshi is perfect after intense exercise.

That's why at the Osaka Marathon, you might find umeboshi being sold. For me, I used to eat umeboshi after sports events or matches, and I swear , the next day, my tiredness really eased. A common way to eat Umeboshi in Japan is in a 日の丸弁当-Hinomaru bento-. You put umeboshi in the middle of the rice. It looks like the Japanese flag, cute, right? But let me tell you,

if you upset whoever cooks it, it'll end up with what I call the "逆日の丸弁当- reverse Hinomaru Bento”. Not pretty, right?haha ② Prevents body acidification Now, here's a question. Is umeboshi an alkaline food or an acidic food? Actually, it's an alkaline food even if it's sour. Long story short, because once citric acid on Umeboshi enters the body, it changes to alkaline.

Our bodies tend to become acidic because many foods we eat daily are acidic, making the blood viscous and prone to various diseases. That's why umeboshi is perfect to balance it. For example, when you eat 100 grams of beef, you only need 5 grams of Umeboshi to neutralize it. That's the power of umeboshi. 6. Amazake

Amazake is a fermented rice drink. And we sometimes call it " drinkable IV". In fact, Amazake contains nutrients similar to an IV drip, such as vitamin B1, vitamin B2, oligosaccharides, dietary fiber, amino acids, and glucose. While it has many health benefits, there are two main ones: ① Skin miracle worker Amazake is rich in vitaminB , which promote the metabolism of the skin, flushing out skin toxins. ② Relieves constipation The other day I had an amazake at the festival. After drinking it, I immediately went to the bathroom.

It has abundant dietary fiber, which helps regulate the intestinal environment. You can easily make it at home in just three steps: Alright, that’s it for today! How would you like it? Did you find one you want to try? Is it Natto? If you have any questions about Japanese food,

feel free to comment. Maybe I can make a video for that:) Did you find you want to try? Is it natto? If so, please give it a try! Alright! Let‘s stay healthy together!

I hope to see you in the next video!