---
video_title: "How to Grow Organic Japanese Rice | Vlog (Part 1/3)"
video_id: s3qny8lpeOY
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s3qny8lpeOY
video_date: 2024-05-19
video_description: |
  In this series, I'll try to learn how organic Japanese rice is grown and actually experience rice cultivation at Millennium Village in Japan!
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Here are the links for part 2 and part 3 of the series: 
  
  ▶︎ How to Make Delicious Japanese Rice | Vlog (Part 2/3) 
  https://youtu.be/PIEY5iHf_NY
  
  ▶︎ How to Harvest Organic Rice in Japan | Vlog (Part 3/3)
  https://youtu.be/dA9UYe811OE
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  ABOUT TSUJI FARM💕:
  ▶︎ Private Rice Agriculture Experience in Mie
  https://www.viator.com/ja-JP/search/417561P3?mcid=64243
  
  ▶︎ Youtube
  https://www.youtube.com/@tarafukuricefarm6709
  
  ▶︎ Tsuji Farm HP (Tarafuku Rice Farm)
  https://tarafuku.org/english/
  
  ▶︎ New Brand(Brown Rice)
  https://tarafuku.net/collections/千年玄米
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Sushi, Onigiri and Bento. The soul food of Japan, RICE. Do you know how Japanese rice is grown? Now I'm heading to a rural village that is called Millennium Village. Because this year, I'll try to learn how organic Japanese rice is grown and actually experience rice cultivation in that village !

This video is the first in the series. You can see lots of behind-the-scenes of rice cultivation in Japan by watching this video, so please enjoy watching until the end! I’ve just arrived in Tsu City in Mie Prefecture, famous for the Ise-Shima Summit, Kumano Kodo, and Ise Jingu Shrine. Here lies a village called Tai village, whose name is even mentioned in a famous historical book compiled over a thousand years ago. So, people call this village the Millennium Village.

Today, I visited Tsuji Farm in this village. He and his family warmly welcomed me. First, while he takes me to Sakura Street, let me introduce him. Organic Rice Farmer, Takeshi Tsuji He has a unique career. He used to work in quality control for things like airplane engines and bicycle parts.

But seeing the village declining due to aging, he thought, "Can't I use my knowledge to make agriculture more enjoyable and pass it onto the next generation?” So, he took over his family's farm and became a rice farmer in 2016. Initially, he struggled with cultivating organic rice. However, he succeeded with his unique farming method combining traditional and modern techniques, becoming famous enough to appear in a lot of media. The reason I visited Tsuji's farm was not only out of curiosity about organic rice cultivation but also because I was intrigued by the fusion of tradition and modernity.

Plus, just between us, it was super close to the university I attended, so I felt a strong sense of destiny. Now, let's introduce how organic rice is cultivated at Tsuji Farm. How is rice grown? (Winter to early spring) 1. Seed sterilization Seeds are sterilized by soaking them in 60°C water for 10 minutes.

Then they are soaked in water for about a week before seeding begins. 2. Rice seeding After that seeds are sown on top of a mixture of mud balls and rice husk charcoal. Then, water is sprinkled, and the soil is covered and stored in a warm room. This place is like a sauna for rice, with temperature and humidity controlled.

Look! In 3 to 4 days, cute seedlings start to sprout. They're so adorable! 3. Growing seedlings in the greenhouse Seedlings are moved to the greenhouse and carefully nurtured.

By the way, the ones on the right will be treated with pesticides. The ones on the left are organic. Clearly, there are less on the left side, right? Do you know why? Because organic rice needs to grow bigger. So, space needs to be secured.

The reason for growing them bigger is that if they're small, they'll lose to weeds. Yeah! It's like growing until they're about junior high school age, not elementary school age in human terms, able to somewhat fend for themselves before being planted in the paddies. During winter to early spring, while nurturing seedlings, they also start preparing the paddies. How do they prepare the paddies? (Winter to early spring)

1. Fertilizing the soil Soil preparation is crucial for organic rice cultivation. So, during the winter, organic fertilizers like soy sauce residue, sake lees, and rice bran are spread in the paddies. This activates microorganisms in the soil. This makes it easier for rice to absorb nutrients when fertilized later.

It's similar to maintaining gut bacteria in humans to efficiently absorb nutrients from food. 2. Flooding the paddies In early spring, water is flooded into the paddies to prepare for planting. The original plug is opened, allowing water from the river to flow into the waterway. Since the water in the paddies is shared among the community, it can't be monopolized.

The amount of water and other details are decided in consultation with the local community. The water from the waterway is then poured into the paddies. By the way, the soil in the paddies is really soft. When I went to pick up a stone that had fallen into the paddy, my foot got stuck, and it was really hard to walk. Thankfully, I didn't fall. Haha

The challenge of cultivating organic rice He talked about the difficulty of growing organic rice. The history of organic rice is just 6-7 years around this area It is difficult to grow organic rice with other weeds All Weeds in the paddies take nutritions from the rice So we need to fight the weeds That’s very difficult work and sometimes hard to control How do you manage that? Sometimes by using machines, but before that we control the level of water Or change the mixture of soil before rice planting Managing the soil is the kind of method to control weeds Is it a special method of yours? Of course I learned from other organic rice masters Organic rice masters used to have only one way but my teacher made a new method to grow organic rice And he taught the method to many people We are now making our own method in this area And we are sharing that method to other farmers Wow that’s so nice of you! I realized how organic rice is labor-intensive.

I'm grateful for the efforts of the farmers. Do you know the best way to eat rice? When guests visit Tsuji farm, they usually eat rice together. Me as well:) Mr. Tsuji, the specialist of rice, teaches us how to do that.

It's by eating it with various side dishes. With various side dishes, you can enjoy different combinations of flavors. So, what kind of side dishes do they eat rice with? Starting from the top left, there's tsukudani, shishamo, corn, green onion, aburaage, minced chicken, tuna & mayonnaise méɪənèɪz , and pickled plum. Soft boiled egg, sesame seeds, seaweed, pickled radish.

Cabbage, sliced onions, grated radish. And white soy sauce.

You can mix these various side dishes and put them on top of rice. I usually only eat 1 or 2 bowls of rice, but today I ate 5 bowls. It's so delicious that you can eat rice endlessly.

Actually he occasionally hosts an event called "無限飯：We call it Infinity Rice" . At that event, you can truly eat rice endlessly. Now, let's study Japanese rice a little bit together here. Types of rice It’s said that there are three main types of rice in the world: Japonica rice, Indica rice, and Javanica rice. Japanese rice is Japonica rice.

It accounts for 20% of the world's rice. Its characteristic is its round shape and stickiness. That's why Japanese food culture such as onigiri and sushi was born. I’m grateful for Japanese rice. For those who want to learn about Japanese rice cultivation but don't know where to go.

If you're interested in rice cultivation, there's a great service I'd highly recommend. It's the Tsuji Farm Experience Tour. He said it just started! Just like the one I experienced, they offer a day of agricultural experience, rice tasting like I did, onigiri making , and interacting with local people. This would be such a great experience!

So if you're planning to visit Japan in the future, why not include a rice experience in your plans? I’ll put the link in the description, so please check it out if you are interested. Next time is about mid-spring work. I actually will plant the seedlings that I grow in the paddies. Stay tuned for the next episode!

Stay safe have fun and thank you for watching as usual! I hope to see you in the next video! Bye bye!