---
video_title: "20 Things that I let go of  to make my life SIMPLE, more MINDFUL, and FREE as a Minimalist"
video_id: SVMv29oRKQs
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SVMv29oRKQs
video_date: 2024-06-09
video_description: |
  Today, I'm gonna share 20 habits that I let go of to make my life simpler, more mindful and free. 
  Back in the day, when I was living in Tokyo, I was having a stressful life. 
  I wanted to change that, so I took a step into the world of simple living.
  As a result, I now live a simple, mindful, and free lifestyle.
  What did I do? Basically, just started letting go.
  I'm sure you'll find something helpful, so stick around till the end :)
  
  00:37 1. Treating things roughly
  01:37 2. Eating lunch
  02:32 3. Bed
  03:07 4. Checking the phone after waking up
  04:05 5. Folding clothes
  4:40 6. Seeking happiness
  05:35 7. Using a bath towel
  06:10 8. Going to the gym
  06:44 9. Using social media app limitlessly
  07:45 10. Drinking coffee
  08:22 11. Staying up late
  08:49 12. Using coins
  09:24 13. Television
  10:22 14. Watching the news
  11:10 15. Saying YES to everything
  11:42 16. Doing a big cleanup
  12:11 17. Checking e-mails multiple times
  12:37 18. Aiming for perfection
  13:28 19. Keeping the phone near the mattress
  14:01 20. Saying bad words
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  REFERENCES:
  ・7 minimalist LAUNDRY TIPS to simplify your life｜Japanese minimalism
  ▶︎https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fqq7kyZfuV4
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  Tenugui
  ▶︎ https://amzn.to/3ny9l39
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Today, I'm gonna share 20 things that I let go of to make my life simpler, more mindful and free. Back in the day, when I was living in Tokyo, I was having a stressful life. I wanted to change that, so I took a step into the world of simple living. As a result, I now live a simple, mindful, and free lifestyle. What did I do? Basically, just started letting go.

I'm sure you'll find something helpful, so stick around till the end :) Treating things roughly The words my tea ceremony teacher told me changed my entire life. “When placing things, do it as delicately as you would when parting ways with your lover." I used to be pretty rough with treating stuff because I was thinking things are just things. But after I heard those words, I started not treating things roughly, but more carefully. Just gently placing down a cup.

Gently closing a door. Gently pushing in a chair. It was a game-changer for me. Because I realized how every daily action could become mindful like when I’m doing a tea ceremony. Even if you're busy, just taking a moment and delicately treating things can bring peace to your heart.

I still find myself treating things very casually, but I'm trying to treat them like my lover:) Skipping lunch Sometimes, I intentionally skip lunch. Knowing that ancient Japanese used to eat just twice a day, I decided to give it a try. And I realized that skipping lunch made life remarkably simpler. No need to prepare meals. Freedom to use lunchtime however I want.

Not feeling sleepy Better focus at work And good for a balanced diet There are many benefits. You might worry about feeling hungry, right? Honestly, I do feel a bit hungry. But adjusting breakfast time, having rice instead of bread for breakfast, or snacking on nuts in a break really helps. If you're curious, give it a try! :)

Bed I used to have a bed, but I got rid of it. It's not that I hate beds. But beds take up space, and they're a hassle to move. So, what I do now is just lay a mattress on tatami mats. It makes the room much simpler.

Plus, putting away the mattress creates space for activities like dancing, yoga, or stretching. Letting go of the bed not only simplifies the room but also maximizes the use of limited space. Checking the phone after waking up Some people scroll through their phones as soon as they wake up. I did that too. I used to check social media to see what my friends were up to because I was curious.

But I stopped doing that. Because I realized it just made me compare myself to others and feel unhappy. Now, I've decided that the first hour of the morning is time for myself, not for others on social media. I do yoga, have matcha, go for walks, and have an internal conversation like, "How do you feel today? What do you want to do?"

By doing this, I allow myself to listen to my own needs and charge up good energy for the day ahead. Since applying this habit, the first hour of the morning has become my favorite and most invaluable time. So, let's stop checking the phone after waking up and make yourself happy! Folding clothes Honestly, I wasn't good at folding laundry, so one day I decided to just stop doing it and it was great for me. It's not like I just leave my laundry all messy and piled up.

I just let the laundry air dry and leave it hanging there. This is a method I came up with because I have fewer clothes. Now I can skip folding them, putting them away and taking them out. Just "Wash, dry, wear" Seeking happiness "What is happiness?" If you ask me, I'd say, "It's right there."

The reason I started thinking this way was when I had a collapsed lung four years ago. A collapsed lung is a disease where you get a hole in a lung and air leaks, sometimes leading to death. Luckily I got surgery and was OK:) But when I was in the hospital I still couldn't breathe properly. Tubes were still inserted into my body, and it was so painful that I couldn't even walk. At that moment, I learned how having life, being able to breathe normally, and walk are such precious things.

And I realized OMG! Happiness isn't something to seek; it's already there. Just notice it, and life will become simply happy. Using a bath towel If you want to make your room simpler, I recommend not having bath towels. Bath towels are comfy I know, but they're large, need folding, and take up space for storing.

So, I started not using bath towels. Instead of that, I use Tenugui or Moku towels. They're small, so they don't take up much space. And they are absorbent enough and dry quickly. It’s perfect for traveling too.

Not having bath towels simplified my life. Going to the gym I used to go to the gym when I lived in Tokyo, but not anymore. It was good but I spent a lot of time and money just going to the gym. It was just that I wanted to make the working out routine more simple. So, I decided to do a 5-10 minute workout.

It's only 5-10 minutes, so I can continue without stress. As a result, I've been able to keep my body in shape. If you just want to stay fit, you don't really need a gym. You just need 5-10 minutes. Using social media apps limitlessly A lot of people want to quit social media but it’s hard, right?

I was like that too, always finding myself spending hours and hours on Instagram or YouTube without realizing it.

So, I've started using an app called Appblock that my friend recommended to me. And It was super effective! I've set it to block social media during weekdays from 9 to 4 and limit usage to 30 minutes a day. As a result, I no longer get distracted by them at work. No more wasting time by scrolling social media in my free time.

Just limiting social media apps gave me so much more time in a day. It was eye-opening. Realizing how life becomes simpler when not controlled by social media! Drinking coffee I used to drink coffee every morning just because everyone else did.

But one day, I realized that coffee always upset my stomach, so I quit. Instead, as you know, I switched to matcha. Since switching to matcha, my body feels great! Not only that, but matcha creates a special relaxing time in the morning. I learned that letting go of habits that you do because everyone does can also be a plus in life.

Staying up late If you ask me what an essential habit is for a simple life, I would say waking up early. Because it is the foundation of a good rhythm. Setting a rhythm makes it easier to apply good habits. So, it's important to let go of the habit of staying up late. Try gradually going to bed earlier.

You'll gradually feel the change in your life. Using coins You might be surprised, but in Japan, many places still only accept cash. Here is a secret: when I use cash, I try not to use coins. Because searching for coins takes time and stresses me out. What I do is just use the bill, collect coins in a jar and deposit them into my bank account when I have a decent amount.

I use that money for presents.

Television Back in my student days, I was a TV addict. I'd spend two hours every day watching Japanese dramas and comedies. But one day, I came across a passage in a book. "If you watch TV for two hours every day for 60 years, you'll end up spending 5 years of your life watching TV." It was shocking to me and I thought, "What can I do if I have 5 free years in my life?"

So, I decided not to have a TV. At the beginning, I felt bored because nothing to do! As a result, I have an extra two hours that I can use for whatever I want.

Watching the news By letting go of the TV, I also stopped watching Japanese news. Japanese news is terrible. Mostly negative news like accidents, murders, and political corruption every day. So, for someone like me who's easily influenced by external factors, it's nothing but a negative impact. Since letting go of the TV, I no longer watch the news, which was so good.

Because I don't feel bad or anxious unnecessarily by watching the Japanese news.

Of course, knowing about the current world situation is important, so I intentionally read news online. Saying YES to everything I used to be a YES man.

As a result, my schedule was packed and I was always busy. But this book changed that situation: HELL YEAH or NO. It's a simple strategy. Instead of saying YES to everything, say YES only to things you're really excited about. Since adopting this principle, my schedule has become much simpler.

Doing a big cleanup I used to wait until my room got messy, then spend my weekends doing a big cleanup. And I kept repeating that. I stopped that habit because I realized that's inefficient. Now, I clean my room for just 5 to 10 minutes every morning. Just that much keeps the room tidy all the time.

Keeping your room clean makes your life simpler. Checking emails multiple times Have you ever opened an email and read it and didn't reply? I used to do that a lot. But most of the time, I'd forget about the email and have to read it again later. It's double work, right?

So now, if I open an email, I make sure to reply to it then and there. Now, email replies have become much easier. Aiming for perfection This might be a Japanese trait, but I used to be a perfectionist when it came to creating things. For example, when I started YouTube, I always aimed for 100%, spending 20 hours on scripting, 4 hours on recording, and 15 hours on editing. I did this every week, and honestly, it was mentally draining.

Physically too, sitting in front of the computer for so long gave me back pain. So now, I try to aim at 80% work. At first, I was worried if people would watch an 80% video, but it was no problem, and I felt relieved. I learned that moderation is the key to simple life. Keeping the phone near the mattress I used to keep my phone near my mattress because I used it as an alarm.

But that was a bad habit. Keeping the phone near the mattress tempted me to check social media before bed or scroll through it right after waking up. So, now I keep it away from the mattress.

It also helps to actually get up and out of bed to switch off the alarm when waking up early. :) Try not saying bad words

In Japan, there's a concept called "kotodama" , "word spirit." in English. It means the words you speak can manifest into reality. In simpler terms, if you say, "Today sucks!" you're attracting a reality that actually sucks.

So, I just try to avoid saying bad words.

Very simple, but it really makes life better. Try letting go of even one thing I mentioned today and I’m sure your life will get better. Because I was able to do it, I’m sure you can do it too. :) Let’s be simply happy together! Alright then, I hope to see you in the next video.