---
video_title: "10 Simple Habits to Boost Your Mood and Stay Happy!"
video_id: Ido0lHOFQEY
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ido0lHOFQEY
video_date: 2024-08-04
video_description: |
  “Happiness isn’t a visible thing. Happiness is 〇〇”
  Could you give a guess of what would go in 〇〇?
  This is something that’s always in the back of my mind....
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  My favorite Enzyme drink：）
  
  【R's KOSO】Use a code 「SAMURAIMATCHA15」for 15% Off Everything. ︎https://www.dpbolvw.net/click-101110351-14494750
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
“Happiness isn’t a visible thing. Happiness is 〇〇” Can you guess what it is? Yes. A feeling. This is something that’s always in the back of my mind.

Happiness is a feeling not visible items. Let’s say there is a man that is super wealthy, has a dream house and he looks visibly happy. But if he doesn’t feel happy, he simply is not happy. On the other hand even if a person is poor with not much possessions, if that person feels happy then they are happy. What I want to say is even despite on how you live, how much social status you have, absolutely broke, If you feel happy, you are HAPPY.

Alright then, what makes you always feel happy? In today's video, I'm going to share 10 ways I always practice to boost my mood and stay happy. It's an easy method and anyone can do it. 1. Turning your room into your resort of heart Meaning, that you make a room that you can feel relaxed, healed and refreshed.

because you live in that room most of your time. Let’s say for example that room is a total mess, smells bad and is filled with stuff that you don’t like? You would feel stressed and depressed at the same time right? but on the other hand, if your room is filled with things you love. like my room you feel great right?

So that's why it is important to make your room into a resort of the heart. So how do you transform your room? It's simple, just three steps: 1. Let go of things you don't need. 2. Surround yourself with things you love.

3. Keep it clean and organized at all times As a result, you've come to love your room and it becomes your own resort in the world. Isn’t it great?l It’s kind of like a place that recharges you, like a pokemon center for pokemon?haha By doing so, even after you feel a lot of stress outside of the room, it always soothes you, and rejuvenates you.

It really helps you to stay in good spirits. 2. Improve your gut health People would feel happy when they have a healthy stomach. Because the Happiness hormone so called “Serotonin” comes from the intestines by 90%. So, when your gut environment is balanced, serotonin production increases, making it easier for you to feel happiness.

On the other hand, when it is imbalanced, serotonin production decreases, which can lead to mental health issues. That's why the gut is often called the mirror of the mind. How can we regulate our gut? Yes, food. Here is what I eat to keep my gut healthy!

①Enzyme drinks Enzymes help with digestion and metabolism, so it keeps my gut healthy. I drink R's KOSO or KOBON everyday. ②Matcha Yes! Matcha! It has abundant dietary fiber, which helps regulate my intestinal condition.

③Natto Natto is fermented soybean, a traditional food in Japan. If you don't like it , you can try kimchi, miso, vinegar, or yogurt. The key is consuming fermented foods because they're rich in beneficial bacteria, which help regulate your gut. 3. Picking up trash in the morning You might think, "Picking up trash in the morning? Are you

kidding me?" But there's a reason behind it. Picking up trash contributes to your sense of satisfaction and luck. Well, don't you think picking up trash helps others? right? because it helps keep the city clean.

In psychology, helping others has a positive impact on personal satisfaction. That sense of satisfaction leads to a good mood. As for luck, Major leaguer Shohei Otani he makes it a habit to boost his luck Picking up trash is something many people don't willingly do. So when you do, you start to believe that good things will happen to you, thinking you’re lucky. If you feel like trying it out, do it in the morning.

Because it helps you start the day in a good mood and spend the day full of positive feelings. 4. Trying to say Hello first This is not always but I try to greet others first. Simply put, it feels good when I meet people. On the flip side, not greeting someone can create an awkward feeling.

For example, when I'm out for a morning walk and someone walks by, even if I don't know them, I say "good morning." with a lovely smile. Whether they respond or not, I get a sense of accomplishment from initiating the greeting. If they respond, it makes me even happier. If I didn’t greet them, we might pass each other in silence, which feels awkward. I’d regret not greeting them, and it would lower my mood.

So, I always greet people first. It’s one way to boost your mood. 5. Cleaning the toilet in the morning I always say this, but cleaning the toilet in the morning boosts my mood. Why does cleaning the toilets boost your mood?

Why does cleaning the toilet boost your mood? It’s about pride and accomplishment. By cleaning something that everyone thinks is dirty, you start to feel proud of doing something others won’t. When the toilet is clean, you get a deep sense of accomplishment. This pride and accomplishment boost your mood. That’s why I do it in the morning,

so I can feel good all day. 6. Complimenting yourself in front of the mirror I'm not saying you should become a narcissist, like, But it's good to give yourself a compliment about any part of your body. For example, “Your hair looks great today!” Even a small compliment can improve your mood.

I often compliment my muscle. It’s like when a friend says, “Did you get a haircut? It looks great!” Doesn’t that make you happy? I’m saying, do that for yourself.

Gve it a try! 7. Finding your IKIGAI The concept of "ikigai" in Japan translates to "a reason for being" in English. In Japan, it's said that people with IKIGAI tend to live happier and longer lives. IKIGAI is often introduced in books like this: Ikigai is in the middle of “What you love, What you are good at, what you can be paid for, and what the world needs” While that’s one way to see it, I’ve found that ikigai is more simple interviewing many elderly people in Japan.

It’s often in small, everyday habits, hobbies and relationships. For example, grandmas in the village where I used to live said gardening, raising grandchildren, walking, sharing home-grown vegetables and these kinds of things. It doesn’t need to be big things, but any small things that you find enjoyable can be your IKIGAI. For me, creating YouTube videos is one of my IKIGAI, but also just breathing in the fresh morning air and making matcha—these small habits are also my IKIGAI. I think the key is to find joy in even the smallest things."

8. Leave the curtains open Leaving the curtains open before bedtime can boost your mood. Why? Because you’ll wake up to the morning sunlight. In my case, since I don't have blackout curtains, I'm forced to bask in the morning sun. 😄

Which is good, because it resets my internal clock, helping me become more active in the morning. Also, the sun naturally triggers the release of serotonin, which is "happiness hormone." It helps control emotions and brings about a sense of happiness. There are so many amazing benefits! However, if the light bothers you at night it is better to close the curtains.

In that case, make sure to open the curtains as soon as you wake up. It’ll still make you feel good! 9. Morning yoga Lately, I've been doing yoga right after waking up in the morning. It’s amazing for boosting your mood, and I highly recommend it.

Stretching out your stiff body from sleep makes you feel lighter. Feeling light naturally improves your mood. By taking deep breaths of the fresh and pure morning air you feel refreshed. Plus, It improves blood circulation, clears your head and helps you focus better on work. After you wake up and lay on the floor and start doing yoga!

10. Morning walks A morning walk is a key habit that lifts my spirits. There are two reasons: Firstly, I can deeply inhale fresh air. I consider the morning air as a gift from the Earth. This is because it is purified by the Earth during the night.

It's incredibly fresh and pure. By just thinking that makes me happy. 2. “Finding gratitude:” During my walks, I look for things to be grateful for. The feeling of gratitude positively impacts your mood.

I do this in the morning because few people are out, making it easier to notice the natural world.

Try incorporating these tips into your daily routine to boost your mood and enjoy a happier life! Lastly, I want to tell you about what I learned recently. "Future" = "Heart" (your current state of mind) × "Action". In other words, "Future" ＝"With what moods" × "What you’d do". So, if your state of mind is 1000, then one action will result in 1000 outcomes.

meaning having a positive state of mind makes it easier to attract good future! What I want to say is your mood really effects your result. For example if I make videos in a negative state. Even if I make 1000 videos not many people would watch. You don’t want watch that kind of video, right?

But since I’m always in the good mood when I make videos, even a few videos many people would watch. Mood is important! Let’s live each day aiming to stay in the good mood. Have a wonderful day! Bye!