---
video_title: "10 Positive Superstitions in Japan that Make You Happy:)"
video_id: zvFXX8JDTkM
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zvFXX8JDTkM
video_date: 2024-04-27
video_description: |
  Today, I'm so excited to introduce you to 10 positive Japanese superstitions that are sure to bring a smile to your face!
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Today, I'm so excited to introduce you to 10 positive Japanese superstitions that are sure to bring a smile to your face! You might find some of them unique or even quirky, but they offer new perspectives that could surely add positivity to your life. Alright, let's dive in! Big Ears Bring Big Wealth? Hold on, did you just check your ears?

According to Japanese superstition, having large, thick earlobes might just pave your way to wealth. Not everyone, but apparently, a lot of wealthy people have big lobes. Check it out: Warren Buffett (Investor) Akio Toyoda (Chairman of Toyota) Mao Asada (Figure skater) Right? There's a historical basis: the deity Daikokuten, associated with prosperity, is depicted with large earlobes. And interestingly, eastern medicine is backing this superstition up!

There's a belief that ear size and condition correlates with vitality. So, if wealth is on your mind, why not give those earlobes a gentle tug? 😉 Lucky Number 8 While lucky numbers vary worldwide. For example, in the U.S. and the U.K. , the lucky number is 7.

Apparently, No 3 has special meaning in Germany, I’ve heard Italy is 13, Thailand and Vietnam 9. In Japan, it's often believed that 8 brings good fortune. Why? Cause when you write it in kanji「八」, it looks like the character for "expand," symbolizing a wide-open future. Plus, lay it on its side, and bam, infinity! So, if you spot the number 8,

consider it your new lucky charm! Let's move on to something a bit more quirky! 3. Japanese Love Beginnings If you ask “ what’s the typical scene where love blossoms in Japan?” to Japanese.

You'll likely hear a tale of “A girl rushing to school with a slice of toast in her mouth, while saying "I'm late! I’m late", then crashing into a guy at the corner of the street. Why's that such a thing? Apparently, it stems from a manga called “Even a Monkey Can Draw Manga”, but almost every girls comic and other popular anime or manga, also have that scene. That’s why it has become ingrained in Japanese culture as a typical encounter leading to love.

So, if you're looking for love, grab some bread and hustle! 4. How to Deal with Nerves in Japan Feeling nervous? There's a simple trick: write "people" 人 in your palm three times and swallow it. It's a Japanese way to deal with nerves.

That's what I’ve heard from my elementary school teacher before the school play. Why do we do this, you ask? Well, it's all about not getting overwhelmed by others' vibes. In Japan, we call it being "swallowed by people." So, by swallowing "people" first, you're basically saying, "Nope, I won’t be swallowed by people!" Simple, right?

Did it work for me before the school show? Honestly, who knows? but, it's worth a try when you have nerves strike! 5. The Auspicious Tea Stalk If you're a tea drinker, listen up!

After brewing your tea, take a look. Is there a tea stalk standing tall like this? That's what we Japanese call a "tea stalk(茶柱)" and it's a sign of great good luck! Why? Well, it's like hitting the jackpot because it rarely happens.

Let me explain. First, you need a tea leaf with a stem, which is unusual. And the stem must pass through the strainer and into the teacup, which is more unusual. And on top of that, the stem must miraculously stand upright. Indeed, it's quite a remarkable probability, right?

So, if you spot one, consider yourself seriously lucky! 6. 4-Leaf Clover in Japan Four-leaf clovers are well known global symbols of happiness, in Japan too. But did you know that each leaf of a clover has its own meaning? There is a little bit of a difference in Japan.

In America, it's said to symbolize "love, health, fame, and wealth," while in Japan, it's "love, health, hope, and happiness." Not focusing on fame and wealth is quite characteristic of Japan, We think 4-leaf clovers are a symbol of happiness. It's common to press clovers as dried flowers in Japan, so, why not go picking up clovers on this sunny day? 7. Japanese Fortunate Dreams In Japan, dreams carry special meanings, especially the first dream of the year.

There's a saying: "一富士二鷹三茄子, which means First, Mt. Fuji; second, a hawk; third, an eggplant." If you see them in the first dream, you’ll have good luck. Why these symbols? Well, Mt. Fuji is Japan's highest peak, a hawk symbolizes strength and grace,

and an eggplant, “(ナス)Nasu”, which can be also written in “成す(Nasu)”, representing growth and prosperity. Never had this dream myself, but if you have, you are a lucky person! 8. Wishing Upon Shooting Stars Wishing upon a star might be universal, but I think each country has its own way. Some people might wish for like saying "Money, money, money!" three times upon sighting a shooting star.

I’m going to show you the Japanese way! We silently wish in our mind for specific things like, "May I become lovers with bla bla bla," three times as the star streaks by. Why we keep the wishes in mind is because we don’t usually say it out in shrines or temples. So why is it such a specific wish? I have no idea, it’s incredibly hard to success But hey, give it a shot next time you spot a shooting star in a Japanese way.

9. The Double Rainbow Delight In the Western culture, double rainbows are believed to be messages from angels, bringing you good luck. Almost the same in Japan, we consider them as "graduation" and "blessings". For example, it brings about fulfilled dreams, new beginnings in love, and even an increase in good fortune. I actually saw one back when I was a school teacher just before this channel took off.

Who knows, maybe that double rainbow was the sign of the beginning of the new life! Thank you so matcha! 10. The Victory Meal in Japan Got a big game or a crucial meeting tomorrow? Eat Katsudon!

Katsudon is a classic Japanese dish with rice topped with deep-fried pork cutlet. It’s not that special a meal but we kind of believe it if we eat it before an important game or test, or something we can get a positive result. Because, the sound for "katsu" can also mean "to win." For example, when I was a teacher, a cook for a school lunch would serve Katsudon before the big test for the students. Do you have a similar lucky dish in your culture?

So, that’s it! Which superstitions caught your eye? Please share it in the comments if you have one. I personally like the “Japanese Love Beginnings” Well then, I grab a toast I'm off in a hurry! Bye bye!