---
video_title: "Japanese Minimalist: Extreme DIY Makeover for a Simple Life / Before & After"
video_id: PGJdZ3WuMg4
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PGJdZ3WuMg4
video_date: 2025-04-27
video_description: |
  I DIYed my own secret base for my simple life!
  Every day, I feel like my simple life level is going up. :)
  
  Chapters:
  00:28 Living room
  06:17 Dining room
  08:02 Toilet
  09:07 Laundry room
  09:32 Shower room
  10:02 Entrance
  10:16 Balcony
  10:46 Kitchen
  
  Check out my previous DIY video here!
  Extreme Room Makeover for a Simple and Happy Life - Before & After
  ▶︎ https://youtu.be/0PWHK3CH0xA
  
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Today, I’m finally revealing… my brand new secret base! 🎉 I got to say this room is the result of nearly 10 years of my minimalist life journey. It’s simple. It’s mindful. And just a little bit joyful.

If you like this kind of lifestyle, you’ll love what’s in this video. So stick around—let’s take a little tour together! 🏡✨

Alright! This… is my brand new living room! Here’s the before... And here’s the after.

…Pretty big transformation, right? 😏 Honestly, it took me a whole week just to build this tatami platform. You might be thinking: “Wait, a week? For a platform? Couldn’t you just lay some tatami on the floor?”

I konw…but. This is more than just a platform. It’s called a “koagari”—a magical raised tatami floor. Wanna know the secret behind it? Let me show you the behind-the-scenes!

I knew what a koagari was, but DIY? Zero experience. So I started from scratch—watching YouTube videos and sketching out a plan. Actually I loved that moment, I was super excited! Normally I’m pretty chill… but when it comes to stuff like this, I get super detailed.😂 Then—shopping time.

I went to the local home center for materials. But this happened—first problem: They didn’t have the wood sizes I needed. So… back to square one. Recalculate everything. Honestly, I almost cried right at the start. 😅 I rented a truck—for free! and some tools.

Alright—let’s get this DIY started! I’m so excited! Let’s gooo! 🔨✨ I started cutting wood like crazy. Piece by piece, cut and come together.

But you know how DIY goes… Things never go exactly as planned. 😅 A lot of unexpected problems.. but still—somehow—it’s so much fun. I built three ladder-shaped bases using 2x4s.

Then I connected them with cross beams to make it stronger. Even at this point, it felt super solid. I could totally stand on this. Next, I added some 2.4cm plywood on top. Time to screw everything down!

And before I knew it…Or so I thought. Because right at that moment… I had unknowingly made a huge mistake. 😨 (dun dun dunnn) Then—my friend dropped by! We tested out the space. This space is already working its magic. ✨ I loved it. Next—time to install the tatami!

First, I’m setting up a wooden frame around the tatami.

One piece, put put put… And how it goes… the last one—perfect fit! 😎 Honestly… I thought I was a genius. (Just kidding… kinda. 😆) Now, most koagari just have a plain platform on top.. But mine? Nope. I'm doing it differently.

It can be a big storage. Look at this! I have to make use of it. So, I started to build a large pull-out drawer. Put together some big boards, added some rollers… and —done! Perfect fit!

For the left part, I decided not to build drawers. Just a lid on top. I’ll tell you why later:). So I was super excited—thinking, “Yes! Almost done!”

And then…something happened. That right-side hole? It’s too small, but I actually knew it so, I was supposed to make a way to open it from the top… but I totally forgot and ended up sealing it shut. OMG. So what I did was I removed the part of the board in the middle zone.

so I can crawl in to grab it. Like… mission impossible style. 😂 Well. Lesson learned. On the right side, I decided to store things I rarely use because it’s hard to grab as you know.

In the middle drawer, I’ll keep everyday essentials—easy access, super tidy. And on the left side? Why no drawer here? Because I wanted to fit my mattress perfectly in that space. Because of that the room can always stay organized, simple, and cozy. Right here, I’m building a table!

Why? Because this is the view from this window. 🌴🌊 Oh, can you guess where this is? It’s Japan… the island with the bluest sea, and the one they call the island of longevity…Yes! Okinawa!

I’ve been living a kind of traveler’s life, moving from place to place… but this is going to be my main base in Japan. so excited! And to create that dream lifestyle, I’ve been DIY-ing from morning to night. And finally—the table is DONE!! 🙌🎉 It’s perfect. And now, I can sleep,

eat, relax, work, and make matcha—all on this tatami space. Isn’t it amazing? So yeah—this koagari? It’s not just a platform. It’s the foundation for a calm, simple and happy lifestyle. Alright, now let’s take a look at the other side!

Here’s the Before… And here’s the After. ...Oh? Yeah, I know what you’re

thinking—that wallpaper, right? 😏 Actually… I’m still not sure about it either! Originally, this wall was black. But it felt a bit too mature and serious for me. I wanted something brighter—so I tried this light blue wallpaper.

I just did a part to test it out, and then I was like... “Huh? This actually looks kinda stylish?” 😂

So for now, I guess I’ll just leave it like this. What do you think? Next, I added the light, table, and chairs—now this space is done!

Since I’ll be using the tatami table as my desk, I made this side a low table area—more like a cozy little matcha café space. ☕🌿 Now, to make a simple room, it’s not just about having fewer things. Here are three little tips I swear by: ① Keep things low. Low furniture makes the room feel bigger and less cramped. And if most of them are about the same height, it would look much nicer. ② Choose light things.

I’ve tried a lot of things in my life, and one thing I’ve realized is this: Lighter items = lighter mood. And also cleaning becomes way easier. 😄 ③ Hide the cords. It’s a small detail, but trust me—your whole room will look cleaner instantly if you hide the cords.

Give it a try and see how it feels! Toilet Alright—next up… my beloved toilet. 🚽✨ Normally, the toilet should be the most relaxing place in the house, right? But when I first moved in and opened the bathroom door... I was super shock.

Why red why? According to feng shui, red in the bathroom is a big no. Because the red energy is just way too strong. So, I changed the wallpaper—and now it looks like this. Originally, I wanted the whole wall to be white-yellow.

But... turns out I’m not great at putting up wallpaper. I messed it up.

So in the end, I only managed to change part of it. I think the red energy has calmed down a bit—so I’ll take it. In feng shui about the toilet wallpaper: 💛 Yellow brings good fortune 💚 Green = health 💙 Blue = cleansing and purification Give it a try! Laundry room Next, let’s check out the laundry area and shower room! Here’s the Before... And now—After!

The walls here were red too, so I changed them to the same white- yellow as the toilet. The washing machine? I got it from a secondhand shop—super good deal. 😎 And lucky me—it even came with a dryer! Shower Room Now, on the other side—here’s the shower room. Before…

so confortable. There’s not a huge change in the After, but here’s the highlight: Floating storage. 🧼✨ I used magnetic holders to make everything float Why? Because it makes cleaning so much easier— And no more slimy bottle bottoms. It’s the best!

Entrance Here’s the entrance. It’s super simple. I didn’t change much here— because we believe the entrance is where all the good energy comes in. So I try to keep it clear and clean at all times. Balcony Same for the balcony—no big changes.

It may not be fancy, but honestly, this space is already amazing. This. The view of the ocean from here… It’s everything. The sun rises from this side, and on the other side—you’ve got the beach. Right now, I’m thinking about starting a new habit: morning matcha time… on a paddleboard. Yep—SUP matcha.

Let’s make it a thing. 😎🍵🌊 Kitchen Here’s the Before—And here’s the After. First up—this shelf. I made it from leftover wood. 💪 The shelf above? Also handmade!

Just some wood and wire—hooked right onto the wall. Simple, but kinda stylish, right? Let me show you a few of my favorite things here. First, this is one of my favorite tea balsl. I recently gave it a face. She is so cute. Her

name is Chako! 😄🍵Nice to meet you:) Next—this mason jar. I use it when making tea. And this—my secret to staying healthy: R’s KOSO , a Japanese enzyme drink I swear by. Also, this is my new friend: a cute Okinawan cup called Yachimun. As for plates… I’m still slowly

building my collection. Let’s move on to appliances. I’ve got an electric kettle that shows the temperature—perfect for making matcha. This is a small rice cooker, ai oven, and… yeah, the fridge might be a bit too small. but I hope I can manage it. OK behind. Most kitchen

tools are stored by hanging. To know exactly where everything is, and everything is placed where I can grab it right away. That’s the essential step to a stress-free kitchen life. I’ll be adding a few more things soon—so stay tuned for that too! Oh, right now, I’m kinda stuck on what to do about the trash can.:

the trash can. 🗑️ Apparently, these clear, minimal-style bins are trendy in Japan… but I don’t know. You can see everything inside, and I’m not a big fan of that. 😅 What do you think? Let me know in the comments!

Let’s take a quick look back. Koagari is a magical setup for a simple life. Keeping the furniture low brings a relaxed and simple vibe. Yellow wallpaper for good fortune—and a space that feels calm and cozy. Floating storage makes cleaning so much easier.

Always kept clean—because it’s where good energy flows in. Placing everything within easy reach keeps life smooth and stress-free. I hope this little tour, DIY, gave you a small spark of inspiration for your own simple life. Thanks so much for watching—I hope to see you in the next video:)