---
video_title: "A Minimalist Couple’s Birthday Trip – Only 7kg to Hawaii | Vlog"
video_id: Tef8E4AZjOU
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Travel & Events"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tef8E4AZjOU
video_date: 2025-06-08
video_description: |
  We went to Hawaii for my birthday trip!
  It was full of magical and mysterious encounters.
  I’m so grateful to everyone we met.
  And thank you so much for always watching my videos! 💕
  
  If you're curious about how we live day to day, check out this video too!
  ・Minimalist Couple’s Life in the Countryside Spring Days in Japan🇯🇵
  ▶︎ https://youtu.be/Uxi0y1olqIw
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
This is the story of two Japanese minimalists... who spent six days in Hawaii— a little mysterious, a little magical. We each packed only 7 kilos. The only plan? Celebrate my birthday.

Other than that, almost nothing was set. But somehow, this spacious, unplanned trip led us to one unforgettable miracle. Day 1 | Called to the Big Island We made it onto the plane—bags just under the 7kg limit. Yeah! After an overnight flight, we landed in Oahu.

Then hopped on another plane to our first real destination: the Big Island. You might want to ask why the Big Island? Honestly… we just felt called. Simple as that. For Yuppi, my girlfriend, this island had always been a dream. As for me? I just felt excited.

No reason—just a feeling. Before we knew it, we both said, “This is it. This is the place.” And that gut feeling… was right. A once-in-a-lifetime encounter was waiting for us—so stay tuned! First Time Driving Abroad

Alright—time to rent a car and head to my friend’s place. That's the only plan for today. I was excited but also I was kinda terrified. Because the steering wheel and lanes are the opposite from Japan! 😱 The whole time I was driving, I kept whispering to myself, “Right side, right side, right side…” 😂 But still, I almost drove into the wrong lane so many times…haha But I didn't!

Finally made it to my friend’s house! The Ultimate Simple Life Look at this! Their place is like a hidden jungle base. They built everything from scratch— living off the grid with their own power and water. They grow their own food, design their home freely, and live in harmony with nature. It blew my mind.

I thought I was living a simple life… but this? This was a whole new level. It might look inconvenient— but they had Wi-Fi, and even hot showers. And the best part? A tea room in the middle of nature.

No hanging scrolls, no flowers, no walls. Just pure, super minimal tea room.. I almost got a nosebleed from the excitement!! 🍵😂 One day, I’d love to create a place like this too.

That night, my friends threw a BBQ for my birthday. It wasn’t even planned! I just mentioned it was my birthday tomorrow, and they made it happen. Being celebrated in the middle of nature, surrounded by amazing people… I felt so lucky and grateful. Seriously, I appreciate you all so much. ❤️ Day 2 | A Familiar Feeling

The next day, we visited the only place we had to see— Kīlauea Volcano. A must-visit spot on the Big Island. The moment we arrived, Yuppi said something kind of mysterious. "It’s my first time here… but somehow, it feels familiar." And I totally got it.

Yuppi is from Kagoshima, a place in Japan that also has a volcano, just like here. The smell of the wind, the power of the fire, the energy in the air… maybe it reminded her of home. Or maybe— even though Kagoshima and Hawaii are far apart, they’re connected in some deeper, spiritual way. That’s what I started to feel, too. Sleeping in the Forest That night, we stayed in another place deep in nature. Off-grid house again,

but it felt a bit different from the night before. Yesterday was more wild-life...and this one? A bit more stylish-life.

Both have their unique charm,I love it. In this house, we got to enjoy three little luxuries. First: the stars. The stars here were just magical. It was like a curtain of stars. Never seen this beautiful sky!!

Second: the sound of coqui frogs. Here, take a listen. 🐸🎶

Some locals say they’re noisy… but to us, it felt like nature’s orchestra. Yeah, that sound actually helped us sleep like babies. Third: eating in the middle of nature. Just that alone felt healing. Plus—we made some adorable little friends. 🐈🌿 Of course, off-grid life comes with its

inconveniences. But honestly? Even those become part of the adventure. Day 3 | A Fateful Encounter A friend told us, “Hey, there’s a hot spring you should check out.” We were totally free that day, and both love onsen, so we thought—why not? And everything started to flow.

The place was called Pohoiki Bay and Hot Spring— a natural hot spring, heated by volcanic energy. We arrived! Oh,The water was a little lukewarm… but actually really relaxing. And then… It happened. Just as we were about to leave, someone suddenly spoke to us in Japanese: “Are you from Japan?”

We turned around— and there were two Japanese women standing there. We casually introduced ourselves... and then we were all like, “Wait, WHAT?!”

First, she said her name was Akemi—and Yuppi went,“Oh! That’s my mom’s name!” We were all surprised, but that wasn’t the end of it. Then next, she said—“I’m Yuka.”And we shouted!Because that’s actually Yuppi’s

real name! what are the chances? We looked at each other and said,“This has to be fate.” This meeting would lead to something even bigger later. So, Stay tuned.

Afternoon Matcha After the hot spring, we decided to stop by another friend’s place. We sipped matcha, shared a meal, and just enjoyed the slow, simple time together.

The day started out totally blank—no plans at all. But somehow, by the end, it was full of color. That’s the beauty of a minimalist journey: leaving space for the unexpected. Day 4 | What’s in Our 7kg Bags Today, we headed to Oahu! And since we're at it, let us show you what we packed in our 7kg minimalist bags.

Here’s what I packed—aside from the clothes I’m wearing: One pair of shoes One pair of long pants And a pair of sweatpants 4 T-shirts 4 pairs of shorts 3 tenugui (Japanese hand towels) 5 pairs of underwear, 2 pairs of socks swimsuits 1 kimono, 1 jacket this is a birthday present from Yuppi It's so cool! Gadgets (An adapter、A power bank、An external hard drive、A wireless earphone and mic) folding umbrella Tripod Travel kit ( earplugs and a sleep mask) This is my minimal Matcha kit for travel This is so compact and so light Toiletries(perfume, razor, deodorant, toothbrush, toothpaste, hair wax, floss, and this.) This is not the sketchy kind—just the one that clears your head and feels super refreshing. Wallet, passport, and laptop sleeve And sunglasses, that's it! Now, let’s move on to what Yuppi packed.

2 T-shirts, indigo-dyed long Top 2 jackets, 1 pair of white pants, and a knit top. She also packed: a quick-dry towel and a tenugui (Japanese hand towel), a swimsuit and a dress that doubles as a swimsuit, leggings and a hat, a hair iron, a comb, and soap, underwear, contacts, band-aids, and some makeup. In this small pouch, she keeps her passport and credit card. She also packed her liquids in a small pouch—things like shampoo, conditioner, eye drops, deodorant, and so on. All under 100ml, of course! And this is her carry-on bag—

with lip balm, medicine… and more little essentials. And shoes For me, packing light as a guy is pretty easy. But for a woman to do this trip with just 7 kilos? That’s seriously impressive. Yuppi is a true minimalist.

When you keep your belongings minimal, you move more freely. And when you move freely, you open yourself up to more experiences. Less stuff, more memories. That’s the way we travel. Day 5 | A Fateful Reunion On this day—believe it or not— We were invited to visit Akemi-san’s home. Yes, the Akemi we met in the hot spring on Day 3.

We had no idea what to expect, but we headed toward her house We kept driving through the valley…and finally, we made it to her home Then we saw this view from inside of her house.. Is this heaven...?

Yeah, Akemi-san is not just anyone. She turned out to be a really well-known Lomi Lomi therapist and healer in Japan. She had already retired—so the fact that we got to meet her, receive a Lomilomi session, a card reading was incredibly special. We were so lucky. At this point, you might be wondering— Why did she treat us with so much kindness?

Because —it was a fateful meeting for her, too. Yeah she told us. Before coming to the Big Island, she received a strong message: “You’re going to meet someone special here.” So she took a one-day trip, just to follow that feeling. And the people she met… were us.

It felt like the universe brought us together. Thank you, from the bottom of our hearts for meeting us!! Day 6 | The Final Day Just like that, it was already our last day. Looking back, we didn’t do the “typical Hawaii” things. We didn’t swim at the beach.

We didn’t buy many souveniours or hit all the tourist spots. But still— this journey was deep, meaningful, and unforgettable. And through it all, we learned many things. But one lesson stood out above the rest is Live simply. Not just by owning less stuff. But by not overthinking.

By feeling with your heart, by listening to your intuition. It’s strange, but true— when you live simply like that you naturally meet the people you’re meant to meet. And those encounters might beautifully change your life. During the session, I pulled a card— from a whole deck. And guess what it said? “Simplicity.”

“Let go of assumptions and complicated thoughts. Get clear on what you truly want. Live simply.” Let’s live simply today, too. Carry only what you need.

Go where your heart wants to go. With the people who matter. Thanks so much for watching till the end. Have a beautiful, simple day.