---
video_title: "I Got a Cold… Here’s My Japanese Recovery Routine!"
video_id: QmAiiqI5eNU
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QmAiiqI5eNU
video_date: 2025-03-02
video_description: |
  I Caught a Cold… and It's Been 2 Weeks.
  This might be helpful for you too when you’re not feeling great, so stick around till the end!
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  REFERENCES:
  ▶︎Japanese Minimalist: The Best Morning Routine EVER
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gkXYqp7N_DU
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
I Caught a Cold… and It's Been a Week. As a Japanese health enthusiast who’s been sharing all sorts of wellness tips… This is EMBARRASSING. Maybe I was feeling lost with work or my grandma passed away recently just kind of down. but hey since I’m already sick, I figured I’d share what a typical sick day looks like in Japan. This might be helpful for you too when you’re not feeling great, so stick around till the end!

4:49 AM. Right now, Japan is getting hit by a massive cold wave. Up north, it looks like this. Isn't that crazy?!

Even where I live, it's freezing. A week ago, my fever was at 39°C (102°F). Now it's 37.6°C (99.7°F). Okay… getting better.

First thing in the morning—I drink water. But before that, I always say: “Thanks for making miracles happen” Yeah, I’m serious. Please, cold, miraculously heal. By the way, I once heard that in the U.S., people drink Coca-Cola when they have a cold.

Is that true?? What about in your country? Do you have a go-to drink when you're sick? In Japan, we have one. Pocari Sweat.

Yeah, I know—the name sounds weird. 😂 But no, It's not the sweat of some guy named Pocari. 😂 It’s a sports drink. Sports? Yeah, but don’t think about sweat. 😆

This stuff hydrates fast, replenishes lost fluids, and actually helps you sweat. Sweat again… Anyway that’s why Japanese people drink Pocari Sweat when they’re sick. There's also another one called Aquarius. It sounds like a drink you'd rather have. 😆 Ugh… even brushing my teeth feels exhausting. Since I sweated a lot overnight,

I’m taking a shower. After being sick in bed for a whole week, I've lost so much muscle... Tragic. 😭 Normally, I take cold showers, but today? NOPE.

Even regular hot water feels freezing. When my body feels this cold, I always rely on Japan’s secret weapon. 🔥 Let me introduce… Hokkairo! You guys know these? They’re heat packs made with iron powder, water, and charcoal.

Once exposed to air, they heat up on their own. This one's a stick-on type, so I can just slap it onto my clothes. You might be surprised, it stays warm for 12 hours. There are also foot ones, so I stick those on too. (Samurai matcha) Even with a cold, I never skip matcha. Fun fact—matcha is packed with catechins,

which help fight off colds. Please fight for me. Back in my room, I try to keep up with my routine— Cleaning, meditation, yoga. People always ask me, “How do you stick to habits?” Here’s the secret: DON’T QUIT.

Even if it’s just one minute, do it every single day. There’s actually data showing that if you skip just one day, there’s a 92.5% chance you’ll fail to make it a habit. So no matter how busy or exhausted you are, just do it—even for 3 seconds. But don't push yourself too hard. Listen to your body!

Okay, quick break. Pocari Sweat. So good. Every morning, I write a gratitude journal. When times are tough, that’s when gratitude matters most.

Did some work, and now I’m getting hungry. Time for branch! Do you know what Japanese people eat when they have a cold? Take a guess! I prepared Umeboshi (pickled plum), freshly grated daikon, rice, and pine nuts.

First, rinse the rice to remove excess starch. Then, boil water in a pot and add the rice. Starting to get the idea? Skim off any foam, season lightly with salt, add pine nuts and daikon, and… DONE! Ta-da! Japanese okayu (rice porridge).

Looks delicious, right? 💕 Alright… Itadakimasu! Okay, full honesty—I hate umeboshi. Because …. It's SUPER sour.

UGH—SO SOUR!!! But hey, umeboshi boosts the immune system, so I’ll force myself to eat it today.

Finished eating—gochisousama! Alright, back to work. Look at this, my nose is a waterfall. Tissues can't keep up, so I've upgraded to toilet paper. Break time.

I found some mikan (Japanese mandarin oranges). Oh, yeah, This is also a Japanese thing, we eat mikan when they’re sick. They're easy to peel, easy to eat, and full of vitamin C. Nose, mikan, nose, mikan. Oh and here's a cool Twist on the traditional Japanese folk remedy using green onions!

So what I do? I wrap a green onion around my neck. oops it snapped. the idea is that alisin in the onion helps ease inflammation in your nose and throat I don't usually do this but it it might work and I think it's a neat fashion I want to be productive, I can’t get anything done. My head feels burning hot.

You know what I mean? But don’t worry. I’ve got a Japanese lifesaver for this exact situation. This! The cooling pad Hiepita!

How to use it? Stick it on your forehead, and boom—instantly refreshing. Okay, I’m exhausted. Time for a nap. In Japan, most people go to the doctor even for a mild cold.

They get medicines, get better, and the hospitals make money. Sadly, it’s a whole system. I, on the other hand, avoid the doctor as much as possible. I’d rather trust my body's natural healing power. What about you?

Do you go to the doctor when you have a cold? In Japan they say sweating it out is the key to getting over a cold. By the way do you ever have weird dreams when you have a fever? I always have the same one a giant iron ball rolls down the hill and crashes me yeah..

Do you guys have any fever dreams like that? I worked until 6 PM. Then… my mom made dinner for me. Thank you mom. Itadakimasu! Hmm… what’s this?

Ohhh, soy milk hot pot. I love this!! And my favorite—mochi! YESSS!

I love stretching out mochi like this when I eat it. OMG so good! I ate well—gochisousama! After that, I did a quick workout, then bath time. Some people avoid baths when they’re sick, but I’d rather take one.

It feels too good to skip. To warm up, I count 50 seconds in the bath. Then after, I stick a new heat pad on my stomach. Lately, I’ve been into Manuka honey. Let’s mix it into hot water.

I've beed drinking Manuka honey lately and realized this stuff has crazy antibacterial power. One sip, and my cough stops for a full hour. I highly recommend it when you’re sick. And it actually tastes great! I did my night routine—super short though.

Like I said this morning, consistency is key. Slap on another Hiepita. Write my journal. And… time for bed. I usually read before sleeping, but today? Nothing’s sticking. 😂

Coughing stopped, but my nose won't quit. Alright, time to sleep. Good night! The Next Day… MY FEVER IS GONE!!!

A MIRACLE ACTUALLY HAPPENED! lastly the other day I posted on my YouTube Community saying I was feeling lost then I got over 500 warm and heartfelt comments. I read every single one and replied to them all. Seriously. Thank you so much your support really lifted me up.

I truly felt like I was the happiest man in the world. I'm all good now! Stay healthy, everyone. Have a great day!