---
video_title: "I’m Back on YouTube! Why I Disappeared for 3 Months."
video_id: izHLTxmFkM4
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=izHLTxmFkM4
video_date: 2025-09-13T09:24:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Hey guys!! I’ve finally recovered enough to make videos again! From now on, I’ll do my best to upload regularly!
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Hey guys, I'm finally back on YouTube. Yay. I had some serious health issues and had to take a 3 month break from YouTube. It was honestly super tough, but all your comments gave me so much energy. And now I've finally recovered enough to make videos again. So seriously,

thank you so much. In this video, I want to talk about what really happened in these three month. You guys cheered me up so much. So, I hope this story can cheer you up too. Let's get started.

June 18th, clubs lung. Yeah, clubs lung is a disease where your lung gets a hole in it. So, here's how it happens. I was helping a friend move a sulfur. Then, suddenly, yeah, my lung collapsed.

That's it. People always ask me, "What does collapsed lung feel like?" Okay, let me explain. Do you remember when you were a kid putting a plastic bag over your head and seeing how long you could last? Don't ever do that now. At first, you were fine, but then it gets harder and harder

to breathe, right? You keep trying to inhale, but it feels like nothing's going in. Yeah, that's like that. And what happen is your breathing gets faster and you start panicking, your face turns pale and your mind starts to fade. Luckily, my friend rushed me to the hospital and that literally saved my life. If it had been even a little late, uh things could have gone

really bad. So, woo, I'm so happy to be alive. Baraki, you look healthy. Why did this happen? Yeah, the truth is collapsed lung don't have a clear cause. It can happen anyone, even healthy

people. But there's one type of people who's more likely to get it. Tall and skinny people. So if that's you, watch out. And you know what? Tall and skinny people usually look pretty cool, right? So

that's why in Japan it's funny, but we even call it handsome guy disease since that was my second time. So I guess that makes me super handsome. Thank you so much. The surgery. So here's how collapsed lung works. First tiny weak spots kind of like a little balloons started from your lung.

Then one of these balloons pops, air leaks out. Last time I had a surgery, there was just one big balloon and be called. But this time, there was tons of them all over the place. Basically, my lung head full of spots ready to burst any moment. That's so scary, right? So, the doctors

went in, removed all these weak spots. Yeah, they had to cut out part of my left lung. Sadly, a baby sitting on my chest. Luckily, the surgery itself went well. Normally people can leave the hospital in a day or two after that but me not I couldn't. Why? Because the surgery damaged our

nerve that controls breathing. So what happened was I couldn't breathe properly anymore. I mean like it felt so heavy like a baby were sitting right on my chest all the time. Yeah. Seriously.

Oh, try this. Cover your mouth and nose with your hand. Good. And then try to breathe in like it's so heavy right there. So heavy. It's like that. You need so much effort to breathe in. So without

a focusing my breathing gets super shallow and I literally run out of oxygen. It's really tough to handle. Honestly, I kept thinking I just want to cut my throat open and pump air straight into my lungs. Of course, there is no way I could work like that. So, I ended up staying in the hospital for a whole 2 weeks. June 30th, discharged with a baby still on my chest. On this day,

the doctor finally gave me permission to leave the hospital. I was like, "Woo!" But honestly, it still felt like a baby were sitting on my chest, making it hard to breathe. Luckily, my partner flew all the way to Okinawa to support me. I felt so safe. When I ate her home-cooked

meal, I was so happy. I literally cried. I thought, I'm alive. I'm so glad. But even then, I couldn't work because my breathing was shallow and my brain was always low on oxygen. I tried to

write a script all the time but I couldn't focus. No words would come out to me and I was like oh my that's when I realized for the first time how important breathing really is. If the quality of breathing is bad your performance drop like crazy crazy. So I started reading every book I could find about breathing. I tried almost all kinds of breathing techniques and little by little I learned how to breathe deeper and deeper and what happened the heaviness in my chest started to ease started to feel lighter yet the baby sitting on my chest getting smaller. Then my health started

to improve dramatically. My brain began to work again. I was able to walk a little and my body was moving a lot better too. At that time I was so happy. I really thought I was on my way to a full recovery. But then something happened in mid July while I was walking outside. It suddenly felt

like a plastic bag were thrown over my head again. Yeah, that same terrifying suffocation came back and I was like, "Oh no, not again. It is another club's lung." I was in total despair. So shocked.

Thankfully, my partner was with me, so she rushed me to the hospital right away. Nothing they could do. After the checkup, the good news was it wasn't another collapsed lung. The doctor said, "It's probably from nerve damage or maybe the nerve have just become super sensitive." So, I asked, "Okay, so um doctor, how do I fix it?" Then he said, "There's nothing we can do." I was like, "What?"

Yeah. for nerves only time can heal. Okay. Yeah, that answer hit me really hard. Yeah. Just like

that, my life lying on the bed started all over again. At that time, I kept wondering, am I going to be stuck in the bed forever? The anxiety was overwhelming. Hope. After about two weeks of rest, my breathing started to get easier. First, I could walk again. I could write YouTube script. Little

by little, I managed to film videos again. I could get on a plane and even travel with my family. Step by step, I was able to get back to my normal life. And I thought, okay, I'm finally on the road to full recovery. I started to feel real hope. But then in mid August, another accident happened.

Afraid to sleep. Yeah. It happened during a family trip at night when I was about to go to bed. Suddenly, my breathing got heavy again. The nerves starting acting up once more. A baby sitting on my

chest. It had gotten smaller before, but now it suddenly grew bigger, even heavier than before. So, from that night, I couldn't sleep properly anymore. Not on my back, not on my side. Nothing worked. It's so tough. Do you know what happens if you can't sleep night after night? You start

to become afraid of sleep itself. Every night I thought, what if I can't sleep again tonight? And that makes me even harder to sleep. That's when I realized being able to sleep is such a blessing. I tried everything. stretching, changing my breathing techniques, getting massages. I even

went to counseling, but nothing's worked right away. The stress kept building, the anxiety grew, and my focus completely gone. Yeah, I couldn't work at all. And after 2 weeks, almost no sleep, my body and mind couldn't take it anymore. Yeah, I decided to rely on sleeping medicine.

I had medicine but sometimes you need it. Right now little by little but right now I'm slowly recovering bit by bit. It feels like the baby on my chest. Before this size this big but now I feel like this size. Yes. Yeah. Breathing became easier, lighter. Sometimes I don't need take

medicine to sleep. The best thing is I can finally sit here and talk to you again. Yeah, that's where I'm right now. Doing my best and believing 100% that I'll fully recover. Yeah, I know life can be tough sometimes for you, too. But don't give up hope. Remember, because the weather is cold,

the cherry blossoms bloom so beautifully in spring. Spring will always come. So, thank you so much for watching all the way to the end. I hope to see you in the next video. Bye-bye.