---
video_title: "5 simple Japanese Mindsets for Discipline, Motivation, and a Happy Life"
video_id: nFNpuLlWuUg
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nFNpuLlWuUg
video_date: 2025-02-08
video_description: |
  In this video, I share 5 secret and simple Japanese mindsets that can improve your life!
  These mindsets can help you stay disciplined, increase motivation, and build strength for a more happy and positive life.
  Let's change our mind for the better together:)
  
  00:29 1) お天道様-Otentosama- Is Always Watching You
  02:13 2) Accumulating 徳-Toku-
  03:41 3) 桜-Sakura- Mindset
  05:03 4) Living in 中今-Nakaima-
  7:11 5) Never Forget Your 初心-Shoshin-
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  If You'd like to know more about how to improve your life, feel free to check out this video:
  ▶︎ 10 Reasons Why Cleaning Will Improve Your Life? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yud_4UtyQD4
  ▶︎ 10 Simple Habits to Boost Your Mood and Stay Happy! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ido0lHOFQEY
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Today, I’m sharing 5 secret simple Japanese mindsets that can improve your life! Have you ever wondered why Japanese people are so disciplined? Or why many of us are so hardworking? The secrets lie in these timeless mindsets. I’ve naturally learned them from my ancestors and daily life, They’ve had a huge positive impact on my life.

let’s uncover these secrets together! 1. お天道様-Otentosama- Is Always Watching You In Japan, many people follow rules even when no one is watching. For example, we stop at red lights, don’t litter, and never steal a wallet we find on the street. maybe?笑 You might think, Really?

But believe it or not, I’ve lost my wallet three times, and all three times, it was returned to me! So, why are Japanese people so self-disciplined? One secret is the mindset that “Otentosama is always watching you.” In Japanese, we call the sun 'o-ten-to-sama,' which refers to the sun goddess Amaterasu in Shintoism. She is always there in the sky, watching over us.

It’s a reminder that even if no one else is around, someone is always keeping an eye on you. Would you do something bad if you knew a god was watching? I wouldn’t. Why? Because I’d be scared of bad karma! 😅

I think many Japanese people feel the same way. That’s why self-discipline is such a big part of our culture. If the idea of a god watching feels hard to relate to, think of it like this: Imagine your life is a movie. You’re the main character, and God is your audience. If you did something bad, wouldn’t the audience—your god-like viewers—feel sad or disappointed?

If you think so, live in a way that makes your audience proud and happy. Be the hero of your own movie! Wow! now sun is watching us! 2. Accumulating 徳-Toku-

This mindset is about creating a better future. Have you heard of 'toku'? In English, it means good karma or virtue. Japanese people believe that if you accumulate toku, your life will improve. For example: Donating to charity.

Picking up litter. Anything that benefits the world counts as 'toku.' And it actually makes your life better! Let me explain why. This is how I imagine it: Every time you do something good— like giving up your seat to someone—you’re adding positive energy to the universe.(like 10 points)

Here’s how I picture it: Clean a public restroom? That’s 20 points. Rescue an insect? Another 30 points! As this energy builds up, a god-like figure decides, “Let’s use this energy to make something good happen in their life!”

And then, good things really start happening to you. In Japan, we have a saying: "情けは人のためならず", meaning “When you're kind to others, that kindness will eventually come back to you.” That’s the magic of practicing 'toku.' Actually, since I started cleaning public restrooms, my life seriously got so much better! So let's clean the toilet!

3. Sakura Mindset Sakura, or cherry blossoms, have been loved in Japan for centuries. They teach us what is beautiful but did you know they also teach us a powerful mindset? It’s the belief that “no matter how hard life is now, the future will always bloom brighter.” Here’s a fact: Japanese cherry blossoms (Someiyoshino) won’t bloom in warm climates like Okinawa. They only bloom after enduring the cold of winter.

The harsher the winter, the more beautiful the blossoms. That’s why Japanese people often believe, “Even if life is tough now, brighter days are coming.” So, if you’re struggling, don’t give up. Your spring will come! In fact, the harder your struggles, the more amazing your future blossoms will be, like sakura.

I’ve experienced this myself. In my 20s, I went through a tough time, even becoming homeless. But those winters of my life made my current success as a YouTuber possible. So remember: spring will always come. Let’s keep going together! 😊

4. Living in 中今-Nakaima- This Japanese Shinto concept helps eliminate anxiety and regret. In Shinto, the present is seen as the middle point on the timeline between the past and the future. This concept is called 'Nakaima.' So, "Living in nakaima" means focusing your awareness on the present moment and enjoying it fully.

Why is this important? you might think. Because our brains love to wander into the past or future. You’ve probably found yourself stuck regretting the past—like thinking about your ex-partner—or worrying about the future, like the collapse of the economy or the threat of war, right? That’s why focusing on now is so powerful. It clears those negative emotions.

So, how can you live in nakaima? Dr. Naoki Yahagi, an honorary professor at the University of Tokyo and a leading expert on the concept of 'Nakaima, suggests two key ways to achieve it: First find flow. When you’re fully Immersed in something , like yoga, dancing, or playing music, you naturally focus on the present. If you already have an activity that gets you into flow, that’s perfect. But what if you don’t?

Second, Practice Gratitude. Because gratitude shifts your attention to now. For example, when I make matcha, I think: “I can see this matcha. Thank you.” “I can whisk it. Thank you”

“I can drink it. I’m grateful for that” See? By focusing on gratitude, your mind naturally stays in the present. What’s important is to pay attention to each little thing and feel grateful for it. Try it—it’s very simple!

5. Never Forget Your 初心-Shoshin- This mindset will help you avoid laziness and boost your productivity. The literal meaning of "shoshin" is: "sho" means "beginning" and "shin" means "mind." So 'Never Forget Your 初心 - Shoshin' means keeping the fresh and curious attitude you had when you first started something. Why it’s important? Because when people get used to something,

they tend to become lazy. They think, 'Oh, I already know this,' and stop actively learning. already know this,' and stop actively learning.

But think back to when you started something new. Weren’t you excited? Didn’t you wonder, “What can I learn today?” That’s the mindset we need to keep all the time. Even now, when I practice tea ceremony, I approach it with a beginner’s mindset. It

makes every session exciting and turns that time into something productive, allowing me to learn and grow even more. Lastly, the concept of 'shoshin' comes from Zeami, the great master of Noh theater, who lived over 600 years ago. Zeami had a slightly different interpretation of 'shoshin,' so let me introduce it. According to him, 'shoshin' refers to the 'lack of skill in art,' or in other words, 'the awkwardness of being a beginner.' He believed it's important to always remember the struggles of being a beginner, even if you've mastered your art.

Because it helps motivate you to push yourself even harder. For example, When I first started YouTube, my English wasn’t good, and I felt awkward and embarrassed. I was like really...

Today...I'm going to talk about....

I will never forget how I felt back then and I’ll keep working hard:) Alright! I hope to see you in the next video:)