---
video_title: "8 Unique Japanese Habits - Why Japanese people do this?"
video_id: bor7NaQg1IM
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bor7NaQg1IM
video_date: 2025-02-22
video_description: |
  "Why do Japanese people do (this)…...?"
  In this video, I'm going to explain those simple questions.
  
  0:22　1. Why do Japanese do this when they take pictures(Peace Sign)
  1:36　2. Why do Japanese queue up properly?
  2:50　3. Why are Japanese Obsessed With Blood Types?
  4:40　4. Why do Japanese use many "Aizuchi" (Nodding)
  6:15　5. Why do Japanese tend to do pen spinning?
  6:59　6. Why do Japanese say "Sumimasen" a lot?
  8:39　7 . Why do Japanese talk about the weather a lot?
  9:55　8. Why do Japanese say "Just Beer for Now"?
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  ☆If you are more curious about Jpanese habits or customs...
  
  Secret Customs & Unspoken Rules that most foreigners don't know about.
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/-1R_JwUb91Q
  
  7 Healthy Habits in Japan🇯🇵
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/NbY-_583ScI
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Welcome back to my channel! "Why do Japanese people do (this)…...?"

In this video, I'm going to explain those simple questions. By the end of this video, you'll have a better understanding of Japanese unique customs and habits. Then when you come to Japan, you will be like Ahhh!! So let's get started!

1. Why do Japanese do this when they take pictures(Peace Sign) Have you ever seen Japanese people take photos? Didn't they all do it like this? This is called "peace" in Japan. Why? Why this?

Yeah, yeah yeah. let me explain! According to one theory, it originated from a TV commercial for Konica Minolta in 1972, where a famous talent made the peace sign. That’s why. Anyway, for those of you who want to learn about Japanese peace signs, I’m happy to present you some popular variations: .

This is normal peace sign If you want to be cute, you can do like this. You can sometimes do double peace sign Some young people do vertical peace sign Fundamentally, younger people tend to bring it closer to their faces, while the older keep it close to their chest. I know in some countries, it has negative connotations, so you have to be careful. But if you come to Japan, why not try the peace sign? 2. Why do Japanese queue up properly?

You know already...Japanese... they line up properly.

Even during the Great East Japan Earthquake, people lined up properly at supermarkets without complaining. Why are they so polite and stick to their queues without even cutting in line? Let me explain. It's all about education. Japanese have been taught since childhood that "lining up neatly is manners."

I used to be a school teacher, so let me talk about how we teach such manners in elementary school. For example, during school assemblies, students have to line up neatly by height in their classes. During sports festivals, they line up neatly and march. Even when moving between classrooms, teachers have them line up neatly. If there is someone who doesn't line up or tries to cut in line, other children will tell them "Line up properly!"

So, even as adults, they consider cutting in line to be bad manners and line up neatly anywhere. 3. Why are Japanese Obsessed With Blood Types? Recently, One news surprised a lot of Japanese. Kyushu University revealed that there's no scientific basis for the relationship between blood types and personalities.

You might think, "So what?" But for many Japanese people it’s a really big deal. Because most of us believe that this blood type (A,B,O,AB) affects the personality. So, Japanese often ask each other, "What's your blood type?" Do you know what your blood type is?

If you are… - Type A: Serious and considerate, but tends to worry about others too much. - Type B: Curious, outgoing, straightforward, but with strong likes and dislikes. - Type O: Action-oriented, easy-going, but tends to be sloppy. - Type AB: Genius, sensitive and creative, but often weird. I’m type AB, so apparently, I'm a weirdo.

How about you? Do you fit this stereotype? The question is… why do Japanese people start to believe in blood type personality? One theory is that it started with a TV program called "Blood Type and Personality Study" in 1927. And the Japanese started to think, “Wow! blood type is very useful to understand others!” Then it spreaded throughout Japan.

Despite such negative research results, over 50% of Japanese still believe in it! Personally, I think there might be some correlation between them based on experience. What do you think? 4. Why do Japanese use many "Aizuchi" (Nodding) According to a study, compared to English speakers, Japanese use "aizuchi" (Nodding) three times more.

Indeed, Japanese use a lot of aizuchi. For example, in English, you might have a conversation like this: A: Yesterday was very hot, so I went to get some ice cream. B: Yeah. A: There were so many people lined up. Though I was waiting for an hour, I couldn’t buy anything. B: That’s a shame.

In Japanese, it would be like this: A: 昨日暑かったよね B: うん、まじ暑かった A: すごい暑いからアイス買いに行ったんだけど B: おー！ A: そうしたらアイス屋さんにすごくたくさんの人が並んでたんだよね。 B: おー、で、どうしたの？ A: 1時間待ってもアイス買えなかったんだ。 B: まじで。それは、残念だったね。 Do you see how much more "nodding" there is? So, why do we use so much "aizuchi"? , Because it's like a sign of "I'm listening!" So on the flip side, if you're not nodding along, people might think you're not paying attention! Of course, saying "yeah yeah yeah" too much is kind of rude.

Moderation is important. I think Aizuchi makes the conversation smoother because if I hear someones Aizuchi I feel like "Oh he is listening my story", so I feel kind of comfortable, then I can talk more!! If you have conversation with someone “Sou sou sou sou ” "Soudane--" 5. Why do Japanese tend to do pen spinning?

Yeah. this. Many Japanese unconsciously spin pens, especially students. When I was in a language school in Australia. I was doing this as usual and all the classmate and teacher was super surprised about this!

"Whoa, how did you do that?" I was like "What? Isn't it normal?", because many people do it spinning pens is kind a habit for Japanese. Apparently, spinning pens sometimes can help your concentration and managing emotions.

So if you are interested, why don’t you start practice? 6. Why do Japanese say "Sumimasen" a lot? If you live in Japan, you'll hear this word everywhere. sumimasen Yeah, Japanese people use "sumimasen" a lot.

What does it mean? Most of the case, it translates to "I'm sorry" in English so you might think that Japanese people are always apologizing. but it's not like that. Sumimasen has other meanings other than apologizing. So, I'm going to show you how to use "sumimasen."

1. To apologize When you want to apologize. You can say "sumimasen" instead of "I'm sorry." For example, when you accidentally step on someone's foot in a crowded train in Japan, you can say "sumimasen." 2. To express gratitude You can also use it to express gratitude.

For example, when someone picks up your dropped wallet, you can say "sumimasen" (kind of thank you for helping me). Here, it means "thank you." 3. To call someone It's also useful for calling someone. For example, when you are in Izakaya, and want to call a waiter, you can say "sumimasen."

"Sumimasen" has three meanings: "I'm sorry," "Thank you," and "Excuse me." Yeah, "Sumimasen" is like the Swiss Army knife of Japanese phrases. You should remember! 7 . Why do Japanese talk about the weather a lot?

In English, you greet each other like, "How are you?" right? Well, in Japanese? We often say "Today is cold, isn't it?" What what is that??

Yeah, when Japanese meet up with others, instead of saying "How's it going?" or "What did you do this weekend?" We kinda start with weather talk like, "Morning! Isn't it hot today?" or "Looks like it's going to rain today."

Maybe you want to ask, Why? It's because Japan's got these amazing four seasons, various climates and the weather always changes. So, we’ve been sensitive about the weather since ancient times. Can you believe that there are 422 different names for rain alone in Japanese!?

（雷雨、豪雨、小雨、長雨、秋雨、梅雨、五月雨、霧雨、男梅雨、女梅雨、米ぬか雨、氷雨、緑雨、青時雨、篠突く雨、涙雨、飛雨、天泣...）

This shows how much we've been concerned about the weather. That’s why we talk about weather! Plus, the weather topic is common to everyone, so it becomes a smooth start to a conversation. So, it would be interesting to try 8. Why do Japanese say "Just Beer for Now"?

"とりあえずビールで" Ever heard that line in a Japanese drama or anime? It means, "I'll just have a beer for now." When going to Izakayas (Japanese-style pubs) or restaurants, despite having various types of alcohol like cocktails, whiskey, chu-hi (Japanese cocktail), sake, and wine, nearly 70% of Japanese people order beer first. Why? There are three reasons: 1. Because they simply want beer.

In Japan, the image of drinking parties is strongly associated with beer, and many people think that Japanese beer tastes good, so those people tend to order beer first. 2. It's a societal trend. This is a very Japanese reason. People think of it as an unspoken rule.

3. Actually, they want something else but it's better to go along with others. This is also a very Japanese reason. People think, "Everyone else is doing it, so I should too."

Personally, I'm a beer person. Alright then! Now you understand why Japanese people do this. Did you find something useful? If so please let me know in the comments :) And if you come to Japan in the future, try to find these costumes.

Alright then! See you in the next video! peace!!!