---
video_title: "16 Things I Quit to Make Life 10x Easier in 2026"
video_id: Phz6_63NY44
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Phz6_63NY44
video_date: 2025-12-27T15:53:06+00:00
video_description: |
  Today, I’m sharing 16 things, habits and mindsets I let go of that transformed my life dramatically.
  Let's let go before 2026 and make it your best year yet!
  
  0:00 0.Opening
  0:31 1. A jam-packed schedule
  2:21 2. Social Media Apps
  3:25 3. Many Kitchen Tools
  4:34 4. Reading a lot of self-help books
  6:02 5. Heavy Shoes
  7:09 6. Seasonings
  8:25 7. Things that cause tiny stresses
  9:40 8. Staying Up Late
  11:02 9. "B-list" clothes
  11:56  10. Comparing yourself to others
  13:00 11. Negative people
  13:46 12. Yes Man
  14:27 13. Bed
  15:15 14. Gifts
  16:05 15. Sentimental Items
  16:53 16. Bad Words.
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
People often say, "If you want to change your life, you need to work harder and add new habits or things." But after 10 years of my simple living journey, I realize your life changes much easier and faster when you let go of what you already have. Today, I'm sharing 16 things I let go of that transformed my life dramatically. I hope they do the same for you. Let's let go before 2026 and make it your best year yet. First, a jam-packed schedule. If your daily life is looks like this,

here's what you want to do. Cut back your schedule and create Yohaku, intentional empty space. Just by doing this, my restless heart finally calmed down and I started to feel so much more excited about my everyday life. So, Aki, what's so good about Yohaku? Okay, it's easier to understand if you look at this Japanese painting. This white space is Yohaku. It's so calming,

right? And keep staring at it. Don't you start to see something? Is it a river, a village, maybe Pikachu? Just kidding. But anyway, it's fun to imagine, isn't it? The point is, Yohaku

gives us space of mind and the joy of imagination. So, if this painting was jam-packed with details, you'd lose those benefits and just feel overwhelmed. Yeah, right. But here's the thing. Your daily schedule is exactly the same. Even a little bit of yohaku brings you a mental

breathing room and the fun of thinking what I want to do in this yohak time. For example, now I have twohour yohaku block every afternoon and yesterday I use that time to hit the sauna and make wagashi Japanese sweets. This time always brings me peace of mind and the pure joy of living. So if your schedule is jam-packed, everything is fixed, try clearing some space. Believe it or not, having your hack time actually skyrockets your productivity because it creates a clear contrast helping you focus better on your work. Second, social media apps. Don't you think your life would

be a little better if you cut back on your social media time? I think many people would say yes, but I know probably you're struggling with it. you find yourself scrolling through Instagram or Tik Tok before you even realizing it, right? If that's you, please try this. Delete the apps from your home screen. Just this small change can dramatically reduce your scrolling time, at least

for me. Why? Because you're removing the trigger. It's like the pachinko theory. You feel like going to pachinko because you see one. So the solution is to stay away from the side of it. Look at my

home screen now. There are no social media apps, right? Instead, there's Yohaku to calm my mind. Of course, deleting the app is the best, but I know many of you use them for work just like I do. So, let's start here. Hide the social media from your home screen. Third, many kitchen tools.

The first time I stayed at Yuppi's place and saw her kitchen, my jaw dropped. She had so few kitchen tools. She only has one of each tool. And yes, that means one frying pan. Honestly, at first I was like, "Wait, how do you even cook with just this?" But it turned out to be amazing.

Since she only has one of each tool, there's no time to search. It was so smooth and mindful, almost like a tea ceremony. It's incredibly stress-free, and actually cooking became really fun. I also learned that you can cook almost anything with just one frying pan. I used to think that having more tools made cooking easier and more enjoyable. But I also know that having

few tools is another way to enjoy cooking. So if you have any kitchen tools you don't use, try letting them go and you'll find that cooking becomes so much smoother and easier and more fun. Fourth, reading a lot of self-help books. I used to believe that the more self-help books I read, the better my life would get. But that mindset changed when I started keeping my books in a small wide box. Since space was limited, I naturally stopped buying so many like I used to. So Aki,

what happens next? Interestingly, I started reading the same book over and over and that were the key to finally take action. For example, I read this book at any point of my life. This is the one. At first reading, I was just satisfied with the knowledge. I was like,

"Oh, that's great. That's it." And didn't take action. But after reading it multiple times, I started to feel kind of embarrassed that I actually wasn't doing anything. And finally, maybe it was on the fifth time reading it, I finally took action. It's so slow, right? But I did it.

Reading many books is wonderful, but often we get just satisfied by knowing and we never try. Then life doesn't change. That was exactly me in the past. So I've realized it's much better to read a few great books repeatedly until you actually act on them. In Japan, we have a phrase, knowing and doing should be once said. Fifth, heavy shoes. The biggest lesson I learned traveling

on my bamboo bike in Europe were simple. Lightness equal execution. Imagine if you're traveling in Japan carrying heavy bags. You won't really feel like sightseeing, right? You'd probably just want to find a place to rest, but the moment you drop these bags at the hotel, your energy skyrockets.

You're like, "All right, let's go." I just realized this applies to our daily lives, too. Yeah, it's simple. When you are light, it's so much easier to turn your I want to do this feelings into action. So, I started letting go of many heavy items in my life. Of all of them,

the one that had the biggest impact was my heavy shoes because the weight of your shoes directly linked to your ability to move. So, I let them go and got lighter ones. And because of that, last year I moved a lot and grabbed so many great opportunities. Thank you everyone. So remember, lightness equal execution. Sixth, seasonings. Oh, there is one more thing that surprised me at her

place. The seasonings were ridiculously minimal. Salt, sugar, soy sauce, and just few more. She didn't even have pepper, so I bought it for her. Honestly, at first I was worried like, wait, no flavor. But you know what? In a way, it was actually a good thing because I could taste the

real umami of the ingredients. For example, she didn't have dressing. Usually, when I eat salad, it tastes like dressing, but this time, I could taste the gentle sweetness and bitterness of the vegetables. Isn't it amazing? What I learned is this. While it's fun to change flavors with

seasonings, it's just as wonderful to enjoy the natural taste of the food. So, if you have lots of seasonings you don't really use, I guess you have many of them, try letting them go, your kitchen will feel lighter and your plate will become more simple. Seventh, things that cause tiny stresses. We all have them. Those tiny things that gives us a little bit of stress every day. For example,

a cracked screen is hard to read. A slow computer h or earbuds that is hard to connect. Let's let go of those things before the year end. So you'll so much lighter next year. Yes, for me it was my tripod. It was great, but adjusting the height was a little bit hassle. Look, I had to turn those

adjusters nine times every single time. Once it's fine, but when I'm filming, I change it dozens of times. So, those tiny bit of stress kept building up and I ended up feeling exhausted and drained every time I filmed. I'd use it for over 3 years and it's still working. I want to keep it, but I also don't want that small stress punch anymore. Then after a lot of thought, I finally

decided to let it go. And honestly, it was a great decision because nine steps becomes just one. Plus, now I can even film in tight spaces. That was a game changer for me. And most importantly, filming became so much more fun. So, tripod, thank you for supporting me for a long time. Arigato:))

Eighth, staying up late. It's no exaggeration to say this. This changed my life forever. You know, at night, our willpower is weak. That's why it's so easy to fall into the screen trap mindlessly scrolling through your phone or watching TV. So, for me, staying up late usually ends up being wasted

time. So, to avoid that, go to sleep early. It's so simple. For example, recently I've been going to bed at 8:00 p.m. I know I'm like a grandpa, but doing this brings me so many good things. When I

wake up, my mind is clear, so I can do many things I love. Staring at the stars, going for a walk, taking a bath, or writing my book and scripts. See, just by letting go of late nights, the time that was being stolen by the screen suddenly turns into your creative time. Isn't it great? But how do I actually go to bed early? I know, but unfortunately, there's no shortcut. So, my

suggestion is going to bed 15 minutes earlier. And once you get used to it, try another 15 minutes earlier. Keep going. And if you achieve that, your me time will increase and your life will so much more fun. Ninth, B-list clothed. What should I wear? How should I match this? Where did I put it?

Don't you want to stop this morning stress? If so, let go of your B-list clothes. Why? Because stress comes from too many choices. Clothes you might wear, used to wear, or you might wear someday.

These B-list items just clutter your mind and make you hesitate. So get rid of the B and keep only the A. And here's the small tip when you're deciding on the A list. Deciding on one color for each item of the clothing. For me, t-shirts are white, pants are navy, and foodies are gray.

And for my coats used to be red and now blue. When you do this, everything matches no matter what you pick. It makes your morning so simple. Give it a try. 10th. Compare yourself to others. If you can

stop comparing yourself to others, your life stay happy. Why? Because comparing yourself to others is the easiest and fastest way to make yourself miserable. So, Aki, how do I stop? Don't worry, I'll give you this amazing Zen words. 足るを知るTaruwoshiru. It means being content with what you already have. In other

words, being grateful for what you have right now. When you're comparing to yourself others, you're focusing what you don't have. So, if you notice you're doing that, say this right away, Taruwoshiru then shift your focus what you have right now. For example, the other day while I was walking, I caught myself thinking, she's so lucky she can walk normally. But I immediately shifted my perspective. Wait, look at this boot. This is the coolest boot I've ever had. And just like that,

I was happy. Yeah, this is how I live my life every day. 11th negative people in Japan. It said there are three 間ma to change your life. They are people and time and space. Especially people

around you. They strongly influence your way of thinking or mindset. So, your relationships are really important. I personally try not to be with negative people. I'm not saying they're bad people, but because mood is contagious. I I just want to stay in the good mood every day. So,

that's why if you're like me, have the courage to stop hanging out with negative people. Instead, try to surround yourself with positive people. Then your life naturally become more and more positive. 12. Yesman. Quitting being a yes man really changed how I use my time. In the past,

whenever I was invited to the party or isakaya, I say yes, of course. Yes, man. It was fun, but I realized I never have any time for myself. So now I only say yes to things that make me think hell yeah. Anything else is no. Yeah, it's Hell yeah or no method by Derek Severs. It really worked for

me since I started this using method. My time has become so much more meaningful. So, let's practice this method from now on. 13th bed. When it comes to space, the most effective thing was letting go of my bed. When I had a bed, it was like a black hole. You know, every day after work, I'd get

stuck right into it. I hated that lazy lifestyle. So, I decided to get rid of it. And seriously, it changed my life. You might be thinking, "So, Aki, do you sleep on the floor?" Well, I've done that

before. Yeah. But now, I basically use a mattress. The best part about mattress is that you can put it away after waking up. By doing this, you remove the cause of laziness and create discipline. Isn't

it amazing? So, do you have cause of laziness in your room? If you do, letting them go might just change your life. 14th. Gifts. Question. How many gifts do you think you receive in life? In Japan,

we said that 3,000 gifts in a lifetime. Wa, that's many of them. Did anyone else think that? I did. But here's the problem. Gifts are hard to let go of once you receive them, aren't they? That's

how things pile up and our lives become less simple. So if there are gifts you no longer use, let's let them all go. A gift is a feeling of gratitude. You've already received that feeling. So it's okay to let the physical objects go. If you can do that, your room and your mind feels

so much clearer and lighter. 15th. Sentimental items. Sentimental items are also hard to let go of. I know how you feel, but it's okay to let them go. Seriously, it's okay. I threw away maybe 90%

of mine and nothing had happened. Rather, the past just stopped holding me back. Then I can focus on the now. Memories and past glories. Yeah, they're important for sure. But while you're soaking in

the past, you are losing the present time, your precious life. I believe it's better to focus on the now and working on making your life better today rather than losing time to the past. Don't worry, even if you let go of the object, the memory stays in your heart. 16th bad words. In Japan, we have a concept called ktoama, spirit of words. It's the belief that words have a powerful

soul and what you say becomes reality. For example, if you keep saying that's terrible, then you'll end up attracting a terrible reality. The Japanese philosopher Nakamura Tempu said, "Elase all negative words from your brain's dictionary. If you do, your life will change dramatically. Honestly, it's a challenge, but okay, let's do our best. Okay, thank you for watching until

the very end. I really hope you'll try letting go of at least one thing. Remember, personally, this year was very tough for me, but your warm words and support really melted my heart. So, thank you so much for always being there for me. I wish you a wonderful new year. Bye-bye. See you next year.