---
video_title: "18 Japanese Self-Care Habits That ACTUALLY Work"
video_id: WGa8eib5yV4
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WGa8eib5yV4
video_date: 2025-11-08T01:00:51+00:00
video_description: |
  In this video, In this video, I’ll share 18 Japanese tiny, everyday rituals, mindful habits, and gentle designs that help you slow down and find quiet peace in your daily life:)
  
  0:34 1.Moving with Teinei.
  1:45 2.Matcha
  2:48 3. Listening to Scents
  3:36 4.Basking in Komorebi
  4:40 5.Wash your hands
  5:46 6. Opening the Window in the Morning
  6:37 7.Showing Gratitude to the Sun
  7:36 8.Cleaning in the Morning
  8:26 9.Radio Taiso
  9:19 10.Sayu
  9:46 11.Solo Karaoke
  10:45 12. Pile of salt
  11:35 13. Designing the Natural Sound
  12:37 14. Focus on Your “Tanden”
  13:24 15.Seiri-Seiton
  14:23 16.Tatami
  15:13 17. Bathing (Hand Bath)
  16: 17 18. Praying for Someone
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  VIDEOS:
  How to Always Keep Your Room Clean & Organized (Simple & Easy)
  ▶︎ https://youtu.be/eyd_c9BQ8As
  
  Morning Radio Exercise – The Japanese Way to Start the Day Mindfully
  ▶︎ https://youtu.be/UVwKbfYlJUM
  
  My teacher's Youtube channel
  ▶︎ https://www.youtube.com/@chachajapan-japanesetradit9344
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Good morning everyone. When you think of Japanese healthcare, what comes to mind? The meditation or hot springs? Yeah, those are part of it. But in Japan, there are also tiny everyday rituals, mindful habits, and gentle designs that help you slow down and find quiet peace in your daily life.

In this video, I'll share 18 of them. They are all simple practices you can start today. Let's get started. First, moving with tenee. Wouldn't it be nice if every small action in your daily life could become a mindful ritual? The answer is move with ten. It's a word that's a mix of care,

gentleness, and mindfulness all at once. Put it simply, move slowly and gently. Try now if you're watching this video on your phone. Slowly, gently place it as if you were holding someone you love. Okay. Doesn't it make you feel a bit calmer? The point is when you do anything gently and slowly,

it becomes mindful naturally. That's the philosophy I learned from the tea ceremony. Yeah. My teacher always says, "Treat things like your lover." So next time when you fold clothes, do it with t. When you open the windows, do it with t. Even when you touch screen, do it with

t. I'm not perfect either, but try to move with t together from now on. Second, matcha. Yay, matcha. I'm so happy matcha is trending these days. But there's one thing that makes me a little sad.

This is it. People are just making matcha quickly because for me making matcha isn't just an action. It's then emotion. Do you drink matcha? If so, try not focus on only the result, but on the process.

How? By using your all senses. For example, try gently watching the steam. Listen to the sound of pouring water. Smell or listen the soft aroma of matcha and feel the gentle warmth of the bowl. Why

is that listen? You'll see later. When you do it, making matcha becomes more than just a movement. It becomes a meditation that calms your mind. So don't make matcha like but okay. That's how you

always start your day. Third, listening to scents. Listening to sense aki, you lost your English, you might think. But I'm serious. In the traditional Japanese art called Koudo or the way of incense, we don't say smell a scent. We say listen to it. Because the act of listening of fragrance

carries more heart than simply smelling it. It helps you become more aware of the scent and it truly calms your mind. So maybe next time you light a candle, some incense or make matcha, try listening to the scent. You might be surprised how much deeper your meditation feels. Fourth, dasking in KOMOREBI. KOMOREBI is one of the best healing light for Japanese people. It's the

sunlight that filters through the leaves of trees. I love it because no matter how tired I feel, when I find and bask in KOMOREBI, my heart instantly feels at peace. It's like a Pokémon center for me. Science actually shows that KOMOREBI actually does calm your mind. It carries a natural rhythm called one 1 f 1 over f. Really? Hey, I didn't know that one over f 1 over f fluctuation. It's a natural

rhythm. Fire has that rhythm. Waves have that rhythm. River and even bird songs. That rhythm kind of makes us feel we are part of nature and calms our mind. So next time you go outside,

try looking for KOMOREBI and go under it and feel it. That's the Pokemon center for you. Fifth, wash your hands. Wash your hands when you get home. This is something my mother was always nagging me about. At that time, I thought, "Oh, it's such a hassle."

But now I want to do it because I realized it's not just washing off dirt. It's also about resetting your mind. At the entrance of shrine, there's always something called tisia. Do you know what's it for? Wash your hands. Yes. But why? It's to cleanse the impurities of your

heart. Yeah. Japanese believe that washing your hands also helps cleanse your heart. Washing away stress and negativity. Then with that clear heart, you can finally offer your prayer.

So I realized that washing your hands at home can be also mind resetting ritual like washing away your negative feelings that you've picked up outside. So next time you go home, try washing your hands. If you don't, my mom get mad at you. Sixth, opening the window in the morning. Do you open the window in the morning? In Japan,

people have long valued the habit of opening the window in the morning. I have to do that now.

For us, it's not just about changing the air. It's about changing the energy, the old stagnant air inside with the fresh and clean air from the outside. When you refresh the energy inside of your room, your mind feels, yes, refreshed, too. To me, the morning air itself is like a gift from the earth. Just smelling it or listening to it can make me feel happy and refreshed. It's free. You

can do it, too. Seventh, showing gratitude to the sun. This is the ultimate happiness habit I learned from ancient Japan. In the past, Japanese people would wake up with the sunrise, put their hands together, and say, "Thank you for today as well." And when I started this habit, I realized three amazing results. First, when you face the morning gentle sun, your body naturally

releases serotonin, which helps you feel calm and joy. Second, feeling gratitude releases oxytocin, the love hormone, making you feel warm and happy inside. And third, you feel comfortable because that moment reminds you that you're always connected to nature, right? You're not alone. So by thanking the sun in the morning, you get this triple effect. Calm, love, and feel connected.

It's so mindful. You got to do it. Eighth, cleaning in the morning. Do you know why Zen monks clean early in the morning? It's not just make the hallways or gardens clean and look nice.

They do it to purify their minds to start the day with peace and happiness. In Zen meditation, it's believed that by cleaning the outside, you also purify the inside, your heart. And this mindset has passed down to ordinary Japanese people. So that's why for a lot of Japanese people, cleaning isn't just a chore. It's a little ritual to reset our minds. So tomorrow morning when you wake up,

open the window and clean your room at least 5 minutes. You'll be surprised how healing it feels. Ninth, radio taiso. This is Japanese style morning exercise created for health and happiness. People say it's one of the secrets to longevity. I think there are three amazing things about radio taiso.

First, in just 3 minutes, you can move around 26 different muscles. It's super efficient and effective. Second, it's so simple that anyone can do it from kids to the elderly. And third, it's usually done together, so you can really feel that sense of group connection and shared happiness. When I was a kid, especially in summer, I used to it every morning with my neighborhood. It always

felt so refreshing moving together right after waking up. If you are curious, check out this video and try it yourself or with your friends. 10th SAYU. Among health conscious people in Japan, there's something that's always popular. It's called SAYU. It's simply hot water that's been

boiled once, then cooled a little. When I stay in my partner's house, we always drink it. It gently warms your body, helps digestion, improves circulation, and even calms your mind. Yeah, it's a simple self-care habit you can start right away. 11th, solo karaoke. Do you love

karaoke? I love it, too. And most people see karaoke as a form of just entertainment, but actually it's one of the best self-care habits. According to research, the more you sing, the more your stress hormone cortisol decreases and your happiness hormone oxasin increases. And what's amazing is that you can get the same effect even when you sing alone. Let me tell you my story.

When I became homeless in Tokyo, when I was in my 20s, I would stay overnight in Kok room and sing and cry alone. Looking back, that was actually my meditation. So, if you're tired right now, let's go to Koke. If there is no koke nearby, that's okay. You can sing in your car, in the bathroom, anywhere you can be alone. That what I do a lot of times. So, let's do solo karaoke

more than often together. 12. Pile of salt. Have you ever seen small wrestlers throwing something into the ring before a match? Is it sand or some mysterious powders? Nope. It's a salt. In Japan,

salt has long been used to purify species and clear away negative energy. That's why even in daily life, we make small con of salt called MORISHIO and place it somewhere in the home. Yeah. But when we do that, it feels as if the air in the room has been purified and my mind feels naturally calm. So my partner do that. You probably have some salt at home, right? So try

making MORISHIO and place it at the entrance. Just that can make your home feel more peaceful. 13th. Designing the natural sound. In Japan, people have long designed calming sounds through nature.

For example, the SHISHIODOSHI, a bamboo water fountain often found in Japanese gardens. Have you ever seen it? It makes a gentle echoring sound that soothes your mind. Listen. It's so calming, right? And when it rains, we have KUSARITOI this toy or rain chain. It's made to be enjoyed

to watch and listen to the soft sound of dripping water. So try inviting the nature sounds into your life. What you can do? I personally love fooding the a windchime. I also love candle that softly crackle just like a small campfire. Creating the nature sounds like these can definitely healing.

So you too give it a try. 14th. Focus on your TANDEN. There's an ancient Japanese secret to staying calm all the time, anywhere, anytime. Just keep your awareness on your TANDEN. It's a

spot about 3 cm below your belly bottom. Japanese have long believed that this part is the center of the body, the mind, and the flow of keep your life energy. So by always keeping awareness here you can stay calm, get energized. People often say take a deep breath when you feel upset or trouble and at that time try adding one more thing focus on your tunden. As you do that your awareness naturally sinks down and you start to feel calm again. 15th. SEIRI-SEITON. In Japan, people say that your space

and your mind are connected. And I believe it too. For example, when you're tired from work and your mind feels messy, your room usually ends up messy too. And it's the same the other way around. When you are in the messy room, your mind starts to feel uncomfortable and cluttered as well. That's

why SEIRI-SEITON considered super important in Japan. SEIRI means separating what you need from what you don't. In other words, letting go and SEITON means organizing what you do need. Together they make keeping your room clean and in order. I said that your room and your mind is connected. So when your

room is clean, your mind feels calm. But Aki, I don't know how to keep my room always clean. No worries. If you want to learn how to do it, check out this video. You're going to love it.

16th. Tatami. What's great about tatami is that it contains a natural compound called fidonside. The same substance found in nature in the forest air. That's why just being in a tatami room can give you the same relaxing effect as shindingoku, forest bathing. Not only that, tatami also helps

regulate humidity and it even absorbs harmful chemicals which cause sika syndrome. So it can be a natural air purifier. Isn't it amazing? If I say that some young people in Japan might say, "Huh, tatami? That's oldfashioned." H then I want to shout, "What are you talking about?

Tatami is an ultimate healing tool. It's so cool. 17th. Bathing hand bath. For Japanese people, a bath isn't just a place to wash your body. It's an ultimate mindful spot to calm and reset your

heart. According to brain studies, taking a bath helps to reduce feelings of sadness and stress while increasing happiness and relaxation. It even increase your sleep quality which boosts your energy and focus the next day. But I know it's a Japanese culture. Not every home has a bathtub. So here's an alternative. Hand bathing. This is how to do that. Fill a small basin with a

warm water about 38° C and soak your hands up to your wrist for 10 to 15 minutes. This method is said to have similar effects to taking a bath and it's actually used in Japanese medical settings. I tried it myself and I was surprised how relaxing it was. So tonight, try it. 18th praying for someone. Did you know that prayer can be one of the most powerful forms of self-care? If I say so,

some people might say, "But Japanese people don't really pray because they are not that religious, right?" But that's not true. For example, we often visit shrines for New Year's, seasonal festivals, or even during travel. We don't really think of it as something religious. It's more like a simple habit. We just often go and pray. So, what many Japanese people pray for? For your money, luck,

care, your success. Yeah, for some people, yes. But the most common prayer is for their family. They pray for family to stay healthy and happy. Yet the pawn is for someone. One study showed

that praying for others helps to reduce stress and it makes people feel more positive. So if you are tired right now, try closing your eyes and quietly pray for someone. You can pray for me. I hope your mind feels a bit more at peace. So, how was this little journey into Japanese self-care habits? If there was something that caught your interest, let me know in the

comments. Take care of your health, everyone. I pray for you. Have a good day. Bye-bye.