---
video_title: "Minimalist Couple’s Life in the Countryside Spring Days in Japan🇯🇵"
video_id: Uxi0y1olqIw
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uxi0y1olqIw
video_date: 2025-05-17
video_description: |
  I've got some big news! Now we are a....
  
  A Minimalist Woman Living Alone in Japan’s Hidden Village
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/5aftBQKL6Gw
  
  If you'd like to know more about how Cleaning can change your life, check out this video:
  ▶︎ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yud_4UtyQD4
  
  Oh, this is Itoshiro yohinten (Natural clothing store) if you are interested in:) 
  ▶︎https://www.instagram.com/itoshiroyohinten/
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Okay, first things first—I've got some big news! After I posted this video before, I got tons of comments like: “She's Samurai Matcha’s dream partner!” Well… I gotta say we’re a couple! 🎉We’ve been dating for a while, and… it’s official now. She's Japanese, an amazing minimalist, and a little shy—so she wasn’t planning to show her face...

But a little while ago she said, “I want to step out of my comfort zone.” And today… she’s here, bravely. Aki: “Yuppi~!” Yuppi: “Hi I’m Yuppi. Nice to meet you!” She can’t speak English so I let her speak.

Great! From now on, I’ll be sharing not just my simple life but our simple life. Yes, can’t wait to show you more! So Today’s video is all about our peaceful spring days in the countryside. Let’s dive in!

Our Morning Ritual Good morning~! Our day always starts with a little ritual.

Yep—morning cleaning. I usually do it alone, but today we did it together…It was like cleaning time back in elementary school! and it was actually super fun! Oh, I gotta escape before I get cleaned up too! haha People often ask, “Why do you clean in the morning?”

Why? Good question. We talked about it and here’s our answer: To feel a small win. Like—“Yes! Toilet is clean!”

That tiny I did it! gives you a spark to start the day.Even small wins can lead to the next one. One thing done → another done → and you’re on a roll. Before you know it, the day feels amazing. So even just 5 minutes is enough.

One quick wipe in the morning makes your day amazing. And it's actually efficient— 'cause you're cleaning up all the dust that settled overnight. So, it’s totally worth it! Give it a try!!

Gluten-free When I lived alone, I was more of a smoothie-and-toast kind of person. She’s more of a rice person. She says, “Gluten makes my skin break out~” At first I was like, “Hmm, really?” and I didn’t think about it that much...

But after that, I started getting used to eating rice and cutting back on gluten. Then one day, we eat a lot of gulten—ramen, cake, you name it… And the next morning... I was like, “Wait—what?!” 😂

I got a pimple. She did too. And she said, “I told you❤︎” So yeah, she was right. I’m not super sensitive to gluten, but if you are, going gluten-free might actually help. That’s why now I understand rice in the morning is a pretty solid choice.

And when you think of rice—you gotta have miso soup! Miso is pretty amazing because live probiotics go straight to your gut, helping your digestion and detox too. That’s why people in Japan call it the “morning cleanser” . Rice and miso soup. That’s our go-to breakfast combo.

Add some natto and it’s perfect. 😄Totally optional though! haha How to Make Chores Fun Please check this out—look at how she hangs the laundry. It’s always super neat and super fast. Like, crazy efficient. So today, I finally asked her,

“Hey, how do you hang clothes so fast and so pretty?” She smiled and said, “I always pretend I’m in a laundry-hanging competition. It makes it fun—and I naturally speed up!” I was like Wow! My jaw dropped! What she wanted to say is that just changing

how you see a chore makes it so much more fun. I always see a house chore as moving zen. It’s like that.Change your perspective. That’s the key to enjoying everything.

Today, I learned something from her again. Thanks, sensei. 🙏 Sakura Picking This morning, we went out to pick some cherry blossoms! 🌸 Most places are already past peak bloom, but here—it’s still full-on sakura season, since it’s a bit colder. not a bit very colder!

Ed-san, who just moved to this town from Tanzania came along to help us! He’s super tall, so… yeah, total MVP today. Thanks, Ed! These blossoms can be salted and eaten, made into tea, or just used as decoration. Oh—and fun fact:I learn a new thing. If you boil down the branches,

you can actually use them to dye clothes a soft pink! Nature’s so beautiful. And so full of surprises. Hanami Dango—Made with Good Vibes All right! Time to make some dango for our hanami picnic! 🍡

The ingredients are simple:100g of joshinko, 100g of shiratamako, and a bit of hot water. Mix it, knead it, and roll it by hand. I really love this quiet, peaceful part. It might be a Japanese way of thinking, but we believe that your energy flows from your hands into the food. So simply, if you make it with good vibes, it tastes better. But If you make it while stressed or annoyed… It doesn't taste so good.

Sushi, onigiri, dango—they’re all made by hand, so your heart really matters. That’s why we’re smiling and making it together 😊 ...But then... something not so funny happened.

We forgot the skewers!!! Yep. The essential part of dango…OMG.

But hey—nankurunaisa~ ♪ (It’s Okinawan for “It’ll be alright.”) We’ve got three flavors: sweet soy glaze, kinako, and red bean paste. And for the final touch—her sense of aesthetics✨ Done!! YEAH!! We did it–!!!

Outside, everyone’s getting ready for hanami. Alright, let’s go! 🌸 The Powerful Habit for Making Dreams Come True Wow… this is amazing!. Homemade rice balls and green tea from friends, and dango we made together for hanami. What a beautiful moment under

the cherry blossoms. 🌸 By the way—did you know that hanami actually holds a secret for making your dreams come true? Back in the day, the biggest wish for Japanese people was to have a good rice harvest in autumn. So in spring, they looked at the full cherry blossoms and imagined them as golden rice fields. They celebrated in advance, as if the wish had already come true.

This is called “Yoshuku”—pre-celebration. When you feel that joy ahead of time, you start attracting the reality that matches it. Wayne Dyer, an American psychologist, once said: “You don’t attract what you want—you attract what you are.” So celebrate now, with all your heart. That’s how we create miracles.

The Mysterious Sponge One day, she quietly pulled this out... Any guesses what it is?

It’s actually a sponge made from loofah fiber!

I was totally surprised at first, I was kinda sceptical but when I used it—it was so great! So soft and easy to use! It totally reminded me of the Biwako fukin I love. And the best part? When you're done with it, it just goes back into the earth. How eco-friendly is that?

It really made me realize— tiny choices like this can change the world. A Hidden Japanese Adventure Have you heard of this? Gattango. It’s kind of a new attraction in Japan that’s getting more and more popular—riding bikes on abandoned train tracks!

The course is 3.3km one way, and you ride an electric bike. It’s a round trip. It’s a bit of exercise, but mostly—riding through Japan’s nature feels amazing! You even go through tunnels, so it kinda feels like a mini adventure!!

Seriously, it was so much fun. The cost? 6,000 yen(around 38 dollars) for two people. It takes about 40 minutes total. It was really worth it!!

On the way back, we wandered through the old streets of Takayama, and wrapped it up with a matcha cake. 🍵 These little chill days... they’re the best.

Japanese indigo dyeing So, my girlfriend works at this really cute clothing shop that uses natural dye. The other day, I stopped by while she was doing aizome—Japanese indigo dyeing. In most countries, people just extract indigo straight from the leaves. But in Japan, it’s a little different. They actually ferment the leaves and let microbes create the dye.

That’s why Japanese indigo is kinda... alive. It’s really special—and pretty rare, even around the world.

She was like, “You gotta make the microbes happy so they can do their job!” Haha, I love how she says things like that. And the color it makes? It’s this deep, calming blue. Very zen, very Japan. Oh, and fun fact:

This aizome stuff is actually how we met! In Japanese, “indigo” is written 藍 (ai), and “love” is written 愛 (ai). Different kanji, same sound. Ai. Maybe it was meant to be, right? Anyway, I’ll save that full love

story for another time :) Sharing a Meal Tonight, we had dinner at a friend’s cozy log house. Cooking together, Laughing and eating. We made Karaage, fresh veggies, rice, miso soup, and a bit of sake. For dessert, we made Zenzai. And of course, we ended with a cup of matcha. We had a really great time together.

These little moments of joy... that’s what ikigai is really all about. Our Night Routine to Soothe the Soul There’s one thing we never skip at night— a warm, relaxing bath.

We soak in the tub, let our bodies and minds unwind.This moment is always amazing! After the bath, we drink a cup of warm water. Then, a bit of light cleaning, we put a Yutanpo-hot water bottle- into the futon, and get everything warm and cozy. So that was our simple countryside days in spring!!

What did you think? If you have any ideas like, "Hey, I’d love to see this kind of video!" let us know in the comments! Alright, so Thanks for watching~! I hope to see you in the next video! Bye-bye! (from both of us!) 👋😄