---
video_title: "10 Life-Changing Habits for Boosting Your Positivity!"
video_id: wuYyOhfMSJc
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wuYyOhfMSJc
video_date: 2025-01-04
video_description: |
  Today, I’ll be sharing 10 simple habits that will help you live a more positive and fulfilling life!
  
  00:48 ①❤︎ Search
  03:06 ②Gratitude Journal
  04:33 ③ Make “I’m so blessed” your go-to phrase
  06:06 ④The “One Good Deed” Meter
  07:15 ⑤Joy
  08:48 ⑥Helping Bugs
  09:53 ⑦15-MInute Positive Walk
  10:29 ⑧Find one thing to compliment
  11:14 ⑨Matcha Picnic
  12:08 ⑩Miracle Water
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  OTHER VIDEOS:
  ・12  Habits and Mindsets to Let Go of in 2025 for a happier and meaningful life🍵
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/cyBI-s-cfNI
  
  ・7 small Japanese Habits that will bring Happiness into Your Life
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/_NufpwtCVWg
  
  ・8 simple daily habits that help me stay in top shape (for my body and wellbeing)
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/U0Hmnm72x4Q
  
  ・20 Things that I let go of  to make my life SIMPLE, more MINDFUL, and FREE as a Minimalist
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/SVMv29oRKQs
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Today, I’ll be sharing 10 simple habits that will help you live a more positive and fulfilling life! I'm Aki. I used to be an elementary school teacher, and now I’m sharing Japan’s simple and happy lifestyle as a YouTuber. Many people say “You’re such a positive guy!”.

Well thank you❤︎ I’m going to reveal the secrets behind it. These are actually the habits I’ve learned through trial and error from my own experience with depression. They're really small, and some of them are unique, but incredibly powerful, and they worked for me. I’m sure they’ll help you too. Let’s get into it!

1. ❤︎ Search This is a habit that can instantly make you feel positive, no matter how down you may be feeling right now. It’s all about looking for heart shapes in your everyday life. I discovered this trick while messaging a close friend. One day, I was traveling around Japan on a motorcycle with my friend.

We were supposed to visit Shirakawa-go, one of my favorite spots, but it started pouring rain, so we couldn’t go. I was pretty bummed because I’d been looking forward to it. That's when my close friend sent me a picture and said, "The yolk broke, but it’s heart-shaped, so it’s fine." I thought, "That’s cute!" and started looking for heart shapes myself to send back.

I looked at the sky, the forest, even the ground—but nothing. After about three minutes of wandering around, I finally found a heart-shaped anthurium flower. I sent a pic back with the caption, "Found a heart-shaped flower! Sorry for the creepy nails, lol." And then it hit me: “Wait, wasn’t I just feeling down? How did I get so cheerful all of a sudden?”

That’s when I realized—this is a simple way anyone can change their mood from negative to positive. Because first of all, just thinking about searching for hearts gives you a little spark of excitement, doesn’t it? It’s like finding a four-leaf clover. And secondly, it’s the perfect level of difficulty—it’s not too easy like finding circles, but not impossible either. That’s what makes it fun! You get caught up in the hunt, and before you know it,

you’ve forgotten all your negative thoughts. And when you do find a heart, it feels amazing! Your mood just brightens. Since discovering this little trick, my close friend and I have been sharing hearts back and forth. Art is everywhere. HeART is everywhere!

2. Gratitude Journal Every morning, I write down what I’m grateful for. It’s a habit I’ve been doing for over three years now. And let me tell you, it works wonders! Mornings can easily bring out negative thoughts, right?

Like, “I have so much to do today,” “My boss might get mad at me again,” “Why did I say that yesterday?”

I used to have these thoughts and wanted to change that negative version of myself That’s why I make it a point to shift my focus to the positives by finding something to be grateful for. For example: “I got to see a beautiful sunrise! Thank you.” “Thank you, my friend, for always supporting me.” “I discovered some amazing matcha yesterday! Thank you.”

When you do this, you start noticing all the good things you already have. It makes you realize how blessed you are. Sometimes, I even get emotional while writing, lol. Nowαdays, I write down three things I’m grateful for. But even if it’s just one, that’s totally fine!

And it only takes about three minutes each morning. There are around 1,000 minutes in a day. In just three minutes can make the other 997 minutes feel happier, it’s totally worth it! 3. Make “I’m so blessed” your go-to phrase “Aren’t we blessed?”

This is something my mom always says. When we’re eating, she’ll say, “Aren’t we blessed?” When we’re having tea, “Aren’t we blessed?” Even when we’re just looking at the garden, “Aren’t we blessed?” And I usually reply, “Yeah, We are so blessed” .

The point is that when I say this phrase, even if I'm not actually feeling blessed, I start to focus on the things in my life that make me feel blessed. Then I thought ‘this is the magical phrase’ for a positive life. So, now I find myself saying “I’m so blessed” all the time. Like, at a recently, I couldn’t stop saying, “Am I allowed to be this blessed?” People around me might have thought “Oh he is so dramatic!” but it didn’t matter what anyone thought.

If I feel blessed, I’ll just say I’m blessed! And the people around you start to feel blessed too. It’s like a blessed bomb! 💥 Even if when I'm not that blessed, “Aren’t we blessed?” I always remind myself of my mother’s words.

Then I’m reminded - oh yeah, blessings are always around me. 4. The “One Good Deed” Meter Back in elementary school, my teacher introduced this fun little game to us: the “One Good Deed Meter.” In Japan, there's this saying, "一日一善 (ichi nichi ichi zen)," which means "do one good deed a day." So, the game was simple—whenever you did something nice for someone, we’d all share things like, “I picked up so-and-so’s eraser today!” and then

stick a shiny gold sticker on the chart at the end of the day. I loved this game! While getting the gold sticker was fun, the best part was realizing how happy doing something nice for someone else made me feel. I’m still so grateful to my teacher for teaching me this game. Recently, I decided to bring this habit back into my life.

It’s so easy to do! You can do anything. For example,You can organize some comics at a restaurant, straighten someone’s shoes, or pick up some litter. If I do it, I stick a gold sticker in my journal. Feels soooo goood:))) 5. Joy

I spent time with many children when I was a teacher. And there’s something important I’ve learned from them—the power of joy. For example, when I go on a trip and bring back snacks as a souvenir and I give it to them, they get so excited! They are like ”Yeah!” with full of joy.

And because I see them get that excited, I feel joy too, which makes me want to give them even more snacks, and in the end, they be come even happier. What I learned from it is that “Joy attracts more joy.” Another example at that recent sake festival, I was super excited and couldn’t stop saying, “This sake is amazing!”—as if I was a happy dog. Seeing my reaction, the many vendors said, “If you’re enjoying it that much, let me give you another glass for free.”

Then I was like “Awww thank you!!” and felt so ecstatic! There’s an old Japanese saying: “When you show joy, joyful moments will joyfully gather more joy, and we enjoy those joys fully” It’s a bit complicated, but simply put Joy attracts more joy. So if you want to stay happy and positive, let's be full of joy first!!

6. Helping Bugs You might think ”What?”

I know…but this is one of my secret quirky habits.

For example, when I see a bug that's flipped over, I’ll turn it back onto its feet. If it looks like it's about to dry up, I’ll give it a little water. I just can’t help but do it. I guess I see both people and bugs as having the same life. There’s no life that’s big or small, right?

So, when I help a bug, it feels just as good as helping a person. Isn’t it great? because It's not easy to save someone's life in our everyday routine, but anyone can save a bug. You can save a life and feel great anytime!! It might be tough for those who dislike bugs,

but if you can, try to help them out. It'll make you feel good and positive. Who knows, maybe one day that bug will return the favor! 7. 15-MInute Positive Walk This is one of my top three habits for boosting positivity.

Just take a 15-minute walk in the morning. I call it “15-MInute Positive Walk” Just walking in the fresh, quiet morning air feels like happiness itself. On top of that, add a , and your serotonin levels will skyrocket, making you feel incredible. Plus, if you pick up trash along the way, It will raise your positivity levels even more! Give it a try.

8. Find one thing to compliment Got plans to meet someone soon? When you do, try to find one thing to compliment them on—anything will work! Their outfit, their hairstyle, whatever stands out. Why? Because no one dislikes a compliment, right?

99% of the time, it’ll make them smile. And when you see their smile, it makes you smile too! It’s like a win-win smile. Plus,I think the conversation flows way more positively. Like "Nice outfit!" "Aww, thanks!"

"Your shoes are great too!" "Oh, Thanks! Oh yesterday, I found…" I feel like the conversation gets a lot lighter and positive. So “Find one thing to compliment “ give it a try. 9. Matcha Picnic

I regularly make some matcha not just in the mornings, but also while enjoying nature! I love taking a picnic with matcha. I might do it solo, but sharing it with friends makes it even more special. The best part? Drinking matcha in nature fills me with gratitude.

It reminds me that I’m a part of this beautiful world. When I think about being connected to something so vast, my worries feel so much smaller. I can’t help but feel the urge to say “thank you” to the nature around me and feel positive. And you know what? It doesn’t have to be matcha; coffee or hot cocoa works just as well!

Sometimes enjoying your favorite drink outdoors can make you feel more positive. 10. Miracle Water Finally, let me share a simple method that can fill your day with excitement! Before you drink water in the morning, just say, “Thank you for creating miracles today.” And when you drink it, you’ll start to notice miracles happening every day!

What does that mean? Let me explain. There’s a famous quote by the Roman politician Caesar: “People see only what they want to see.” This means we can only recognize what we’re consciously aware of. For instance, When I told you about the story of heart shapes, you might have started noticing this, right?

It’s just like that! By drinking this water, you’ll start to become aware of the miracles in your life.

For example, this morning, I was walking outside and captured this beautiful sky. Look at this color—it’s a miracle, right? Miracles are everywhere. Just being aware of them will brighten your mood and feel positive! There are plenty more positive habits I couldn’t share today!

If you want to learn more, check out these other videos! Lastly, I’d like to wrap things up with this phrase today. “Aren’t we blessed?” Have a wonderful day! peace! Bye bye!