---
video_title: "20 Tiny Japanese Habits for a Healthier, Calmer, More Radiant You ✨"
video_id: zH73yTEiCPs
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zH73yTEiCPs
video_date: 2025-05-24
video_description: |
  ▶︎🇯🇵For anyone interested in R's KOSO, here's the link:
  ▶︎ https://www.dpbolvw.net/click-101110351-14494750
  Use the code SAMURAI15 to get 15% OFF everything!
  
  Related Videos You Might Like:
  🔨 Japanese Minimalist: Extreme DIY Makeover for a Simple Life (Before & After)
  ▶︎ https://youtu.be/PGJdZ3WuMg4
  
  🇯🇵 7 Healthy Habits in Japan
  ▶︎ https://youtu.be/NbY-_583ScI
  
  7 Healthy Habits in Okinawa, Japan🇯🇵!
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/KVJ9GUgVCiQ
  
  6 Japanese Super Foods That Will Keep You Healthy!
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/feozcEdYcT4
  
  Thank you guys always for the love and support! 💕
  Don’t forget to subscribe and join the journey:
  ▶︎ https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ⏰ TIMESTAMPS
  00:48 — Starting the Day with Hands Together
  02:22 — Dry Towel Rubbing
  03:05 — The Power of YOKU
  03:58 — Barefoot at Home
  04:48 — 5-Minute Morning Cleaning
  05:48 — Miso Soup
  07:39 — Koso Drink
  10:23 — Rice Over Bread
  11:10 — Chew 100 Times
  12:03 — Skipping Dessert
  13:04 — Morning Matcha
  14:17 — Ritsuyou
  15:18 — Sometimes, Skip Lunch
  16:10 — Umeboshi Tea
  16:54 — 30 Minutes of Empty Time
  17:48 — Sometimes, It’s Okay to Eat What You Love
  18:46 — Itadakimasu
  19:31 — Moving Meditation
  20:26 — Bathing
  21:02 — Incense
  
  🌿 Let’s Connect
  📸 Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  📘 Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito
  
  📩 Get in Touch
  Got something to say? Feel free to email me:
  📬 samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com
  I’ll do my best to reply—but thank you for understanding if I can’t get back to everyone.
---
Today, I’m sharing 20 Japanese healthy habits I personally love and actually practice—from sunrise to bedtime. Did you know that the secret to Japanese longevity and youthfulness isn’t just about genetics? It actually comes from small, daily habits. In a 2021 study from Duke University, they compared Japanese people living in Japan and Japanese people living abroad. The result? People living in Japan tend to live longer.

Interesting, right? So basically, it’s all about the habits—how Japanese people eat, live, and take care of themselves. Let’s get started! Starting the Day with Hands Together Good morning. ☀️ Quick question—do you put your hands together every day?

In Japan, we do it a lot. When we say thank you, when we visit a shrine, when we eat... even when we do ninja moves. 🥷😂

I never thought much about it before, but lately, I realized—this is actually powerful. Why? Because just by putting your hands together… you can feel your mind settle down. Try it now. Just gently bring your hands together. Don’t you feel a little more calm?

In Eastern medicine, the right hand is yang—active, giving energy. The left hand is ying—quiet, receiving energy. So when we put them together, It's like energy flows from the right hand to the left, and starts to circulate gently through your body. That’s why it feels grounding. It’s like your awareness turns inward and connects to your soul.✨

So when you’re feeling a bit annoyed, foggy in the head, or in a rush— not just in the morning—try putting your hands together. It might be the little switch you need to calm yourself down. Super easy, but kind of magical. Alright… let’s step outside with my tenugui, and explore more beautiful Japanese habits! ————————————— Dry Towel Rubbing – A Japanese Self-Healing Habit This is a simple traditional Japanese habit for self-healing that I’ve recently gotten into. All you need is… a towel.

You just rub your skin gently with a dry towel. That’s it. The friction helps improve blood flow, and it's said to help prevent colds. I heard in some schools, kids used to do this outside— shirtless, in the freezing cold. 😱 Not just to stay healthy, but to build mental strength too.

As a former teacher… that’s wild. 😂 But don’t worry—you don’t need to go outside. Just try rubbing your body with a towel before your shower. Even that can make a difference! The Power of YOKU In Japan, we have a word: Yoku. It means “bathing.”

But not just water. We “bathe” in many things. For example, Kaisui-yoku - sea bathing Shinrin-yoku – forest bathing Nikko-yoku – sun bathing. Gekko-yoku – moon bathing. Nyuuyoku – regular bathing.

In Japan, we believe that anything with “-yoku” in it is good for your health. Because you're quietly receiving the energy of nature. But think about it these days… we're doing screen-yoku screen-bathing. Which is... not great. 😅

That’s why sometimes, we need to return to nature. To bathe in light, in air, in water. To let our senses wake up again. This is one of Japan’s quiet habits for healing. A way to gently reset, from the inside out.

Barefoot at Home When I lived in Australia, I would wear shoes inside the house. But when I came back to Japan, I realized something… Barefoot at home feels heavenly! It just feels so good. Like your feet are finally free after a busy day. Did you know? Being barefoot actually has real health benefits.

The soles of your feet are full of nerves— Some people even call them “the second heart.” So walking barefoot helps stimulate those nerves. That can help you feel more relaxed and balanced. Try going barefoot at home, like you're walking on warm sand at the beach. Every time you step inside... your happiness switch turns on!

5-Minute Morning Cleaning You might be thinking… “Wait, what does cleaning have to do with health?” Well, in Japan, cleaning isn’t just about tidying up your room. It’s about tidying your mind too. We believe your room and your heart are connected. In a nutshell, if your space is messy, your thoughts feel messy too.

So, if you want to feel clear inside, start by cleaning your outside. Just 5 minutes in the morning. “Ugh, what a hassle!” “Come on, it’s only five minutes:)” Instead of scrolling social media, try a quick clean-up. It’s a small habit, but it can bring a big shift in your life.

You’ve got this. Alright—time to make breakfast. What am I going to make…, I’m making a Japanese-style breakfast. Miso Soup - The Magic of Fermented Foods You know what? Japan is kind of a fermentation paradise.

We have lots of fermented foods. Some people say, “Half of a Japanese person is made of fermented food.” 😂 That’s right. I truly believe this is one of the big secrets behind Japanese health. “Fermented foods have good bacteria, right? And they help your gut?”

Exactly! A healthy gut = a healthy body. And even more… a happy mind. In Japanese, we say “腹 hara” for belly and the gut. And we use it a lot in emotional phrases.

For example “I'm upset” = 腹がたつ / “Make up my mind” = 腹を決める / “Open up” = 腹を割る. And actually, it makes sense scientifically too. Many of the chemicals that affect our emotions— like serotonin, dopamine, GABA, and melatonin— are produced in our gut. That’s why gut health really matters. And fermented food can help with that.

My top recommendation? Miso soup. 🍲 This soup I’m making right now. It’s a Japanese superfood. In Japan, some people call miso soup a “morning cleanser” because it helps detox your body.

Some studies even show it can help reduce the risk of cancer. And best of all—it’s delicious! You can probably find miso in your country and plenty of easy recipes on YouTube. So yes, miso soup is one of the easiest fermented foods you can add to your diet. “But cooking sounds like too much work… I want something even easier!”

Alright then—check this out. 😎 Koso Drink– Japan’s Gut-Healing Fermented Drink” You’ve heard of kombucha, right? Yeah, that fizzy fermented tea. Actually it’s not that popular in Japan so when I visited LA last year… I was surprised!.

It was super popular—and really tasty. I really loved it, when I was drinking it, I had a secret thought in my head: “If kombucha is this popular, Koso drink is going to blow up too.” So… what’s Koso drink? It’s Japan’s original fermented drink. The hidden hero behind Japanese health and beauty.

Think of it like… kombucha leveled up. Both are fermented and gut-friendly—but a little different. Kombucha is basically made by fermenting tea for a few weeks. But KOSO? It’s made by fermenting lots of plant-based ingredients—for several years.

It’s packed with way more nutrients—more vitamins, minerals, and enzymes. That’s why in Japan, a lot of people drink it especially during fasting or when they’re trying to lose weight. This is the one I drink every day—R's KOSO. Huge thanks for sponsoring this video 🙏 Let me quickly tell you why I love this. Because it tastes amazing! Of course not only that,

First off, most KOSO drinks use around 60 ingredients. But R's KOSO has over 100. That means I can get a ton of essential nutrients in just one glass. These days, I mix it with sparkling water. I love the citrusy, refreshing flavor.

Plus this is ✅ 100% Vegan ✅ Gluten-Free ✅ Dairy-Free ✅ Non-GMO Perfect for anyone who cares about clean, natural health. Now let me get a little personal… KOSO drinks honestly changed my life. This is before I started drinking koso drinks and this is now.（過去と今の写真） About 10 years ago, I was struggling with depression. Things were really heavy.

But when I started drinking KOSO, thanks to my mom, taking care of my gut and Little by little, I began to feel lighter. Koso drinks really saved my life. So still now, I drink KOSO drinks every morning and R's KOSO—is my favorite. Thanks to this, my day feels light, clear, and energized. Use the code SAMURAI15 to get 15% off your first bottle.

Check the link in the description. 🌿 Give your gut some love. It deserves it. ————————————— Rice Over Bread I used to eat bread in the morning. Bread and a smoothie — that's my typical daily routine. 🥖🥤

I love bread. A lot. But lately, I’ve been switching to rice in the morning. The biggest reason? It helps me live gluten-free.

So, why gluten-free? Well, little while ago I visited my girlfriend who doesn’t eat much gluten. And I started eating rice in the morning, then my body just feels good after that. I felt like my digestion improved and my energy was more stable. And you can also make onigiri with leftovers. 🍙

When I lived in Canada, I used this kind of rice cooker. So you can probably find it in your country too. Want to start a rice life with me? Chew 100 Times Sometimes, when I’m in a rush, I eat like I’m drinking my food. 😅 But if a samurai were sitting next to me, he’d probably say: “Hey! That’s a sign your mind is scattered. Chew 100 times.”

Yep—samurai practiced something like mindful eating. They stayed in the moment by chewing slowly. And of course, chewing well helps digestion, too. So it’s great for your body and your mind. I knew it. Just chew more. Simple. But honestly… it's easy to forget right?

I’m still working on it myself. So..let’s try to be chew more and mindful—together. Skipping Dessert – The Secret of Hara Hachi Bu In Japan, people don’t eat dessert that often.

It’s not like we never eat it—just less often than in Western countries I guess. And I think this might actually be one of the secrets behind Japanese health. Because skipping dessert helps us stop at hara hachi bu—80% full.Hara hachi bu. Hara hachi bu is a famous phrase from a 400-year-old Japanese health bible called “Yojokun.” (Kaibara Ekiken, a scholar from the Edo period)

It says:“Eat little. Stop at 80% to live longer.” Think about it— after rice, miso soup, and a few side dishes, we’re probably already at 80%. But if we add dessert on top of that, we go all the way to 100%… or even more. So if dessert is a habit for you, It might be tough— but try skipping it once in a while.

You might notice your body feeling a little lighter after that 😊 Let me eat today. Morning Matcha This was the habit of my great-grandmother who lived until 96 years old. No matter how busy she was— even in the car—she always made time to whisk matcha in the morning. I guess it was like…

Anyway, Inspired by her, I carry my matcha ser with me wherever I go. So I can make matcha anytime. I always follow the same simple routine. I take a deep breath,quietly thank myself in my heart, and make the best cup of matcha for myself. So for me, matcha isn’t only good for your body, but also for your mental well-being.

Matcha is just the best. Alright, time to get to work. I’m heading to my ocean-view tea room that I recently built myself. Oh, it’s raining now, but if it sunny it’s like this. Oh, If you’re curious how I made this, check out this video 😊 Ok! Let's work!

Ritsuyou In traditional Japanese culture—like tea ceremony and martial arts— posture is deeply important. For example, aligning the spine. In Japanese, we call it Ritsuyou. That’s because we believe that when your spine is upright, your mind becomes clear. One of my favorite Japanese educators, Shinzo Mori, once said: “If your posture is aligned, your mind becomes aligned.

When the mind is aligned, your words and actions follow. That’s why education begins with Ritsuyou.” Beautiful, right? But… let’s be honest—keeping perfect posture all day? Super hard. 😂

I always catch myself slouching. It's a constant battle with myself. But hey—little by little. Step by step. Let’s keep trying. 😌

Alright, it's lunchtime… But I think I’ll skip lunch today. Sometimes, Skip Lunch In the past, people in Japan just used to eat two meals a day. After learning that, I started skipping lunch sometimes—on purpose. Some people might say, “That’s bad for you! You’ll miss nutrients!” 😅

Well ... that might be true. But honestly, I’ve found even more benefits than drawbacks.

When I skip lunch, I feel naturally lighter—like a mini detox. My gut feels more balanced. Plus, it saves time. No need to cook or clean. And there’s no food coma because I don't eat lunch. I can focus better.

If I get a little hungry, I just snack on some nuts. Maybe you can try it too—just once. See how it feels. 😊 I’m getting thirsty, so I’m going to drink this. Umeboshi Tea This is a super simple drink: just hot green tea… with a pickled plum in it.

This recipe was passed down from my great-grandpa. He drank it every day— and he lived to be 100. So lately, I’ve been trying it too. Umeboshi is said to help make your body more alkaline, which is great for your health. But…to be honest, I'm not a big fan of umeboshi.

So I was like I’m challenging myself He used grean tea, hojicha, genmaicha something like that. give it a try. f you like Umegoshi😉🍵 Enjoy. 30 Minutes of Empty Time In traditional Japanese paintings, there’s something called “ma”—intentional empty space. Instead of filling the whole canvas, artists leave parts blank on purpose.

Why? Because the empty space calms the heart. I want to say is days should be like that too. If A day has full of meetings, tasks, and information— it’s like a painting with too much going on. That’s why you don’t have to fill every moment with productivity, leave some space on purpose.

I recently moved, and life got really busy. I realized how much I needed this quiet time. Even just 30 minutes a day. And Your heart will thank you. 🌿 Sometimes, It’s Okay to Eat What You Love Some people believe that to be healthy, you have to go gluten-free.

Or only eat vegetables. No exceptions. I get it. You are amazing. Once I tried those strict lifestyles too.

But honestly it was tough, the toughest thing was, when going out with friends, and not being able to eat what they’re eating. I started to feel… a bit stressful. So I changed my rule. I still try to avoid those foods— but sometimes, it’s okay. There’s a line in “Yojokun,” : “A diet with no joy will slowly weaken the heart. Sometimes, we must enjoy our food.”

And I think that’s true. Food isn’t just fuel—it’s also joy. So tonight, I’m making one of my favorite meals: Goya Champuru… and a little sake. 😊🍶 Itadakimasu Before eating, Japanese people say one word— “Itadakimasu.” It’s not religious. It’s a habit. It’s a quiet expression of respect for life.

Gratitude for the animals, plants, farmers, cooks, and the earth itself. Everything that made this meal possible. I love saying this word. Because when I say it, I feel like: “I will live on, carrying the life you gave me.” And somehow, the food feels different. Like I can feel its energy more deeply.

So before you eat, take a moment. Put your hands together. And softly say—Itadakimasu. Moving Meditation When we think of meditation, We usually imagine sitting still. Quiet. No moving.

But did you know— there is such a thing as moving meditation? The tea ceremony is a great example. Every motion is slow, mindful. And you know what? Everyday things—like housework—can be meditation too?

Take washing dishes. Yeah… I know. It feels like a chore. 😅 And if you rush through it, it stays a chore. But if you slow down— and do it gently, with care— it becomes something else.

It becomes a kind of meditation. A moment of calm. A way to return to the present. So try doing your daily tasks a little more slowly. A little more mindfully.

That’s movin zen. Alright… time for a nice bath, I think. 🛁😊 “Bathing – Japan’s Natural Healing Space” Ahhh… This is heaven. 🛁 I can say that it’s Japan’s ultimate healing ritual. And it’s been keeping us healthy for centuries.

As you relax, your circulation improves, waste leaves the body, stress and fatigue melt away, and your skin starts to glow. Like I said before, feets are packed with nerves. If you don’t have a bathtub, a warm foot bath is a great alternative. It warms up your whole body. Give it a try!

Incense After a bath, I always light some incense and do a little stretching. The scent makes my heart feel happy. My body relaxes too. It’s like a double the relaxation. You remember the 浴-bathing-?

This practice is called “scent bathing”—or 香欲 kōyoku in Japanese. I personally love the scent of sandalwood. It’s warm, gentle, and peaceful. What about you? Do you have a favorite scent?

Let me know in the comments—I’d love to hear. 😊 Did any of these habits speak to you? Even just one? I hope that little habit brings more health, more joy, and more calm to your daily life.

Stay safe, have fun and have a good night.