---
video_title: "10 Must Visit Places in Japan and Unique Hidden Gems (beyond Tokyo, Osaka, and Kyoto)✈️🇯🇵"
video_id: Kjls5NyUW3U
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Travel & Events"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kjls5NyUW3U
video_date: 2025-02-01
video_description: |
  In this video, I’ve put together some must-visit spots in Japan beyond Tokyo, Osaka, and Kyoto! Plus, it’s a special collab with Kyoko-san!
  
  01:13 KYOKO'S ♯10: OKAYAMA
  02:25 KYOKO'S ♯9: KUMAMOTO 
  04:22 AKI'S ♯6: OITA
  04:37 AKI'S♯5: KAGOSHIMA
  04:55 KYOKO'S ♯8: FUKUSHIMA 
  07:20 KYOKO'S ♯7: ISHIKAWA 
  07:23 AKI'S♯2: ISHIKAWA
  09:49 KYOKO'S ♯6: YAMANASHI 
  10:57 KYOKO'S ♯5: AOMORI 
  11:05 01:13AKI'S ♯8: AOMORI
  13:31 KYOKO'S ♯4: AKITA
  15:07 AKI'S ♯10: NARA
  15:31 AKI'S ♯9: TOKUSHIMA
  16:13 AKI'S ♯7: MIE
  16:48 AKI'S♯4: OKINAWA
  17:40 KYOKO'S ♯3: HIROSHIMA
  19:06 KYOKO'S ♯2: GIFU
  19:08 AKI'S ♯3: GIFU
  21:15 KYOKO'S ♯1: NAGANO 
  21:17 AKI'S♯1: NAGANO
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  If you'd like to know more about Kyoko and her app, here are the links:
  ▶︎ Kyoko's Instagram account: https://www.instagram.com/kyoko1903/
  ▶︎ Kyoko's Travel-Map App "Ikuzo": https://ikuzo.app/store
  IKUZO isn’t sponsoring this video, I just wanted to share this great app😁
  
  ------------------------------------------
  ✈️✨Kyoko and Aki's Recommended Travel Destinations✈️☀️
  
  ● OKAYAMA
  ・Kurashiki 
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/n5xWt3rXpvh1HazE8
  
  ● KUMAMORO
  ・Kuratake shrine 
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/dgZyZEAsz9weTXd86
  ・Ryuo shurine 
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/EARzSkEeQ4ocK18V7
  ・Kamishikimi Kumano-za(imasu) shrine 
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/RfnxWRxv4MC41dQC7
  ・Aso mountain
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/w8fzAxxehNVroNPi8
  
  ● OITA 
  ・Beppu
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/w8fzAxxehNVroNPi8
  ・Yufuin
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/Tx5Mx5orfM4eKDVY6
  ・Jigoku-Meguri(Hell of Beppu)
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/jGGxTLcPZdsZj4F68
  
  ●  KAGOSHIMA
  ・Yakushima
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/ipU1fZxeYXm1HEQS6¥
  
  ● FUKUSHIMA
  ・Tsuruga castle
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/zhSGFPJ4is6ynwxr7
  ・Ouchi Juku
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/xVjzgTVBreAiJy319
  ・Yunokami-Onsen Station
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/CFJJRuZqS5mMtRvj7
  ・Okawaso
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/wiyQgEhiKHLtHSYH8
  
  ● ISHIKAWA
  ・Higashi Chaya
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/8Zp2huJSvQPcEGpf8
  ・Kenrokuen Garden
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/mcxGXH8bkoLkmyDz5
  ・Nagamachi District
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/pAJfFxyKdmyHNGtR6
  ・Hoshino esorts KAI Kaga
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/FnwoubsvYbctBD6E9
  
  ● YAMANASHI
  ・Mount Fuji
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/7Az7bjPyJrVauRUk8
  ・Fujiyoshida
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/PnEowdw9L3jEdFxu8
  ・Lake Kawagushi
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/EqQKXdkHHfWuRK6K8
  
  ● AOMORI
  ・Hirosaki Park 
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/9tRupw4uQEemnRYK8
  ・Aomori 4 big festivals
  ▶︎https://en.japantravel.com/aomori/four-great-tohoku-festivals/60881
  ・Oirase Stream
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/4zxXwZMWJYebPJFG9
  ・Hoshino Resort Aomoriya
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/SsiMX6zSyBN1v6Nt5
  
  ● AKITA
  ・Nyuto Onsen Tsurunoyu
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/q6oEk5fPmUYC67KG6
  ・Kakunodate
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/Gb3WCTSMzDpEtpYo6
  ・Kakunodate Enishi
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/LZhpz1Duajn5RGe67
  
  ● TOKUSHIMA
  ・Iya Valley
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/meXEDwAZyo4oD6nA8
  ・Tougenkyo-iya
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/RRHb2o13EqU1g9jw8
  ・Awaodori
  ▶︎https://www.awaodorimirai.com/
  
  ● MIE
  ・Ise shrine
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/NehuMzs6hy779C2U9
  ・Shima
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/eAYncb6Fwe1RSo3y5
  ・Okage Yokocho 
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/XjNvRgfUhTdQLVMZ6
  
  ● OKINAWA
  ・Taketomi island
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/rJ55aTjKeBRt9C9Y6
  ・Keramashoto National Park
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/Cy8MZsxzMubBiTo28
  ・Iriomote island
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/VKB7xkdHufL4TAB8A
  
  ● HIROSHIMA
  ・Itsukushima shrine
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/mpHmkXbPuM7dkVDg7
  ・Peace Memorial Park
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/kYPGqxekBesScQEc7
  ・Okunoshima （Rabbit Island）
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/NGfF2wNhsUo5X6RZA
  ・Onomichi
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/G8q8SSGWkf8B2yBK8
  ・Tomonoura 
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/4XkCWmLToM5FDY438
  ・Kure City 
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/qtw1UJEzwAdgPfto9
  ・Mitarai 
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/WedKHk8gq69FpJ8R9
  ・Shimanami kaido 
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/2uoiHM8CMM4j5F7K7
  
  ● GIFU
  ・Shirakawago
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/FNRhXNq8ZGSkeV5XA
  ・Gujo Hachiman
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/SyRwXyEWUVf6AtQD7
  ・The Udatsu Preservation District
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/vqVaY59yqMwnKVVu9
  ・Gero hot spring
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/KBvGAviDafMaxzrz9
  ・Okuhida
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/VpH2Md9T1CyGRCz36
  ・Itoshiro
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/ju3Uj9HkW8GvCT7WA
  ・Kitawakamiya shrine 
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/fFEc3fs9C6oyd6CAA
  ・Hida Furukawa 
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/8y5FJMhyECNY4tfS8
  
  ● NAGANO
  ・Matsumoto Castle 
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/HTMmYF7T25V1vKz68
  ・Tsjmago-juku
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/8Lh1iqHtvD9c8Ecz6
  ・Narai-juku
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/3Qix51fJmdy2cnhK7
  ・Kamikouchi
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/niUzUiP9siVepuoQA
  ・Takato Park
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/6ugXMBx1zNyVUyvR6
  ・Kanaguya
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/ko5gpnLF6vs63r3u7
  ・Zenkoji
  ▶︎https://maps.app.goo.gl/XxXZcqiS3NuCd5CA9
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things...!!!
---
“Hey Aki, I'm going to Japan. Any place you would recommend?” I've got this question a lot. So today, I'm gonna introduce 10 must visit places in Japan, except Tokyo, Osaka and Kyoto. Because they are so famous.

So before that, you were probably wondering who she was. She's my old friend and she knows all the best hidden gems in Japan. Her name is...

Kyoko san! "Kyoko Instagrammer / @ kyoko1903" If you know her, that's amazing. So for those who don't, please introduce yourself? I am Kyoko, and I am an Instagramer. I always share the beauty of Japan.

She's an amazing Instagrammer. She has almost 640k followers on Instagram. * 656k followers as of Jan 25th, 2025 We met each other over 10 years ago. but I have no idea you are on Instagram and that famous. Thank you for inviting me.

It’s a great honor to have you. We're going to share her top ten ranking as well as mine so that you can compare. Also, you'll learn a lot of Japanese hidden gems. All right. Let's get started!

Yeah! What is No.10? 10.Okayama First of all, the reason I chose Okayama is Kurashiki is an amazing place.

This is the main reason that I recommend Okayama. I’ve seen many old towns across Japan, but this one is by far the most extensive. It's not just the famous willow-lined street, but also the next street, and the street after that. Rows of really old houses continue, and I think you'll be overwhelmed by it. Kurashiki didn’t have a castle, therefore, there were no battles, and so the old townscape remains beautifully intact. I realized that not having a castle can actually be an advantage in preserving an old townscape. I've been there too, and it's incredibly beautiful. It feels even larger than Kyoto, with many more historical buildings lined up, giving the impression that a ninja or samurai might appear at any moment. No.9！ 9. Kumamoto I like there are many unique shrines. KYOKO’S #9: KUMAMOTO 10 MUST VISIT PLACES IN JAPAN The hot springs and nature are truly beautiful and there are many other attractive things to see. For example, a shrine on top of a mountain. Wow! Very Beautiful! What shrine is this? Kuratake Shrine / 倉岳神社 It’s a torii gate on a mountain called Kuratake, and the view from here is breathtaking. Like Matsushima (one of the Three Views of Japan) There are many islands in the sea. It's so beautiful. Shrines like this are rare, aren't they? You can see the sea through the torii gate. This is also an interesting shrine, Its unique feature is the black and gold gate. Wow, the torii gate is black and gold! This place is probably the most popular in Kumamoto. What is this place called? Kamishikimi Kumanoza Shrine /上色見熊野座神社 This is gorgeous. This place is very popular. I think that there are many unique shrines. What was that thing you used at the beginning? This is an app I created, compiling information from about 7 years of traveling. This is amazing. It's easy to understand the famous places, but... this app also includes non-touristy places. It might be useful in those cases. Also, when you're traveling and looking for some better spots around the area, I think it would be convenient. Is it a collection of places that you think beautiful from your (Kyoko’s) perspective? Yes, it is. I want this! I really love Kumamoto because there is Aso mountain. I am going to introduce two prefectures that are in my rank from Kyushu area. Aki’s No6 is Oita 6. Oita because I love onsen and Oita has a lot of beautiful, amazing onsen places. And for example, Beppu and Yufuin I really like Jigoku-Meguri (Hells of Beppu). Aki’s No.5 is Kagoshima I love Yaku Shima. It's a model of Princess Mononoke. © 1997 Hayao Miyazaki/Studio Ghibli, ND Princess Mononoke And Japan’s first natural World Heritage site. There is a Yaku-Sugi, which is a very old cedar tree, so big, oh my god, that’s amazing, you must see. The next, No. 8 Kumamoto Where is your No. 7? 7. Fukushima Fukushima is the closest Tohoku region from Tokyo. What’s attractive about Tohoku is that the four seasons are very distinct. It snows in winter. The cherry blossoms in spring are beautiful. Tohoku has a lot of festivals. In autumn, the leaves change color. It snows in winter. The closest prefecture in Tohoku is Fukushima, so... I really like it because it's easy to get to from Tokyo. How long does it take to get to Fukushima? 2 to 3 hours by car. 1.5 hours by Shinkansen (bullet train). The most famous castle is Tsuruga castle. It is famous for cherry blossoms. You can see a castle in a snowy landscape. Summer Winter and spring Very beautiful! where you can enjoy snow. In Aizu, you can enjoy fermented foods like miso. There are quite a few old towns that have been preserved. There are also post towns with thatched-roof houses called "Ouchi Juku." There was the earthquake, right? Are there still any effects from that? No, there are none at all. What about radiation? No problem. If you research it, you'll understand "It's not at all at a dangerous level anymore. There are some areas like that, but... Those areas are not accessible, and the places that are open to tourists are completely safe. I feel relieved. Sake looks delicious in Fukushima. Yes. I love Nihonshu (Sake). There are stations with thatched-roof station buildings. And the cherry blossoms also bloom beautifully. There is an inn called Okawaso nearby. It is famous for resembling the atmosphere of Demon Slayer. You know “Kimetsu no Yaiba”? Demon Slayer. Demon Slayer. I love it! I heard something really great. It was Fukushima. 6. Ishikawa Actually, Ishikawa is my #2. What made you think Ishikawa is great? It is already one of the famous tourist spots, but the beauty of Kanazawa is unbeatable. Kanazawa. It is very beautiful... Higashi Chaya street is also different from Kyoto. The buildings are two-story as it’s a tea house district. It has a beautiful atmospherec and it isn’t as crowded as Kyoto. Kenrokuen Garden is also nearby. It is the Three Great Gardens of Japan. I think it’s a place where you can fully enjoy Japan. And, there is gold in there, Gold! It’s famous for gold! You can eat golden icecream. Three days ago, I was in Kanazawa in Ishikawa prefecture and I got the golden icecream. As the samurai culture still remains, there are samurai streets. And you can enjoy the samurai residences. You can go inside. Yes, you can. Some homes where the ancestors were samurai even have real Japanese swords, and you can actually touch them as part of a tour. I see, that sounds interesting. Even for Japanese people, it's rare to be able to touch swords. Because they’ve become art pieces and they are usually not accessible, But there are opportunities to touch swords. And there was a Kintsugi experience, and I did a little bit of Kintsugi myself. Kintsugi? Really? It was really a little bit... Where did you do? At inn, for example. Kintsugi is extremely popular among foreign tourists. True. Because I love Kintsugi, and I sometimes introduce how to do Kintsugi in my videos. There are some places we can try? For example, you can try paiting parts. When I had the chance to experience it at Hoshino Resort's KAI Kaga, There was a Kintsugi workshop, In hotels or inns, dishes occasionally break. As part of the experience, You actually repair the broken pieces and they are really used in the inn. Depending on the time you come, the steps you can participate in may vary a bit. I see. That’s very interesting. 5. Yamanashi Yamanashi is, of course, already very famous, Personally, I really love Mount Fuji. It’s an incredible scenic view, and it's close to Tokyo. It’s exciting to see Mount Fuji even when you see it from far away like from Shinkansen. But seeing it from the towns at the foot of the mountain is on another level. When I saw it the first time, I was really amazed. "Is the town at the foot of the mountain Fujiyoshida?" Seeing Mt. Fuji from Lake Kawaguchi is impressive, and Mt. Fuji can be seen from afar as well. but the view from Yamanashi is exceptionally beautiful. There are some people who may be wondering From where is the most beautiful to see Mt. Fuji. You think from Yamanashi? Of course, it's beautiful from Shizuoka, From Yamashi is better for her. It depends on person. It's closer and more convenient to view Mt. Fuji from Yamanashi. Yamanashi is close, convenient and has better views. 5. Aomori Aomori has a lot of attractive locations. The cherry blossoms at Hirosaki Park are truly breathtaking. Night cherry blossoms are amazing, too. Isn’t this in the shape of a heart? This is famous. And it’s not digitally altered; It really has this shape. Every year, it forms a beautiful shape, and I initially thought it was natural. Hirosaki Castle is located in Hirosaki Park. There’s a moat surrounding it, and there are many cherry blossoms around it. When the petals start to fall, it is beautiful the petals spread out like this. It’s overwhelmingly beautiful. So, it’s better to visit Hirosaki Castle in spring. There are four major summer festivals in Aomori. "Aomori Big 4 Festival" ① Aomori City ② Hirosaki City ③ Hachinohe City ④ Goshogawara City The Nebuta is basically made of paper. It’s all made of paper and wire, isn’t it? Nebuta differs in shape between Aomori and Hirosaki but the floats are really big and impressive. When they’re moving, figures come out, and smoke blows, it’s incredibly powerful. After seeing Nebuta Festival in Aomori, it’s enjoyable to watch festivals in other regions too, but you can’t help but compare; the intensity of the festival is definitely different. Did you listen? Even if you saw festivals in Kyoto or some other places For you, Nebuta is the No.1 No. 1 Summer festival No.1 Summer festival, Nebuta! In summer, the Oirase Stream is really beautiful. In winter, you can enjoy snow-viewing hot springs and stove trains. there are many ways to enjoy the snow. Indeed. There are many enjoyable activities available. What I was really impressed about Aomori was sushi. How delicious sushi was! It was so beautiful. It was not that expensive and super delicious. At Hoshino Resort Aomoriya, there are quite a few events, including Nebuta events. You can see the Nebuta floats. It is so nice! Especially at places like Nyuto Onsen, It is hidden hot springs deep in the mountains. You can truly experience the feel of old, traditional Japan in the snowy regions, and you can also enjoy the hot springs. Is this Kamakura (snow dome)? Yes, it is. This is amazing! It’s beautiful like this in winter, but the autumn leaves are also stunning, and it's popular, too. Beautiful! Is this Nyuto Onsen? This is Tsurunoyu, an inn at Nyuto Onsen. Among the various inns in Nyuto Onsen, Tsurunoyu is the most popular. Also, at Kakunodate the cherry blossoms are beautiful and the autumn leaves are stunning as well. There’s an inn where you can stay with Akita dogs. What? You can stay with Akita dogs? Yes, the Akita dogs are really cute. If you love Akita Inu, you should go there. What's the name of that inn? Enishi Kakunodate Enishi So cute! It is a renovated kominka (traditional house), so the interior is clean and comfortable to stay in. Yes, true. The owner also has a lot of international experience, Anyone from any country is warmly welcomed. My impression of Akita is that it’s famous for rice and sake. Before going to number 3 to 1, I have rest of them. I'm going to reveal it. 10-nara So my No. 10 is Nara because I love deers. It's worth seeing them. If you visit Kyoto, Nara is just 30 minutes away. Kyoto Nara 30 min. So you can go there and then come back to Kyoto. And also Nara people are so kind. We think that Nara people are like “hotoke sama”. Like Buddha people. 9-tokushima Why I love Tokushima is that there is Iyakei-Iya Valley (祖谷渓). Super deep mountains and then the mountains are so steep. but there's an old, real village there. Do you know about a traditional house called Togenkyo Iya? I’ve been there. It’s a traditional inn, right? They rent out entire thatched-roof houses, and I stayed in the one at the top. The view was truly breathtaking. I highly recommend it. When I woke up in the morning, I saw a view wrapped in mist. Wonderful... I wanted to include Tokushima (in the ranking), too... 7-mie And Awa-Odori is also famous in Tokushima. The reason I think Mie is great is because of Ise Shrine and the incredibly beautiful sea views of Ise-Shima. If you're a nature lover, you must see it! Okage Yokocho next to Ise Shrine is also amazing. I think many of the buildings were re-constructed, but you can still enjoy the scenery with old-style buildings lined up. There are definitely a lot of restaurants, and it’s not as crowded as Kyoto, so you can really enjoy it. I love ocean. Apparently Okinawa’s ocean is one of the best clear ocean in the world. And you can see beautiful fish. You can do scuba diving, many things in Okinawa. And it has a very unique culture. It's like Hawaii in Japan. For me, Taketomi Island is impressive. The sea looks more beautiful when you see it from the islands rather than the main island. Agree! There are many small islands around Okinawa, that small island tend to have more beautiful ocean than the main island. I would recommend Kerama Shoto (慶良間諸島). Iriomote Island Yes, Iriomote Island is like a jungle. It’s like a jungle. I recommend visiting the remote islands. If you just visit the main island, you will be missing something. If you go to Okinawa, please make sure to visit the remote islands as well. You probably know Hiroshima, right? It’s a famous place, too. Why you chose Hiroshima? For example, Itsukushima Shrine, there are famous and beautiful spots. I also love Miyajima. In the center of Hiroshima City, there is Peace Memorial Park. As Okonomiyaki (Japanese savory pancake) is famous, you can actually try it. There's also Okunoshima, known as the "Rabbit Island," which is quite famous. Yes, it’s famous. Rabbit Island. And Onomichi has beautiful old townscapes. My favorite city. There's also a port town called Tomonoura, which has old houses lined up, © 2008 Hayao Miyazaki/Studio Ghibli, NDHDMT It is the model for "Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea". Not only is it said to resemble it, but the people from Studio Ghibli actually came here. © 2008 Hayao Miyazaki/Studio Ghibli, NDHDMT You can even find Sosuke’s house (from "Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea"). In Kure City, there's a conservation area called Mitarai across the islands, and it’s truly charming. There are various tourist spots scattered around. If I were to introduce one, there's the Shimanami Kaido from Onomichi, which is known as a cycling paradise. It’s incredibly beautiful and popular. I'll introduce the video. Gifu also has so many wonderful places. There are many remnants of really old culture. Shirakawa-go and Takayama are extremely popular. In addition, places like Gujo Hachiman and the Udatsu Preservation District are also great. They are good, right? Yes, they are. There are really few people there. Really true. They aren’t very well-known, are they? It’s really hidden gem. Washi (Japanese paper) and other traditional Japanese crafts are quite famous. There’s also a hot spring area called Gero Onsen, Gero Onsen is great! I’ve been there. Kyoto is very crowded, so if you go to Gifu just next to Kyoto, you can still see a lot of Japanese culture and you can have a great time. There’s also Okuhida, and recently I went to a place called Itoshiro. Perhaps, most Japanese people don’t know about it. But actually, Itoshiro is now seeing a huge increase in people relocating from other parts of Japan. Because there’s an amazing power spot shrine, and untouched nature remains there. It also snows in Gifu Prefecture. Snow is wonderful, too. When it comes to snowy landscapes, I think Gifu is quite famous. Agree. Shirakawa-go is also well-known. Oh, I just remembered! One thing I want to say about Gifu is that there's a shrine used as a model for "Your Name." Hidano Tabi You should definitely visit it! In Hida Furukawa, you can see the "Your Name" station, and try your hand at braiding cords (kumihimo). So, if you like "Your Name," it’s a great place to visit. When you walk through the town, there are streets with white-walled storehouses, and you'll find a lot of koi fish swimming around. I want to go to Hida Furukawa! You can get there from Nagoya. Gifu Nogoya Tokyo If you leave Tokyo, So, you can come to Nagoya first, and then, you can go to up (north) to Gifu. Please come to visit Nagoya, too. That’s my hometown. Because I used to live in Nagano. Nagano is also close to Tokyo and has many places where you can see Japanese history. Matsumoto Castle is designated as a national treasure. Most of Japanese castles have been reconstructed. There are only 12 castles with original structures that have remained since the Edo period, and Matsumoto Castle is one of them. Additionally, there are only five national treasure castles in total, and Matsumoto Castle is one of those. It's really educational. It has a black exterior, which makes it different from other castles. It is a cool castle. The night illumination is also really beautiful. Personally, I love Tsumago-juku an Narai-juku; I really love post towns. Many post towns in the area are incredibly beautiful. They look like sets from a historical drama, and people still actually live there. It's already popular among foreigners as Samurai Road, Oh, Samurai Road. and the townscapes are overwhelmingly beautiful. Places like Kamikochi and Takato Cherry Blossoms really allow you to enjoy nature. In autumn, apple picking and other fruit picking are also popular and well-known. You can enjoy nature as well as experience old Japan. It's also close to Tokyo, which makes it a great area, and that's why I ranked it as number one this time. Can I share my reasons too? The nature is so beautiful. I love Hakuba. That’s famous for skiing and snowboarding, but also the beautiful mountains. If I am in Hakuba, I feel like I am in Switzerland. And then, the water is so clear. I really love the scenery of the river and mountains. And, Soba! Yes! Soba is famous there. In winter, the snow monkeys are popular. Also, speaking of Studio Ghibli, © 2001 Hayao Miyazaki/Studio Ghibli, NDDTM there is an inn used as a model for "Spirited Away." And then, Zenkoji Temple. There is a beautiful big temple there. And you can stay in the temple(Shukubou), too. I also recommend that temple. Well then, Nagano is our No. 1! Please make sure to visit Nagano. Did you find any place that you're interested in? If so, please let me know in the comments. And also if you're really interested in you can download the app. IKUZO Ikuzo means “Let’s go.” Oh, Ikuzo! "By the way, IKUZO isn’t sponsoring this video. I just learned about it today and thought it was really cool, so I wanted to share!" Oh, wow, that’s so cool! “Let’s go” in Japanese. So lastly, if you're now in Japan please enjoy travel, traveling in Japan. And if you are going to come to Japan, Enjoy your trip! Everyone, please enjoy Japan a lot! See you, bye!

Kurashiki didn’t have a castle, therefore, there were no battles, and so the old townscape remains beautifully intact. I realized that not having a castle can actually be an advantage in preserving an old townscape. I've been there too, and it's incredibly beautiful. It feels even larger than Kyoto, with many more historical buildings lined up, giving the impression that a ninja or samurai might appear at any moment. No.9！

9. Kumamoto I like there are many unique shrines. The hot springs and nature are truly beautiful and there are many other attractive things to see. For example, a shrine on top of a mountain. Wow! Very Beautiful!

What shrine is this? Kuratake Shrine / 倉岳神社 It’s a torii gate on a mountain called Kuratake, and the view from here is breathtaking. Like Matsushima (one of the Three Views of Japan) There are many islands in the sea. It's so beautiful. Shrines like this are rare, aren't they?

You can see the sea through the torii gate. This is also an interesting shrine, Its unique feature is the black and gold gate. Wow, the torii gate is black and gold! This place is probably the most popular in Kumamoto. What is this place called?

Kamishikimi Kumanoza Shrine /上色見熊野座神社 This is gorgeous. This place is very popular. I think that there are many unique shrines. What was that thing you used at the beginning? This is an app I created, compiling information from about 7 years of traveling.

This is amazing. It's easy to understand the famous places, but... this app also includes non-touristy places.

It might be useful in those cases. Also, when you're traveling and looking for some better spots around the area, I think it would be convenient. Is it a collection of places that you think beautiful from your (Kyoko’s) perspective? Yes, it is. I want this!

I really love Kumamoto because there is Aso mountain. I am going to introduce two prefectures that are in my rank from Kyushu area. 6. Oita because I love onsen and Oita has a lot of beautiful, amazing onsen places. And for example, Beppu and Yufuin I really like Jigoku-Meguri (Hells of Beppu).

Aki’s No.5 is Kagoshima I love Yaku Shima. It's a model of Princess Mononoke. And Japan’s first natural World Heritage site. There is a Yaku-Sugi, which is a very old cedar tree, so big, oh my god, that’s amazing, you must see.

The next, No. 8 Fukushima Fukushima is the closest Tohoku region from Tokyo. What’s attractive about Tohoku is that the four seasons are very distinct. It snows in winter. The cherry blossoms in spring are beautiful.

Tohoku has a lot of festivals. In autumn, the leaves change color. It snows in winter. The closest prefecture in Tohoku is Fukushima, so...

I really like it because it's easy to get to from Tokyo. How long does it take to get to Fukushima? 2 to 3 hours by car. 1.5 hours by Shinkansen (bullet train).

The most famous castle is Tsuruga castle. It is famous for cherry blossoms. You can see a castle in a snowy landscape. Summer Winter and spring Very beautiful! I think it's the closest castle from Tokyo where you can enjoy snow.

In Aizu, you can enjoy fermented foods like miso. There are quite a few old towns that have been preserved. There are also post towns with thatched-roof houses called "Ouchi Juku." There was the earthquake, right? Are there still any effects from that?

No, there are none at all. What about radiation? No problem. If you research it, you'll understand "It's not at all at a dangerous level anymore. There are some areas like that, but...

Those areas are not accessible, and the places that are open to tourists are completely safe. I feel relieved. Sake looks delicious in Fukushima. Yes. I love Nihonshu (Sake).

There are stations with thatched-roof station buildings. And the cherry blossoms also bloom beautifully. There is an inn called Okawaso nearby. It is famous for resembling the atmosphere of Demon Slayer. You know “Kimetsu no Yaiba”?

Demon Slayer. Demon Slayer. I love it! I heard something really great. It was Fukushima.

Where is your No.7 ? 7. Ishikawa Actually, Ishikawa is my #2. What made you think Ishikawa is great?

It is already one of the famous tourist spots, but the beauty of Kanazawa is unbeatable. Kanazawa. It is very beautiful...

Higashi Chaya street is also different from Kyoto. The buildings are two-story as it’s a tea house district. It has a beautiful atmospherec and it isn’t as crowded as Kyoto. Kenrokuen Garden is also nearby. It is the Three Great Gardens of Japan.

I think it’s a place where you can fully enjoy Japan. And, there is gold in there, Gold! It’s famous for gold! You can eat golden icecream. Three days ago, I was in Kanazawa in Ishikawa prefecture and I got the golden icecream.

As the samurai culture still remains, there are samurai streets. And you can enjoy the samurai residences. You can go inside. Yes, you can. Some homes where the ancestors were samurai even have real Japanese swords, and you can actually touch them as part of a tour.

I see, that sounds interesting. Even for Japanese people, it's rare to be able to touch swords. Because they’ve become art pieces and they are usually not accessible, But there are opportunities to touch swords. And there was a Kintsugi experience, and I did a little bit of Kintsugi myself. Kintsugi? Really?

It was really a little bit... Where did you do? At inn, for example.

Kintsugi is extremely popular among foreign tourists. True. Because I love Kintsugi, and I sometimes introduce how to do Kintsugi in my videos. There are some places we can try? For example, you can try paiting parts.

When I had the chance to experience it at Hoshino Resort's KAI Kaga, There was a Kintsugi workshop, In hotels or inns, dishes occasionally break. As part of the experience, You actually repair the broken pieces and they are really used in the inn. Depending on the time you come, the steps you can participate in may vary a bit. I see. That’s very interesting.

No.6! 6. Yamanashi Yamanashi is, of course, already very famous, Personally, I really love Mount Fuji. It’s an incredible scenic view, and it's close to Tokyo.

It’s exciting to see Mount Fuji even when you see it from far away like from Shinkansen. But seeing it from the towns at the foot of the mountain is on another level. When I saw it the first time, I was really amazed. "Is the town at the foot of the mountain Fujiyoshida?" Seeing Mt. Fuji from Lake Kawaguchi is impressive, and Mt. Fuji can be seen from afar as well.

but the view from Yamanashi is exceptionally beautiful. There are some people who may be wondering From where is the most beautiful to see Mt. Fuji. You think from Yamanashi? Of course, it's beautiful from Shizuoka, From Yamashi is better for her.

It depends on person. It's closer and more convenient to view Mt. Fuji from Yamanashi. Yamanashi is close, convenient and has better views. Next, no5！ 5. Aomori

Aomori is actually my no.8 Aomori has a lot of attractive locations. The cherry blossoms at Hirosaki Park are truly breathtaking. Night cherry blossoms are amazing, too. Isn’t this in the shape of a heart?

This is famous. And it’s not digitally altered; It really has this shape. Every year, it forms a beautiful shape, and I initially thought it was natural. Hirosaki Castle is located in Hirosaki Park. There’s a moat surrounding it, and there are many cherry blossoms around it.

When the petals start to fall, it is beautiful the petals spread out like this. It’s overwhelmingly beautiful. So, it’s better to visit Hirosaki Castle in spring. There are four major summer festivals in Aomori. ① Aomori City ② Hirosaki City ③ Hachinohe City ④ Goshogawara City The Nebuta is basically made of paper.

It’s all made of paper and wire, isn’t it? Nebuta differs in shape between Aomori and Hirosaki but the floats are really big and impressive. When they’re moving, figures come out, and smoke blows, it’s incredibly powerful. After seeing Nebuta Festival in Aomori, it’s enjoyable to watch festivals in other regions too, but you can’t help but compare; the intensity of the festival is definitely different. Did you listen?

Even if you saw festivals in Kyoto or some other places For you, Nebuta is the No.1 No. 1 Summer festival No.1 Summer festival, Nebuta! In summer, the Oirase Stream is really beautiful.

In winter, you can enjoy snow-viewing hot springs and stove trains. there are many ways to enjoy the snow. Indeed. There are many enjoyable activities available. What I was really impressed about Aomori was sushi.

How delicious sushi was! It was so beautiful. It was not that expensive and super delicious. At Hoshino Resort Aomoriya, there are quite a few events, including Nebuta events. You can see the Nebuta floats. It is so nice!

Next! No.4!! 4. Akita

My name is here! Especially at places like Nyuto Onsen, It is hidden hot springs deep in the mountains. You can truly experience the feel of old, traditional Japan in the snowy regions, and you can also enjoy the hot springs.

Is this Kamakura (snow dome)? Yes, it is. This is amazing! It’s beautiful like this in winter, but the autumn leaves are also stunning, and it's popular, too. Beautiful! Is this Nyuto Onsen?

This is Tsurunoyu, an inn at Nyuto Onsen. Among the various inns in Nyuto Onsen, Tsurunoyu is the most popular. Also, at Kakunodate the cherry blossoms are beautiful and the autumn leaves are stunning as well. There’s an inn where you can stay with Akita dogs. What?

You can stay with Akita dogs? Yes, the Akita dogs are really cute. If you love Akita Inu, you should go there. What's the name of that inn? Enishi¥ Kakunodate Enishi So cute!

It is a renovated kominka (traditional house), so the interior is clean and comfortable to stay in. Yes, true. The owner also has a lot of international experience, Anyone from any country is warmly welcomed. My impression of Akita is that it’s famous for rice and sake. Before going to number 3 to 1, I have rest of them.I'm going to reveal it.

So my No. 10 is Nara because I love deers. It's worth seeing them. If you visit Kyoto, Nara is just 30 minutes away. So you can go there and then come back to Kyoto.

And also Nara people are so kind. We think that Nara people are like “hotoke sama”. Like Buddha people. My No.9 is Tokushima Why I love Tokushima is that there is Iyakei-Iya Valley (祖谷渓).

Super deep mountains and then the mountains are so steep. but there's an old, real village there. Do you know about a traditional house called Togenkyo Iya? I’ve been there. It’s a traditional inn, right?

They rent out entire thatched-roof houses, and I stayed in the one at the top. The view was truly breathtaking. I highly recommend it. When I woke up in the morning, I saw a view wrapped in mist. Wonderful...

I wanted to include Tokushima (in the ranking), too... And Awa-Odori is also famous in Tokushima. No.7 is Mie.

The reason I think Mie is great is because of Ise Shrine and the incredibly beautiful sea views of Ise-Shima. If you're a nature lover, you must see it! Okage Yokocho next to Ise Shrine is also amazing. I think many of the buildings were re-constructed, but you can still enjoy the scenery with old-style buildings lined up. There are definitely a lot of restaurants, and it’s not as crowded as Kyoto, so you can really enjoy it.

My No.4 is Okinawa! I love ocean. Apparently Okinawa’s ocean is one of the best clear ocean in the world. And you can see beautiful fish. You can do scuba diving, many things in Okinawa.

And it has a very unique culture. It's like Hawaii in Japan. For me, Taketomi Island is impressive. The sea looks more beautiful when you see it from the islands rather than the main island. Agree!

There are many small islands around Okinawa, that small island tend to have more beautiful ocean than the main island. I would recommend Kerama Shoto (慶良間諸島). Iriomote Island Yes, Iriomote Island is like a jungle. It’s like a jungle. I recommend visiting the remote islands. If you just visit the main island, you will be missing something.

If you go to Okinawa, please make sure to visit the remote islands as well. No.3 Niroshima! You probably know Hiroshima, right? It’s a famous place, too.

Why you chose Hiroshima? For example, Itsukushima Shrine, there are famous and beautiful spots. I also love Miyajima. In the center of Hiroshima City, there is Peace Memorial Park. As Okonomiyaki (Japanese savory pancake) is famous, you can actually try it.

There's also Okunoshima, known as the "Rabbit Island," which is quite famous. Yes, it’s famous. Rabbit Island. And Onomichi has beautiful old townscapes. My favorite city.

There's also a port town called Tomonoura, which has old houses lined up, It is the model for "Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea". Not only is it said to resemble it, but the people from Studio Ghibli actually came here. You can even find Sosuke’s house (from "Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea"). In Kure City, there's a conservation area called Mitarai across the islands, and it’s truly charming. There are various tourist spots scattered around.

If I were to introduce one, there's the Shimanami Kaido from Onomichi, which is known as a cycling paradise. It’s incredibly beautiful and popular. I'll introduce the video. No.2 Gifu!

Gifu is my No.3!

Gifu also has so many wonderful places. There are many remnants of really old culture. Shirakawa-go and Takayama are extremely popular. In addition, places like Gujo Hachiman and the Udatsu Preservation District are also great. They are good, right?

Yes, they are. There are really few people there. Really true. They aren’t very well-known, are they? It’s really hidden gem.

Washi (Japanese paper) and other traditional Japanese crafts are quite famous. There’s also a hot spring area called Gero Onsen, Gero Onsen is great! I’ve been there. Kyoto is very crowded, so if you go to Gifu just next to Kyoto, you can still see a lot of Japanese culture and you can have a great time. There’s also Okuhida, and recently I went to a place called Itoshiro.

Perhaps, most Japanese people don’t know about it. But actually, Itoshiro is now seeing a huge increase in people relocating from other parts of Japan. Because there’s an amazing power spot shrine, and untouched nature remains there. It also snows in Gifu Prefecture. Snow is wonderful, too.

When it comes to snowy landscapes, I think Gifu is quite famous. Agree. Shirakawa-go is also well-known. Oh, I just remembered! One thing I want to say about Gifu is that there's a shrine used as a model for "Your Name."

You should definitely visit it! In Hida Furukawa, you can see the "Your Name" station, and try your hand at braiding cords (kumihimo). So, if you like "Your Name," it’s a great place to visit. When you walk through the town, there are streets with white-walled storehouses, and you'll find a lot of koi fish swimming around. I want to go to Hida Furukawa!

You can get there from Nagoya. If you leave Tokyo, So, you can come to Nagoya first, and then, you can go to up (north) to Gifu. Please come to visit Nagoya, too. That’s my hometown. What's your No.1?

Nagano!!!!!

My No.1 too! Because I used to live in Nagano. Nagano is also close to Tokyo and has many places where you can see Japanese history. Matsumoto Castle is designated as a national treasure.

Most of Japanese castles have been reconstructed. There are only 12 castles with original structures that have remained since the Edo period, and Matsumoto Castle is one of them. Additionally, there are only five national treasure castles in total, and Matsumoto Castle is one of those. It's really educational. It has a black exterior, which makes it different from other castles. It is a cool castle.

The night illumination is also really beautiful. Personally, I love Tsumago-juku an Narai-juku; I really love post towns. Many post towns in the area are incredibly beautiful. They look like sets from a historical drama, and people still actually live there. It's already popular among foreigners as Samurai Road, Oh, Samurai Road.

and the townscapes are overwhelmingly beautiful. Places like Kamikochi and Takato Cherry Blossoms really allow you to enjoy nature. In autumn, apple picking and other fruit picking are also popular and well-known. You can enjoy nature as well as experience old Japan. It's also close to Tokyo, which makes it a great area, and that's why I ranked it as number one this time.

Can I share my reasons too? The nature is so beautiful. I love Hakuba. That’s famous for skiing and snowboarding, but also the beautiful mountains. If I am in Hakuba, I feel like I am in Switzerland. And then, the w

ater is so clear. I really love the scenery of the river and mountains. And, Soba! Yes! Soba is famous there.

In winter, the snow monkeys are popular. Also, speaking of Studio Ghibli, there is an inn used as a model for "Spirited Away." And then, Zenkoji Temple. There is a beautiful big temple there. And you can stay in the temple(Shukubou), too.

I also recommend that temple. Well then, Nagano is our No. 1! Please make sure to visit Nagano. Did you find any place that you're interested in?

If so, please let me know in the comments. And also if you're really interested in you can download the app. IKUZO Ikuzo means “Let’s go.” Oh, Ikuzo! "By the way, IKUZO isn’t sponsoring this video. I just learned about it today and thought it was really cool, so I wanted to share!"

So lastly, if you're now in Japan please enjoy travel, traveling in Japan. And if you are going to come to Japan, Enjoy your trip! Everyone, please enjoy Japan a lot! See you, bye!