---
video_title: "Aki's Decluttering Guide - step by step towards a lighter and happier life:)"
video_id: YGnIfNDThx4
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YGnIfNDThx4
video_date: 2025-04-05
video_description: |
  In this video, I put together all my wisdom on how to make decluttering EASY and FUN for everyone.
  Step by step I will guide you through this simple process so that we can set the foundations for a less stressful and more joyful life.
  Let's declutter together!✨
  
  00:55 ① Decluttering Mindset - 3 Secrets 🔒
  02:28 ②Aki’s method for the ultimate big declutter! ✨
  04:07 ③ Aki's Decluttering Method - 3 Keys 🗝️
  08:03 ④ Step 1 - Clothes
  11:25 ⑤ Step 2 - Books
  14:42 ⑥ Step 3 - Papers
  15:48 ⑦ Step 4 - Small Items
  17:20 ⑧ Step 5 - Sentimental Items
  21:33 ⑨ Aki's Storing Methods 🍵
  23:32 ⑩ Exciting News
  
  If you'd like to know more about my minimalist lifestyle, feel free to check out these videos:
  ▶︎ 20 Things that I let go of to make my life SIMPLE, more MINDFUL, and FREE as a Minimalist
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SVMv29oRKQs
  ▶︎ 7 Ways my life has changed after minimizing belongings 
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ST_3P7px1OQ
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
It’s springtime! 🌸 You’re probably thinking, 'Okay, let’s clean the house!' ...but don’t you think cleaning can feel like such a hassle, right? 😅

I totally get it. I used to be the ultimate lazy guy. This is what my room looked like before! 😱😂 Pretty crazy, huh? But because I wanted to change that messy lifestyle, I tried tons of Japanese decluttering methods.

And eventually, I created my dream minimalist room, which made my life SO much lighter and happier. 🙌✨ I really want to share this amazing feeling with you, so I’ve packed ALL

Mindset for Decluttering: 3 Simple Secrets! ✨ If you're like, "I don't need mindsets—I just wanna clean!" then feel free to skip ahead. 😅 But seriously, mindset is KEY 🔑 when it comes to big decluttering, so give me just one minute to share! 🙌 ① Decluttering = A Fresh Start 🚀 Declutter is written as "片付け (katazuke)" in Japanese, which can also mean "to put an end to something."

It represents closing a chapter of your past and kicking off a fresh new life! ② Decluttering = Sculpting Yourself ✨🗿 If I drew a picture of people surrounded by many things, it’d be like this. 🎨😅📦: You are covered and buried in tons of stuff, unable to see who you truly are. 😱 Decluttering is simply removing everything you don’t need, slowly revealing your authentic self. It's kinda like polishing a rough diamond 💎 ③📸 Decluttering ＝ Experiment!

If you try to make decluttering perfect, you'll end up stuck. I used to be like that but I shifted my mindset to decluttering as an experiment, which helped me a lot! If you made a mistake like, "Oops, I actually needed that!"—that’s totally fine. Just learn from it! 🌱 Even if you throw something away,

it's not like you're gonna die! 😂 Every little mistake helps you better understand what's truly important to you. ✨ So relax, take it easy, and let’s do it! 😊🌈 Aki’s method for the ultimate big declutter! ✨ When people talk about decluttering goals, they say things like "Live with only stuff you love," "Let go of attachments," or "Make cleaning a habit." Those are cool, right? But here's my goal.

To know exactly what you own and where everything belongs. This goal comes from the tea ceremony, which I love. In the tea room, there’s always a specific theme, and the host carefully selects each item to perfectly match that theme. 🍵✨ This means the host knows exactly what they own. And during the ceremony, every item has its own dedicated spot.

Because you know exactly what you have and where everything is, you can make matcha with simple, efficient movements—nothing wasted! When I first learned this, I was shocked. "Wow! This is it! If I could live my life like this, everything would be so beautifully simple and easy!" 🌱✨ Because of that, I don't keep collecting

stuff I don't need, I can grab anything easily without stress, and I actually enjoy and appreciate what I own. Isn’t it amazing? So how do we actually create that kind of space at home? No worries—I’ll walk you through it! 3 Key Points for Aki’s Decluttering Method There are three simple steps to get there.

① Declutter by Category 📚👕 People often ask me, 'Should I tidy by location or by category? If you're doing a major declutter, I totally recommend going by category. Why? Because it really shows you how much stuff you’ve got. If you tidy by location, you might think: “Wait, I thought I already cleaned up pens, but here’s another one…I found another red pen…muu” At some point, you’re like… wait, what pens do I even have? And how many?

So do it thoroughly, category by category. That’s the most important part. ② Keep Only What Truly Lights You Up! Sure, you can decide what to keep based on whether it’s useful, but I don’t really like that. Because my space ends up feeling kinda soulless. So I’d much rather be surrounded by things

that make me feel good! In that sense, I’m kinda like KonMari. So when deciding what to keep, this is the only rule you need: Does it light you up? It’s like choosing your favorite Pokémon: “I choose you!” ⚡️This mind is important. What you do is… Pick it up. Look at it. Touch it.

Lights you up? → Keep it! Doesn't it light you up? → Let it go. Super simple, right?

If you do this, you’ll end up being surrounded only by stuff that genuinely makes you happy. Your room will literally become your personal power spot! Like a pokemon center! ③ 📸Deciding where things go Now that you’ve decided what to keep, you’re finally at a point where you know exactly what you own. And from here, the next step is to decide where each item goes.

In the tea ceremony, this would be like deciding where to place the tea utensils. If you skip this part or rush through it, your space can end up messy again. But if you take the time to do this properly, your daily life will feel so much simpler. So let’s follow through till the end! What order should you declutter in?

Here’s the best sequence I recommend: 1️⃣ Clothes → 2️⃣ Books → 3️⃣ Papers → 4️⃣ Komono(Small items) → 5️⃣ Sentimental Items You can do everything all at once or split it over several days. It really depends. Personally, when I do my big decluttering, I spread it over three days like this: Day 1: Clothes and Books Day 2: Papers and Miscellaneous Items Day 3: Sentimental Items This way, you won’t feel exhausted, and you’ll gradually get comfortable with letting things go. 😊✨ 📸Let's Take "Before" Photos! This is a small tip. Before you dive into your cleaning,

I really recommend this! ✨🌿 take a photo. So that you can see your space objectively! 👀📸 When you're in the same room every day, you get used to it—you can't see how messy your room is right now. When you take a photo and see it you might feel different—"Wait, was my room always this crowded?!" 😱📷 And also a nice thing is once you're

done cleaning, you can compare the before-and-after, which gives you an amazing sense of accomplishment! 🌈✨ So, take "before" photos first! 📸💖 Aki’s Method: Decluttering Clothes 👕✨ Alright, let's start with your clothes! First, gather every single piece of clothing you own in your house and pile them here. Go ahead, I'll wait! 😄Ok! Are you ready? You can sort your clothes following

this order, like this: Or you can just pick up each item randomly, one by one, like I usually do 😄 Now, we’re gonna choose what stays and what goes. Do you remember the main rule? ✨ Keep only what truly lights you up! ✨ Trust your gut and let’s get started!!

“But, Aki…hold on— it feels a bit tricky… 🤔” In that case, ask yourself this simple yet powerful question: ✅ "Would I want to wear this on a date?" Think about it—if you'd wear it on a date, it probably lifts your mood and makes you feel great. 🌟 Don’t you think so? You definitely wouldn't pick something old, dirty, or lame, right? So if your answer is "Hmm, not really sure..." then that's a

sign that the clothes don't light you up. Move those items to your "Let-go" pile. And here is the thing: Even if it's something you use daily for whatever, if it doesn't make you feel great, put it in the "Let-go" pile for now. Once you've done everything, we can take a second look from a practical point of view. 👀✨ If you find something you definitely need for work or special occasions, move those into your "Keep" zone.

Point is when you do that, try finding at least one nice thing. so it'll lift your mood a bit! 😂✨ “I might use this someday” – The 95% Rule You might already know this, but If you’re thinking "I might use this someday," there's a 95% chance you'll never actually use it. For example, this suit—I kept it during my last big cleanup, thinking "I might wear it someday," but guess what? I never did! 😅 If you find yourself stuck thinking

"someday," just ask yourself this simple question: ✅ Did I wear this at all in the past year? If your answer is "no," then trust me, you won’t wear it in the future either. Alright, how did it go? I bet you managed to let go of a lot already, right? 🎉✨ But if you want to go even simpler: here is two extra tips 🔥 ① Pick a color scheme 🎨 For example, I personally decided all my T-shirts are white. For bottoms, I stick to navy or black.

And by the way, my underwear is always red—it boosts my energy! 🌶️🤣 Having a set color scheme makes it easy to let go of items in other colors. Plus, it reduces stress when picking out outfits. ② Set a specific number of items 🔢 For example, I decided to keep just 5 T-shirts, and lately 1 pair of long pants (at least for now). Having a set number makes letting go SO much easier. ✨

Alright, you did great! Ready for the next step? Let's go! 🚀 📚 Aki’s Method: Decluttering books 📚 Alright, next up: Books! I only have this many, but you probably have way more, right?

It’s the same with books. Ask yourself—"Does this truly light me up?" 🌟 In this way you'll quickly know which books you definitely want to keep. For example, for me, it's these books. I don’t remember what was written but these definitely lift my spirits! Important tip is try not to open the books.

Because If you start reading, your entire day might disappear! I know you want to read…but if you feel like reading it, you're probably unsure. And that’s where we usually get stuck. And here’s how I deal with it. ① Books you haven't read yet When you find one, ask yourself: "If I didn't have this, would I buy it again?"

If it's "Yes!" → Keep it. because it is something you want to read now. If it's "Hmm...maybe..." → Let it go. because you don’t read it now.

② Books you've only read halfway through If you're still actively reading it, keep it. But if you've stopped midway and haven't picked it up for a while, it's time to let it go. From my experience, books you've stopped reading halfway usually aren't really your thing.

So just let it go, and you'll feel lighter：）. ③ Books you've finished but don't really remember I bet you have a lot of these? Yeah, these are the trickiest. Because you might be afraid of losing valuable information, so you hold onto them. I used to be exactly like that.

But now I handle it like this, and this time, I was able to let go of this many books! What I do is… 📖 Take notes and summarize! Yes! Once you take notes, you'll easily let go of those books. Here's exactly how I take notes. Feel free to try it out!

When I read, I underline parts that grab my attention. I used to hate marking books ’cause I wanted to sell them later. But then I realized—that’s not the goal. The goal is to make my life better. So now I underline stuff and even doodle little ideas. It made reading way more fun—like chatting with the author!

Then I voice-record those highlights and ideas directly into ChatGPT. Finally, I let ChatGPT summarize it all. Summarizing used to feel like such a chore, but now it's super easy!! a total game-changer.

Then I also quickly jot down: 3 key insights that resonated with me My personal thoughts on it How I'll use this knowledge in my life Using this method, I've already read about 20 books this year! Give it a try! 📚✨ 📌 Aki’s Method: Decluttering Papers 📑✨ Decluttering papers is pretty easy—because you basically don’t need most of them! 😅 Having said that, let me give you a few tips to help you out. Sort papers into 3 simple categories It’s Keep, Toss, Digitize. Keep: Only the essentials,

like passports, bank documents, or important certificates. 🗃️ Toss: Stuff like old receipts, warranties, or instruction manuals. Personally, I throw out all warranties, and honestly, I've never once regretted it. Instruction manuals? Same thing! YouTube videos explain stuff way better anyway! 📺👌

Digitize: Papers like business cards or anything you're unsure about. 📲 For example, I digitize all my business cards. And if I'm ever stuck deciding, I just digitize it! Remember, papers can pile up quickly and make a big mess. So keep only what's absolutely necessary and let go of the rest! ✨🌱

Aki’s Method:Decluttering "Komono" (Small Items)🧺✨ Next up is Komono—which basically means all those small items like : I recommend sorting Komono by category because otherwise it’s going to be messy. And it’s easier if you start with the easy-to-let-go stuff. Like: Obvious Trash 🗑 This is something like expired food or medicine. CDs or hobby supplies you haven't touched in forever. And, Damaged or Dirty Stuff 🧹 If it doesn’t truly light you up, or you don’t have a plan to fix it, it’s okay to let it go.

Oh plus this one too, Duplicate Items 🔄 Keep only the best one or your absolute favorite. Toss the rest! Alright! You did it? Also before start, I want you to know two Important notes: 1. Set aside sentimental items for later 🕰️ You'll probably find sentimental items—old toys,

letters and gifts from exes. Put these aside for later. If you start dealing with these now, you'll get stuck and lose momentum. So, keep moving and deal with memories at the end! 2. Return borrowed items quickly 📬

Do you have anything you've borrowed from friends? These things are tricky, because you can’t just throw them away on your own. So I really recommend quickly checking in with your friend: return it if they want it back or toss it if they don’t need it anymore! 📌 Aki’s Method: Decluttering Sentimental Items 📦✨ Alright, we’re in the toughest category of all: sentimental items. Letting go of sentimental stuff sets you free from the past and helps you live a lighter, happier life. You can do it and let’s do this! 🚀

First, let me introduce a great 4 steps from my minimalist mentor: 1. Box it up 📦 Put sentimental items that you find it hard to get rid of (like letters and small keepsakes). Keep it for one year. 2. Remember and thank 🙏 If you open a box and find something you completely forgot even existed—that’s your cue to say 'Thanks!' and let it go. Because it means you don’t really need it.

3. Snap a photo 📸 If you are still feeling hesitant? Just take a quick photo.Once you have a photo, it becomes way easier to say goodbye:) 4. Get excited for what's next 🎉 Say to yourself, "Letting go creates space for amazing new things to enter my life!" 😄✨ Wow! I really love this approach,.

Because it’s hard to let go of sentimental stuff right away—but giving yourself a one-year rule makes it so much easier. 📌 Here’s My Additional Tips: 📌 1. Items from Family and Ancestors 🖼️ I totally get it—family items are filled with memories and emotions. When I let go of my grandfather’s kimono, it was really hard. But I thoguht: The memories aren’t in the object—they’re in your heart. ❤️

Even if you let go of the item, the memory stays with you. Also thought, “My grandpa would want me to move forward, not stay stuck in the past.” So I let it go with gratitude—and I felt so much lighter. 📌 2. Past Achievements (Medals, Certificates, Trophies) 🏅 It can feel like you’re throwing away part of your identity.

But your value won't disappear even if you let them go. I used to keep a bunch of medals, but now I just keep this small one that I really love. I just told myself—this one medal holds all the praise from my past. And with that, I could let the others go. 📌 3. Letters ✉️ With this, the answer is simple.

Keep the letters that uplift and inspire you now—not the ones that keep you stuck in the past. I understand wanting to hold onto letters from someone you once loved. But if those letters keep pulling you back. because daydreaming about the past takes away time from your present. So I know it’s hard but it’s time to go and let’s focus on building a future where you'll be proud of your past self.

📌 4. Gifts 🎁 This is also a tricky one. It kinda feels wrong to throw away a gift, doesn’t it? But I think the real value of a gift is the feeling of gratitude when you receive it. And you’ve already received that. So it’s ok to let it go.

If it’s still hard to let go, here’s what I do: Wrap it gently in white paper. In Japan, this shows deep respect and appreciation. It’s a way of saying “Thank you” before letting go. This time I did this for a gift I got while working as a matcha bartender in Canada. After using it for seven years, I could finally say goodbye.

🎉 Congrats! You did it! 🎉 Great job decluttering! By now, you’re probably surrounded by only the things that truly spark joy and lift you up. 🌟✨ But wait—there’s one more super important step to complete your decluttering journey.

Yep, it’s time to store everything properly! 🧹 Aki’s Method of Storing 🧹 There are tons of storage hacks, but here are the three I really care about. 📌 ① Give Everything a Home 🏠 Eazy! Giving every item in my house a permanent home. And now, every night before bed, I just put everything back where it belongs. Guess what? My room stays clean all the time.

And waking up to a tidy space every morning feels amazing. 📌 ② Make It Easy to Grab & Easy to Return 🔄✨ Humans avoid anything that feels even a little inconvenient. That’s why where you keep your stuff really matters. If you want to clean often, keep your tools easy to grab. For example, I keep a tiny broom and dustpan right next to my desk. So when I feel like tidying up,

I can start right away! If they were in another room... yeah, I’d probably never clean. 😅 📌 ③ Always Leave Extra Space (20%-30%) 🧘‍♂️📦

This is a big one—your closets or storage spaces should only be about 70 to 80% full. Why? Because you can give new items a home right away. You know, new things will always come into your life. And one of the biggest reasons rooms get messy is there's no space for them.

But if you have space for them- you can avoid future clutter. So let’s leave 20 to 30% empty. If you follow these three tips, your space will feel as calm, beautiful, and simple as a tea room. You know exactly what you have, where everything is, and life will feel way less stressful—and way more joyful. You did it! Great job! お疲れさまでした！

As a big thank-you for sticking around till the end, I’ve got a little surprise just for you! Starting this week, I’m beginning a brand-new journey—toward a freer, simpler, and happier life, right from here. 🌿✨ So stay tuned for what’s coming next. I