---
video_title: "12 small Japanese Habits that can transform Your Life in 2025!"
video_id: qVd-GfRlzoI
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qVd-GfRlzoI
video_date: 2025-01-18
video_description: |
  In this video I introduce 12 small habits I learned in Japan that completely transformed my life and so can help you too. Let's add one habit each month and make 2025 our best year yet! 
  
  00:27　1. Start Clean, End Organized
  01:26 2. 100% Habit  
  02;30 3. Treat Things Like Your Lover
  03:36 4. Change Your Mindset Habit
  05:05 5. Heal Your Gut 
  06:13 6. Alternating Showers
  07:15 7. 瞑想-meditation-
  08:18 8. Your Own Morning Hour 
  09:33 9. Matcha Ritual
  10:37 10. Gratitude Journal
  11:48 11. The 1-in-10 Rule 
  12:43 12. Workout
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  Links:
  🍵 If You'd like to know more about healthy Japanese Foods & Drinks that can improve Your gut health check out these videos:
  ▶︎ 6 Japanese Super Foods: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=feozcEdYcT4
  ▶︎ 8 Japanese Super Drinks: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZDYsfiXO7Po
  
  🌱 And if You'd like to know more about Ikigai and the Interview I did, check out this video:
  ▶︎ What is Your IKIGAI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ayNC4q56Izo
  
  🧘‍♂️ More about my Habits: check out my playlist ↓
  ▶︎ Japanese Habits: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLI7YzPSSEXwCH3X8SY34_HlOAp3eZDo9Q
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Happy New Year! 🎉 In this video, I’m sharing son I learned in Japan that completely transformed my life! As a minimalist, I’ve explored so many habits over the years, and these 12 are the ones that had a huge impact on my life. Let’s add one habit each month and make 2025 your best year ever! 1. Start Clean, End Organized

In the tea ceremony, every session begins by cleaning the tools and ends by putting everything back in its place. When I found this routine, I was like, "Ohh! This is amazing!". Because my gut told me, "This is the secret to keeping your room clean all the time!"

And guess what? It completely transformed my life! Starting your day with cleaning keeps your room tidy all day long. Every time you come back, it feels like stepping into a fresh hotel room—so clean and refreshing! It even boosts your productivity! Then, at night, put everything you used during the

day back in its place. This keeps your space always organized. Your stress levels go down. “Start clean, end organized.” Give it a try starting today! 🌿

2. 100% Habit This is a confidence-boosting habit I learned from my mom. Creating a tiny habit that you can achieve 100% every single day. Because those small wins add up and boost your confidence. It doesn’t have to be a big deal—silly habits work, too!

For example: - Always put your socks on starting with the left foot. - Stretch when you wake up in the morning. - Smile at yourself in the mirror. The key is consistency—no matter what. For me? It's aligning my shoes. I’ve been doing

this for over 25 years—whether I’m tired, drunk, or even sick. It’s a small act, this builds a foundation of self-confidence. And that confidence makes it easier to take on the next challenge— because I know I can do it! First, decide what you want to do and start today! 3. Treat Things Like Your Lover

This is a mindfulness hack that I learned also from a tea ceremony. My teacher told me “You have to treat things as carefully as a loved one” So, I decided to bring this philosophy into my daily life. And this completely changed my daily life.I got more girlfriends! Just kidding!

But really seriously, my everyday life became so much more mindful. For example, when drinking matcha, instead of slamming your cup down, imagine it’s your partner. Would you treat them that way? (Hopefully not! 😅) When you handle objects gently, it naturally brings you into the moment. Time feels slower, and your mind becomes calmer.

Try it now—place your phone on the table as if it were your lover. Feel the difference, right? If so, why not add this habit to your mindful life? 🌸 4. Change Your Mindset Habit We all have habits, right? But

did you know our minds have habits too? Some people naturally see the negative in everything, while others find a way to spin things positively. That’s a habit of the heart, or mindset. And here’s the thing—if you can change that mindset, your life will get so much better. I learned that from a haiku.

There was a legendary samurai, Takasugi Shinsaku. On his deathbed, he said: “おもしろきこともなきよをおもしろく” — 'To make a dull world interesting.' He wanted to keep going but, unsure how to finish it. That’s when the woman caring for him, added: “すみなすものはこころなりけり” — 'It’s your heart that makes it so.' Put them together, it meansーEven in a crazy world, it’s your mindset—your heart—that shapes how interesting life can be. So, even if you step in dog poop today, think

positively! Just say, “Wow, how lucky am I!” 😊 5. Heal Your Gut In Japan, fermented foods have been a thing for centuries. And yep, one of the most famous examples? Natto! Now, don’t worry—I’m not here to tell you

to eat natto (unless you’re into it). What I am saying is, if you want to stay healthy, foods that support your gut—like fermented ones—are a total game-changer. That said, I used to think, “Gut health? What’s the big deal?” But in my 20s, I struggled with depression. And I started focusing on my gut thanks to my mom’s

recommendation. And then, everything shifted—I began feeling more positive! Now? I’m almost too positive! 😂 Since then, I’ve realized how crazy important gut health is. Here are two things I do:

Drinking a KOSO drink every morning. Eating fermented foods like natto, miso soup, and koji regularly. It’s simple, but it works wonders! 6. Alternating Showers When your computer has a problem, you might reset it.

This is a Quick Reset for Body and Mind. Here’s how it works: Try this: After a hot shower, do 30 seconds of cold water, followed by 15 seconds of warm water. I know, cold water sounds like torture, But here me out. The 'hell' of cold water lasts just a moment, but the 'heaven' that follows lasts for long! ✨ With this, I’ve noticed so many benefits: No matter how tired I am, I can reset my body.

My body temperature has gone up, and I get sick less often. My skin looks healthier and more radiant. I can build mental strength. I can focus so much better on my work. It’s been a game-changer for me!

At first, the cold water is tough. But think of it as samurai training! You’ll get used to it. 7. 瞑想-meditation- When it comes to Japanese habits, meditation is a big one.

Lately, I’ve started meditating before my yoga practice. I take just 3 minutes in the morning to focus on my breath while feeling the sunlight. And let me tell you—it feels absolutely amazing. In Japanese, 自 (ji) means "your," and 心 (kokoro) means "heart" or "mind." Together, they show the deep connection between your breath and your mind.

For example, when you’re stressed, your breathing becomes shallow. But when you’re relaxed, it naturally deepens. Through your breath, you can observe yourself, and through your breath, you can control your mind. Meditation has become one of my favorite habits, and I absolutely love it. 8. Your Own Morning Hour

Back in the day, the first thing I’d do in the morning was check social media. I was always just curious what everyone else was up to. But one day, I realized it was just making me unhappy by comparing myself to others. Then I thought, “What am I doing, making myself unhappy first thing in the morning?” “Shouldn't the morning be a time to make yourself happy?”

So, I made a decision—I use the first hour of my day after waking up to make myself happy. 📴 Here’s the rule: - No social media! - No news or outside information! - No emails! 🧘‍♂️ Instead, I focus on me: For example, taking a walk, meditating, doing yoga, or journaling while asking myself, “How are you today?”

Since I started this habit, my body and mind have transformed dramatically. And I’ve grown to love myself so much more! Oh, let me share one more great habit to focus on yourself. And that is... 9. Matcha Ritual

As you know, I drink matcha every single morning. Just drinking matcha is fine, but I highly recommend following a specific routine to prepare it. Every day, the same routine. Why? Because it helps you notice the state of your mind.

For example: - When rushed: My movements become faster. - When stressed: I tend to treat the tools roughly. - When distracted: I spill the matcha. By sticking to the same routine every day, you start to notice the differences. That’s what helps you become aware of your mental state. Like, “Ah, I’m feeling a bit rushed today. ” Once

you notice it, you can adjust it. Like, “OK, let’s take a deep breath and slow down.” Then, Through this simple routine, you can calm your mind through the movement. This is the power of a Matcha Ritual 🍵！ 10. Gratitude Journal When I was filming a video about *IKIGAI*, I interviewed some grandmothers in my village, and their words left a deep impact on me. They said things like, "I’m so truly happy

to be able to just work in the fields, to walk, to eat a meal," genuinely appreciating those small, everyday moments. Then, I realized something profound: Living a happy life isn’t about making lots of money—it’s about appreciating the little things in our everyday lives. So, I decided to cherish that feeling by starting a gratitude journal. Every morning, I write down three things I’m grateful for. For example, today: - Clean water from the tap - Beautiful sunrise - A fit and vibrant body Just writing these down helps me recognize that happiness is all around us.

And it puts me in a positive mindset for the rest of the day. Someday, I hope to have the same pure smile as those grandmothers. 11. The 1-in-10 Rule This is a story from when I was job hunting. I once heard a talk by Uniqlo’s CEO, Tadashi Yanai, at the conference and he said something that really stuck with me.

“If you give your all 10 times, at least one of them will succeed.” In other words, if you fail 9 times, you’re bound to succeed at least once. Great wisdom, Right? But, I was young, after that I completely forgot his words and ended up living a life where I was afraid of failure. But recently, through making many videos on YouTube, I realized he was absolutely right.

I discovered that if I make 10 videos, at least one of them ends up going viral and makes a lot of people happy. So, don’t be afraid of failure—just keep trying and challenging yourself🚀✨ 12. Workout Lastly, I gotta say this. If you change your body, your life changes! It's very simple.

When your body changes, your mindset changes because you can see positive changes in your body visually. You become more confident. When your mindset changes your life changes. Because that confident has great impact on your life Back in my 20s, I was scrawny like a bean sprout. But now? This is me.

I’m way more confident now than I ever was in my 20s, and life has become so much more enjoyable. work stated going getter. my relation ship improved too! I truly believe it’s the ultimate life-changing habit. Like drinking matcha!

So let’s workout while drinking matcha! Sticking to something is like stacking little stones every day. At first, it feels like nothing’s changing, but after a year,you’ll look back and see this incredible tower you’ve built. And trust me, the view from the top will be completely different! Let’s make 2025 our best year yet!