---
video_title: "From Lazy to Disciplined – 6 Japanese Tiny Habits That Changed My Life"
video_id: DWWD_cat5TE
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DWWD_cat5TE
video_date: 2025-10-25T06:04:09+00:00
video_description: |
  In this video, I share 6 small Japanese-inspired habits that helped me go from lazy to disciplined. Simple actions, big results.
  
  5 simple Japanese Mindsets for Discipline, Motivation, and a Happy Life
  ▶︎ https://youtu.be/nFNpuLlWuUg
  
  0:46 ①Ittyo-jime (Icho-jime) teqcnique
  2:36 ②Create Your Own Rituals
  4:34 ③ Start with Just 5 Minutes
  6:42 ④ Play the “Juzu Game”
  7:58 ⑤ The next technique is: use the power of cleaning.
  9:27 ⑥The last one is: Embrace the Fear.
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
I used to be a super lazy Japanese guy. I'd start studying English and give up in just three days. I made goals with full energy, but I never stuck with them. But in my 20s, I had a turning point. Through studying Japanese culture deeply, I discovered something powerful.

Discipline isn't something you are born with. It's something you can create with small actions. In this video, I'll share six real techniques that helped transformed me from lazy samurai to an actionable samurai. If you want to build lifechanging habits, start a business or take control your time and energy, this video is for you. Right, let's get started. The first method Icho-jime action technique. Sometimes you know you should start

working but you keep scrolling on social media or decide I'll work out today but you couldn't move away from the TV. We've all been there, right? That's when I use it. What is it? In Japan, there's a custom where people clap their hands to wrap things up at a party or meeting. It's

like this. The leader says, "Okay, shall we call it a day? Just write your hands. Then everyone claps together. Okay. Okay. Let's

practice. I'll say yo and then you clap your hands. Ready? Yo. All right. Good job. Nice rhythm. That works. Perfect. The point is this. This one clap resets

everything. Even if things were super fun or boring, it means it's over. It's like an instant mental switch. So, I made it part of my daily routine. And it works crazy well. For example,

when I catch myself procrastinating, I do this. Close my eyes and say, "Yo." And instantly it snaps me out of it and I get to work. I think it's kind of like three, two, one, go method. Have you heard of it? But for me, this works even better because the rhythm and sound cut

through everything. Hesitation, overthinking or urge to scroll on your phone, all of it. The key is clap then move. No delay. Just clap and shift your focus. Second, create your own rituals. This

method is quiet but powerful. The biggest mistake I used to make all the time was relying on too much willpower. For example, I'd decide, okay, I run every morning, but 3 days later, I'd say, I'm so sleepy, I'm tired, or I can't find my shoes, so maybe tomorrow. All those excuses would popped up my head and I'd gave up. Of course, I kept trying to force it with willpower, but it didn't work.

But something changed when I discovered the tea ceremony. You don't need willpower when you have rituals. Like for example, no one makes matcha with willpower shouting like, "All right, let's make matcha." No, right? You just simply follow a series of calm and intentional steps. By

just following that steps in the end you have this beautiful matcha that's the outcome that's when I had a thought what if I created a small mindful ritual for every habit I wanted to build so I did for example when I wanted to make running a habit I had to lay out my shoes clothes and water bottle the night before then in the morning I just follow a flow I get dressed put on my socks bring the bottle and finally Fin, I put on my shoes and before I knew it, I was already standing outside. All I have to do is just start running. The key is to break it down into small steps and design the flow. That way, all I think about it is the just one step in front of me, then next, and next. Don't need to think about everything. Just think about one step. It lowers the barrier

to action and you stop making excuse. Third, start with just five minutes. One mistake I kept making was trying to change everything overnight like deciding to study English for 2 hours a day or reading one full book a day even though I wasn't a big reader. But discipline doesn't come from this kind of dramatic changes. It grows from small actions done day by day. In Japan,

there's a tradition of folding 1,000 paper cranes. Folding all 1,000 at once. That's not discipline. That's just forcing your willpower. Discipline is folding one crane, then another. Step by step,

it grows. And one day, you realize you've reached 1,000. So, here's what matters most. Start small. And my favorite rule, whatever you do, start with just five minutes. Let's say if you

want to build a cleaning habit, don't aim for 30 minutes right away. Just 5 minutes. That's enough. Want to start studying Japanese? Not an hour, just 5 minutes. There are two benefits. First,

you feel almost no resistance. 30 minutes of cleaning sounds like a chore, but only 5 minutes? That's totally doable, right? That's why it's easier to turn into a habit. Second, it becomes a foundation for bigger habits. Here's the magic. Once 5 minutes becomes a habit, you can naturally

stretch it 10, 20, or 30 minutes. It's just like folding paper cranes. For example, at first, you decide to fold one a day and just keep going. But over time, you realize I can do two, three, 10. That's exactly how I built my morning cleaning habit, my workout habit, and even my English study habit. It all started with just 5 minutes. Now I can go for 10 or 30 without stress. They're

no longer effort. They're part of my life. Fourth, play the juice game. This is a fun and a powerful method I made when I started cold showers. Each time you do the habit, mark a circle on your paper calendar. Simple, but here's the magic. After a few days, those little circles start to line up

and they look like a jujuzu Japanese style mala. The great point is once the bead starts forming, you don't want to break it and you start thinking, let's keep it going. Let's add just one more bead today. I used to think of it as a chain, but now I see it as a meal. Why? Because a Japanese mala is

completed with 108 BS and aiming for that number gives me a motivation. More than anything I feel like I don't want to break it. This idea is also in atomic habits called don't break the chain. It says the key is that it's visible because your brain loves visible rewards. So even if I'm feeling down, feeling low, look at the calendar and think, okay, let's keep it up one more day today. And when you actually do it, it feels so good. It's a single circle, single bead, but over

time they turn into something powerful. The next technique is use the power of cleaning. This is a core habit of Japanese culture and it's one that truly helped me take action and stay focused. And what I do is really simple. Before you're working on something, clean your room, clean your desk, shelves, your desktop, because the more cluttered your space is, the more likely you are to procrastinate. In fact, one study found that messy environment really linked to indecisiveness.

lower work performance and emotional hesitation. For example, if your desk is covered with books, magazines or manga, even if you want to work, there's a good chance you'll just start reading instead, right? And you can't get your work done. Yeah, that happened a lot to me. It doesn't have to be a book. Even small things might bother you. I think they are constantly saying like, "Hey,

watch me, touch me." And that's why it's easy to get distracted. So cleaning, tidying up your space is really matters. In fact, many Japanese companies begin the workday with cleaning. So now my room is yeah almost always clean. So whatever I want to take action, I can start it right away

and give it 100% of my focus. So clean your room and say goodbye to your procrastination. Sixth, the last one is embrace the fear. Like I said, I used to be a really lazy person. I didn't take action. For example, I had wanted to start a YouTube channel since 2014 actually, but

I couldn't start. I just felt scared. Scared of what people might think, scared of failing. So, I just kept running from that fear for over 5 years. But when I came across a powerful idea from a book about samurai, something started to shift. It said samurai used to visualize death in vivid detail to

overcome their fear of it. Like they imagine being shot, cut down by a sword, even committing sabuku. At first, I couldn't believe it. I was like, are they crazy? But it said that when you picture your death clearly, your fear starts to fade out. And in the real world, they stay calm. And when it was

time to fight, they acted without a hesitation. When I learned it, it blew my mind because I had always run from fear. But the samurai, they choose to feel it on purpose. Totally opposite. In a 4-hour work week, Timothy Fairies shares a similar idea. He says that writing down your

fears is one of the best ways to reduce anxiety and that's what makes them able to act. So after learning this I slowly started to change. I tried imagining good things but also bad things too as much as possible. Nobody is watching my videos check. Losing all my income check. Ending

up homeless wearing fondoshi check. And you know what? The fear actually started to shrink because if I imagined clearly wearing fondoshi being a homeless is not really bad thing it's actually h fun. So little by little I began to move forward then now I have 500k friends here. So if you're feeling scared something right now don't run away face it embrace it. Then there's a beautiful

future waiting for you. So, these were the six techniques that helped me become actionable samurai. You don't need to be perfect because I'm not perfect either. Just a little more consistent, a little braier than your past self. If you want to explore more Japanese mindset around discipline, please check out this video. All right, I hope to see you in the next video.