---
video_title: "A Minimalist Woman Living Alone in Japan’s Hidden Village"
video_id: 5aftBQKL6Gw
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5aftBQKL6Gw
video_date: 2025-03-22
video_description: |
  In this video we dive deep into the snow covered mountains of the beautiful countryside of Japan, where I'll introduce you to a minimalist super women.
  Together we'll have a look at how she lives a simple minimalist life in this beautiful hidden village.
  Let's enjoy this winter wonderland together! ❄️
  
  Itoshiro yohinten (Natural clothing store)
  ▶︎https://www.instagram.com/itoshiroyohinten/
  
  Gen channel(Fishing)
  ▶︎https://www.youtube.com/@gen-channel-itoshiro
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  If you'd like to know more about how Cleaning can change your life, check out this video:
  ▶︎ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yud_4UtyQD4
  
  Here is my playlist about Minimalist Lifestyle:
  ▶︎ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0yiheVIx-X4&list=PLI7YzPSSEXwDn4_T9V-NdYJN2XU_2acqE
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
📍 Welcome to deep in the mountains of Japan, often called the "Tibet of Japan." As you can see, it's a heavy snowfall region. ❄️ But in this remote, snow-covered land, there’s a woman who lives a simple, minimalist life—completely on her own. Today, I’m taking you inside her daily routine. That’s right. Today’s main character isn’t Samurai Matcha.

It’s her. And let me tell you—her beautiful way of living is about to blow my mind. 🤯 5:30 AM—Her day begins. After waking up, she brushes her teeth, neatly makes her bed, and changes her clothes —pretty ordinary morning routine, right? But hold on—this is where things get interesting.✨

First thing that caught my attention was the incense. When I asked her why, she said: 👉 “To cleanse the stagnant air from sleep.” I feel her, yeah. In Japan, people believe that while you sleep, negative energy leaves your body, which makes the air in the room feel heavy and impure. And I love this—she doesn’t use a lighter. She uses matches.

She uses matches. Such a beautiful touch. ✨ Isn't it? After that, she places an orange gerbera daisy in her room. In her minimalist space, a single flower adds the perfect touch. 🌸

She opens the window to let in fresh air. Like I told you —this is a heavy snowfall region. The first floor of the house next door? Completely buried in snow. And of course, her house is buried too.

Here. And there. This house is basically a refrigerator. 🥶 💡 Japanese houses don’t have central heating systems like in Europe, so they get extremely cold in winter. While I’m wearing thick layers and shivering, she’s effortlessly doing housework in light clothing.

Like... HOW?! 😳

At this point, I was convinced: 💪 She is a superwoman. Her daily routine: Laundry & Cleaning 🧹 She starts with laundry. But wait—Is she reusing the water from her Yutanpo, hot water bottle!? ♻️ I used to use one too when I lived in a cold area! but honestly,

I'd never thought about reusing the water like that...Wow…

👉 Do you know this? This is a must-have for Japanese minimalists: Utamaro cleaner. 🚿 Bathroom, 🏠 kitchen, 🛁 bathtub, 🚽 toilet— ONE bottle does it all. Isn't it amazing? 🤩 And now, another part of her daily routine—cleaning the toilet!

I was really curious about how she does it. 🤔 And let me tell you... I was SHOCKED. 😳

She carefully wipes everything. ✔️ The toilet paper holder. ✔️ The bottom of the slippers. ✔️ Every. Single. Corner.

No one ever watched me cleaning a toilet before... I figured White watching her, I thought: 💭 “I could probably lick this toilet floor.” (Not that I would… but you get the idea. 😂)

And then… she disappears into the darkness. Suddenly, she walks off. Then she comes back holding something. What is it?! What is it?! 🤔 🧻

Aroma oil “If you add just two drops of essential oil… it makes the whole bathroom smell amazing.” ✨ Then keep the toilet area sealed off. OMG. She’s on another level. I thoughtI was the master of toilet cleaning. 🚽✨

But compared to her? I’m just a child. 😭 From now on, I shall worship her as the Toilet Goddess. 🙏👑 The Toilet Goddess now moves on to laundry. If she was this meticulous with cleaning the toilet, her laundry must be...

👀 … Ah, yep. Super careful. She pins each piece of laundry with care, one by one. On the other hand, My laundry routine? No attention to detai.

wash, dry and wear! So I was really impressed by her careful approach. Once she’s finished her chores, it’s tea time. Today’s tea? Azuki bean tea.

👀 Me: “It says ‘Simple Life’ on the package.” 😲 Her: “Oh wow, I didn’t even notice!”

I heard her work always starts at 5:30 AM So I asked her: “Why do you wake up at 5:30?” She said: 👉 “Because I don’t want to rush in the morning. I want to take my time.” 💬 “If I rush in the morning, the whole day feels rushed and messy. Such a beautiful mindset. I need to learn from her.

After finishing her tea, it’s yoga time. She does 10 minutes of yoga every morning, following a YouTube video. Then, she grabs a lint roller and cleans the room. 🛼 She says: “Today I’m cleaning properly, but usually, I roll around like I’m skating!” 🤣 so cute!

Breakfast Time! 🍽️ She puts on her yellow apron. 🟡 Now, I’m super curious… 🥄 What kind of cookware does she use? 🥘 And what kind of meal will she make?!

Cooking Begins! 🍚 First, she washes rice and starts cooking it. 🫣 What is this pot?! I’ve never seen a donabe (clay pot) shaped like this.

So cute! And wait... what is THIS?!

😲 A GLASS POT?!?! I bet you’re thinking, “Won’t it break?”

I thought the same thing! 😳 But apparently, it’s totally fine. Here is a quiz for you! Why do you think she chose a glass pot? 🤔 ⏳ Tick tock, tick tock… Answer: Because you can see the ingredients cooking, which makes cooking more fun! 🎉

I see… Minimalists really do put a lot of thought into the things they use. That's true for me, too! While the rice is cooking, it’s time to get ready for the day. First, she fixes her hair. She told me that she takes great care of her hair.

And yeah, it’s seriously beautiful. ✨ Next, she does her makeup. Look at this makeup table! When she opens it, there’s a mirror and all her makeup tools neatly stored inside. Doesn’t it look like a treasure chest? 😍

This is… amazing. 💭 If this were mine, I’d probably store my matcha set underneath… and maybe even try using matcha powder as makeup. 🍵😂 The Rice is Ready! 🍚 And wow—it looks perfectly cooked. Now, she adds miso and green onions to the clear glass pot, and… 🥢 Miso soup, complete! 🍲✨

Mmm… looks so good! 🤤✨ Breakfast is ready! Itadakimasu! 🙌 It may seem like she’s the only one eating… But nope. I’m secretly enjoying it in the background. 😏✨

And no joke—it’s absolutely delicious. 😋 Getting Ready for Work 👚 After breakfast, she gets ready for work. This is her closet. 👀 Wow… it’s so minimal! I'll ask her about the secret next time!😉

She puts on her coat and gets ready to leave. 👋 “Have a great day!” Then, she heads off into the icy drizzle for work. ❄️☔ She works at a handmade clothing store that uses plant-based dyes—like beautiful indigo! It is deeply connected to Japanese tradition and sustainability. 🌿

I think that’s amazing! While she is at work, let’s have look at the narrator—me! Hey! Hello? It’s my turn, you want to join too?

I stayed in this village for a little while, so let me share what I was up to. Snow Shoveling with the Kids ❄️ First up—shoveling snow with the village kids. Working with kids reminded me of my days as an elementary school teacher. 🏫✨ We kept digging for 15 minutes. And finally—the bus stop sign appeared!

hung in there!! We are going to help you Another 15 minutes of digging. Finally, we saved you!!

At least now, people can actually get inside the bus stop. Mission complete! 🎉 Great job, team! 💪✨ Helping a Young YouTuber 🎥 Next, I helped one of the village kids with his YouTube filming. That’s right—he’s a legit YouTuber. 🎣

He’s only in 6th grade, but he already runs his own fishing channel. So cool, right? 😆 If you’re into fishing, consider subscribing to his channel! This river is a natural spring, so the water is incredibly clear. Of Course I tried fishing…But I didn’t catch a single thing. 😂

Apparently, it’s still too cold, so the fish aren’t biting. Ah well. A little disappointing, but still a great experience! Thank you! 🙌 After that, it was time for my own YouTube filming.

Since I was in such an amazing winter wonderland, I had to take tons of videos and photos! Gotta make the most of this snow adventure. ❄️✨ Oh, and one more thing— I made matcha for a local grandma. 🍵✨ Her reaction? 👵 "I don’t understand fancy upper-class stuff like this.”

😂 So cute. Night falls, and tonight, we’re having dinner at her boss’s house. This home is over 100 years old—a traditional Japanese farmhouse. It’s absolutely stunning. 🏡✨ We enjoyed local, traditional dishes together.

Some of them? I had never seen one before! This place still has its own unique food culture. They were delicious. 🍽️✨ We spent time with the kids, laughed a lot, and just enjoyed the moment.

Such a warm and happy night. We got out! If the sky had been clear, I heard the stars here would be breathtaking. ✨🌌 But even without them, tonight was already pretty magical. Before bed, she shared one of her favorite nighttime habits.

That’s lighting a candle and just watching the flame, really calms you down. She even recommends putting one in the bathroom while you take a bath. I love it. Good night, everyone! 🌙 On a different day… As a thank-you for filming, we enjoyed cheese fondue together— A gift from my Swiss friend. 🇨🇭🧀

And wow—it was SO good. 🤤✨ Lessons from a Minimalist Life 🌿 This time, I really learned so much from her. Here are 3 things I learned: ① Burn incense first thing in the morning to refresh your room. 🪔✨ ② Aim to clean your bathroom floor so well you could eat off the floor! 🧼🚽 ③ Keep it simple, and aim to truly enjoy each item you own. 🍵🌿

And finally—after spending time with her, I realized something again: Having a simple and minimalist life is just so much fun! I hope you found something valuable in this video too! I hope to see you in the next video!