---
video_title: "I Ate Only Fermented Japanese Foods for 7 Days – Life Changing!"
video_id: CG6OaBaiVt0
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CG6OaBaiVt0
video_date: 2025-07-26
video_description: |
  【Quick Update】
  I was hospitalized due to a collapsed lung,
  but thanks to everyone’s support, I’m slowly getting better!
  Intense physical activity is still tough, but I’m able to work again.
  I’ll start getting back to YouTube little by little :)
  This video was filmed before I got sick—look how full of energy I was, haha.
  
  Curious about healthy living in Japan? Take a look this video too:)
  ▶︎ https://youtu.be/zH73yTEiCPs
  
  Here’s the recipe from this video!
  ▶︎ https://x.gd/fPQQp
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
In Japan, people say that fermented foods are the secret to a happy, healthy life. Maybe you've heard that, too. But have you ever thought, "Is that really true?" This makes me healthy. Yeah.

Yeah. If you ever wondered even once, this video is for you because I actually tried it and figured it out. I did a 7-day challenge eating only fermented foods, mostly traditional Japanese ones like miso, Japanese pickles, and natto. And just to give you a spoiler, the beginning was rough, but the second half heaven. In this video, you'll see how fermented foods can transform your body and mind, and how you can easily make them at home. So, let's get started. Day zero. To start

this fermented food life, first I went shopping. I grabbed every fermented food I could find. Look at this. So much natto. The cashier was probably like, "Okay, this guy is a natto nerd." That's

okay. Back home, I set it all up. I even created this new system to survive on fermented food only. What do you think it is? You'll see soon. Day one breakfast. All right, let's get started. Here's my

first breakfast. Miso soup, natto, and yogurt. Let's start with natto. My friend once said, "It smells like my dad's socks." Yeah, I know. But don't underestimate it. Natto is actually

powerful. It's packed with nattokinaz, an enzyme that helps blood flow, and because it's fermented, the protein is super easy to absorb, so it's perfect for anyone training or living healthy. Next, yogurt. Technically, it's from Bulgaria, but it's eaten daily in Japan, so I'm including it. I hope it's okay. And of course, miso, a classic Japanese superfood. From today, I have

live on fermented foods for 7 days. So, I tried making my favorite fermented food first, amazake. All right. All I need is this rice koji and hot water. So, rice koji is steamed rice covered with koji mold. And this is the hidden star of Japanese fermentation. Yeah, we use this a lot as a hidden

seasoning. Okay. Anyway, I keep it warm for eight hours. Lunch. For lunch, I made fried eggs with shioji. What's shioji? It's a magical Japanese seasoning made from rice koji I said earlier,

salt and water. Just warm it at 60° C for 8 hours. And this next one is showyu koji made by from rice koji and soy sauce to keep warming. You can use rice cooker or yogurt maker too. Give it a try.

Here's today's lunch. Oh my gosh. Shio koji is amazing. It adds a gentle saltiness and deep umami. I can't go back to regular salt. Dinner. Dinner starts with my favorite sake. I stir fried

veggies from the fridge and added kimui. I know it's from Korea, but I use it for the same reason as yogurt. And I sprinkled showy koji, too. Tada! It's done. My friend had no idea I was eating

this much fermented food. Day two, breakfast. This morning, I added shioji to my miso soup. And wow, it has so much more depth. And this Amazake! Why do I love this? Because it's naturally sweet and packed

with nutrients. It's kind of like an IV drip. So, we call it drinkable IV drip in Japan. You can drink it straight or use it instead of sugar in smoothies, coffee, or matcha. And it says sake, but zero alcohol. So, no worries. Lunch. Lunch was just leftovers. And on day two, I started to

feel a big shift in my body. Body change number one, no focus. Yeah. I couldn't concentrate. No energy, zero motivation today. Is this because of fermented foods or just the low carbs? I was

totally confused. I couldn't focus. So, I went to the cafe. I ordered banana yogurt and black tea. Body change number two, non-stop gas. In the Starbucks, I honestly couldn't stop farting. It

was like, "Please stop. Everyone don't notice." I couldn't focus at home. I couldn't focus here too because of that. Well, but it's a good sign, right? That means my gut was working. Really

working. Body change three, smooth digestion. Nature was calling. And yep, this was actually my second number two of the day. Yes, starting from day two, I was going to the bathroom more often.

My stomach always felt light and even my waist felt slimmer. Look at this. I was like, "Whoa, fermented food is definitely doing something." Dinner. Today's dinner is natto rice. This I

just thought it would be fun to try, but you shouldn't do that because it's so hard to eat, super sticky, and your mouth will just smell like dad's socks. Day three, breakfast. Here's what I had this morning. And today, I felt another change in my body. Body change number four. My whole body

felt heavy. Yeah. This morning I went out for my usual morning run, but my legs just so heavy. I was like, "What's happening?" Yeah, I almost gave up on this challenge. That heavy. I needed a rest,

so I choose to do something fun. Let's make Nukazuke. Ever seen something like this? This is Nukazuke, fermented Japanese pickles. They are made by Nukadoko. Remember the thing I started on day

zero? This is it. A fermented rice bran bed. So, how to make Nukadoko? You'll need this. First,

add salt, hot water. Mix it all together. Oh, it's hot. Then add vegetables. This is for soak up the moisture. We don't need them. And later, stir it twice a day. And after 3 to 7 days,

it's ready. Starting today, I'm adding real vegetables. I'm so excited. And tomorrow I can eat homemade Japanese pickles. I can't wait. Lunch. Today's lunch, shio koji marinated salmon. Yeah,

just soak the salmon in shio koji overnight. It turns soft, juicy, and full of umami. So good. Dinner. Tada. Special guest tonight, my friend from Okinawa. We made miso soy milk hot pot. Looks

tasty, right? And we had one more special guest, Amuzake. She was really passionate about Amazake. Amazake’s natural sweetness is just amazing. It’s perfect for simmered dishes, meat sauce, or even dessert.

Natural sweetness So mild, so gentle. Day4. I got created! I blended a mazake, banana, and yogurt and matcha. At first, I was like, is this okay?

But it was so good. I loved it. After breakfast, I had my everyday partner R's Koso. Yeah, this is the Japanese gut health drink made from over 100 fermented fruits and veggies. I just love this.

Last night, my friend told me about something I've never heard of. Fermented brown rice. Have you heard of it? I was like, what? That's a thing? So, I gave it a try. I prepared brown rice,

azuki beans, and shio koji. Cook it with rice cooker, then keep it warm for a few days. Hey guys, I got to say sorry. I said fermented brown rice, but it's actually called enzyme brown rice. So, sorry about that. So, it technically doesn't use bacteria, but enzymes change the rice over time,

like fermentation. Yeah, that's it. Stay tuned. Lunch. I made veggie sticks with a fermented dripping sauce. Honestly, I made this for the first time, but it was amazingly good. You got

to try it. Dinner. Tonight was special because I finally opened the Nukazuke container. Yes, it's ready. I made real Japanese pickles from scratch. So thrilled. So,

here's tonight's menu. All right, let's eat nukas. How is the taste? So sour and I I needed to wash it more. But the Japanese pickles who made it technically fermented rice should sit more. But can I eat it now? Because my body needed it badly.

My hands were shaking. And when I took that first bite, I nearly cried. It was so good. This fermented rice and nucas, they're golden combo. Day five, morning. The moment I woke up,

I felt it. Body change number five. Light and energized. Yes, I was like, wait, my body feels so light. I felt like I was a different person. I feel so good. Even cleaning

felt fun. My mood was just up. I thought I can do anything today. And that's when it hit me. The biggest lesson from this challenge. Yeah, I'll tell you what I learned at the end. So,

stay with me. Here's today's breakfast. Tada! Balanced, right? Even I started eating carbs, my gut felt great. My mind and my body felt light. For the first time in a while, I felt

truly centered. Making natto DIY style. Later, I thought I bought too much natto from stores, so why not make natto myself? So, I did it. Boil soybeans, add a little storebought natto, keep it warm in the rice cooker for 12 hours. That's it. Let's see what happens. I didn't even

feel hungry for lunch and dinner, so I skipped them. Maybe that means this combo of fermentation and carbs really clicked with my body. Day six, morning. Natto is done. Well, the big problem is I made way too much. I didn't realize soy beans would expand that much. Can I really eat all this

in two days? Yeah, I can do it probably. Body change number six. Superpower activated. Okay, I've talked about bathroom visits already, right? But today something new happened. Bathroom speed.

Okay. It was lightning fast. Lightning. I'll show you how fast it was. Let's go. Ready? Go.

How was it? So quick, Frank. It was smooth, effortless. This might sound gross, but that was the best number two of my life. Too bad I can show you. Lunch. Yep, it's natto time again. Honestly,

I kind of want to punch my past self. But I had to eat it. A lot of it. I skipped dinner because I ate a lot of natto. Day seven morning today. Day seven. All right, let's go.

I'm finishing this natto today. lunch. Honestly, I was starting to hate natto. Then at this timing, a firefighter came for a safety check. I offered him some natto and he just looked at it and said, "No thanks." Yeah, totally fair. So, I powered through the final bite and then it happened.

Dinner. For my final fermented meal, I kept it simple. Okay, let's wrap it up. Over the past seven days, here are the seven biggest things I learned. First, my stomach felt light and clean. Since day two, I've been going number two every morning, sometimes even twice a day. My gut

felt fresh and balanced, and that was really incredible. So, I guarantee this. Fermented foods absolutely improve your digestion. No doubt about it. No doubt. Second, I think my waist got

slimmer. This is just my feeling, but I'm pretty sure it because my god cleared out all the waste and then it became that was a totally unexpected discovery. Third, I felt emotionally calm. Yeah, actually this week was packed. Filming, work, and trip planning. Normally, I'd be totally

stressed out, but I wasn't. I felt calm the whole time. Well, except when I was eating natto. So, I guess it's true. When your gut is balanced, your mind follows. Number four, bathroom speed.

Next level. Yeah, this shocked me. Number two, in under 30 seconds. Sounds gross, but I want to say it passed through like butter. Yeah, it was like I want everyone to feel this. That's it.

Number five, balance is everything. And then this was the biggest realization. Fermented foods are great, but eating only fermented foods, I couldn't think clearly and my body was super heavy. And the moment I brought back carbs, my energy returned, my mind cleared. That's when I knew true health equal balance. Sixth, cooking became fun. I realized fermentation feels like growing your

food. It's like a raising a little baby and that's what makes cooking fun. It takes time and care and p patient patience but that's exactly why so satisfying. I loved it. Seventh bacteria became my little friends. One of the biggest changes I felt through this challenge was how to see bacteria.

They are not just invisible things. They are tiny partners helping me grow food. When you start seeing bacteria as friends, the world becomes a much more interesting place. Final thoughts. So, our fermented foods are really good for you. I can now say this with full confidence. Yes. Yes. Yes.

They improved my digestion, made bathroom visits smooth and quick, lightened my body, and calmed my mind. They really can change your life. And finally, even though I really love fermented foods now, I think I need a ear break from natto. All right, have a great natto. Bye!