---
video_title: "9 Powerful Japanese Habits and Mindsets for Wellbeing"
video_id: 9PngK1TvjGA
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9PngK1TvjGA
video_date: 2025-03-15
video_description: |
  In this video, I share 9 Japanese well-being secrets that can make your everyday life feel so much more happy and content. Let's dive into these simple but powerful mindsets together.
  
  If you'd like to know more about IKIGAI, check out this video:
  ▶︎ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ayNC4q56Izo
  
  Here is my playlist about Healthy Japanese Habits:
  ▶︎ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=04wZNnjdURE&list=PLI7YzPSSEXwCH3X8SY34_HlOAp3eZDo9Q
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  00:30 1) Aim for Depth, Not Just Height
  02:21 2) Find Your Ikigai!
  03:50 3) Find Your "Oshi"
  05:04 4) Taking a Bath
  05:50 5) Keep a Secret for Yourself
  07:15 6) Share Food, Share Happiness
  08:23 7) Wabi-Sabi Mind
  09:32 8) Let Go, and Life Opens Up
  10:36 9) The Power of Routine
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Today, I’ll share 9 Japanese well-being secrets you can try starting today! I’m Japanese, but I’ve lived in Western countries. While I was there, I noticed something interesting… The idea of well-being in Japan and the West feels a little different. The Japanese perspective on well-being might add a new spice of happiness to your life. So let's get started. Aim for Depth, Not Just Height

This is just my take, but Western well-being seems to focus a lot on climbing the social ladder, achieving success, and making dreams come true. Like, get promoted, make more money, expand. I really like that proactive mindset, but doesn’t it sometimes feel exhausting? If you feel that way, I think the Japanese approach to well-being might suit you better. That’s “going deep instead of going up. “ Simply put, it’s about focusing on mastering

what you’re doing now, instead of chasing money or trying to beat someone else. That way, you don’t have to stress about competition or numbers, and you can just enjoy the little progress you make every day. Ever heard of Sukiyabashi Jiro? It’s one of the most famous sushi restaurants in Japan. Jiro Ono, the sushi master, has been making sushi in the same only 10-seat restaurant in Tokyo for over 50 years.

You’d think he’d open more locations, start a franchise, go global, right? But he didn’t. It’s all for the sake of making even better sushi. I’ve heard that even at 98 years old, Jiro’s sushi is still evolving. He simply enjoyed mastering the art of sushi. But in the end, popularity and money naturally followed.

That's the power of ”going deep instead of going up” So why not dive deep into your hobby or work and master it? Go deep and enjoy the journey:) Who knows? In 10 years, you might be world-famous. Find Your Ikigai! Ikigai. I’m sure a lot of you have

heard of this concept, maybe even read the book. In this book, Ikigai is defined like this... According to this diagram, "Ikigai" is the area where these four circles overlap!

Sure, this chart might help you find your life's purpose honestly, as a Japanese person, I feel like it’s a bit off. For us, ikigai isn’t about something grand, like what the world needs from you. It’s much simpler—more like the little joys hidden in everyday life. It could be your job, or maybe just small daily habits. In fact, when I made a video about ikigai before, they said their ikigai was things like growing vegetables, writing in a journal, taking a walk, or drinking tea—just simple things.

What I realized is this: The key isn’t searching for ikigai. It’s about having a mindset that finds joy and gratitude in the little things. Yeah, Japanese well-being isn’t about chasing —it’s about noticing. With that mindset, anything you do can feel like ikigai. 3 Find Your "Oshi" You know Otaku, right?

I used to think Japanese otaku culture was kinda weird. I mean, some of them are really obsessed. But from a well-being perspective, I realized that they might actually be the happiest people in the world. Why? Because they have an "Oshi."

"Oshi" is a Japanese slang term for someone you passionately support and love—someone who brings you happiness just by existing. Back in the day, it was the Emperor or Kabuki actor. Now, an idol, an anime character, a sports player, even a writer, anyone can be Oshi. The best part is, just having an oshi makes you happy! It’s got nothing to do with your titles or status. When you’re cheering them on,

you get to feel pure and excited—like a kid again! My Oshi right now is Yoasobi:) Do you have any Oshi? If you don’t have an Oshi yet… maybe I can be yours? 😉 4 Taking a Bath Have you ever heard of Shabbat? In Judaism, it’s a weekly day of rest where people step away from their daily routines to focus on prayer and meditation. Interestingly, from a neuroscience perspective,

this kind of break is said to help refresh the mind. For me, I think Japan has its own version of Shabbat- It’s taking a bath. I love baths. Usually, Japanese people soak in the bath at the end of the day. While in the bath, we forget about work, daily stress, and anything negative, allowing ourselves to reset and recharge.

Bathing is more than just a routine—it’s a habit that supports Japanese well-being. 🚿✨ 5 Keep a Secret for Yourself This is a little bit interesting. Katsushika Hokusai, the legendary Japanese artist. You’ve probably seen this drawing. He created it.

He was a famous painter, but did you know that he had another side to him? He also secretly created… 春画, which is adult artwork, under the pen name 鉄棒ぬらぬら, which means "Slick Iron Bar.” When I first learned this, I was shocked. “ Why did he do this??” But also I realized…

he must’ve had so much fun keeping this secret! I think he was like, "There’s no way people would ever guess I drew this… hehe…" Sounds pretty fun, doesn’t it? 😆 I learned that from this fact—having a secret might actually be a key to making life more exciting. Maybe if you like singing, you can start a secret Instagram account for singing? Of course, I’m not saying you should do anything shady! But

a little secret just for your own joy can make your life like an adventure. Do I have a secret? Hmm… that’s a secret. 6 Share Food, Share Happiness One time, I was having a meal with Italian fans and said, “Let’s share our pizza!” But they told me, “In Italy, we don’t usually share plates like that.”

That totally surprised me—because in Japan, sharing food is just normal.

At izakayas for example, we don’t order separate dishes for each person. Instead, we order a bunch of different foods and share everything. This sharing culture can sometimes be a bit annoying, but I feel like it plays a huge role in Japan’s well-being. A bit annoying means, sometimes we fight—“Hey, that was my piece of meat!” 😆 When I was kids….

But other times, it’s about sharing joy—“This is amazing! You HAVE to try it!” Giving makes people happy, and receiving does too, happiness doubles! right? 😊 I think well-being is hidden in these small, everyday moments of sharing.

7 Wabi-Sabi Mind And next, we have Wabi-Sabi—the Japanese philosophy of finding beauty in imperfection. When I lived abroad, I felt that new and perfect things were seen as beautiful. But in Japan, even old and imperfect things are considered beautiful. A perfect example of this is Kintsugi, one of my favorite Japanese arts. It’s the technique of repairing broken pottery or glass with lacquer and gold.

Sure, it was once broken. It’s not flawless anymore. But because of those cracks, it becomes even more beautiful—a one-of-a-kind piece, completely unique in the world. Isn’t it the same for us? None of us are perfect. We've all had struggles, mistakes,

and scars—but that's what makes us beautiful and shapes who we are. They give our lives depth and character. When you can accept yourself as you are, that’s when true well-being begins. “Live on. You are beautiful.” —Ashitaka (Princess Mononoke)

Let Go, and Life Opens Up This idea comes from the Zen teaching of "emptiness" (空, kū)—letting go of things creates space, allowing new things to flow in.

I’ve experienced this myself. In my 20's, I got rid of almost everything I owned and became homeless. I was really devastated but, because of it, new opportunities started flowing in. I started working at a matcha café in Canada, became a teacher, and eventually… became a YouTuber.

Letting go creates space for new energy, new opportunities, and a new life.

Letting go can be tough sometimes, right? It's scary. But it’s only by letting go that you can make space to hold something exciting. That's why I believe letting go is also a key part of well-being. The Power of Routine In Japan, we see routine as something beautiful.

Take the tea ceremony, for example. It’s not just about drinking matcha—it’s about turning a simple act into a refined art through routine. By embracing routines, you can focus on the now. You can forget negative things, and your mind starts to relax. That’s well-being, isn't it😁? And the good news is, you can apply

this routine mindset to your daily life too! For example, I can create a morning routine, a cleaning routine, a stretching routine, and even a shower routine. Here’s what I realized: Even the smallest daily tasks can feel tedious if you rush through them. But when you do it with care and intention, turning it into a routine, it becomes healing. So, let’s create your own routine! and try doing it like a tea ceremony. 😊

That’s it for today! Which of these ideas resonated with you the most? Let me know in the comments!

I hope to see you in the next video!