---
video_title: "3:45 a.m. Morning Routine (Simple Life in Japan)"
video_id: 1NpI9mmQapI
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1NpI9mmQapI
video_date: 2025-12-06T02:13:26+00:00
video_description: |
  In this video, I’ll show you
  
  what one of our “3:45 morning routines”actually looks like.
  
  and at the end I’ll talk about why it’s so awesome and how you can start doing it too.
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  PLACE:
  ・助七-Sukeshichi
  ▶︎ https://www.instagram.com/sukeshichi_itoshiro
  ▶︎ https://itoshiro.org/pages/sukeshichi
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
So lately, we've been waking up at around 3:45 a.m. You probably think, "Why are you guys crazy?" Yeah, we kind of think that, too. So, why are we doing this? Because we felt that if we wake

up super early, we could make every single day more fulfilling and live a simpler and happier life. In this video, I'll show you what one of our 3:45 morning routines actually looks like. And in the end, I'll talk about why it's so awesome and how you can start doing it, too. Right now, we are staying in this beautiful, fully renovated traditional Japanese house, 助七Skeshichi. It's a private house rental open in the village where my partner lives. So, we came here to check it out.

Today's video is coming from this little special place. 3:45 to 50. Wake up. Oh gosh, it's bright. I'm so sleepy, but I have to get up. Normally, we sleep on futons on the floor, but today it's a

proper bed. Woo! So, the day starts with making the bed. Oh, and before we go on, two quick things. First, my walking looks like a bit weird. Yeah, because I recently tore my Aculus tendon,

I just got too excited at a sports day because I wanted to look cool in front of the kids and snap. But thanks to everyone's support, I'm slowly getting back to on my feet literally. Second, these clothes we are wearing are the loungewear from this place Echizen shirts and Karusan pants. They're incredibly comfortable. 4:00 白湯sayu time. We start with a cup of 白湯sayu . It's just

water we boiled once and let cool down a little. It's a simple but very healthy Japanese habit. Apparently while we are sleeping our body dries out like a desert. So first we make our body happy with this 白湯sayu. After that we do a bit of cleaning get breakfast ready and then head out.

4:20 walking. Before we go outside we put little heating pads on the soles of our feet. Hm. What is this? They are called ほっかいろ hokkairo. If you are coming to Japan in winter this will be a total lifesaver.

Yes. Especially here in north where the snow piles up this high in winter there are must. All right. This is one of the best parts of 3: 45 life. Look at this. The stars. When was the last

time you really stopped and stared at the nice sky? The sun kind of charges you up, but the stars feel like they clean your heart out. Purify your mind. If you wake up before the sunrise, you can do that. Yeah, I've been obsessed with it lately. All right,

let's walk. Honestly, I'd love to take you all around this village. But the dark is a little scary. On top of that, in Japan right now, there have been a lot of bear sightings. So, today we are just looping around the house like nervous tourists. We walk for about 20 minutes,

then head back. A little movement done. So, it's time to wash off. 4:45 morning bath. And now, my favorite part of the morning, the bath. Yahoo. Normally in the morning,

I just take a quick shower. But today, there is a real bathtub. This is pure healing. What's amazing about this bathroom is that when you slide the window open, listen to this.

Yeah, the whole place is designed so you can just sit in the bathtub and enjoy the natural sounds. It's amazing, isn't it? This is one of these Japanese ideas for healing. Hot morning bath wakes me up. So, next it's time to focus. 5:15 deep focus time. This is our before breakfast

work session. We usually work for about 2 hours here. Today, I did three things during this time. First, I wrote an article. Recently, I've been writing one article a day about simple living and self-growth, so I did it. Second, I worked on my book. I hadn't made progress for a while,

but I started again readily. And third, I wrote a YouTube script. This early in the morning, nobody bothers us. We can focus like crazy, so it's perfect for creative stuff. My partner Yuppi was reading, doing stretch, and doing some of her own work. 7:15 making breakfast. We already

did most of the prep, so now we just cook. The rice is looking perfect. We set everything on the table and breakfast is ready. 7:30 Japanese breakfast time. Today's menu, rice, miso soup, loca pickles, Japanese rolled omelette, and some orange and apple. Woo! Classic Japanese breakfast.

Honestly, I used to be a bread for breakfast person, but after starting living with her, now I prefer eating rice for breakfast. The reason is simple because rice keeps you full longer. So, your energy lasts into the day and a m soup is so good for your body that in Japan people say it washes away the toxics in the morning. So, it's like a little morning reset for your body. 8:00 free time. After breakfast, we each do our own thing for an hour. She usually works at a

clothing shop in the village. So on a normal day, she heads out around 9:00. And me, I usually start filming YouTube stuff. But today's our day off, so we went to visit shrine near the house. Yeah, that was our one day morning routine. And when I'm by myself, my morning routine looks roughly like

this. Good morning, world. 3:45 wake up. Four, walk. 4:30, shower and cleaning. 5 articles. 5:30

writing a book. 6 writing a script. 7:30 breakfast and matcha. 8:30 starting English. And nine, start work. Yeah, something like that. We've been living like this for about a month now. And

I found three big benefits about this lifestyle. First, your daily rhythm falls into place. Waking up at 3:45 and doing the same morning routine every day helps you build a solid rhythm for your day. And if you pack that routine with things that reset your mind and body, by 9:00 a.m. you are

basically the best version of you for that day. Second, you feel way more accomplished and calm. By the time everyone else is just starting work at 9:00, we've already done all of that stuff. That gives you an amazing sense of achievement. It's like in a marathon when other runners are just lining up at the starting line. You've already run 10 kilometers and because of it, you don't

have to sprint the rest. You can just jog at your own pace. That feeling turns into a deeper sense of calm inside. Third, life becomes simpler. I said waking up at 3:45 helps your morning rhythm, but actually it helps your nights too. Imagine if you want to get up at 3:45. You simply can't stay

up late, right? So naturally, you start winning against all kinds of temptations. For example, I go to bed around 8:00 p.m. So I can't waste time scrolling on social media and I rarely go out late with friends like parties. I have to think by this time I do this and by this time

I do this. So as a result my evening routine got much more intentional and simple. So now both my mornings and nights have a nice structure and my day feels more simpler. That said we are still in the middle of this experiment. To be honest there are days when we are sleepy and our productivity drops but so far both of us really like this lifestyle. So we want to keep going for a while.

So, how do you actually wake up 3:45? No worries. Here are three tips we found. First, don't cut sleep. Just slide your schedule. When people hear 3:45 a.m., a lot of people think,

"Wait, are you cutting your sleep?" But no, we are just shifting our whole sleeping schedule earlier than everyone else little by little. So if you usually go to bed at 11:00 and wake up at 7, try sleeping at 10:45 and waking up at 6:45, then slowly shift that to 10:30 and 6:30, 10:15 and 6:15 and keep shifting it earlier. The key is once your body get used to the time then you move to the next step. If you jump suddenly, it feels like giving you a jet lag. Imagine it's

like climbing a mountain. We don't go straight at Mount Fuji, right? You let your body adjust at each height, then go, then go, then go. It's like that. But here's an interesting cheat code. You

could live in a country that's a few hours ahead of your time zone. Yeah. For a while and then come back. Then you're morning person. Second, do it with your partner or friends. I started this with

my partner and we made our rule. When we wake up at 3:45, we send each other a message like, "Oh, good morning." Something like that. This has been incredibly helpful because you can't cheat, right? It's kind of like you're using that I don't want to break that promise energy as a little push. There's actually research that says people who share their goals with someone are

about 65% more likely to achieve them. Third, put something fun in your morning. Watch the stars in the morning. Make yourself a bowl of matcha. Read a book, running, walking. It can be anything. Just

add something that make you feel excited in the morning routines. Do you remember how easy it was to wake up early on the day of a school trip? Yeah. Use the power of excitement. Right now, for me, just being able to walk is already incredibly exciting. How about you? What

makes you feel happy and comfortable? Okay, that's it for today. Have a great day. Bye-bye.