---
video_title: "5 Japanese Mindsets That Instantly Lighten Your Heart!"
video_id: kF13vx05X8w
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kF13vx05X8w
video_date: 2025-03-29
video_description: |
  I want to share 5 Japanese ways of thinking that have helped me through tough times—mindsets that can lighten your heart and make things feel a little easier. 💡✨
  
  00:28 ①It's always sunny above the clouds.
  04:03 ②Body, Mind, or Soul? Japan’s Key to Stay Calm
  07:04 ③The Magical "しょうがない" Spirit 
  08:47 ④Death = Peaceful Reunion 
  10:29 ⑤The medicine of days
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  Japanese well-being
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/9PngK1TvjGA?si=Mjnsf3VFwLsUA1ki
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
If you clicked on this video, you might be feeling a little lost or going through a tough time. I get it—I’ve been there too. Recently, I lost my grandma, and I felt stuck with work. That’s exactly why I made this video. Today, I want to share 5 Japanese ways of thinking that have helped me through tough times—mindsets that can lighten your heart and make things feel a little easier. 💡✨ Let’s dive in! 🚀

1. It's always sunny above the clouds. This is a Japanese proverb that has helped me many times in my life. 🌱✨ Originally, it means that even if things feel tough right now, good times are waiting ahead, just like clear skies above the storm.🌈 That's a great message, right?

But actually, this proverb hides an even deeper secret about happiness, and I really want you to know about it! 😌✨ Here’s the secret to happiness: Happiness is simply

Again! Happiness is simply the absence of unhappiness. Do you know what I mean? If you want to be happy, you don't need to create happiness—just clear away unhappiness. Think of happiness as the sun and unhappiness as clouds☀️ If you feel unhappy, it just means there are clouds blocking your sun. 🌥️

But your happiness—the sun—is still always there, just hidden. Right?😌 In Japanese, happiness is written as “幸.” This actually comes from the shape of handcuffs. It originally meant something like, “Phew, I’m really glad I wasn’t handcuffed,” .

This also shows Happiness is simply the absence of unhappiness. right? When I realized this, my whole way of seeing life changed. Because your default setting should be sunny. If you're feeling down, your focus might just be stuck on those cloudy things Let me tell you a story: Two years ago, I was cycling through the Swiss Alps—on a bamboo single-speed bamboo bike!

Yes I know I was crazy… When I kept thinking about how hard the climb was, the clouds (negative thoughts) covered my heart. Wow! This is hard, I want to go back to Japan! 😩😅 But then I started noticing small flowers 🌸 on the roadside. They were beautiful, and seeing them made me think, "I'm so lucky to be cycling on such a beautiful road!"

Suddenly, I wasn't focused on the pain anymore—I was feeling joyful again. 🌷😌✨ Another perfect example is this. Recently, I posted this on my YouTube community, sharing that I felt a bit lost because of a comment from one of my viewers. They basically said, I don't really like your current videos. Your past simple-life videos were better.

First, thank you for your honest opinion. I’ll take it to heart! Usually, these comments don't bother me that much— but for some reason, this time, I just couldn't get it out of my head. I was like, should I make more videos about minimalism? What I should do?

It was exactly like clouds were covering my sunshine. ☀️☁️😞 But then, I started reading more than 500 warm and supportive comments from you guys —and just like that, the clouds cleared away, and the sun started shining again. ☀️🥹✨ You shift your focus from the clouds to what's beautiful around you. That's exactly how happiness works. 2. Body, Mind, or Soul? Japan’s Key to Stay Calm

Alright, let me ask you something fun: What do you consider your true self? 🤔 Is it your body? 🧍‍♂️ Your mind? 🧠 Or maybe your soul? ✨ In Japan, not all, but many people subconsciously believe the true self is actually the soul. 🇯🇵✨

This idea comes from Shinto-ism ⛩️ Of course, you’re free to think however you want, But personally, adopting this mindset can really make your life simpler and easier .🌈😊 Here’s the thing: When you think too much that your body or your mind is "you," you tend to suffer more easily. 😞 🚨 Why thinking "I'm only my body" is tough: 🚨 Let me tell you a quick story. Once, I was hospitalized with a collapsed lung 🏥😵‍💫 I can’t believe it now, but I had tubes stuck inside my body, breathing was painful, and I couldn’t even walk properly. 😥 If I had thought “this body is all I am,” I would have probably thought, "My body is so limited—I’m useless and worthless right now." 😔💔

This way of thinking really hurts, right? 🚨 Why thinking "I'm only my mind" is tough: 🚨 Honestly, I used to think exactly like that! But it caused me a lot of trouble…😅 For example, when I was in the hospital, I thought, “What if my lung never heals?” or “Why is this happening only to me?”.

I was filled with anxiety and frustration. So, if you think “your mind = you,” you end up being swayed by your emotions. That's why seeing your soul ✨as your true self. So why soul? When you recognize that your soul is the core, you can view your body and mind objectively, Like: “Ah, my body—you seem to be having trouble with your lungs. It might be rough now,

but with some rest, you’ll get better.” “Ah, my mind—I get that you’re frustrated and anxious. But these feelings are only temporary. Soon we'll be out of here and feeling awesome again. Let's stay positive!”

Like that! Let's Imagine for a moment! Think that you are a soul, looking at your body and mind objectively. 👁️✨ And if your heart or body feels heavy right now, try saying something kind to them—like I did. Don’t you feel a bit lighter?

Japanese philosopher Nakamura Tenkafu once said, "When your stomach hurts, just imagine it's the lady next door who has the stomachache." 😂👏 If you can view yourself so objectively, you’ll always stay calm. 🌸 3. The Magical "しょうがない" Spirit 🌸 Have you ever heard of "しょうがない"? It's like a magic Japanese word that instantly cheers you up and helps you move forward! 🚀✨

This phrase reflects a mindset of accepting things you can't control, then moving forward positively. Japanese people use it like this— "Ahh, I made a mistake at work today…😩 しょうがない! Let’s kaizen (improve)! 💪✨" "Got dumped by your partner? 💔 しょうがない! Time to find someone better! 😜🎉"

"It's picnic day—but oh no, it's raining! ☔️ しょうがない! Let's just watch a movie instead! 🍿📺" Instead of feeling frustrated or upset, you just let it go, adjust your perspective, and keep going.🌈😌 I think everybody has this mindset, but Japanese people have it really really strongly. 🇯🇵✨

It's because Japan experiences a lot of natural disasters. 🌪️🌊 For example, imagine losing your house in an earthquake. Complaining “Why? Why only me?,This isn’t fair” isn’t going to bring your house back.

That's why Japanese people developed the "shouganai" mindset—to bounce back quickly, even from tough situations. 🌸💪✨ In our everyday lives too, so many things happen that we can't control. It hurts, sure, but since these things have already happened and are beyond our control. So say “しょうがない,” and shift your mindset, and look forward..

🌸 4. Death = Peaceful Reunion 🌸 I’m going to talk about death— it's a sensitive topic for some people— So, feel free to skip this part if you're not comfortable! 😊✨ Question: How do you see Death? I guess for most people, it's pretty negative—I totally get it. But what if I told you there's a Japanese way of looking at death that can totally change your perspective—making it peaceful? 🌈😊 In Shinto, there's this beautiful idea:

Our souls originally come from Tokoyo, not Tokyo, the eternal world. We're just here temporarily on Earth for training, growth, and adventure! When we die, our body might stop…stop! but our soul’s journey continues. They finish its journey on Earth and return home to that peaceful world, Tokyo, not Tokyo🕊️🌈✨ Over there, your loved ones are waiting for you, waiting to welcome you back home with a huge smile, saying: Uncle: “So, how was life on Earth?”

Grandma: “Did you eat lots of delicious food?” Friend: “Got any souvenirs?” Isn't that heartwarming? 💖✨ I personally love this Shinto perspective because it transforms death from something scary into something comforting, peaceful and even joyful! I imagined grandma was probably being welcomed so happily and now she is waiting for me "Welcome back! How was your trip on Earth?" 😊🌸✨

5. The medicine of days This is the last one. When things really really though, I always remind myself of these words: 🌱✨ 日にち薬ーThe medicine of daysー I was reading a book, and I came across this phrase. I was like, “日にち薬? Is that an actual medicine?”

But it's not a pill at all. It means that no matter how much sadness or pain you feel, time will heal you. I'd never heard that phrase before, it turns out it’s a Kyoto dialect term! Now that I think about it, that’s so true! 🤔✨ I remember my first heartbreak back in school— it felt like the end of the world! But now, it doesn't bother me at all. 😂💕

Do you feel the same? The medicine of days truly healed me. So if you're feeling down or struggling right now, It might hurt today, but someday you'll look back and smile about it. 😊🌈 Hang in there! You've got this! 💪✨

I hope this video helps lift your spirits, even just a little! I hope to see you in the next video:)))