---
video_title: "A Peaceful Spring Day in Rural Japan | Resetting My Routine"
video_id: PQUOaCLrP_E
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PQUOaCLrP_E
video_date: 2026-05-02T01:00:21+00:00
video_description: |
  Recently, I moved to a super rural village in Japan to live with my partner…
  and honestly, it hasn’t been that easy haha.
  My routine kind of fell apart, but it’s getting better little by little.
  So today, I’ll take you through a real spring day in my life here in rural Japan.
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  REFERENCES:
  ・WHY JAPANESE MEALS KEEP YOU THIN?
  ▶︎https://youtu.be/WDSs9Zrgj58?si=zcStn1W86bC77ri_
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
Recently, I moved to a super rural village in Japan to live with my partner. And honestly, it hasn't been that easy. My routine kind of fell apart, but it's getting better, little by little. So today I'll take you through a real spring day in my life here in rural Japan. Good morning, spring is here, but nights are still freezing. Thanks to your comments in the previous video, I started to use a wooden pallet to lift my foot home. Yeah, this one. It's only about 3 cm, but it makes a huge difference. Now I can sleep so much better. After wake up, I brush my teeth, wash my face, and drink warm water with a cost drink. Gently waking up my dry body and my gut. Alright, let's get changed and head out for an adventure in the Japanese countryside. Let's go! Look at this! Cher Blossom finally started blooming. It's so beautiful, right? Good morning, Adu. Yeah, feeding him is one of my morning routine recently. I used to do morning walk or run about 15 minutes, but now I've changed it to 45 minutes. That reason is a bit embarrassing, I got fat. Yeah, last year I had a collapse lung and tore my acolystendon. I did the exercises as much as I could, but it didn't seem to be enough. So I decided to go for a run about 45 minutes every morning. Okay, quick question. Where do you think I'm going? One, an elementary school. Two, the top of the mountain. Three, a shrine. The answer is a shrine. Yeah, there is a very sacred shrine up there. So let's go there with me. Okay, let's keep going. Climbing, climbing, still climbing. Sometimes I enjoy the scenery and finally I made it to the top. In front here, there are actually a lot of bears. I gotta be careful. It's a bit scary. So I usually go like this. Okay, almost there. And this is it. We made it. This shrine is set to be a place where a dragon leaves in the spiritual world. It's very quiet and majestic, right? I always pray that everyone can live a happy life here. Okay, on the way back, I do something a bit unique. Yeah, recently I found this. I've fought leaves on the water and raised them. Yeah, this is my unique morning routine nowadays. I'm always running like Jack Sparrow. All right, I'm back home. Phew. Running took a bit longer today because I took a lot of videos. Okay, next, when I get back, I take a shower. Look at this. You'd be warmed up the room while I was running. Thank you so much. Look at this laundry. She falls everything so neatly. Seriously, I'm always thankful for her. After the shower, I cleaned the bathroom and toilet in about five minutes. Quick and simple. Then I plan my day and study English about 30 minutes. All right, time to start making breakfast. Let's go. In my last video, I said we started eating at 8.30, but after talking with her, we changed it to around 7.30. Also, I found a way to reduce cooking time. Listen, traditionally in Japan, meals for each of you sound side, which is rice plus one soup and three side dishes. I talked about it in this video, but that actually takes time to make for me. I'm not like my mother. So I started trying the itchiju isai, which means rice plus one soup and one side dish. You might think just having one soup and one dish isn't enough nutritionally. So with this method, we add a lot more ingredients in the miso soup. Super simple, but still nutritious, right? And this will be our one side dish. Pickles. You know, this is the magic. Nukadoko that I made. Nukadoko is a traditional Japanese fermentation bed made from rice bran, salt and water. Yeah, it's like a magic box. All you have today is just put some vegetables in it. And one day or two days later, you can have beautiful pickles. Today we're having cucumber pickles. Thanks to this system, I reduced cooking time a lot. Okay, it's done. Itadakimasu. Itadakimasu. We ate and chatted until around 8.15 today. Yai-Dou was just a nice, slow morning. She usually takes care of the dishes. So yeah, thanks to her, the kitchen is always perfectly clean. There are no water drops or all stains. Beautiful. Okay, in the morning, I focus on my most important task. I like the idea of eating the frog. So I try to finish the hardest task first. Today I'm writing a script about organizing and leaving clutter free. It's a real Japanese technique not created by AI. So please looking forward to it. She leaves for work at this time. And then my favorite time of the day, the games. You know what it is? Yes, much a time. Every morning, I do a minimal, much a ritual. This time always brings me back to zero. I love this time. Yeah, in a way, this is my true Ikigai. Yeah, I met Macha while looking up the cherry blossoms. So beautiful. After you've joined me, so nice morning. We had such a peaceful, beautiful moment together. Today is a warm spring day, so I decided to work outside. One of my friends even stopped by for Macha. I feel like I'm opening Macha Cafe. Who? In the morning, I'm still putting together a script about organizing tips. She comes back home for lunch. Usually we eat separately, but today we had egg rice together. After lunch, I usually leave some empty time. I call it kind of Yohaku time. No plans, no schedule. I can do anything I want. You having this time gives me a sense of calm. Today, I just felt like taking a walk around the neighborhood. Then I ended up interviewing people about their Ikigai. It was such a meaningful time. In the afternoon, I focused and finished my script. By the way, I've been wearing this headband all day. This is called Hachimaki. Yeah, in Japan, there's a culture of time cloth, usually tenigui around your head. She said that it helps boost your focus. Actually, there's no strong scientific proof, but I think it works for me. After that, I had a meeting with a friend about breathing techniques. Good night. Around 6 p.m. she comes home and starts making dinner. She says she's not really good at cooking, but honestly, her meals are always amazing. While she cooks, I take a bath and a stretch. Alright, dinner is ready. Yay, grilled macarons set meal. It's so delicious. Thank you so much. Before we used to talk too long after dinner, and we ended up going to bed late. But now we talked about it and decided to have our own time starting around 7.30. 7.30, I usually start reading books. And this is something I'm reading right now. My personal Bible, Hittotara Shijits. It kind of means the art of winning people over or the art of charming people. The idea is simple. Your sexist and happiness depends on how attractive you are as a person. It's written in over 20 years by the Monk Muno Show Game. And this book costs around $70. Yeah, it's not cheap, but it's incredibly interesting. And it changed my life. I'll share it with you someday. Finally, I want to introduce this technique for you. If this is what drama clean improved our sleep quality. Like this, put our phones in the box and seal it. Go go! Go go! Yeah, like Naruto. Sounds silly, right? But it actually works really, really well. By doing this, we physically stop looking at our phones and it helps our brains relax a lot. After that, I just relax, prepare your temple, hot water bottle, and go to bed around 9. Yeah, that's it. I think my routine is starting to come together a little. What does your daily routine look like? If you have any ideas, let me know in the comments. Have a beautiful spring day. See you next week.