---
video_title: "5 Rural Japanese Habits That Make You Happier✨"
video_id: 6XUCsLAM_uo
channel_name: "Samurai Matcha"
channel_id: UCR9ygnRBOt8qfSbkCwOA3pw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XUCsLAM_uo
video_date: 2026-07-02T06:00:30+00:00
video_description: |
  In this video, I'd like to share the secrets to happiness I discovered in rural Japan.
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Subscribe and become a friend today: https://www.youtube.com/c/SamuraiMatcha
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  MUSIC:
  ・Epidemic Sound
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  BE MY FRIEND:
  INSTAGRAM https://www.instagram.com/samuraimatcha.journey/
  FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/mizuno.akihito​
  
  ------------------------------------------
  
  GET IN TOUCH:
  If you’d like to talk, feel free to email me at samuraimatcha.japan@gmail.com I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone...
---
I recently moved to this remote village deep in the mountains of Japan. This village has no convenience stores, no trains, just two buses a day. And in winter, it's buried in snow like this. Yeah, life here is pretty tough. But somehow the people here seem happier than the people I knew in Tokyo. Why is that? I started to paying close attention to life here and I found the answers.

They are ancient Japanese mindsets and habits that many of us already forgotten. Today I'm going to share five of them with you. Let's go. First, a life less dependent on money. Since moving here, I've spent way less time stressing out money. And it's not just me. Most of the people living

here don't seem very worried about money either. Ah, everyone here must be secretly rich. They're hiding money in their storehouse, right? No, not like that. They are less dependent on money. Yeah,

that's it. Let me give you three examples. First, barter. Did you know that Japan had a very peaceful period called Joman period? It began about 13,000 years ago and lasted until about 2,300 years ago. For nearly 10,000 years, people lived without money. Yeah, people traded goods

and skills instead. And this is the secret. This village has existed since those ancient times. So, some of that spirit still remains. Isn't it great? People trade homegrown vegetables.

They share homemade pickles with neighbors. Other than that, some teaches like traditional craft and another person helps build a shed like this. In this village, life doesn't always require money. Second, food independence. Unlike crowded Tokyo, there's a plenty of land here. So many people grow

at least some of their own food. On top of that, some food is free. Why? Because in the mountains, you'll find many wild vegetables and mushrooms. And look at this. Fresh spring water. Yeah,

they are everywhere. So even without a lot of money, people can still get food sometimes for free. Third, low living costs. If you love Japan, and you've probably heard that Japanese houses in rural Japan are cheap, and that's true. Our rent, for example, it's $130 a month, including utilities and houses like this, it's about $200. And if you want to buy one, I think

you can buy them around $20,000. And if you're super lucky, you might find one for free. Crazy, right? When you put it all together, butter, food independence, and a low living cost, you end up having a lifestyle that depends less on money and less time worrying about money, which means you can be more relaxed and comfortable. Which do you prefer? Simple life with less financial stress,

fancy life, but you're always worried about the next bill? I prefer the simple life. If you're like me, maybe start relying on less on money. Maybe you can grow your food, trade the skills with your friends, move somewhere cheaper. Yeah. Step by step. Let's go together. Second,

the mind of Jiねm. When I first came to this village, this surprised me. The people here seemed incredibly natural. Nobody seemed obsessed with like becoming more successful or more productive, but they seem genuinely happy. Yeah. Why? I was wondering too. And I just remembered

an old Japanese idea called Jinen. Jinen is the Buddhist term. It's an ancient Japanese way of life. And it means that humans are not separated from nature. We are part of it. Not above it,

not outside it. Part of it. Have you ever seen the princess Monoke? People with Jane mindset remind me of Ashitaka, not Lady Eboshi. Lady Eboshi sees nature as something to control. On the other hand,

Ashitaka sees himself as part of nature and lives a harmony with it. Right? That's the mindset of Jinen. And I realized that that living with Jinen is one of the big keys to being yourself. Why?

Because nature never tries to be anything other than what it is. A tree doesn't force itself to grow faster. Yet, it's beautiful. A river doesn't try to flow uphill. Yet, it's beautiful.

The flowers, the wind, the rain, they're all beautiful simply by being themselves, right? And the point is you are part of that same nature. Which means you don't need to be rich or have more things to be worthy. Just like tree or river, you are already beautiful as you are. Third, Teshigoto in Japan, there's a word called Teshigoto. It means handwork. Yeah, think of traditional craftsman and sword myth.

Yeah, that's all Teshigoto. Because this village is so remote and inconvenient, many of these Teshigoto are still alive. And I really think this is one of the big secrets to a fulfilling life. Why? Because I realized it gives you the feeling that you are creating your own life. For example,

when I dyed my own clothes for the first time, I was kind of super happy and really fulfilled. Oh, I could dye my clothes. Yeah, like that. In this village, there are many tesigoto workshops. So, sometimes making traditional pants called Tatuke and Sashiko stitching. You know what it is? Yeah.

Whenever I visit the workshop, students seem to be struggled and it takes time. But when they finish it, they all smile and they feel so accomplished. So if you spend a lot of time scrolling on social media, maybe put your phone down and try to creating something. I think it might bring more joy into your life. Fourth, living like family. There's a slogan in this village. This village

is one family. At first, I thought it was just a slogan, but they actually leave it. For example, just the other day, my neighbor suddenly stopped by our house and said, "Hey, I'm run out of soy sausas. Can I borrow?" Or like when Obachan, like older lady, came up and said, "Hey, look at this.

We grew these corns. Take as many as you want." Or like because everyone feels like family. The kids in this village play with everyone in this village. Yeah, they hang out with her and him.

Everybody. Isn't that dangerous for kids? I think. Yeah. In, for example, in big cities like Tokyo.

Yeah. Because there are simply many strangers. But here it's different. People know each other, trust each other like a real family. Look at me. I'm a pretty weird guy wearing kimono and fondoshi. But

even so, people around here treat me like family. So, I'm so comfortable and feel at peace every day. Of course, it might be difficult to create a community like this area. But I believe you can build that meaningful community even if it's small, little by little. Yeah, trust each other like family. I think that's the key to peaceful life. Fifth, the spirit of give and give. You know

the phrase give and take, right? You help someone and kind of you expect something in return. It's beautiful. But people here seem to live by a slightly different idea. I found it and call it give and give. Yeah. It means you give something without expecting anything back. You just give.

For example, she always gives us vegetables from her garden. Yeah. She always like, "Take it. Take it." Or I found local kids volunteer to clear snow out from the bus stop. And for me recently,

one of my friends wanted to make matcha cookies. So, I gave my all of my precious matcha for free. Something like this. I didn't expect anything in return. And not just me, anyone in this village.

Yeah, they simply want to help. They simply want to see someone smile. But wouldn't you get exhausted if you're always giving? H yeah, that's what I thought too. But here's the secret.

Almost anyone has the spirit of giving. So that giving is passing around like give give. One day you share dango for everyone. Another day someone brings you cake like this because everyone gives, you're not just giving, you're receiving a lot too. So that's why it doesn't feel exhausting. So why not giving something today? Just try to make one person smile. Maybe

that's how trusted like family community begins. Lastly, I got to say the other day a young guy from UK just came to this village. He originally planned to leave pretty quickly, maybe three days, but he ended up loving this place and stayed an extra week. I think he found something in this village, something that made him truly happy. And I hope you too have a great day. Byebye.