---
video_title: "Hands on The 180-Day AI and Machine Learning Journey  #aiagents #chatgpt #machinelearning"
video_id: EBYwOZstuz0
channel_name: "SystemDR - Scalable System Design "
channel_id: UCi1BkzqiwN5wChnvt20uBWQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EBYwOZstuz0
video_date: 20260817
video_description: |
  https://aieworks.substack.com/
  http://systemdrd.com/
  
  Are you ready to unlock the power of artificial intelligence but don't know where to start? We're thrilled to announce the launch of our brand-new, comprehensive 180-day AI and Machine Learning course, designed specifically for absolute beginners.
  
  This isn't just another online tutorial. Our curriculum is a full-fledged learning journey that takes you from the ground up, with no prior programming or math knowledge required.
  
  Upgrade to access github sources
  
  Github Link :
  https://github.com/sysdr
  
  
  
  
  What Makes Our Course Different?
  We’ve structured this course as a complete, six-month curriculum, blending foundational theory with practical, hands-on projects.
  
  From Scratch to Mastery: We start with the absolute basics, teaching you Python, the essential math (linear algebra, calculus, and statistics), and key libraries like NumPy and Pandas.
  
  Practical Learning: You'll build real-world projects at every stage. Starting with simple data analysis, you'll progress to building a credit card fraud detection system, a movie recommender, and a customer segmentation model.
  
  Dive into Deep Learning: After mastering traditional machine learning, you’ll dive into the world of deep learning. Learn to build neural networks from scratch and use industry-standard frameworks like TensorFlow and PyTorch for computer vision and natural language processing.
  
  A Complete Portfolio: By the end of the 180 days, you will have completed a full final project, giving you a powerful, job-ready portfolio to showcase your skills.
  
  Whether you're looking to pivot careers, enhance your current role, or simply satisfy your curiosity, this course is your complete roadmap to becoming proficient in AI and Machine Learning.
  
  Subscribe and Get ready to transform your skills and career.
---
To master AI and machine learning, you don't need endless theory. You need to write code that runs. Start your 80-day journey from scratch, build real-world models, and master