---
video_title: "Debugging LLM Logic:Tracing AI Reasoning&Validating AI Decisions ChatGPT, Gemini, Prompt Engineering"
video_id: CKgEq32BjqE
channel_name: "SystemDR - Scalable System Design "
channel_id: UCi1BkzqiwN5wChnvt20uBWQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CKgEq32BjqE
video_date: 2026-07-29T09:30:34+00:00
video_description: |
  Website Link: systemdrd.com
  Want to understand why an LLM produces a particular answer? In this video, you'll learn practical techniques for debugging LLM logic by analyzing AI outputs, validating responses, and identifying reasoning failures without relying on hidden internal reasoning. We cover LLM output validation, AI debugging, prompt engineering, AI hallucinations, retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), prompt optimization, AI code debugging, structured prompting, chain-of-thought alternatives, response evaluation, AI testing, LLM evaluation, ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini, GitHub Copilot, and generative AI best practices. Through real-world examples, you'll discover how to detect factual errors, logic inconsistencies, and unreliable outputs while building trustworthy AI applications. Whether you're an AI engineer, software developer, machine learning practitioner, prompt engineer, or data scientist, this tutorial will help you create more reliable, production-ready AI systems using systematic LLM evaluation and debugging strategies.
  #llm  #chatgpt  #promptengineering  #generativeai  #aiprogramming
---
Welcome everyone. Thanks for [music] being here. Today we're talking about a problem every team building on large [music] language models eventually runs into. What do you do when the model is wrong and you don't know why? This session is [music] called debugging LLM logic techniques for tracing AI reasoning [music] and understanding its decisions. It's aimed at engineers who

are already shipping LLM features and are starting to hit the limits of what prompt tweaking [music] and console logging can tell you. We're going to move through this in seven parts. Why this is genuinely hard. A mental model [music] for where reasoning actually happens inside the stack. A real production tracing pipeline. A code

example you could adapt today. The trade-offs you'll [music] hit in production. A real research case study. And finally, the lesson that tends to separate teams who debug these systems [music] well from teams who don't. Let's get into it. Here's the core problem,

the blackbox problem. When traditional [music] code fails, you get a stack trace, a line number, something to break on. [music] When an LLM produces a wrong answer, you get nothing like [music] that. You get tokens. Fluent, well- formatted, confident sounding [music] tokens. Whether the underlying reasoning

was sound, inconsistent, or quietly fabricated after the fact, [music] that's what makes this different from normal debugging. Debugging model logic means reconstructing a reasoning process that the model [music] itself may not faithfully report back to you. In practice, this [music] shows up as three distinct failure modes. First, hallucination, fluent, well ststructured [music] answers that are simply wrong. Second, unfaithful reasoning, a stated chain of thought that doesn't actually match the computation [music] that produced the answer. And third, silent

tool misuse. A correct looking output that was actually built on [music] a failed or skipped tool call nobody noticed. And here's the key insight that this entire talk builds on. Chain of thought text is a [music] hypothesis about the model's reasoning. It is not a verified log of it. Research [music] on

chain of thought faithfulness has repeatedly shown that models can produce plausible [music] step-by-step explanations that diverge from what actually drove the answer. That's [music] the core reason. Just read the reasoning isn't a debugging strategy on its own. We need something more [music] rigorous. Let's build the mental model for that.

This is the mental model I want you to carry through the rest of the talk. The anatomy [music] of a reasoning trace. Every LLM interaction passes through six debugable layers. At the top, the input prompt, [music] your user input, system prompt, and any retrieved context that gets tokenized [music] and embedded, converted from text into vector space. From there, [music] it flows through hidden states and attention, the actual internal computation happening across [music] the model's layers. Then,

critically, the reasoning trace, the model's stated step-by-step [music] narrative, its chain of thought. Below that, tool calls and actions, function calls, retrieval, code execution. And finally, the output, the final answer that actually reaches your user. Most teams [music] only instrument the very top and the very bottom of this stack. They log the input [music] and they log the output. Everything in between is a

black box, and that's exactly [music] where the interesting failures live. So, here's how tracing techniques map onto this stack. Logg prob and uncertainty capture attaches at tokenization and at the output layer. Attention [music] and activation probing attaches at the hidden states layer. Faithfulness and self-consistency checks attach specifically at the reasoning trace layer. That's the coot [music] text

itself. And structured tool call logging attaches at the tool call layer. [music] The takeaway here, different failures live at different layers. And a technique that's great for one layer will tell you almost nothing [music] about another. Keep this map in mind.

We're going to come back to it when we talk about which technique to reach for. So what does [music] this look like as an actual system? Here's a production tracing pipeline. Five stages. Stage one, the prompt. Input plus context.

Same as always. [music] Stage two, the model call itself, but instrumented with hooks, capturing log probs, attention data, and chain of [music] thought as the call happens. Stage three, a trace store, structured JSON per turn, not free text logs. Stage four, [music] an analysis layer where faithfulness and anomaly scoring actually happen. And stage five, a dashboard for alerts and replay. The single most important

[music] design decision here is stage two, capture at generation time, not after the fact. Log propbs and attention [music] data are cheap to grab inline while the call is happening, and they're effectively impossible to reconstruct once the response has [music] already been generated and logged as plain text as plain text. The analysis layer is what turns raw traces into something actionable. This is where you compute faithfulness scores and flag anomalies. Without it, you just have a very large, very expensive data lake that nobody queries during an incident. And here's

what this pipeline catches that plain logs alone don't. Confident answers built on low log prob high uncertainty tokens. Reasoning steps that don't causally connect to the final answer. And tool calls that silently failed but got papered over in the response. Anyway in the response. Anyway in the response.

Anyway in the response. Anyway in the response. Anyway in the response. Anyway in the response. Anyway in the response.

Anyway in the response. Anyway in the response. Anyway in the response. Anyway in the response. Anyway in the response.

Anyway in the A quick war story here. A common pattern is a support escalation that blames the model in general when the actual defect is a tool call three layers down that returned malformed data. Completely invisible if you're only looking at input and output. Let's look at what instrumenting that model call layer actually looks like in code. This is deliberately minimal. A

production version would add retries, redaction, and batching, but the shape stays the same regardless of which model provider you're using. At the top, we define a reasoning trace data class. This is the contract. Everything downstream, your trace store, your analysis layer, your dashboard depends on this schema staying stable. It holds a prompt hash, the reasoning steps, token log probs, tool calls, and a faithfulness score. Below that, the

traced call function wraps the actual model request. Four things happen here that are worth calling out specifically. One, we extract the chain of thought steps verbatim before any downstream summarization step gets a chance to smooth over inconsistencies in them. Two, we extract token level log props. Low confidence spans are exactly where hallucination risk concentrates. The

goal is to flag those spans, not silently discard the uncertainty information. Three, we extract tool calls. And this includes failed or retried calls, not just the one that ultimately succeeded. A very common mistake is logging only successful tool calls. Your tree store looks perfectly healthy right up until an incident review needs to see the failures that were silently retried.

Four, we compute a faithfulness score, a cheap self-consistency check run against the trace itself, not against the raw output text. That trace object then gets written to the tree store we saw in the pipeline diagram. This is the instrumentation layer that makes everything else in this talk possible. Once you can capture this, the very next question every team hits usually around week two of building this out is how much of it do you actually keep? On one side, full verbose tracing. Visibility

is complete. Every token, every activation hook, every tool call retained, but the cost is real. High storage and latency overhead. And in some cases, this can add double-digit percentages to your P99 latency. There's also a privacy dimension. Sensitive

prompt and response content persists in full, which means you need a real redaction policy. This mode is best for pre-launch validation, incident forensics, and high stakes domains where you genuinely need everything. On the other side, sampled or compressed tracing. You keep a statistical sample plus compressed summaries of the reasoning steps. Cost is low and steady, and it scales to real production traffic volumes. The retained surface is

smaller, which makes it easier to stay within data retention limits. This is best for steadystate monitoring, regression detection, and costsensitive scale. Neither of these is strictly better than the other. Most mature teams run sampled tracing as their default and build in the ability to escalate a specific session to full tracing on demand. For example, the moment a user actually reports an issue. A common

rollout mistake worth naming directly, shipping full verbose tracing to 100% of production traffic on day one and then discovering the storage bill and the data retention review both arrive before the debugging value does. Depth is one axis. The other axis is once you've decided to look closer, which technique do you actually reach for? This table is the decision matrix. Hallucinated facts are cheaply caught with a log prob and uncertainty scan. Medium

interpretability, low runtime cost. Inconsistent answers across retries call for self-consistency sampling, medium on both dimensions. The harder case, reasoning that looks right, but the answer is wrong. That needs attention and activation probing, high interpretability value, but also high runtime cost. Silent tool call failures are caught with structured tool call logging. High interpretability, but

actually low cost since you're not doing anything expensive, just logging correctly. And the hardest case of all, stated reasoning that doesn't match actual computation needs circuit or feature attribution. This is intentionally the most expensive row in the table, both to run and to interpret. Here's the rule of thumb printed at the bottom, and I want to be explicit about it. Work down this table only when the cheaper technique above it has already failed to explain the behavior you're chasing. Teams that jump straight to

expensive interpretability tooling for every ambiguous case end up burning budget that a simple log prob scan or a self-consistency rerun would have resolved for the vast majority of tickets. That bottom row circuit and feature attribution isn't hypothetical. Here's a real example of it in action. This case study is Anthropic's circuit tracing research, reading a model's internal circuits. Anthropic's interpretability team built what they call attribution graph methods. The idea

is to trace a model's output back through the intermediate features and circuits that actually produced it, not just the words the model wrote down as it stated reasoning. The finding I want to highlight is direct evidence for the thesis we opened with. The research showed concrete cases where a model's stated chain of thought was in effect a post hawk narrative, a plausible story told after the fact, while the attribution graph revealed a different computational path that was actually driving the answer. Why does this matter for debugging in practice? It demonstrates that reasoning trace tools and mechanistic tools are answering two genuinely different questions. What did

the model say it did versus what did the model actually compute? Production debugging done well needs visibility into both. Now most teams in this room will not be running circuit tracing themselves. That kind of tooling remains largely a research and audit capability today. But the same principle applies at every layer of the stack we've discussed. Verify don't just read. In

practice what this looks like at the production level, observability layers, think lang or langfuse style tracing capture the chain of thought and tool call layer of the stack. Mechanistic tools stay mostly in research for now. But that verify don't trust principle still applies and the teams doing this well pair cheap self-consistency checks in production with deeper mechanistic style audits during incident review when the stakes justify the cost. If you remember one sentence from this entire talk, I'd want it to be this one. Chain of thought is not proof of computation.

A model can generate a fluent step-by-step explanation that reads exactly like reasoning while the actual answer was produced by a different sometimes a shortcut internal path. This isn't a rare edge case. It's a structural property of how these models generate text. So treat visible reasoning as a claim to be checked, not a log to be trusted. That framing points toward where the field is actually headed. And I'll walk

through three trends quickly. First, from words to weights, mechanistic interpretability is shifting debugging away from reading generated text and toward reading learned features and circuits directly. Second, sparse human legible features. Sparse autoenccoders decompose dense tangled activations into units that are more monossemantic, more individually inspectable than raw activations ever were. Third, faithfulness as a first class metric. Faithfulness and

self-consistency scores are becoming standard evaluation dimensions alongside accuracy, not an afterthought bolted on later. I'd frame this as the real dividing line between teams that debug LLM systems well and teams that don't. The former treat a model's stated reasoning as evidence to weigh, not a verdict to accept at face value. Let's compress everything we've covered into heristics you can actually take back to your team. Five heruristics.

Think of these as decision-m rules, not a recap. One, treat chain of thought as a hypothesis, not ground truth. verify it against log props, tool calls, or activations, wherever it actually matters. Two, instrument before you need it. Trace capture that gets added after an incident always arrives too late to explain that specific incident. The data

you need simply wasn't being captured yet. Three, match the technique to the failure mode. Hallucination, inconsistency, and tool misuse each need a different lens. Go back to the decision matrix when you're not sure which. Four, budget for trace storage and privacy from day one. Verbose tracing

has real cost and real data handling implications. Plan for that before you commit to a depth, not after. And five, faithfulness checks. Self-consistency sampling perturbation tests catch what reading the surface level reasoning alone never will. Notice that one and five are really the same idea stated at two different points in your workflow.

Verify reasoning before you act on it and verify it again afterward systematically with faithfulness checks. A few pointers if you want to go deeper on any of this. Two papers ground the two core claims from today. Anthropic's work on tracing the thoughts of a large language model which underpins the circuit tracing case study and Turpin and colleagues research showing that chain of thought reasoning can be systematically unfaithful to the model's actual process which underpins the faithfulness thesis running through the whole talk on the tooling side and this is genuinely where most teams should start. Langsmith and Langfuse style tracing along with True Lens let you operationalize the reasoning trace layer we've discussed without needing research grade interpretability tooling and OpenAI evalured repeatable evaluation that faithfulness scoring depends on. So to land where we

started, the goal was never a model that explains itself perfectly. It's a system where you can tell when it's lying to you, including in a very real sense to itself. That's the whole talk. I'd love to open it up. I'm especially curious what you're already logging in your own stack today and where you suspect your biggest blind spot is now that we've walked through this mental model together. Thanks very much.