---
video_title: "Design WhatsApp: Delivery, Offline Sync & Scale (Senior+) #systemdesign #whatsapp"
video_id: Pi9npi-nLMc
channel_name: "SystemDR - Scalable System Design "
channel_id: UCi1BkzqiwN5wChnvt20uBWQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pi9npi-nLMc
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  📖 Full Walkthrough: https://systemdr.systemdrd.com/p/design-whatsapp-the-senior-walkthrough
  🌐 Visit our website: https://systemdrd.com/
   
  WhatsApp is the archetype behind ten different FAANG messaging interview questions — Slack, Discord, iMessage, Messenger, and more all share the same spine. In this walkthrough we build the real-time messaging core from scratch: persistent WebSocket connections, at-least-once delivery with client-side dedup, offline message storage, group fan-out at 2-billion-user scale, and end-to-end encryption — plus exactly what changes in your answer between L5, L6, and L7+.
   
  If this helped you think through the delivery-semantics fork, drop a comment with which messaging variant (Slack? iMessage? Discord?) you want broken down next, and subscribe for the rest of the senior+ walkthrough series.
   
  #systemdesign  #softwareengineering  #TechInterview #WhatsApp #DistributedSystems #FAANGInterview #backendengineering  #SoftwareArchitecture #InterviewPrep #engineeringcareer
---
This is the question that defines the real-time messaging archetype in system design interviews. 10 different questions in the question bank are really the same question wearing a different name. Slack, Discord, Zoom, Twitter Spaces, iMessage, Facebook Messenger, Google Chat. They all share one spine, a long-lived connection problem, a delivery semantics problem, and a presence problem. Get fluent with those three and you can walk into almost any messaging interview and answer whatever variant you're handed. Let's

build WhatsApp from the ground up, the way a senior plus candidate would. The surface question looks deceptively simple. Two people want to send each other messages, and those messages should arrive even if one person is temporarily offline. But the probe underneath that sentence is anything but simple. Interviewers ask this question specifically because it exposes how you think about distributed systems under failure. What happens when the recipient

is offline? What happens when the network drops halfway through a send? What happens when the same message arrives twice? [music] Because a retry fired. And what happens when a single user has five devices? A phone, a

tablet, a laptop, a web client, all expecting to see the same conversation in sync. Those four failure modes, and how confidently you handle each one, are genuinely where the round gets decided. Everything else, the boxes and the arrows, is scaffolding around those four answers. Before you draw a single box, there are six clarifying questions worth asking, and two of them are load-bearing for the entire design that follows. First, [music] is this one-to-one only or do you also need group chats? Groups

introduce fan out, sending a single message out to as many as 256 recipients. So state clearly which one you're solving for. And for a senior-level answer, design for both, starting with one-to-one and explicitly extending. Second, [music] and this is the big one, what are your delivery guarantees? At most once, at least once, or exactly once? And saying

out loud that exactly once is theoretically impossible across an unreliable network and a strong senior signal. Third, [music] how many devices does each user have? Because that decides whether a message needs to fan out to just one target or several. Fourth, how long do you retain messages for an offline recipient? Most production systems land on 30 days.

Fifth, are you designing with end-to-end encryption, which changes what the server is even allowed to see? And sixth, pick a working scale number so your estimates aren't hand-wavy. Let's put real numbers on this. Because those numbers are what justify every technology choice that follows. 500 million daily active users and about 100 billion messages sent per day, that works out to roughly 1.16 million

messages per second on average with [music] bursts up toward 5 million a second at peak. At an average message size of around 500 bytes including metadata >> [music] >> and a 30-day retention window for undelivered messages, you land on roughly 1 and 1/2 petabytes of hot storage. The working set of messages still waiting to be delivered or recently delivered. Not a permanent [music] archive. Then there's connection state. 500 million users with roughly

30% concurrently connected gives you about 150 million live web socket connections at once, which at 64 kilobytes of socket buffer per connection is close to 10 terabytes of memory spread across your connection serving fleet. That single number, 150 million open sockets, is arguably the hardest scaling problem in this entire system, harder than the storage. Four surfaces make up the API and only one of them is a persistent connection rather than a request-response call. The web socket is where real-time delivery actually happens. The client authenticates on connect and the server immediately flashes any messages that piled up while the client was offline.

The send endpoint is where the real craftsmanship shows. It carries two identifiers that look redundant at first glance but are not. An idempotency key header and a client-generated message {underscore} id inside the body. Naming both of these and explaining why you need both is the specific senior level move on this step. The idempotency key protects you at the transport layer. If

the client's HTTP request times out and retries, the server recognizes the same key and simply returns the [music] cached response instead of processing it twice. The message_id protects you one layer up at the application level. It's what lets the receiving client detect and drop a duplicate that arrives through a completely different path, like a reconnect replay. Two different failure modes, two different keys, doing two different jobs. Round that out with an ack endpoint for delivered and read receipts and a presence endpoint for online status, [music] and that's the full surface. The data

model here has five distinct stores, and three of them are deliberately not the relational database your instinct might reach for. >> [music] >> The messages table is the one to get right. It's a write-heavy, time-ordered store, and Cassandra, [music] or an equivalent wide column store, is the standard interview answer. The critical decision is partitioning by recipient_id, rather than sender_id, because the hot query in this whole system is always, "Give me everything pending for user X." And partitioning on the read pattern means that's a single seek on a single node instead of a scatter-gather across your whole cluster. A row-level TTL of 30 days

handles cleanup automatically. No batch job required. Mentioning that detail out loud is a small but real signal. Conversations and users round out the relational feeling data, with a device_tokens array on the user record acknowledging that one person can own several devices. >> [music] >> And then presence and the connection registry, both live in Redis, not because it's trendy, but because at 150 million concurrent connections, presence lookups happen billions of times a day, [music] and only a sub-millisecond in-memory store survives that read volume. Let's

walk one message all the way through, because this sequence is where interviewers actually probe. Alice's app calls the send endpoint with her message and its client-generated ID. The gateway authenticates her, checks rate limits, and hands off to the chat service, which first checks Redis for a duplicate ID idempotency key, then writes the message into Cassandra with a pending status and a 30-day TTL, then publishes an event onto a queue like Kafka, and finally returns a server timestamp back to Alice. From there, [music] a delivery worker picks up that event and does the one thing that actually decides the round. It checks whether Bob is online.

If he is, a Redis presence lookup tells the worker exactly which connection server holds Bob's live socket, and the message routes straight there for immediate delivery. If Bob is offline, the message simply stays parked in Cassandra with its pending status. A push notification wakes his device through APNs or FCM with metadata only, and when Bob's client reconnects, the server queries for everything pending and delivers it all at once. Most candidates nail the online branch without thinking twice. The offline branch, the storage, the notification, >> [music] >> and the delivery on reconnect is what separates a pass from a strong pass, because that's the exact scenario the question asked about. There are three

concrete ways this can go wrong on the network, and it's worth naming every one of them explicitly [music] rather than gesturing at {quote} handling failures in the abstract. First, Alice sends and the network drops before the server's acknowledgement comes back. Her client retries using the same message {underscore} ID and ID idempotency key. The server recognizes the duplicate, and the message is delivered exactly once from the user's point of view. >> [music] >> This is the easy case. Second, the

server successfully writes to Cassandra but crashes before the delivery worker gets to Bob. Because the queue's consumer offset only commits after successful delivery, the crashed worker's restart simply reprocesses that same event, and Bob's client-side deduplication by message {underscore} ID absorbs the retry cleanly. Third, Bob's client actually receives the message but crashes before it can send the acknowledgement back. So, the server still shows it as pending, redelivers it on his next reconnect, and again, his client has to recognize the duplicate by message {underscore} ID or he sees the same message twice. The unifying answer across all three is the same sentence and it's worth memorizing. Exactly. Once

delivery across an unreliable network is provably impossible, so the design implements at least once delivery with client-side deduplication and accepts duplicates as a known handled cost. One more wrinkle worth a sentence. Across multiple devices, a message is marked read the moment any one of the sender's devices marks it read. The read state is shared, not tracked separately per device. >> [music] >> One-to-one messaging is essentially solved at this point. Groups are where

the genuinely interesting scaling problems live because a single message sent into a 256 member group isn't one delivery. It's 256 independent delivery tasks, roughly 100 times the load of an equivalent one-to-one message. The naive approach is server-side fanout. Look up every member, generate a delivery task for each, [music] and enqueue them all. That works, but it means massive write amplification. 256 separate writes for

one logical message. WhatsApp's actual production answer refines this with sharding. Each group gets a dedicated group server that owns its membership list and its fanout logic. And that server batches deliveries heading toward the same connection server together, rather than treating every recipient as an independent write. Naming that specific pattern, dedicated group worker sharding with batch delivery, rather than treating every group message identically to a one-to-one send, is the concrete signal that separates a staff-level answer from a merely correct one on this part of the question.

End-to-end encryption changes what your server is even allowed to know and it's worth understanding the shape of that change even if you don't go deep on cryptography. Under the Signal Protocol, which is what WhatsApp actually uses, each user has a public and private key pair with the public key uploaded to the server at registration and the private key never leaving the device. >> [music] >> When Alice wants to message Bob, her app fetches his public key, derives a one-time session key locally, and encrypts the message before it ever leaves her device. >> [music] >> What lands in your data store is genuinely opaque ciphertext. Your servers cannot decrypt it, full stop.

[music] That has real system design consequences. There's no server-side content moderation possible on Message Text [music] because the server literally cannot read it. Push notification payloads can only carry metadata, something like you have a new encrypted message, never the content itself. And multi-device support gets meaningfully harder here, too, >> [music] >> because each of a user's devices holds its own key pair. So, the sender's app has to encrypt the same message separately for every device the recipient owns, not once per recipient.

For the interview, acknowledging that this exists and naming these downstream implications is usually enough. You don't need to derive the Diffie-Hellman handshake from scratch unless asked. It's worth being explicit about how the expected answer actually grows as the bar rises because that's often what candidates get wrong, not the individual pieces, but calibrating how deep to go. At the senior level, you're expected to land the core loop cleanly. WebSockets for the live [music] connection.

Cassandra partitioned by recipient_id with a TTL for the message store. Redis for presence, at least once delivery with client-side dedup, >> [music] >> and the online versus offline fork handled explicitly in the delivery path. At the staff level, you're adding the harder architecture underneath that core loop. The group fanout sharding pattern, the end-to-end encryption key exchange at an architectural level, the multi-device read receipt consistency model, and naming the FLP impossibility result out loud when you talk about delivery guarantees. At the principal plus level, the conversation stops being purely technical and starts touching the organization.

>> [music] >> How you route messages across regions globally, how a multi-tenant business API surface changes the design, how message retention laws and lawful intercept requests interact with a system that's end-to-end encrypted by default, and where the ownership boundaries between teams create actual product risk down the line. A handful of mistakes show up over and over in this question, and any one of them is usually enough to cap [music] the round. Reaching for HTTP polling instead of a persistent websocket connection reads as SMS era thinking, not real-time design. Skipping the offline case entirely is a direct miss, since the prompt explicitly asks for delivery even when the recipient is offline. Storing messages in a relational database at a million writes a second simply doesn't hold up without extreme awkward sharding.

Partitioning the message store by sender instead of recipient gets the read pattern backwards. In cleaning you'll deliver messages exactly once without immediately following that up with the at least once plus deduplication explanation underneath it is the single fastest way to get probed and come up short. If you want the complete walk-through with every follow-up probe question and the senior-level response to each one, you can read the full breakdown at systemdrd.com and dive even deeper, including the drill cards and the source code repository on the Substack link in the description.