---
video_title: "Design Netflix Streaming: The Senior+ System Design Walkthrough #systemdesign #roadmap #netflix"
video_id: KRsBvdPdgt0
channel_name: "SystemDR - Scalable System Design "
channel_id: UCi1BkzqiwN5wChnvt20uBWQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KRsBvdPdgt0
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  📖 Full Walkthrough: https://systemdr.systemdrd.com/p/design-netflix-streaming-the-senior
  🌐 Visit our website: https://systemdrd.com/
   
  Netflix streams to 270M subscribers — but the system design interview isn't testing whether you know what a CDN is. It's testing whether you understand adaptive bitrate encoding, CDN pre-warming, and the cold-start problem that decides the round. This walkthrough covers the Senior and Staff-level answer, end to end.
  
  If you're prepping for L5/L6 system design interviews at FAANG-adjacent companies, subscribe for a new walkthrough every week — Uber Dispatch, WhatsApp, Stripe Payments, and more are already up.
   
  #systemdesign  #NetflixArchitecture #softwareengineering  #techinterview  #cdn  #AdaptiveBitrate #StreamingArchitecture #faanginterview  #distributedsystems  #backendengineering  #seniorengineer  #interviewpreparation
---
Netflix streams to 270 million subscribers, and on the surface, that sounds like a simple file serving problem. Store a video, hand it back on request. It [music] isn't. This is the senior plus walk-through for design Netflix streaming. Adaptive bit rate encoding, Open Connect CDN pre-warming, and the cold start problem that actually decides the round. [music]

If you can talk through those three things unprompted, you're already answering at the level this question is designed to filter for. The interviewer isn't testing whether you know what a CDN [music] is. They're testing whether you understand why naive HTTP file serving collapses at this scale, what adaptive bit rate encoding is, and why it exists at all, how a CDN edge network makes cold start latency a non-issue in steady state, and what happens operationally when the most watched show in the world premieres at 9:00 p.m. and 50 million people press play on the same episode within seconds of each other.

Those four problems, not the basic ingestion to delivery pipeline, are where this round is actually won or lost. And the level calibration tells you exactly where to spend your 50 minutes. At L4, mid-level, you're expected to sketch the high-level pipeline. Content comes in, gets encoded, gets stored, gets served. That's table stakes, and it earns you nothing extra. At L5, senior, [music]

you're expected to bring adaptive bit rate with multiple renditions, CDN prepositioning, and the cold start problem into the conversation without being prompted for them. At L6, staff, [music] you're layering on the encoding pipeline at scale, a multi-region active-active CDN strategy, the playback session architecture, and quality [music] of experience monitoring, and naming what Netflix actually does differently from a naive CDN deployment. Knowing which tier you're being evaluated at changes how you should be spending your time on the whiteboard. Six clarifying questions matter here, but three of them are load bearing. Get these wrong, and your whole architecture is built on the wrong assumption. First,

[music] on demand only, or also live? On demand content can be pre-encoded and pre-cached entirely offline, which is what makes most of the tricks in this walk-through possible. Live content adds a hard latency requirement. Viewers want something close to real-time, which changes the delivery model, even though the encoding fundamentals stay similar. Default to on-demand unless you're told otherwise, and say so out loud. Second,

which devices need support? Smart TVs, mobile phones, browsers, and game consoles all support different combinations of codecs and DRM systems. H.264, H.265, AV1 on the codec side, Widevine, [music] FairPlay, and PlayReady on the DRM side.

You don't need to design the full DRM system in this interview, but acknowledging that this diversity exists, and that it drives real encoding and licensing decisions is worth a sentence. Third, and this is the one that actually drives every downstream architectural decision. What are the quality and latency SLOs? Netflix's real targets are playback starting within 2 seconds of pressing play, buffering events under half % of total play time, and 4K HDR delivery on supported devices. State numbers like these explicitly before you draw a single box, >> [music] >> because everything that follows, the CDN strategy, the pre-warming logic, the manifest design, exist to hit those specific targets, not some vague notion of good performance.

>> [music] >> Do the math before you design anything, because one number in this estimate decides whether a CDN is optional or mandatory. Netflix carries roughly 36,000 titles globally, each stored in about 20 renditions, different resolutions, codecs, and bit rates at an average of 4 GB per rendition. Multiply that out, and you land around 3 PB of encoded video sitting in object storage, with metadata like posters and descriptions adding a trivial few terabytes on top. Now the harder number, and the one that actually matters in the interview. At peak, >> [music] >> Netflix serves somewhere around 50 million concurrent streams, averaging roughly 5 Mbps per second each once you blend standard definition and 4K viewers together. Multiply concurrent streams by

average bitrate, and you get approximately 250 terabits [music] per second of peak egress bandwidth. That figure alone is worth stating out loud in the room, because it's roughly 15% of all downstream internet traffic on the planet at that moment. Netflix is one of the largest single sources of internet traffic that exists. No single origin, no S3 [music] bucket, no data center, no matter how well provisioned, can serve that directly. A distributed CDN edge network isn't a nice-to-have here. It's

the only architecture that survives contact with these numbers. And deriving that conclusion from the estimate, rather than just asserting we'll use a CDN, is what makes this feel like an engineering decision instead of a buzzword. Four APIs matter for this system, but one design decision buried inside them carries almost the entire signal. When a client calls playback start, the response does not include a video file URL. It includes a manifest URL. That's the whole adaptive bitrate

architecture compressed into a single field name. And walking through why, before you move on to the next endpoint, [music] is exactly the kind of thing that separates a senior answer from a mid-level one. The manifest is a small index file, an HLS or DASH manifest, that lists every segment at every available quality level, along with byte offsets and durations. The player fetches this manifest first, and only then starts requesting individual segments from it independently as playback continues, adjusting quality segment by segment. The second signal worth calling out explicitly is the heartbeat endpoint. Every 30 seconds,

the player reports back its current position, [music] current quality, buffer health in seconds, the number of rebuffer events, and its own live bandwidth estimate. [music] Netflix doesn't stream and forget. That telemetry stream is the basis for quality of experience monitoring across the whole fleet, for AB testing new adaptive bitrate algorithms against real traffic, and for catching a degraded CDN node before a single human ever files a support ticket about it. Candidates who volunteer the heartbeat endpoint are signaling that they've thought about the operational layer, not just the happy path of pressing play. Most candidates draw one pipeline, content in, content out, and stop there. A senior answer

names three distinct pipelines with three very different operating constraints, [music] and this diagram lays them out left to right exactly that way. The first is ingestion and encoding, a fully offline batch pipeline that runs before any user can ever watch the content. A raw video master arrives from a studio partner at ProRes or high bitrate quality, gets validated, sliced into chunks, and each chunk moves through a transcoding cluster that encodes it into AV1, HEVC, and AVC across resolutions ranging from 360p all the way up to 4K. This pipeline has hours to work with. [music] Nobody's waiting on it in real time. The second

pipeline is playback initiation, and this is the real time path where latency actually matters. The client hits the play manifest store, [music] which maps byte segments and is delivered through fast API services, and the whole round trip has to resolve in under 2 seconds from the moment someone presses play. The third pipeline is adaptive playback itself, running continuously for the entire duration of the stream. The Open Connect Edge caches content inside ISP data centers, applies adaptive bitrate logic, and serves 4-second legs on a client-driven pull model, while the media player app measures its own buffer health metrics the whole time and feeds that back upstream. Three pipelines, three different latency budgets, offline batch measured in hours, real-time initiation measured in seconds, and continuous adaptive delivery measured in milliseconds per decision. Here's how

Netflix actually gets a new title encoded fast enough to matter operationally. A 2-hour movie doesn't get encoded start to finish on one machine. It gets split into chunks first, [music] say 5-minute segments, using a GOP boundary splitter that specifically prevents frames from bleeding across a chunk boundary, which would otherwise corrupt playback at the seams. This diagram shows that exact flow. >> [music] >> The mezzanine file, a raw ProRes or DNxHR source, goes through the chunking inspector, and then a task dispatcher fans those chunks out across a parallel compute fleet of GPU workers. With

roughly 24 chunks and about 30 encoding jobs required per chunk, one job per rendition, codec, and audio track combination, you end up with somewhere around 720 parallel GP tasks running simultaneously. A manifest stitcher then combines all the byte offsets back together and appends the audio tracks. And the result commits into structured S3 layouts, one manifest per codec, ready for the CDN to pick up. >> [music] >> What would take roughly 6 hours end-to-end on a single GPU worker collapses down to about 20 minutes when it's parallelized this way. Two details are worth naming explicitly if the interviewer pushes further here. First,

per title encoding. Instead of applying the same bit rate ladder to every title, Netflix analyzes each title's visual complexity beforehand and builds a custom ladder for it. A slow-paced drama needs meaningfully less bit rate than a fast-cutting action film to hit the same perceived visual quality, and that difference compounds into real storage and bandwidth savings at catalog scale. Second, codec selection. Netflix encodes into H.264 for universal device support,

H.265 [music] for roughly 40% smaller 4K files, and AV1, where Netflix [music] is publicly the largest employer of that codec in streaming today, because it's roughly 50% smaller than H.264 and, unlike H.265, royalty-free. This is where the round is actually decided, more than any other single moment in the interview. A

new title premieres. At the instant it goes live, nobody's cache anywhere in the CDN has this content cached yet. Every one of 50 million requests misses simultaneously and hits the origin at the exact same moment and no origin storage system on earth is built to absorb that kind of simultaneous load. Netflix's answer is Open Connect, their own purpose-built CDN made up of physical appliances deployed directly inside ISP data centers and internet exchange points around the world rather than a third-party CDN bolted on after the fact. >> [music] >> Before a major premiere, Netflix pre-positions the content at these edge appliances in every region where demand is predicted to be high using watch history, genre trends, and marketing signals to forecast exactly where that demand will spike. By the time the

premiere actually goes live, >> [music] >> every user request is hitting an already warm cache and the cold start never happens from the viewer's perspective at all. >> [music] >> But pre-warming petabytes of content out to thousands of edge servers days in advance isn't [music] free. It's a real operational cost. So the senior answer draws an explicit line. Rather than pre-warming everything indiscriminately, pre-warm for known high-demand content using those predicted signals. And for

long-tail titles, the ones watched by fewer than roughly a thousand people a day, just let the CDN cache on first request and fall back to the origin on a miss. That's a deliberate cost trade-off stated out loud, not an oversight you stumbled into. And making that trade-off explicit is precisely the signal the interviewer is listening for at this point in the round. Pre-warming solves the cold cache problem, but it quietly creates a second one. Even with a fully warm CDN, 50 million clients requesting playback at roughly the same instant, all need to start. [music] And if that

manifest were a single cacheable object, you'd have a thundering herd slamming into one cached resource at brutal concurrency. Netflix's answer is to personalize every manifest per session. Quality selection, DRM configuration, and CDN edge assignment are all baked directly into it, which means every manifest is unique to that specific viewer and simply cannot be CDN cached by definition. That means every one of those 50 million manifest fetches has to hit the playback service directly rather than an edge cache. That sounds like an obvious bottleneck until you notice two things. The manifest response itself is

under a kilobyte, so it's small and cheap to generate. And the service [music] is stateless since all session state lives in the database layer instead of in server memory. So it scales horizontally and close to linearly by just adding more instances. The actual bandwidth heavy work, the segment data itself, stays entirely CDN and absorbs the real load. Then there's a third failure mode worth naming. A CDN

edge server itself goes down midstream for whatever reason. The viewer's local buffer only covers 20 to 30 seconds of playback, >> [music] >> so this has to resolve fast or the viewer notices a stall. Netflix maintains standing relationships with third-party CDNs like Akamai and Fastly specifically to serve as fallback capacity, and the manifest itself carries those alternate URLs. When a segment request times out against [music] the primary Open Connect edge, the player retries against the fallback CDN automatically, and that failover typically completes within two to three seconds, invisible to the person actually watching. [music]