---
video_title: "The 30-Day System Design Interview Prep Plan That Works #systemdesign #roadmap #interview"
video_id: 5ofuwjmpaFg
channel_name: "SystemDR - Scalable System Design "
channel_id: UCi1BkzqiwN5wChnvt20uBWQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ofuwjmpaFg
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  📖 Full Walkthrough: https://systemdr.systemdrd.com/p/the-30-days-before-your-onsite
  🌐 Visit our website: https://systemdrd.com/
   
  Thirty days cannot cover every system design archetype — so stop trying. This video breaks down the exact 30-day roadmap for going deep on the two archetypes your target company actually asks, plus the mock-interview structure that closes the gap between "I understand this" and "I can produce this under pressure." If you're heading into an onsite loop and don't know where to focus, start here.
   
  What we cover:
  00:00 The plan that covers everything is the wrong plan
  00:53 The principle: targeted depth beats broad coverage
  01:58 Research your target company before day one
  03:06 The 30-day roadmap at a glance
  04:15 Weeks 1 & 2 — the deep drill loop
  05:41 Week 3 — coverage and breadth
  07:14 Week 4 — two mocks with real feedback
  08:48 Days 29-30 — consolidation only
  10:08 The ratio that actually produces results
  11:47 Applying the framework, even off-script
   
  If this roadmap helps you walk into your onsite with a clear plan, drop a comment with your target archetype — and subscribe for a new full walkthrough every Tuesday.
   
  #systemdesign  #systemdesigninterview  #techinterview  #softwareengineering  #interviewpreparation  #codinginterview  #faanginterview  #softwareengineer  #careergrowth  #techcareers  #interviewtips  #engineeringinterview
---
30 days, one on-site loop. If you take one idea away from this video, take this. The plan that covers everything is the wrong plan. 30 days cannot cover everything, and trying to is exactly why most candidates walk in under prepared. Spread thin across six archetypes, confident about none of them the moment the pressure is real and the white board is blank. Here's the plan I'd actually

follow instead. Not the plan that tours every possible question in the field, but the one built specifically for the interview in front of you. It's narrower than what you'll find in most generic prep guides, and that narrowness is the entire point. It's what makes 30 days enough time in the first place. Let's walk through exactly how it's built, week by week. Here's the core principle

underneath everything else in this video, and it's a little counter-intuitive if you've spent any time grinding through a long question list. 30 days of prep that covers six archetypes shallowly loses to 20 days covering two archetypes deeply, plus 10 days of mock interviews. On paper, that's a strange trade. You're deliberately choosing to know less about more of the field, but look at who actually passes these loops consistently. It's not the engineers who are universally prepared, it's the ones who are specifically well prepared for the questions they're most likely to actually face. At most companies, a

single loop only involves one or two system design questions, sometimes three at most, which means the real question you should be asking three weeks before your on-site isn't how do I cover everything, it's how do I find out which one or two things I actually need, and then commit almost everything you have to those. And that means step zero happens before day one of the calendar even starts, and it's the step most candidates skip because it doesn't feel like real studying compared to actually drilling a question. Research your target company. Pull up Glassdoor and Blind and read through recent interview experiences from candidates who sat the same loop, and reach out to any LinkedIn connections who've interviewed there in the last year or so. You're looking for exactly one thing out of all that research, the two most commonly asked archetypes at that specific company, not system design questions in general. Once

you know those two, you know precisely what week one and week two of your prep are going to be, Down to the archetype. Skip this research step and you're just guessing which 20 days to spend going deep. And a guess, at this stage of a 30-day plan, is exactly the kind of shallow, unfocused prep this entire approach exists to avoid in the first place. Here's the full 30-day shape at a glance, so you can see how all four phases connect before we walk through each one individually in detail. Weeks one and two are deep drill weeks, one archetype each, the two you just identified through your research into your target company. Week three widens

back out into a coverage and breadth pass across everything else, kept intentionally light so it doesn't dilute the depth you built in the first two weeks. And week four is where solo reading and drilling stop entirely, and mock interviews with real, scored feedback take over, closing out with two deliberately light consolidation days right before the onsite itself. Notice the overall shape of the calendar as a whole. Heavy investment up front on the two things most likely to actually matter, then a controlled taper into breadth, then into practice under real social pressure, then finally into rest. That shape, front-loaded depth tapering into pressure-tested practice, is the actual strategy here, not any single week in isolation. Let's zoom into weeks

one and two, because the drill loop you run here is really the engine of the whole plan. Everything else in this calendar exists to support it. Week one starts with reading, not drilling. Read two full walkthroughs of your most likely archetype, purely to understand the pattern, not to memorize an answer. Then, on days three, five, and seven, you run the same tight loop three separate times. Set a 50-minute timer.

Design with no notes and no searching, exactly like the real interview. When the timer ends, open the walkthrough and compare your answer to it section by section, and write down your top three specific gaps. Not a vague feeling that it went okay, but three concrete, namable things you missed or got wrong. Week two repeats that exact structure for your second most likely archetype, start to finish. By day 14, you should be producing a structurally correct answer for both, not a perfect one, but one with the right components in the right places, and the key failure modes named out loud unprompted. That alone

puts you ahead of most candidates who drilled 15 different questions shallowly and can't go deep on a single one of them when it's asked. Week three shifts the goal from mastery to exposure, and that's a deliberate change in mindset, not a drop in standards from the depth you built in weeks one and two. You're now doing shorter, 30-minute drills across four or five archetypes you haven't deeply covered yet. Social feeds, marketplaces, whatever's left outside your two target archetypes. The logic here is straightforward. Knowing

the rough shape of an answer for a question you're only 20% likely to face beats having no answer at all if it happens to come up in your loop instead of your target archetype. The discipline that makes this actually work is strict. Force yourself to reach the architecture step within the first 15 minutes of each drill, no exceptions. Don't let estimation and API design eat the whole session. The entire point of week three is moving efficiently through the framework end to end, not perfecting one section of one question at the expense of the rest. This is also the week to

reread your estimation numbers cheat sheet and your tradeoffs cheat sheet, since those two things apply to essentially every question you'll ever get, regardless of archetype. Refreshing them now, in the middle of prep rather than saving them for the very end, gives them real time to actually consolidate in your memory instead of becoming rushed last minute cram material the night before your onsite. Week four is where the character of the plan changes completely, and candidates often find this the hardest week to commit to psychologically. Stop reading. Stop drilling solo. Do two mock interviews

with people who will give you specific, scored feedback, and treat this as genuinely non-negotiable, because nothing else in this plan replaces what real feedback from another human being does for you at this stage. The first mock, a peer at your target level, scoring you against all eight dimensions of the take-home rubric. Was your scoping sharp enough? Was your communication clear under pressure? Did you cover the failure modes without being explicitly prompted to? The second

mock, someone above your target level, ideally someone who's already at the level you're interviewing for. That second round of feedback will be harder to hear and considerably more useful than the first because it shows you exactly what candidates one level up are already doing that you aren't doing yet. And that specific named gap is now something you have a handful of days, not weeks, to close. After each mock, resist the very natural urge to try to fix everything you heard all at once. Identify the single most impactful change from that feedback and spend two focused days on just that one thing deliberately before moving on. One

change made well beats 10 changes made half-heartedly under time pressure, which brings you to days 29 and 30. And here the instruction runs almost directly opposite to what most people's instincts tell them to do this close to an on-site, which is usually to cram harder the closer the date gets. Day 29, one short 30-minute drill, no new material introduced at all, just a reread of your framework cheat sheet to keep it sharp in working memory. Day 30, the day immediately before your on-site, reread the drill card for the single archetype most likely to come up at your target company. That's roughly a 4-minute read, not a study session, and then you stop completely for the rest of the day. Do not read a new walk-through

the night before your interview, no matter how tempting it feels. New information at that point competes directly with everything you've already spent a month consolidating, and it simply doesn't have enough time left to actually integrate before you walk into the room the next morning. At this stage in the plan, rest is a legitimate load-bearing part of the preparation itself, not a luxury you're skipping in the name of squeezing out a little more productivity. Now, the thing most people get wrong across their entire prep, and it's really a ratio problem more than it is a knowledge problem, the typical engineer's prep runs somewhere around 80% reading and 20% drilling, reading walk-throughs, reading concept explainers, reading other people's summaries of both over and over. It feels productive the entire time because you're always technically learning something new, and that feeling of forward motion is exactly what makes this trap so easy to fall into. But the

A that actually produces results on interview day, flips that ratio hard toward practice. Closer to 40% reading and learning, 60% or more in timed drills and mock interviews under real-time pressure. This chart shows one worked example of just how far that shift can go in a well-run plan. With the visible performance gap between the two approaches closing specifically through repeated timed drilling, rather than through additional reading. Here's why the ratio matters this much. The gap

between knowing something intellectually and being able to produce it under pressure out loud in front of another person watching you think is real. And it only closes with practice done under that same kind of pressure, not with more familiarity on paper. If you have 30 days total and you spend 25 of them reading, you've done the comfortable, easy part of preparation and quietly skipped the part that actually moves the needle on interview day itself. One last thing, and it's worth sitting with before you close this video out. You will still get a question in the room that you didn't specifically drill for.

That's almost guaranteed to happen at some point in a real loop, and it's genuinely fine when it does. The six-step framework covered elsewhere in this series is built specifically to work on questions you haven't seen before. That is its entire purpose, not a fallback for when your 30 days of drilling comes up short. What four weeks of targeted drilling actually gives you isn't coverage of every possible question that could be asked. It's speed and automaticity. The framework runs

faster and more automatically once it's been genuinely exercised under real-time pressure a dozen or more times. So, when an unfamiliar question does show up on interview day, you're not starting from a blank page in a racing pulse. If you want to go deeper on any of the archetypes covered here, the question vault has all 52 organized by archetype, so you can see the pattern repeat across questions instead of memorizing one single surface-level answer. Paid subscribers get a brand-new full walk-through every single Tuesday. You can read this full breakdown and get the complete roadmap at systemdrd.com

and dive into the walk-throughs themselves on the Substack link in the description below. Good luck with the onsite. You've got a plan now.