---
video_title: "RAG for Low-Resource Languages: Solving Retrieval Challenges in Multilingual AI & LLM Applications"
video_id: 0yaNDruu_Ng
channel_name: "SystemDR - Scalable System Design "
channel_id: UCi1BkzqiwN5wChnvt20uBWQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0yaNDruu_Ng
video_date: 2026-06-11T10:00:11+00:00
video_description: |
  Website Link: systemdrd.com
  Discover how Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) can be optimized for low-resource languages and multilingual AI applications. In this video, we explore the biggest retrieval challenges faced by Large Language Models (LLMs), including limited training data, poor embedding quality, language-specific search issues, vector database optimization, semantic search accuracy, multilingual retrieval, cross-lingual information retrieval, and enterprise AI deployment. Learn practical techniques to improve RAG performance for underserved languages and build scalable AI systems that deliver accurate, context-aware responses. Perfect for AI engineers, machine learning practitioners, NLP researchers, data scientists, and developers working with Generative AI, LLMs, Vector Databases, Semantic Search, LangChain, AI Agents, and Enterprise RAG architectures.
  #rag  #generativeai  #llm  #multilingualai  #vectordatabases
---
Welcome! Today we're going to tackle one of the most under-explored and underserved frontiers in modern NLP. Making retrieval augmented generation actually work when your language is an English, Mandarin, or Spanish. Rag has become the standard architecture for grounding large language models in factual, up-to-date knowledge. It's in production at companies of every size. And if you've worked with it, you know how powerful it is when it works. But here's the uncomfortable reality. Virtually every rag benchmark, every open source retrieval library, and every pre-trained dense encoder has been optimized for a tiny slice of the world's languages. 7,000 languages exist on this planet. Roughly 100 of them have enough digital text to be meaningfully supported by current ML systems. That leaves billions of speakers. In Africa, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Latin America, and Indigenous communities worldwide, receiving a dramatically worse experience from AI systems. If they receive any experience at all, this session is about closing that gap. Not theoretically, but with production-grade engineering decisions, real code and hard-won lessons from systems that have shipped. Let's get into it. Before we dive into solutions, let me be precise about what you'll walk away with. This is the contract for the next 16-18 minutes. First, you'll be able to diagnose why dense retrievers fail on low resource languages. Not just the data is small. We're going to be specific about tokenizer fragmentation, embedding space misalignment, and corpus sparsity, as three separate and independent failure modes. Second, you'll implement across-lingual retrieval pipeline using Sonar, MetaAI's universal sentence encoder that covers over 200 languages, combined with BM25 for hybrid ranking. We'll look at real Python code. Third, you'll architect a corpus bootstrapping pipeline, a practical process for building a retrieval index from near zero data, using machine translation and back translation filtering. Fourth, you'll evaluate retrieval quality properly for multilingual settings. This is where most teams make critical mistakes, using English-tuned thresholds on languages where those thresholds are completely meaningless. Fifth, you'll apply the production patterns, language routing retrievers, hybrid indexing, and query expansion strategies that actually ship. The prerequisites for this session are familiarity with transformer architectures, experience with dense retrieval systems like DPR or face, and Python 3.11 or leader for the code examples. Let's build the mental model first. The first thing we need to fix is our vocabulary. Low resource is not a binary. It is a spectrum, and where a language sits on that spectrum determines which engineering solution is appropriate. At the high resource end, we have English, Mandarin, and Spanish. These languages have over 100 billion tokens of training data. Every major encoder, every tokenizer, every retrieval model has been optimized for this tier. Moving down the spectrum, mid-resource languages like Arabic, Hindi, and Portuguese have between 1 billion and 100 billion tokens. They work reasonably well with multilingual models, but performance degrades meaningfully compared to English. When we reach truly low resource territory, languages like Swahili, Tagalog, and Vietnamese, 10 million to 1 billion tokens, this is where standard retrieval pipelines begin to fail in ways that aren't always obvious. And at the far end, very low and endangered languages, Ketchua, Yoruba, Sorbian, under 10 million tokens, some have under 1 million. Standard pipelines don't just degrade here, they effectively collapse. Now look at the arrow at the bottom of this diagram. Retrieval performance degrades as corpus-sized shrinks. That's expected, but here's the insight I want you to internalize. Rag failures in low resource settings are not just data volume problems. They are embedding geometry problems, tokenizer coverage problems, and retrieval architecture problems simultaneously. Most teams treat this as a data problem. They throw translation at it, increase the corpus, and declare victory. That's necessary, but it is not sufficient. Let me show you exactly what else breaks. Let's trace a low resource query through a standard rag pipeline and watch it fail at three distinct points. Failure point 1, tokenizer fragmentation. Your user submits a query in Swahili. Before that query ever reaches your encoder, it passes through a tokenizer, almost certainly a byte pair encoding tokenizer trained primarily on English and Chinese data. Here's what happens. The Swahili verb Anakimbiya, which means he is running, is a single morphological unit. It encodes subject, tense, and action in one word. But your BPE tokenizer will fragment it into seven or more sub word tokens. Compare that to the English equivalent, which tokenizes into one or two tokens. This fragmentation has two consequences. First, your sequences are three to seven times longer, which means higher attention cost and worse semantic compression. Second, the morphological structure, which carries meaning in a glutinative languages, gets destroyed before it even enters the encoder. Failure point 2, embedding space misalignment. Even if we get past the tokenizer, English trained dense encoders like DPR and E5 have learned what I call an English semantic geometry. The relationship between words, concepts, and passages has been calibrated on English training data. When you run a Swahili or your Bacquiri through these encoders, it lands in a sparse, noisy region of the embedding space. The co-sign similarity scores are completely miscalibrated. You'll see high similarity scores between your query and completely wrong passages, and low scores between your query and the correct answer. This is particularly dangerous because everything looks like it's working. Your pipeline returns results, your confidence scores are in a reasonable range, but the ranking is essentially random for minority language queries. Failure point 3, corpus sparsity. Even when we fix the first two problems, we often hit a third wall. The answer simply doesn't exist in our index. Your Bacquiri has fewer than 10,000 articles. For comparison, English Bacquiri has over 6 million. If you're building a general purpose rag system and your corpus is Bacquiri, you've created what I call a retrieval desert for low resource languages. The encoder could be perfect, the similarity could be precisely calibrated, but you'll still return nothing because the knowledge doesn't exist anywhere in your index. 3, independent failure modes. Fix 1, and you still have 2 left. This is why single-solution approaches consistently underperform. Now let's look at the architecture that addresses all 3. This is the code slide. What you're looking at is a production-ready cross-lingual retriever class in Python 3.11. Let me walk you through every design decision. At the top, we import from the sonar library. Sonar, sentence level, multi-sensory, openly available representations, is meta-AI's universal sentence encoder. It supports over 200 languages, including many genuinely low resource ones, and critically, it supports speech-to-embedding, which will come back to in the advanced section. We also import Lang Detect for automatic language detection, face for our dense index, numpy for vector operations, and VM25Ocopy from rank VM25 for our sparse index. Now look at the constructor. We accept an optional Lang hint parameter. This is important. Sonar's performance degrades if you don't tell it what language it's encoding. Use ISO 639-3 script codes. For Swahili, that's SWH underscore Latin. For Yoruba, YOR underscore Latin. Don't skip this. In underscore build indexes, we build two indexes. First, a dense index using sonar embeddings. These are 1024 dimensional vectors. Notice the face.normalize L2 call before we add to the index. This is not optional. Normalizing before an index flat IP gives us co-sign similarity via inner product, which is what we want for cross-lingual spaces. Second, we build a VM25 index over the same corp. You might be wondering, why VM25 isn't dense retrieval strictly better? The answer for low resource languages is no. VM25 performs exact token magic, which means it catches morphological variance that dense retrieval misses. For morphologically rich languages, VM25 is not legacy technology. It's a complementary signal. Now the retrieve method, line by line. We auto detect the language if no hint was provided. We encode the query using sonar. We normalize the query vector. We run a dense search, returning k times 2 candidates. We overfetch to give the fusion step more to work with. Then we compute VM25 scores for the same query. And finally, the key step, we do reciprocal rank fusion weighted by the alpha parameter. Alpha controls the blend between dense and sparse. In our experiments, alpha equals 0.65 works well for languages with more than 50 million tokens. Drop it to 0.45 or 0.5 for very low resource languages, where VM25's exact matching becomes more valuable. One final note from the call out box on the right. Why sonar overlap C? Both are excellent multilingual encoders. Sonar covers 200 plus languages versus lab C's 100. And sonar uniquely supports speech to embed it, which becomes critical for oral primary languages that will discuss in the advanced section. Now that we've seen the implementation, let's talk about the four approaches you'll encounter in production and how to choose between them. Approach one cross-lingual transfer or zero shot. You take a model trained on English or multilingual data and apply it directly to your target language without any adaptation. Pro, no annotated data required, instant deployment. Con, you'll see a 25 to 45 percent drop compared to a monolingual baseline. Use this for prototyping or for languages with very small user bases. It's the right starting point, not the right ending point. Approach two, language adaptive fine tuning or laughed. You take a multilingual base model, embert or XLMR, and continue pre-training or fine tuning on in-language passages. Strong performance reuses existing weights efficiently. You need between 5,000 and 50,000 in-language passages. This delivers the best return on investment for languages with more than 10 million tokens in your corpus. Approach three, corpus bootstrapping via machine translation. Translate your existing corpus into the target language using a system like NLB200. Scales to any language that MT covers. The con is that translation noise compounds and you must use back translation filtering to catch hallucinated or distorted content. More on this in the next slide. Approach four, language routing retriever. Maintain separate retrieval indexes per language with a router that directs queries to the appropriate language-specific index, optimal accuracy, but high infrastructure cost, and separate indexes to maintain and monitor. Reserve this for your tier one languages in production. On the right side of this slide, look at the performance benchmarks. These numbers are sourced from the miracle multilingual retrieval benchmark. Zero-shot DPR delivers about 55% of monolingual baseline performance. Fintuned MDPR gets to 74%. Sonar plus DM25 hybrid reaches 83%, and the full LAFT with routing architecture reaches 91%. And look at the critical failure modes panel. These are not theoretical. Language bleed, score miscalibration, MT hallucination in your corpus, and silent degradation. These are production bugs that have cost teams weeks of incident response. The most dangerous is silent degradation. Your aggregate metrics look fine while specific languages receive zero useful results. Language stratified monitoring is non-negotiable. The most common question I receive is, we have almost no data for this language. What do we do? This slide is the answer. Step 1. Start with a seed corpus. Wikipedia plus filtered common crawl is the standard starting point. For most low resource languages, this gives you somewhere between 50,000 and 500,000 documents. Step 2. Machine translation. Use NLB200. Meta's no language left behind model, which covers 200 languages, or GPT-40 for quality critical passages. A typical corpus expands by 2 to 4 times through translation. Step 3. Back translation filtering. This is non-negotiable. Translate your translated passages back to English. Compute blue score against the original. Reject anything below 3.3. This filters out hallucinated and distorted content, typically retaining 60 to 75% of your translated corpus. Step 4. Build your embedding index using sonar and vice hnsw. Hnsw, hierarchical navigable small world, gives you 99% recall at 5 to 10 times the query speed of a flat index. Step 5. The active learning loop. Every time a user clicks on a retrieved result, that's a relevant signal. Collect those signals. Even 1,000 clicks per language can meaningfully shift your ranker. Active learning closes 12 to 18% of the performance gap within 4 weeks. Step 6. Monitor in production with per language evaluation. Now the tip at the bottom of this slide is worth the entire session on its own. Do not translate your query corpus. Only translate your document corpus. Sonar's cross-lingual embedding space is calibrated for native language queries matched against a multilingual document corpus. Translating queries to English before encoding introduces systematic noise and measurably hurts your results for low resource languages. Leave queries in their native language. Always. Let's ground everything in a real benchmark. Miracle. The massive information retrieval across languages benchmark was published in 2023 by researchers at the University of Waterloo and Google Research. What makes Miracle significant is that it used native speaker human annotation for relevance judgments across all 18 languages. Previous multilingual benchmarks used machine translated labels, which introduced systematic bias. Miracle is the gold standard for multilingual retrieval evaluation. Look at the bar chart. We're plotting NDCG at 10, which rewards ranked retrieval quality across six languages for three systems. English retrieval with BM25 baseline sits at 68. With Sonar plus hybrid retrieval, it reaches 85. That's expected. Now look at Yoruba. BM25 baseline 22. MDPR fine tuned 34. Sonar plus hybrid 58. That's a gap of 36 points between BM25 and Sonar hybrid. The improvement is real and dramatic. Four key findings from the benchmark. The Yoruba gap is the largest. Near zero subword overlap in multilingual encoder vocabularies is the root cause. Six of the 18 languages have fewer than 500,000 Wikipedia paragraphs, meaning standard pipelines return empty results in 12 to 28 percent of queries. Hybrid retrieval Sonar plus BM25 outperforms dense only by an average of 8.3 NDCG at 10 across low resource languages. BM25 catches morphological variance that dense retrieval misses. And finally, active learning with just 500 human judged relevance pairs per language, closed 40 percent of the performance gap to English baselines in two weeks. The Miracle benchmark is publicly available at miracle.ai. I strongly recommend benchmarking your own system against it before shipping any multilingual retrieval to production. Everything we've covered so far is production viable today. Now let me show you where this field is heading, and what separates engineers who understand this space from those applying last year's patterns. The most important frontier insight is this. Many of the world's most low resource languages are primarily oral. Written corporate don't exist. Not because the language is obscure, but because it was never standardized in writing. Ketchua spoken by 10 million people in the Andes, dozens of languages across Sub-Saharan Africa, Indigenous languages in North America and Oceania. These communities have vast oral corporate, oral histories, radio broadcasts, community recordings, but virtually no text. The breakthrough, Sonar's speech impoder maps spoken audio directly into the same embedding space as text. No transcription, no ASR pipeline, no tokenizer. You can query in Ketchua speech, retrieve Ketchua audio passages, and generate answers. Bypassing the tokenizer fragmentation problem entirely. This is production ready in 2025. The second frontier pattern is LLM Augmented Corpus Generation. Use multilingual LLMs. IA23, LOMA3 multilingual, to generate synthetic corpora from scratch for ultra low resource languages. 10,000 to 100,000 diverse passages filter aggressively with a small seed of human verified content. The third pattern is continual retrieval fine tuning using LLM Per language. Rather than periodic full retraining, maintain small language specific LLM under 5 megabytes each that update continuously from user interaction signals without catastrophic forgetting of your high resource languages. 1,000 languages at 5 megabytes each is 5 gigabytes total, trivially manageable, enormously impactful. 5 decisions, 5 heuristics, each one maps to a learning objective. Each one is something you can act on before the end of this week. 1. Audit your tokenizer first. Run your low resource corpus through your tokenizer and measure average tokens per word versus English. If the ratio is greater than 3, your encoder is already losing semantic coherence. Switch to sonar or lobsy before optimizing anything else. This takes 30 minutes and costs nothing. 2. Hybrid retrieval is the baseline, not the optimization. Sonar plus BM25 plus RRF fusion is your starting point for any low resource language. Don't build dense only and add BM25 the integration matters to the index design from day 1. 3. Build language stratified evaluation from day 1. Aggregate metrics mask per language failures. A 60% aggregate NDCG score can hide a 0% score for specific languages. Instrument your pipeline to log and alert on per language performance from the first deployment. 4. Score thresholds are language specific. Never apply a retrieval confidence threshold tuned on English to low resource languages. A miscalibrated threshold returns 0 results. Silently. Calibrate per language family using as few as 200 held out examples. 5. Don't translate queries. Translate documents. This one appears again because teams keep making this mistake. Native language queries against a multilingual index is the correct architecture. Translating queries introduces systematic noise. Here are the resources I'd recommend to anyone serious about this space. On the research side, the Miracle paper by Zhang and colleagues published at EMNLP 2023. The Sonar paper by Du Ken and colleagues at Meta AI and the no language left behind paper. NLLB200 which describes the machine translation system underpinning the corpus bootstrapping pipeline we covered today. All three are freely available on archive. For implementation, the Sonar GitHub repo at Facebook Research slash Sonar is your primary dependency. Pysarini from the Castarini Lab at Waterloo gives you multilingual BM25 and DPR in a unified toolkit. For evaluation, visit miracle.ai. Submit your system to the leaderboard before shipping to production. It's the fastest way to discover failure modes you haven't anticipated. Let me close with the number that should stay with you. 7,000 languages. 100 supported by ML. Your rag pipeline can close that gap. The techniques we covered today are not experimental. They are production viable right now in 2025. Sonar ships. Miracle is benchmarked. The bootstrapping pipelines work. The hybrid retrieval architectures scale. The teams that invest in multilingual retrieval today are building something that matters, both commercially and for billions of people who deserve AI systems that actually work in their language. The engineers who understand cross-lingual retrieval architecture will be among the most valuable in the next five years. You now have the foundation. Continue the course at systemdrd.com slash courses. Thank you.