---
video_title: "L4 vs L5 vs L6 vs L7 — What ACTUALLY Changes in System Design Interviews #systemdesign #roadmap"
video_id: sL7xameJ_xQ
channel_name: "SystemDR - Scalable System Design "
channel_id: UCi1BkzqiwN5wChnvt20uBWQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sL7xameJ_xQ
video_date: 2026-08-26
video_description: |
  📄 Full written walkthrough: https://systemdr.systemdrd.com/p/l4-l5-l6-l7-what-actually-changes
  📚 Get all 52 FAANG system design questions, drill cards & cheat sheets: https://systemdrd.com/ebooks/52-faang-questions-drillcards-cheatsheets/
  🌐 Website: https://systemdrd.com/
  
  "Go deeper" is the most common — and most useless — piece of system design interview feedback. Deeper in what direction? By how much? In this video, we break down exactly what separates an L4 answer from an L5, L6, and L7 answer in a system design interview, using one real running example: a messaging system's database sharding decision.
  
  You'll learn:
  ✅ L4 → L5 — why "that's the standard approach" fails, and what actually defending a decision sounds like (the recipient_id vs sender_id sharding example)
  ✅ L5 → L6 — the 3 things senior interviewers listen for that mid-level candidates almost never say: SLOs with monitoring signals, named failure modes, and the operational reality behind every trade-off (including the Redis "thundering herd" failure mode)
  ✅ L6 → L7 — how staff+ candidates talk about build-vs-buy economics, organizational coupling, and platform thinking (Kafka vs SQS, and the Payments/Notifications team dependency example)
  ✅ A simple, actionable checklist for whichever level you're prepping for next
  
  If you're studying for a Senior, Staff, or Principal Engineer system design interview at FAANG or a top tech company, this breakdown gives you a concrete framework instead of vague "add more depth" advice.
  
  📄 Read the full written breakdown: https://systemdr.systemdrd.com/p/l4-l5-l6-l7-what-actually-changes
  📚 Grab all 52 FAANG system design questions + drill cards + cheat sheets: https://systemdrd.com/ebooks/52-faang-questions-drillcards-cheatsheets/
  🌐 More free resources: https://systemdrd.com/
  
  🔔 Subscribe for a new system design interview breakdown every week.
  💬 Drop your target level (L4, L5, L6, or L7) in the comments — happy to point you to the right prep resources.
  
  #SystemDesign #SystemDesignInterview #FAANGInterview #SoftwareEngineering #TechInterview #SeniorEngineer #StaffEngineer #CodingInterview #BackendEngineering #SoftwareArchitecture
  
  Chapters, resources, and full transcripts also available at https://systemdrd.com/
---
Most engineers preparing for senior interviews have a vague sense that L6 answers go deeper. That's true, and it's useless as advice. Deeper in what direction? By how much? In the next few minutes, we're going to answer that precisely level by level. Here's the

problem with vague advice like go deeper. It doesn't tell you what to actually do differently in the room. So, let's throw that phrase out and replace it with something concrete. Each step up the ladder, L4 to L5, L5 to L6, L6 to L7 adds a genuinely different type of thinking, not just more of the same thinking stacked on top. L4 is about knowing the vocabulary. Can you run a

framework and produce a coherent design? L5 adds the ability to reason about tradeoffs, to defend, not just describe. L6 adds an entirely new dimension, failure, operations, monitoring. And L7 zooms out past the system entirely into organizations, economics, and platforms. Same interview format at every level, completely different bar. Let's go

through each transition one at a time, starting with the first and most common one, L4 to L5. The jump from L4 to L5 is really a jump from stating decisions to reasoning about them. At L4, the bar is pretty mechanical. Can you run a design framework, produce sensible back-of-the-envelope estimates, and land on a coherent architecture with clear read and write paths? That's the whole job. The interviewer is checking whether

you know the building blocks, load balancers, databases, caches, queues, and whether you can assemble them into something that works. At L5, the architecture itself often looks identical. What changes is what happens when the interviewer starts pushing. They'll ask something like, "Why did you partition by recipient_id instead of sender_id?" An L4 candidate tends to answer with something like, "That's the standard approach," which is true, but it's not reasoning. It's pattern matching. An L5

candidate answers differently. They trace the decision back to the actual access pattern the system needs to serve well. Same diagram on the whiteboard, completely different conversation happening around it. If you're only ever prepping the what, memorizing the shape of a good design, you'll plateau at L4, no matter how many systems you studied. L5 prep means, for every decision you make, immediately asking yourself, why this and not the alternative, before the interviewer ever has to ask. Let's sit

with this example for a second, because it's the cleanest illustration of the L4 L5 gap I know. The scenario, you've designed a messaging system, and you partition the message table by recipient_id. The interviewer asks why. The weak answer, the L4 answer, is that's the standard approach. It's not wrong, exactly, but it doesn't demonstrate anything. It could be true by

coincidence. The strong answer starts from the access pattern. In this system, the query that runs constantly, the one your users hit every time they open the app, is something like, "Give me all pending messages for user X." If you partition by recipient_id, that query hits exactly one shard, the one holding that user's data. Fast, cheap, predictable. Now, imagine you

partition by sender_id instead. To deliver a message to user X, you'd have no idea which shard it landed on, because it was written based on who sent it, not who's receiving it. Reading all pending messages for user X would mean fanning that query out to every single shard and merging the results. Same partition count, same hardware, wildly performance profile, and it's invisible until someone asks you to justify it. That's the whole L5 skill in miniature.

Connect the design decision back to the query pattern that actually matters, out loud, before you're asked. Practice that habit on every decision in your next mock interview, not just the ones you expect to be challenged on. L5 designs a system that works. L6 designs a system that works, and can tell you how you'd know if if stopped working. That's the whole transition, and it shows up in three concrete additions that L5 candidates almost never volunteer on their own. First, service level

objectives with actual monitoring signals attached, not the API should be fast. That's not a target, it's a hope. Something like, "I'm targeting P99 under 100 milliseconds for the feed read, and the metric I'd actually alert on is cache hit ratio dropping below 90% because that's the leading indicator that Postgres is about to take load it wasn't sized for." Second, failure modes named specifically with at least a partial fix attached. Not the vague, "We'd add monitoring." but something

like naming the exact failure and its mechanism, which we'll walk through on the next slide. Third, the operational reality behind tradeoffs you'd otherwise state flatly. An L5 candidate says consistent hashing handles node failure gracefully and moves on. An L6 candidate adds what it actually takes to get back gracefully, active health checks on an interval, a circuit breaker, so a slow but not dead node gets routed around before its tail latency leaks into user-facing requests. Notice the pattern. L6 isn't more architecture,

it's the same architecture narrated from the perspective of 3:00 a.m. when something's already gone wrong. Here's what naming a failure mode actually sounds like using the example from the piece. Say your design leans on a single Redis node for caching and it goes down.

Every request that would have hit cache now falls through to your database, and eventually Redis comes back online. You'd think that's the end of the story. The failure is over, right? An L5 answer might stop there. An L6 answer keeps going because the failure isn't actually over. The moment Redis comes back, every

client that had a request failed during the outage retries at roughly the same time. That's the thundering herd, a wall of simultaneous retries hitting a node that just came back up and hasn't had a chance to warm its cache or stabilize. The result is that Redis gets knocked down again immediately by the very clients trying to recover from the first outage. It's a self-inflicted second failure, and it's completely invisible if you only think about the system in its steady state. The fix is small, but has to be stated explicitly. Add jitter

to your retry logic, so failed requests don't all fire back at the same instant. Spread them out randomly across a window. Pair that with a circuit breaker, so a struggling node gets temporarily routed around instead of hammered. And an active health check running every few seconds, so you catch a node that's degrading, responding slowly, not failing outright, before its tail latency starts leaking into what users actually experience. That combination, named specifically rather than gestured at, is what an L6 interviewer is listening for. L7 is

where the interview stops being about one system in isolation and starts being about the relationships between systems and the teams that own them. Three things show up here that don't show up at L6. First, build versus buy, but with economic reasoning attached, not just a tool preference. It's not enough to say we'd use Kafka. An L7 answer says Kafka is the right call for this specific use case, because producers and consumers scale differently, and you need replay capability. But also flags that if

you're a 20-person company, the operational overhead of running Kafka probably isn't worth it yet, and you'd start with something simpler and revisit later. Second, organizational implications. A design decision doesn't just create technical coupling, it creates a dependency between whichever teams own the pieces on either side of it. And an L7 candidate names that out loud, along with what they'd do about it. Third, platform thinking. The

question quietly shifts from how do I build this feature to how do I build this so that 10 other teams can build features on top of it without ever having to coordinate with me directly. None of this is architecture in the traditional sense. It's the same design skills pointed at a bigger unit of analysis. Not just does the system work, but does the organization around it work? Let's make the build versus buy point concrete, because it's easy to say and easy to get wrong in an interview.

Picture a system that needs to move events between a producer and several downstream consumers. And those consumers each want to replay history and process at their own pace. Kafka is a genuinely strong technical fit for that. It separates producers from consumers cleanly. It supports very different scaling characteristics on each side, and replay is a first-class feature rather than a workaround. That

much is true regardless of company size. But an L7 answer doesn't stop at Kafka's the right call. It adds the constraint that actually determines whether that's a good decision in practice. Does the team have the operational capacity to run it? At a 20-person company with no dedicated infrastructure team, the honest answer is often no. The

operational overhead of running and tuning Kafka would eat time that team doesn't have. So you'd reach for something managed and simpler, like SQS, and consciously plan to revisit Kafka once the team can actually support it. Now layer in the organizational piece. Say this event system sits between a payments team and a notifications team. That's not just a technical integration.

It's a hard dependency. Whenever payments changes its event schema, notifications has to change in lockstep, and vice versa, which slows down both teams' ability to deploy independently. The L7 move is to name that coupling and propose a fix, extracting the event contract into a schema owned by a shared platform team, so payments and notifications can each move at their own pace without stepping on each other. So here's the pattern underneath all three transitions. Each level adds a genuinely new type of thinking, not just more of the same thinking stacked higher. L4 knows the vocabulary, the

building blocks, and how to assemble them into something coherent. L5 can reason about tradeoffs, defend a decision, not just state it. L6 thinks about failure, operations, and monitoring, the 3:00 a.m. view of the system. And L7 thinks about

organizations, economics, and platforms, the system as one piece of a much bigger picture. On screen here is a single reference view of all four levels applied to the same running example, the recipient_id sharding decision, the Redis thundering herd fix, and the Kafka versus SQS call laid out side by side. So, you can see exactly which signals separate an L4 explanation from an L5, L6, and L7 answer on the very same question. And this gives you something actually actionable to prep with, level by level. If you're targeting L5, the bar is simple to state, even if it's hard to do consistently. Make sure you can answer,

"Why did you make that choice?" for every major decision in your design, not just the ones you expect to get pushed on. If you're targeting L6, go one step further. Every decision should have three parts ready before the interviewer even asks. What you chose, why you chose it, and what would actually change your mind. And if you're targeting L7, pick

at least one decision in your design, and be ready to talk about it in terms of its organizational and economic implications, not just its technical ones. That's the difference between grinding through more system designs and actually moving up a level. So, the next time someone tells you your system design answer needs to go deeper, you now have a concrete checklist instead of a vague feeling. Know why you made every decision if you're aiming for L5. Know what would fail and how you'd catch it if you're aiming for L6. And know what

it cost the organization if you're aiming for L7. If you want to keep working this muscle, paid subscribers get a full system design walk-through every single Tuesday. This week's is the Stripe payments ID idempotency key problem, which is a question most engineers get wrong in a very specific, very way. And if you want to see this same L4 through L7 breakdown applied across dozens of different questions instead of just one, the question vault has all 52 walk-throughs organized by archetype. So, you start seeing the pattern across questions instead of just memorizing individual answers. You can

read the full breakdown and catch every new post at systemdrd.com and dive into the complete system design interview roadmap on and Substack link right below, both linked here and in the description. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one.