---
video_title: "AI Debug Your Code Faster with ChatGPT"
video_id: 5WemR3Ppt3U
channel_name: "SystemDR - Scalable System Design "
channel_id: UCi1BkzqiwN5wChnvt20uBWQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5WemR3Ppt3U
video_date: 2026-07-30T15:00:38+00:00
video_description: |
  Website Link: systemdrd.com
  Learn how ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini, and GitHub Copilot can help debug traditional codebases by explaining errors, fixing bugs, refactoring legacy code, generating unit tests, improving code quality, and accelerating software development. Discover practical AI debugging techniques, prompt engineering tips, and production-ready workflows for modern software engineering.
---
Welcome everyone. Today we're talking about AI for debugging. Specifically, how large language models are being wired into real debugging workflows, not just used as a chatbot you paste an error into. Debugging is one of the highest leverage places to apply LLMs in software engineering, but it's also one of the easiest places to get burned by a confident, plausible-sounding wrong answer. So, this talk is about the difference between AI writes code and AI fixes code. The second one requires

grounding in a system that already exists, with constraints the model can't just invent its way around. By the end of this session, you'll have a mental model for a debugging loop that actually works in production, a reference architecture you can build from, and a clear sense of where this technology still breaks. Let's start with why this matters. By most developer experience surveys from the last few years, roughly half of engineering time goes to locating, understanding, and fixing defects, not writing new features. That number is directionally stable, whether you're at a 10-person startup or a company with a 10,000 person engineering org.

There are three reasons debugging resists easy automation. First, context is scattered. A single traceback touches functions, configs, and dependencies spread across dozens of files that a model never sees by default. Second, errors compound silently. The root cause and the failure point are way