---
video_title: "Creator of C# and TypeScript: \"AI will NEVER Replace Coders, Here's Why\" | Anders Hejlsberg"
video_id: CPrePbvbbic
channel_name: "Sajjaad Khader"
channel_id: UC7zZ2-Q_oxbUaoMVL0z51wg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CPrePbvbbic
video_date: 2026-04-30T21:00:00+00:00
video_description: |
  I interviewed Anders Hejlsberg to talk bout the future of coding and AI!
  Sign up for Superhuman Mail today with my link and choose the Business plan to connect to other AI tools! #SuperhumanMail
  Get 1-month free of Superhuman Mail with my link and choose the Business plan to connect to other AI tools!
  → http://superhuman.com/sajjaad
  
  _________________
  
  The creator of C# and TypeScript, Anders Hejlsberg, on why AI won't replace software engineers, the truth about vibe coding, and the #1 mistake beginners make.
  
  🚀 JOIN MY TECH COMMUNITY: SWE LAUNCHPAD
  Inside, you'll learn How to break Into tech with practical resources, job prep guidance, and real industry insights you won’t find in school. 
  → https://swelaunchpad.com
  
  ✉️ TECH NEWSLETTER
  Discover the latest tech trends shaping the industry, unlock career tips, and access exclusive resources to stay competitive in tech. 
  → https://sajjaad.substack.com/
  
  🗣️ INVITE ME TO SPEAK AT YOUR EVENT
  → https://forms.gle/p38f7Jqt7FjYWtYU7
  
  🧑‍💻 LEARN TO CODE
  Learn to code with bite-sized projects and an AI-bot to help answer your queries. I recommend you start with their python module, then check out java and javascript.
  → https://coddy.tech/ (It's FREE, but you can use the code SAJYT for 20% off of premium features!)
  
  ⬇️ MY OTHER SOCIALS:
  📸 Instagram:    / https://www.instagram.com/sajjaad.khader/
  📱 TikTok:    / https://www.tiktok.com/@sajjaadkhader
  🌍 My website: https://sajjaad-s-site.thinkific.com/...
  
  _________________
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  
  0:00 - Why AI won't replace software engineers
  0:32 - Meet Anders Hejlsberg, creator of C# and TypeScript
  1:14 - Is it still worth learning to code in the AI era?
  1:38 - The truth about vibe coding
  2:26 - The story behind C#
  3:39 - Best projects to build when learning to code
  4:14 - Did C# get as big as he expected?
  4:40 - Why TypeScript was created (and what it fixed about JavaScript)
  8:32 - The #1 mistake beginners make when learning to code
  9:04 - How to get hired at a big tech company like Microsoft
  9:28 - What problems beginners should tackle in the AI era
  10:22 - Is a computer science degree worth it?
  11:22 - Will AI replace software engineers?
  11:57 - What software engineering will look like in 5 years
---
Will AI replace software engineers? I am highly skeptical. Who's gonna make the AI? AI is not gonna innovate. Someone has to design the CPU and the operating system. AI is not gonna do that. What are your opinions on vibe coding? That doesn't really bring a lot to the table anyway. That code has to come from somewhere. It's not all gonna be generated by AI. When people are learning to code, what are some common mistakes you see people make? Not spending enough time. How this industry makes progress. What was the story of you creating C-Sharp? Well, the story probably starts like with my... I'm excited to see it and get ahead of most developers. He shares some crazy behind-the-scenes stories from building C-Sharp and TypeScript. And I am confident that will change the way you think about coding projects going into the future. So a lot of value to unpack in this video. And let's get to it right away. AI assumes the existence of in the code that it generates. That code has to come from somewhere. It's not all gonna be generated by AI. What are your opinions on vibe coding? Is gonna replace coders. I am highly skeptical. For a lot of stuff that is wrote, how many times can you write this to do list out? AI and its training set has seen it a gazillion times, so it can riff over that. And it can actually get more and more creative now, but when it comes down to business logic, or you gotta invent something. That's how this industry makes progress, right? It has an R-GRAC on for AI. Sure, sure. Like, understanding the fundamentals. Yesterday, I got the opportunity to have a quick chat with Satya. I had asked him beginner level skill people need to know when they're getting into tech. He mentioned understanding the architecture. That's something AI can help you generate the code, but it won't do the fundamental designing, which comes from the human mind. And you designed language, such as C-Sharp and TypeScripts, and we're very cognizant what problems you were trying to solve. Rewinding the clock a little bit. What was the story of you creating C-Sharp? Well, the story probably starts like with my previous endeavor there at a company called Borland, where I wrote Turbo Pascal, and then worked also as the architect of a product called Delphi. This was all about making programmers more productive, rapid application development, and we competed with Microsoft's marquee product visual basic. And, you know, if you can't beat them, join them. So I joined Microsoft in 96. There was this thing called visual basic that was super easy to write apps in, and then there was this thing called C++. That is where all the expressiveness and performance was in real life. And people really wanted a little bit of both. And so we set out to create that sort of... The best of both worlds. The best of both worlds. You know, something that gave you the power and expressiveness of C++, but with the ease of use of visual basics. With a bunch of modern infrastructure behind it. Right. Don't have. Are there any examples of features of the language that did both, so you could switch things like properties and events? There were objects that were in programming languages already, but everyone was working with this notion of properties on their objects and events on their objects, but no programming languages had given first class treatment to them before. Do you have any example of a great project to create with C++? Any kind of web backend or rest API or write a game? I mean, like Unity, right? Like the third of the world's C-Shark programmers write games. It almost doesn't matter what you write. Once you start writing code, you start understanding how programming languages work, and how to build data structures, and how to get performance, how to measure performance. When you're learning, it's less important exactly what you write, but just the fact that you're writing. Right. Right. You know, you could go write a framework or set a collection classes if you wanted to. It doesn't matter. Yeah. And do you think that C-Shark would be as big as it got to today? No. Of course not. You never know, right? Yeah. I mean, and yes, C-Shark, I am very proud that it stood the test of time. In fact, our star is on one earlier today that it's 25 years since we released C-Shark at the 2000 professional developers' conference. So 25 years, that's a long time. Right. Right. So it's still be around that in widespread use. That's boarding a little into your journey. So TypeScript. Right. Can you give us the story of that and what problem you were trying to solve? Really quick. As a software engineer, you would think writing code is what slows me down. But it's actually the small tasks that pile up the most. That's when I started using superhuman mail, which manages my inbox and keeps me organized without all the back and forth. And now I can connect it to tools like chatchapot or Claude and actually manage my inbox from there. Let your AI agents run your inbox encounter. Let me show you how I use this. I connected superhuman mail to Claude and now I can run everything from here. One thing I use a lot is cross tool workflows. For example, I can ask you to look through recent emails and summarize anything important. Then send that straight into Slack. Or after meetings, I can have a draft of follow ups based on my notes without opening my inbox. It removes a lot of the small tasks that usually add up. If you're afraid of your email sounding too AI generated, you can insert rules just using no end dashes or ellipses to ensure you're all good to go and that it is in your total voice. The beauty is these rules will apply every time without having to edit each time to match your voice in tone. The biggest game changer for me was the AI to help me actually prepare for the day. It can collect all the tasks and insights that I have and help me create a to-do list. Set it up once and stay in control all year. Sign up for a superhuman mail today and get one month free with my link. Make sure to sign up for the business plan if you want to connect Claude, chatchapot and other AI tools. And now back to the video. Well, TypeScript, the story probably starts about 15 years ago when a team at Microsoft, the Outlook team, came to us and I was doing C-Shark at the time. And they came to us and they asked, hey, could you guys productize this thing called SquirtShark? And I'm like, what's SquirtShark? Well, it's this thing that takes C-Shark and cross-compiles it to JavaScript. Okay. And I'm like, okay. And why would someone want to do that? Well, we do that because that's the only way that we can get great tooling and scalability for a large project. And we're writing this enormous app in JavaScript because at the time everyone was moving to the browser and JavaScript as the true cross-platform solution. You know, there was like a whole diversity of device form factors coming out like phones and tablets and the PC wasn't, you couldn't just assume that it was going to run on a PC. And so, browser was it. And HTML5 had happened and you could actually write decent UI. And so people were just writing enormous apps in JavaScript and having a very hard time doing it. And this team had chosen to solve the problem by writing the app in C-Shark and cross-compiling it to JavaScript. And I'm like, but that's crazy. Surely you're not going to write best-to-break JavaScript apps by writing them in C-Shark. Wouldn't you rather write them in JavaScript? What is it about JavaScript that's broken and can we fix it? And so that was sort of the genesis of TypeScript, Fix JavaScript. If you will, make it usable for large-scale projects and add those things to the language that are necessary such that we can build great tooling on top. And in particular, that meant adding a static type system to the language. We then enable the ability to write great tooling that you see in save issues. So, we could go in our learning experience. Exactly. Because that's ultimately where the productivity comes from. It's like having things like statement completion and code navigation and seeing red squigglys when you make a mistake. But that's what developers love that stuff. Once you give it to them, you can never take it away again. So, Python developers might disagree slightly, but... Well, they might, but you know what? I don't know that people are writing million-line apps or programs in Python to the same extent. Once something gets big enough, you really do need these things. That readability types. As the creator of C-Sharp and TypeScript, when people are learning to code, what are some common mistakes you see people make? Not spending enough time learning the basic principles and really sort of understand what is it I'm doing? What is a variable really and what is an array and what is a data structure and how the pointers work? Once you've got that, then it doesn't really matter what language you're in. You know, that's just a veneer on top of the semantics, right? But really understanding the semantics is super important because that allows you to think in a more abstract fashion. If you don't get that deeper understanding of it, then you're sort of thinking of that veneers syntactic level of what do I have to write? But you're not really understanding why you're writing it. Interesting. If I'm a beginner in tech, and I want to get hired at a big tech company like Microsoft, what is your number one piece of advice? Write a bunch of open source code, put it on GitHub, that becomes your resume. There's nothing like demonstrating the ability to code. And a fantastic way to demonstrate that is by building stuff and putting it out in the open. So don't sit on it, share it. And particularly with AI and the world that we live in, are there certain problems that you would choose to tackle? It depends on what kind of programming excites you because there are many different things you could do with. Some people like building apps. The UI aspect of it and the experience of the app. Other people like systems like stuff that doesn't have a UI at all or but is like they're into making it perform incredibly well. Some people like the theory of it all. And so there are many different ways you can dive into it. I've always been fascinated with writing efficient data structures and understanding how they work. How to hash table work, why does it work? And how do I make it more efficient? How can I structure the data in my program the right way? Because ultimately that's where the performance comes from. Exactly. It's like the small design choices that affect so much in the performance. And do you think a computer science degree is worth it? Oh, I definitely think so. You know, I was sort of somewhat self-talked because at the time I went to college back in Denmark. I grew up in Denmark. The engineering school I went to didn't even have computer science yet. They started it the following year, right? But I was like in the late 70s. You could go to the other university for computer science but I was doing engineering. And so a lot of things I sort of had to learn by myself by doing. Boy, I can save a lot of time by getting an education that allows you to understand the history of programming. And we've talked about here what is a programming language, what are the principles of programming, what is data structures, what are databases, what are operating systems like all of this stuff. It certainly helps to have a passion for it. You know, for me, I sometimes joke, I never had a real job because I was always doing my hobby. Coating was always my hobby. Right, right. If you're a bigger, if you aim to do your best work, there's got to be a bit of passion in it. Right, for sure. And one final question. Will AI replace self-engineers? No. Who's going to make the AI? Right? And who's going to make the programming languages that the AI expresses itself in? And who's going to write the frameworks that the AI talk? I mean, no, AI is an accelerant. And it's going to change the way that we do things. And it's going to remove a lot of grunt work that we don't need to do anymore because AI can help us do it. But it'll allow us to focus more on the creative side because AI is not going to innovate. It's not going to like ping have this crazy idea and the shower this morning, you know, AI doesn't work that way. Right, right. So right now as a software engineer, we code five years from now when AI is more into the work flow. More pervasive. What do you see self-frenchingers do? AI will be able to do a lot of that grunt work. But like I said, there's still the deeper side of the science. These frameworks that you have to target, someone has to design the CPU, someone has to design the operating systems. There's plenty left, someone has to get the bright idea and devise the right data structure for sharding this app so our startup can grow fast or what have you, right? AI is not going to do that, but it's going to help you with these like, yeah, okay, the grunt work of writing a test for a pull request. That doesn't really bring a lot to the table anyway. So yeah, hand that off, sweet. Well, that's about all I have in this video. I really hope that you guys enjoyed it and if you did, make sure to hit the like button. Subscribe if you haven't already. If you're interested in my absolutely free tech newsletter, link for that down below in the description. And if you're interested in watching the conversation I had with the CEO of Microsoft Satyana Dela, you might want to click right here.