---
video_title: "Advice for lost computer science students"
video_id: wWd4uiBHb1Q
channel_name: "Sajjaad Khader"
channel_id: UC7zZ2-Q_oxbUaoMVL0z51wg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wWd4uiBHb1Q
video_date: 2026-08-20
video_description: |
  #ZapierPartner Sponsored by Zapier! Zapier SDK levels you up, letting you build custom, code-based automations directly in your editor. Start building with Zapier SDK today: https://bit.ly/4hhcLVc
  
  In this video, I break down 3 brutally honest lessons every computer science student needs to know about AI, software engineering jobs, internships, and the future of tech careers in 2026.
  
  🚀 JOIN MY TECH COMMUNITY: SWE LAUNCHPAD
  Inside, you'll learn How to break Into tech with practical resources, job prep guidance, and real industry insights you won’t find in school. 
  → https://swelaunchpad.com
  
  ✉️ TECH NEWSLETTER
  Discover the latest tech trends shaping the industry, unlock career tips, and access exclusive resources to stay competitive in tech. 
  → https://sajjaad.substack.com/
  
  🗣️ INVITE ME TO SPEAK AT YOUR EVENT
  → https://forms.gle/p38f7Jqt7FjYWtYU7
  
  🧑‍💻 LEARN TO CODE
  Learn to code with bite-sized projects and an AI-bot to help answer your queries. I recommend you start with their python module, then check out java and javascript.
  → https://coddy.tech/ (It's FREE, but you can use the code SAJYT for 20% off of premium features!)
  
  ⬇️ MY OTHER SOCIALS:
  📸 Instagram:    / https://www.instagram.com/sajjaad.khader/
  📱 TikTok:    / https://www.tiktok.com/@sajjaadkhader
  🌍 My website: https://sajjaad-s-site.thinkific.com/...
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  
  0:00 - Being a Computer Science Student in 2026
  0:42 - Lesson #1: The Computer Science Degree Trap
  1:36 - Why Your CS Degree Isn’t Enough
  3:26 - How to Build Your Network in Tech
  3:59 - Let Your Projects Get You Hired
  4:33 - Lesson #2: The Future of Software Engineering
  6:19 - Two Tech Roles About to Explode
  6:33 - AI Engineer Explained
  7:22 - Forward Deployed Engineer Explained
  8:05 - Skills You Need to Become an FDE
  9:08 - Lesson #3: Why LeetCode Is Dying
  10:22 - The Future of Tech Interviews
---
Being a computer science student kind of sucks. The job market is brutal. Everyone keeps telling you AI is about to take your career and no matter how hard you work, it always feels like you're behind. And trust me, I've been there. When I started computer science back in college, I was completely lost.

I had no idea what classes to take, how to land an internship, or what was even worth learning. But, over the years, I ended up discovering three [music] brutally honest lessons that completely changed the trajectory of my career. These lessons took me from being lost and ignored [music] to landing an Amazon internship and a $220,000 big tech job right out of school. And so, if you want to skip all the struggles, wasted time, and rejections that I had to go through and fast track your way to success, then this is the video for you. So, let's get started. The first brutally honest

lesson as a computer science student that you must understand is the computer science degree trap. And I know this sounds scary, but hear me out. You see, back when I was in college, I made it a mission of mine to land a big tech internship. I was at the Georgia Institute of Technology. I was taking some pretty cool computer science classes. I had done a machine learning

project. I knew data structures and algorithms, and I was taking some courses on the side to learn Python, C++, and Swift. And so, as a computer science student, I was extremely qualified. Like, why on earth would I not be able to land an internship? So, I applied to company after company. In

fact, I probably applied to over 100 companies in the span of just a month. And the results was pin drop silence. No one got back to me. It was tough. I was doing well in all my classes. all the

requirements as a computer science student, but I couldn't get a call back. And that's when it finally hit me. I was stuck in what I call the computer science degree trap. [music] And I was stuck in deep. Here's what the trap actually is. It's a mental trap that

tricks you into thinking that just because you have a computer science degree, that you're automatically qualified for these tech jobs. But, the reality of the matter is most tech companies, especially nowadays, do not care about your degree nearly as much as you'd would Instead, they're looking for something completely different. And the best way I can show you what that something is is by looking at LeBron James and his family. You see, LeBron has a son named Bronny, and Bronny is a solid basketball player who worked very hard. But, the NBA is really tough. So,

how did Bronny actually make it in? Simple. His dad, LeBron, wanted him there. So, LeBron talked to the front office, and they drafted Bronny. In a career sense, LeBron effectively gave his son a referral to the job position he wanted. You know, it's not about what

you know, it's who you know. Your network is your net worth. And so, that was my missing piece. Instead of obsessing over computer science and what coding language I knew, I needed to obsess over who I knew, my network. So, I reached out to people. I went through

my family's network, my friends' network, my friends of friends' network, literally anyone who worked in tech that could potentially give me a referral. To my luck, turns out I actually had a family friend who was a manager at Amazon. I reached out to him, he gave me a referral, and almost overnight, the same exact profile that had been getting me nothing was suddenly getting real attention. And then, ultimately, a few weeks later, I landed my software engineering internship at Amazon as a freshman in college. And so, yes, skills do matter, but unless you have a network, your skills are kind of useless. You can be the smartest student

in your whole computer science program, but ultimately, once you graduate, you will be one drop in an ocean of millions of graduates fighting for the same job. And in this new AI era, your network is the only thing that lifts you out of that ocean and breaks the computer science degree trap. So, to start building your network up, here are two things I want you to start doing. First, reach out to 30 to 50 engineers per day on LinkedIn. And I know it sounds like a lot, but I'm not recommending anything that I haven't done myself. Then, once

you reach out, I want you to craft a thoughtful message talking about who you are, your qualifications, and ask them about relevant opportunities at their company. If they respond to you, maybe try to get a coffee chat with them. And then, eventually, you can ask them for a referral. Just please don't be too weird about it. I mean, ultimately you want these people to be regularly part of your network, so try not to make this whole referral thing sound too transactional. Second, and this is

actually a much better way of building your network, and that is to start posting your best projects on Twitter and LinkedIn. One of my friends would regularly post projects he would do on Twitter. And for his last two jobs, he's never even had to submit an application. Hiring managers would just scroll through his Twitter and see the amazing work he's doing, and then they'd reach out and be like, "Hey, do you want a job? You can work for us." Because why

do they need to evaluate or vet him if he's basically showing exactly what he's capable of online? So, just put yourself out there, show the world of what you're capable of, and that will build your network like nothing else. The second brutally honest lesson you must learn as a computer science student is that software engineering is pregnant. And if you're confused, you heard that right. Software engineering is about to deliver two babies, and if you can understand this, you'll have an amazing career.

Really quick, if you want to get ahead of most people and actually get AI to work for you, listen up. This used to be me. I'd open up GitHub Copilot, ask it to build something, then realize it needed access to another app. I'd switch tabs, copy API docs, wire everything together manually, and spend more time connecting tools than actually building. And at first, that sounds normal. But

once your workflow touches GitHub, Slack, Gmail, your calendar, and everything else, it gets messy really fast. So, I partnered with Zapier to show you something I've been testing with their new custom apps and agents using the Zapier SDK. I gave my coding agent the Zapier SDK directly inside GitHub Copilot in VS Code. The agent installed most of what it needed itself. Then, I built something I call my morning executive brief. Every morning,

a scheduled script pulls my Google Calendar, Gmail, and Slack, then generates one clean summary of what I need to know. Meetings, important emails, Slack updates, action items, all in one place before I even start working. And that's exactly why I used an SDK instead of just asking an AI my This isn't a one-time prompt. It's real code that runs on a schedule, authenticates with multiple apps, and executes the same workflow reliably every single morning. And this is the bigger point. AI is becoming way more

powerful, but the real unlock is giving you access to the tools where your work actually happens. So, instead of bouncing between apps every morning trying to figure out what's important, I let the automation do it for me so I can spend my time actually building. If you want to try building your own AI workflows, check out the Zapier SDK, link in description. And now back to the video. So, for a really long time now, software engineering was basically just one job. You learn to code, build

applications, and that was pretty much the whole career. But now, in light of AI and recent developments, two brand new roles are branching off of software and will explode in demand in the next few years. And so, as a computer science student, you need to seize this opportunity, and trust me, you'll make a lot of money. The first role that is emerging and getting super popular is the AI engineer, and you can make between $220,000 as an entry-level. And for those who don't know, an AI engineer is a software engineer who builds applications powered by intelligent models. Here's an

example. A regular software engineer might build a recipe app where you scroll through thousands of recipes and save the ones you like by hand. Now, an AI engineer might come in and enhance that app and add an intelligent chatbot layer on top. So now, instead of looking through recipes, you can just type into the bot, "I have some chicken, rice, and vegetables. What can I make in 20 minutes?" And then boom, this AI

engineered app gives you the exact recipe you need. And so, as you can tell, AI engineering is an enhancement of software engineering. If you know how to play around with AI models and deal with agents, you can be super successful in this field, but please do not forget, you must first master software engineering. The second role that is emerging and getting super popular is the forward deployed engineer. And a lot of the big AI companies are hiring these guys like crazy. You see, most software

engineers sit in the office, work out of their laptops just shipping out code that customers eventually use. Tech companies decided to now spice this role up, and now they take these engineers and put them in the front line to become forward deployed engineers. These engineers go talk to customers directly, listen to all the problems they have, and use their knowledge and skills in software engineering to build technical solutions. For example, a user can't log into their app. Let me now go look through the code and address that fix.

The database is reporting all the wrong entries. Let me set up an AI agent that will clean your data and monitor it for any changes. It's an extremely hot field and if you want to become a forward deployed engineer, there are three specific skills I want you to hone in on. First is your code. You still need to be able to write, read, and address potential issues with code just like a software engineer would. Second is using

AI. The best forward deployed engineers use AI to build and address customer needs. And I don't mean I know how to prompt ChatGPT and get code to come out. No, you should know how to orchestrate tools like Claude code to create sub agents that can fire off full end-to-end projects for you. Third is product thinking and this is actually a huge area so many engineers lack in. Most

engineers just think about the code that they need to write, but ultimately the best engineers are the ones who think about what problems are we solving? How is the customer actually going to interact with and use the product? They can understand things down to psychology, color schemes, and actual usability rather than just sheer functionality of code. And so, as a computer science student evaluating all your career options, don't just think software engineering is your only path. There are so many different fields in tech and even within software engineering, there are two emerging branches, so tons of opportunities coming your way. The third lesson that

you must learn as a computer science student is that LeetCode is dying. For those who don't know, LeetCode is the platform that tech companies have used for years to run their coding interviews. The idea was simple. Give every candidate the same tricky coding puzzle and whoever is smart enough to solve the puzzle gets the job as a software engineer. And although LeetCode was solid for interviews at first, over time it became useless. Once everyone

found out that all these companies are just using LeetCode puzzles to judge candidates, people just started memorizing the problems and answers. Instead of focusing on becoming a good software engineer, they spend all their time memorizing hundreds of specific patterns and data structures just to pass the interview. So, the test was no longer about who was the best software engineer, but rather who could regurgitate the most amount of memorized information. And then with AI, people just started cheating on these interviews making lead code utterly useless. That's why a solid amount of tech companies have been moving away from lead code. Companies like GitLab,

Snapchat, and Zapier. Meta is even experimenting with new types of interviews. And now just to be clear, some companies still do use lead code. But in terms of the way things are heading over the next couple years, there is most likely going to be a big shift away. And so, if I was a computer science student right now, I personally would not invest most of my time in studying lead code. Wait, so then I'm

confused. What should I focus on? What's the future of tech interviews? I got you. So, recently I sat down with a bunch of CEOs and founders to ask them exactly that. And let me just say, I am

genuinely impressed. Not every company, but a growing amount of them are starting to treat the interview like a short 5-day contract. And it goes like this. As a software company, they always have new features that they're trying to build. So, during the interview, they show you part of their code base, and they basically say, "Develop a certain specific feature end-to-end, and we'll pay for it. And if it's good, we'll hire

you full-time." And this works great for everyone. The founder gets one of their features built, and you get to show off your skills in the most real way possible. Clear expectations, you get paid for your time, and this is the true win-win that lead code was always trying to be. Now, just to be clear, not every startup is going to pay you for this.

Some do, some don't. But regardless, this is a much better interview test because it's pretty much what you would do on the actual job. Like, if you're a computer science student applying to become an AI engineer, they might give you part of their code base and ask you to develop an intelligent chatbot on top. If you want to become a forward deployed engineer, they might give you an extremely bug-ridden, error-prone code base and ask you to fix everything wrong with it. Either way, interviews are finally starting to look like the actual job, And I'm very excited for this because now we can actually focus on becoming good for that specific role rather than just trying to game the system. Well, that's about all I have in

this video. I really hope that you guys enjoyed it, and if you did, make sure to hit the like button. Subscribe if you haven't already. If you're interested in my absolutely free tech newsletter where I talk about the latest in AI, coding, and computer science, link for that down below in the description. And if you're interested in the interview that I had with the CEO of Microsoft, Satya Nadella, you might want to watch this video