---
video_title: "Stanford AI Expert: These 3 Jobs Will EXPLODE in the Next 5 Years!"
video_id: Ci7ZDQ3m8cc
channel_name: "Sajjaad Khader"
channel_id: UC7zZ2-Q_oxbUaoMVL0z51wg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ci7ZDQ3m8cc
video_date: 2026-08-13T22:00:36+00:00
video_description: |
  AI is reshaping software engineering - here’s how to stay ahead, become a top 1% engineer, and prepare for the tech jobs AI will create.
  
  Try Accio → https://www.accio.com/work/app?defaultAgent=accio-com-buyer-assistant&src=p_ytbkol_sajjad
  
  Mihail's Course → https://themodernsoftware.dev/
  
  Whether you're a CS student, junior developer, or already working in tech, the way you approach software engineering has to evolve.
  
  We also break down the AI skills, engineering roles, and mindset that will matter most over the next few years.
  
  
  Chapters:
  0:00 - AI Is Replacing Software Engineers
  0:51 - Why CS Grads Are Struggling
  2:54 - 3 Tech Jobs AI Could Replace
  3:45 - Do We Still Need Junior Engineers?
  6:14 - Is a CS Degree Still Worth It?
  7:16 - How to Avoid Being Replaced by AI
  8:22 - How to Become a Top 1% Engineer
  10:48 - 3 Tech Jobs That Will Explode Because of AI
  12:46 - Final Advice
  
  🚀 JOIN MY TECH COMMUNITY: SWE LAUNCHPAD
  Inside, you'll learn How to break Into tech with practical resources, job prep guidance, and real industry insights you won’t find in school. 
  → https://swelaunchpad.com
  
  ✉️ TECH NEWSLETTER
  Discover the latest tech trends shaping the industry, unlock career tips, and access exclusive resources to stay competitive in tech. 
  → https://sajjaad.substack.com/
  
  🗣️ INVITE ME TO SPEAK AT YOUR EVENT
  → https://forms.gle/p38f7Jqt7FjYWtYU7
  
  🧑‍💻 LEARN TO CODE
  Learn to code with bite-sized projects and an AI-bot to help answer your queries. I recommend you start with their python module, then check out java and javascript.
  → https://coddy.tech/ (It's FREE, but you can use the code SAJYT for 20% off of premium features!)
  
  ⬇️ MY OTHER SOCIALS:
  📸 Instagram:    / https://www.instagram.com/sajjaad.khader/
  📱 TikTok:    / https://www.tiktok.com/@sajjaadkhader
  🌍 My website: https://sajjaad-s-site.thinkific.com/...
---
Are companies using AI to replace software engineers? There's a category of software engineers that I think will be replaced. Hands-on keyboard, cracking out tickets, it's pretty easy to outsource. This is Mihail Eric, a Stanford lecturer and head of AI. And today, he's sitting down with us to talk about where software engineering is actually headed. And what Mihail explains how some engineers will be on the chopping block? At the same time, he introduces us to a new type of engineer that will be more valuable than ever. What are the top tech jobs that will explode because of AI? The first one that comes to mind is a... ****** There's a huge one that's picked off. So today, we covered this new type of engineer. Plus, we covered the skills needed to enter the top 1%. What would you recommend to getting ahead of 99% of software engineers? It's been a lot of time to be coming... ****** I think we increasingly worried. So there's a lot of alley-time back in this video, and let's get to it. Mihail, computer science currently has an unemployment rate of 6.1%. Which actually makes it the 7th highest amongst all college degrees. And so, as a person who lectures at Stanford and interacts with all these computer science students, what's going on? Is the job market cooked? Because of the surge of coding agents and coding tools and things like this, there's like an upscaling and sort of an up-leveling of the expectations of an engineer from day one. So where, once upon a time, you could enter as maybe an entry level graduate and you sort of have this buffer period of maybe 3 to 6 months to maybe a year where you're just kind of getting your feet under you. And once upon a time, there wasn't a tremendous expectation to be as productive as maybe the most productive person on the team, you know, the senior engineers. I think that affordance is no longer as true because of this need to sort of like hit the ground running once you actually enter your role. Employers are seeing that given two candidates that can come in for the same role, one that is an entry level and one that is more senior person, we expect that the senior person will have less of that ramp up period that we would normally have to account for where we'd hire the entry level person. The employer has made meopically sort of just prioritizing the thing that is most obvious from which is, hey, pick the person's more senior, they will be able to get more done in a shorter period of time. The expectation gap from what juniors are to what companies need is the unemployment. Yeah, I think there's a lot of that at a play. But if I see tools like on code that where I can create literally a fleet of agents at my disposal that can code, that can plan, that can test, that can do pretty much what a software engineer would do, are companies using AI to replace software engineers? There's a category of software engineers that I think will be replaced. If your only offer to the company is hands-on keyboard, cracking out tickets that are pretty easy to describe in a project management tool like Gira or linear or whatever a company uses, then that kind of role, certainly it's pretty easy to outsource I would say to a coding agent. So I will clarify that I think that is something that will no longer be as available as roles. And it turns out that a lot of jobs in the industry do kind of fall into that category. It's typically outsource labor, it's typically something used like a consulting firm for where they just throw people at the problem. That I think will absolutely go down. So diving more deep into that, if you had to put, what are the top three tech jobs that you think because of AI will disappear? There is a class of like QA engineers. Their only real job, a lot of the times is to take an existing piece of software and just kind of like test it, click buttons around and you know, do do that flavor of triaging and validating on code. A lot of like consulting jobs I think will disappear, like the entry level consulting jobs I think will also disappear. Usually when an existing firm will employ like a consulting group, they'll assign them to some task where there's already a project existing, there's already like worth an easy to get done. It's kind of like, they just need the manual labor to essentially do that. I think that's something that is increasingly easy just outsource to a coding agent. Entry level data analysts, I think will also kind of disappear where there's just not as much of a need to do rudimentary kind of like that exploration that may be you'd expect of an entry level analyst. The stuff that is quote-quote not as thoughtful from an engineering standpoint where it is literally, you do take a spec, you take a description of a task and you just go do that. I think that entire category of sort of roles and they may disappear. Is there even a need for junior engineers going forward if AI is already as good as most of the software engineers? There is. I think what junior engineers offer uniquely in the engineering landscape and that I see in my students is just a tremendous amount of nimbleness in picking up of tools, picking up of skills and just being able to tackle problems in a way that times unopinionated in a good way, right? Because at the end of the day, the world is evolving so, so quickly. And where I see seniors even stumble a little bit is just an aversion to change. Whereas a junior engineer, they come in, they have incredibly high slope. If you talk about the slope versus why intercepts sort of analogy, you know, the why intercept might not be as high as a senior person, but their ability to like pick up the school tools incredibly quickly is a lot more robust, especially for smaller companies, is something that you want. Because small companies start up to their all that speed, their all that ability to adapt to problem spaces, to change on a moment's notice. That's something that I think juniors have and you know, in their disposal as sort of a meta scale. And in that case, why are companies hiring more junior software engineers? Really quick, if you're running a business alone, you're probably spending way more time managing work than actually growing the business. But then your whole day turns into doing random and work that does not move the business forward. That's where Axiowork by Alibaba.com comes in. Axiowork is basically an AI workspace that helps automate the parts of business that usually waste your time. So, as a person in tech, I wanted to see if Axiowork could help me source a new product for my business. I opened the Axiow sourcing toolkit and I asked it to find suppliers for a premium desk mat. Within seconds, it came back with supplier cards showing pricing store ratings, we order rates and minimum order quantities. So, I could quickly compare my options instead of spending hours searching manually. After that, I selected a few of the suppliers and had Axiowork automatically send inquiries and negotiate pricing and MLQs for me. Instead of emailing manufacturers back and forth myself, the AI handled the first round of negotiations directly inside the app. That was honestly my favorite part. Most AI tools stopped after giving you information, but Axiowork actually helps execute the work for you. So, if you wanna easily start up your own business like this, download Axiowork for desktop using the link in my description. Start your seven day free trial and unlock the extra bonus credits and add back to the video. It's a little bit of a short term optimization. All they're seeing is, oh no, there's this AI thing that's happening. I'm responsible for reducing headcount. I have 30 people on my team, but I only have this allocation to have engineering resources at my disposal. The only answer is cut people throw more clog tokens at the solution. Right now, I think just employers are being a little too short term thinking in terms of how they approach the problem that they're seeing. Back in 2021, if I had a computer science degree and I had a pulse, I could probably land a 200K job at Google. And so obviously spending $50,000 on my computer science degree was worth it. Now, in 2026, I can spend even 200,000 on a computer science bachelor's master's, but still, when I graduate, I might end up jobless for six months. So, in that sense, do you think it's still worth it? Yeah, I think that again, if your only expectation is to walk in, learn some Python, some JavaScript, some Java, and walk out with a job, I think that is not the right framing of what you're putting in and what you're expecting to get out. But if you're gonna go and say, hey, I can learn how to approach an open-ended project. Scope it out. Learn how to talk to people, learn how to define a set of requirements and emphasizing those skills. I think college is a unique opportunity, and the degree is a unique opportunity to have a lot of time to kind of dial in on those meta skills that you wouldn't have otherwise. So, if you had to speak in a broader sense and give maybe one or two pieces of advice to a software engineer or computer science student, how do you prevent AI from replacing them? It's been a lot of time to be coming interdisciplinary in a lot of ways. One of my students, she was someone with a strong UX UI background, and so she basically built a system that could translate from a lot of the UIX folks, they'd spend a lot of time sketching, or when they're baking up something, conceptualizing something as they have a notebook, and they'll draw things out, rough sketches, and she built a basicable system that could take her sketches, meet her where she is, and immediately translate that into literally an app post on her cell, a fully functional web app you could interact with, and the fidelity of the app compared to her sketch was just crazy good. Students that strong in design that went to combine them with the coding agents, they basically took two disciplines, and they merged them, the folks that are really good in part of our systems, and they combined up the coding agent, and then they were built something that was specific to the E discipline, right? So, combining of multiple things, multiple roles and responsibilities, design, PM, customer success, all these things, sort of becoming an end-to-end functional responsibility, and that's one really big thing that I think is unique, and agents don't really do very well. It's all that context that comes from the world. Okay, so we're talking about becoming a software engineer, but we don't wanna just become a regular software engineer, we wanna become a top 1% software engineer, we wanna get ahead of 99% of software engineers, and with the power of AI and agents, we have that. What would you recommend to getting ahead of 99% of software engineers? One, they have to be really good at thinking about problems in sort of a piecemeal fashion. Now, there's a second piece, which is just knowing how to context switch among different parts of the problem and amongst agents. And then the third piece is just knowing how to develop an agent-friendly code basis. So, just drilling on the first point of a low-income piecemeal had a breakdown of problem. The best engineers are the ones that know how to take a very complex task, and then break it onto the subtasks that need to get organized, the dependencies need to be translated, and then you can, from that place, kick it off to agents and have agents do that in different ways. The second piece, and scale, I think, is superficial there, is just this concept of knowing how to context push among different agents. I've done this work of breaking down the task. Now, first, I start by assigning one chunk of work to one agent. It's been the time to make a plan for that agent. The agent is doing this work. Now, I understand that because of these, you know, the task decomposition that I've done, I understand that I can now, it literally start to kick off to other agents, those other pieces of work that I've developed. And so, knowing what's that right point to switch to another agent to kick off that work. Okay, now you have two agents doing work. They're kind of doing their stuff, shipping a code in their own way. Now, what's the point where you can go to a third agent? And start, like, again, adding a task into the bucket of things to get done. Knowing how to then go from one to the other and being able to do that seamlessly, now that you have the multiple agents doing work, is a pretty complex scale because it's a bit of like psychological scale. You have to know what's going on with this agent, where this agent stuck, if at all, where I need to add more clarifications. Oh, now I need to switch this other agent. So, you know, there's this context which I think is super crucial. You're the scrum master of the team of each agent. You're a scrum master at the end. You're the manager of the team of agents, and you have to maintain all that context because they are the most eager interns on the planet. They will do exactly what you want them to, but they need that supervision. The third scale, I think, is super crucial here, that I think is not talked about enough is this concept of agent-friendly code bases, an agent-friendly development environments. What I usually say to folks is you want to set up your agents for success. How do you do that? Well, you want to ensure that they have a strong test coverage in your code base. You want to ensure that they have a strong build system. Basically, the house in a lot of ways is built for someone goes and enters the house and starts trying to add on top of the house or add a rumor or what have you. But if you do that, that is the point where you can confidently go off and have multiple agents. Go contra that they're not going to create ASLAPI code. The contra that they're going to go and actually confidently build something in the context of the code that you've developed, the foundation you've set up. What are the top three tech jobs that will explode in the next five years because of AI? The first one that comes to mind is a four-deployed engineering. I think there's a huge one that's picked off. The idea of an engineer that essentially goes on site a lot of times with some company or some customer that a company is dealing with and is responsible for translating customer demands or needs into some piece of software using whatever platform you're selling to the customer. So it's an interesting job discipline because it is interdisciplinary, right? It combines that sort of PMing on the ground, support work with an understanding of your own code base. You're doing the decomposition. You're doing the decomposition. You're doing the translation. You're the one who's saying, hey, the user is really saying this button doesn't work, but what they really mean is that there's an whole different feature that they didn't even know they need. They're picking up on maybe the wrong particular detail. So the four-deployed engineer, they're on site. They're the voice of the customer in a lot of ways and then training that to engineering. The second and third role which are related, I think, are distinct enough, which is an AI platform engineer and just a core AI feature engineer, right? So an AI platform engineer in my mind is someone that is essentially building out to foundation for those agents to be built, right? So who's making the decision on how we evaluate? Are we using brain trust? Are we using judgment labs? Are we using any of these foundational pieces of software? What are we using for inference if we're actually going to host our own model to run these agents? Are we using fireworks? Are we using modal? Are we, you know, any of these providers? So who's building the platform infrastructure foundations upon which a lot of these agentic abilities need to be built? So that's the response of an AI platform engineer. So kind of like the AI IT department. Yeah, in a lot of ways. Now that you have this foundational infrastructure layer that exists across platform in your own company, let's say, how do you then build a spoke features, agentic features on top of that? Now that you have this foundation built out, I am building an agent that can do summarization really well that is grounded in PDFs that are specific to insurance. Let's say you're in the insurance vertical. So there's a whole class of now agent-specific features that need to be built that an AI feature engineer is the one that is mainly responsible for it. So as we're closing off, do you have any final pieces of advice for the audience? If you are in the industry, if you are a junior engineer, if you're someone that's entering the workforce, there's an understandable anxiety that a lot of people feel. And what I would highly encourage people to not fall into the trap of is evicting themselves from the entire discipline of software, thinking it's dead, it's cooked, I shouldn't be even a part of this. There is absolutely a role in responsibility that you, juniors, I think are uniquely poised to fill in this future workforce, a jet-development in an AI workforce. You have to be really nimble, ability to adapt new tools. It believes you're very interdisciplinary and to be able to merge across multiple disciplines in interesting ways. Focus on those unique skill sets before you say that there's no hope here. It's a wrong prediction to say that there's no hope for juniors at all in this new world. It does require a more maybe thoughtful deliberation around where you fit into all this, but it is one that is definitely still crucial. We're hiring you to my company and I'll gladly, you know, the right kind of junior folks, I will gladly bring them on. Cool, thank you so much. Thank you. Well, that's about all I have in this video. I really hope that you guys enjoyed it. And if you didn't make it to hit the like button, subscribe if you haven't already. If you're interested in my absolutely free techniques letter, link for that down below in the description. And if you're interested in watching the interview that I had with the CEO of Microsoft Satya Nadella, you might want to watch this video right here.