---
video_title: "LinkedIn CEOO Explains WTF Is Going On In The Job Market"
video_id: JpaK3F7fLHE
channel_name: "Sajjaad Khader"
channel_id: UC7zZ2-Q_oxbUaoMVL0z51wg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JpaK3F7fLHE
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  #ad Most software engineers are using AI completely wrong.
  
  I teamed up with @Trae_ai to see what it was like having AI built directly into my development workflow instead of constantly switching between my IDE and an AI chatbot. After using it on a real project, I spent less time explaining context and more time actually building.
  
  Check out Trae IDE: https://www.trae.ai
  
  In this video, I sit down with Aneesh Raman CEOO of LinkedIn to break down how AI is reshaping software engineering, which tech jobs are growing, and the skills you need to stay valuable in the AI job market.
  
  🚀 JOIN MY TECH COMMUNITY: SWE LAUNCHPAD
  Inside, you'll learn How to break Into tech with practical resources, job prep guidance, and real industry insights you won’t find in school. 
  → https://swelaunchpad.com
  
  ✉️ TECH NEWSLETTER
  Discover the latest tech trends shaping the industry, unlock career tips, and access exclusive resources to stay competitive in tech. 
  → https://sajjaad.substack.com/
  
  🗣️ INVITE ME TO SPEAK AT YOUR EVENT
  → https://forms.gle/p38f7Jqt7FjYWtYU7
  
  🧑‍💻 LEARN TO CODE
  Learn to code with bite-sized projects and an AI-bot to help answer your queries. I recommend you start with their python module, then check out java and javascript.
  → https://coddy.tech/ (It's FREE, but you can use the code SAJYT for 20% off of premium features!)
  
  ⬇️ MY OTHER SOCIALS:
  📸 Instagram:    / https://www.instagram.com/sajjaad.khader/
  📱 TikTok:    / https://www.tiktok.com/@sajjaadkhader
  🌍 My website: https://sajjaad-s-site.thinkific.com/...
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  
  0:00 - The Future of Tech Jobs in the AI Era
  1:10 - Is the Job Market Cooked?
  3:33 - The #1 Skill Engineers Need to Stand Out
  5:22 - How to Make Your Career AI-Proof
  7:02 - Is AI Making Us Dumber?
  8:53 - Final Advice for Surviving the AI Shift
---
Folks coming out of college today are going to have twice [music] as many jobs in their career as the generation prior to them. Twice as many jobs. Machine learning engineer, data annotator, all sorts of jobs around data centers. We're tracking over a million new jobs that are occurring just around AI. Finance, professional services, consulting. We've

never seen it at this level before. >> This is Anish Raman, the COO of LinkedIn, and today he's sitting down with us to share some exclusive insights into where the job market with AI is actually headed. He breaks down exactly which jobs are growing, which ones are disappearing, and what that means for you over the next few years. >> If you're in a job where like 11 of the top 12 tasks are in bucket one, now not only is that dangerous zone for your career, MIT has studied brain scans and said that there's cognitive debt that emerges. You cannot outsource >> He also calls out some of the biggest garbage people are spewing about AI, and how despite this terrible job market, engineers just need to pick up this one skill to remain AI-proof.

>> you're a software engineer or you're a CS major, think like >> even if you're an engineer. >> Everyone. The future of work I think is one where every single employee >> So, there's a lot of value to unpack in this video, and let's get to it. Anish, as the COO of LinkedIn, tell me, what's going on? Is the job market cooked?

>> Job market is tough. I know it is. I feel it for folks, especially coming out of college, because we are going through, I think, the biggest disruption to work in human history. This technology is unlike any other type of technology. It is able to reason, to mimic human capability in ways we haven't seen before, and its ability to get better, especially when you add in quantum computing, you open up to robotics. There's a lot of unknown about

what's coming. Now, what does it mean for jobs? Let's start at sort of the big level. Every past moment of disruption has led to more jobs. We have had a net gain in employment. Folks coming out of

college today are going to have twice as many jobs in their career as the generation prior to them. Twice as many jobs. Within the tech sector, machine learning engineer, data annotator, all sorts of jobs around data centers are emerging. We're tracking over a million new jobs that are occurring just around AI. I think there's going to be a a lot of merging of jobs. You're seeing sort

of full stack builder emerge. So, if you're a software engineer or you're a CS major, you're going to start seeing these job titles that have builder in it. That's a job that sits at the intersection of product engineering and design. Because now the tools can help an individual who has that CS or product know-how of how to think about what do you build and why do you build it and how do you think about the product systems, but also that creativity of a designer who's like, well, how would I showcase this? The tools are going to help you with that. You're going to

exercise it all. So, you might be a software engineer now or graduate with a CS degree, but you're going to take that core skill to this merging of functions that's emerging. So, jobs that have builder in it, finance, professional services, consulting, that means the sort of volume of technological innovation is going to increase dramatically. And so, if you have an ability to bring either technical skills to any company across any sector, you now have a broader map that you're playing on. >> Okay. Okay. So, so instead of just like

focusing on big tech fame companies, like broaden your horizons to different industries and apply your skills. >> You might be someone who loves to build tech, but really cares about patient care. Maybe you grew up with an illness or know someone who had it and has a real view on all the brokenness of the health care system. Go to a health care company. Go to a health care startup. I

mean, the amount of product and services that are going to build, tech that's going to build across every arena of work and life, we've never seen it at this level before. >> So, one thing that I sometimes struggle with explaining to people is So, back in 2021, the market was great. People say internships were offered out there, right? But now we have people graduating unemployed, people getting laid off. So, it's just so much harder to stand out.

So, what are things people can do to stand [music] out? >> Okay. >> Don't allow yourself to think entrepreneurs >> Even if you're an engineer. >> Everyone. >> Okay.

>> AI's going to help you code if you're an engineer. You've got to be creative. You've got to now flex that muscle of like, well, why don't we try it this other way and I can prototype it and see what happens or why don't I collaborate with sales or marketing or product in this new way. Why don't we create a new business line or a new project and give it a try and see what we learn in terms of where this organization goes? >> Really quick, I teamed up with Trey IDE to really understand the right way engineers should be using AI. This used

to be me. I'd open up an AI chatbot, paste in part of my code, ask it to build a feature, then copy everything back into my editor. Then I'd hit an error, paste in more files, lose the context, and repeat the whole process. And at first, that sounds normal. But once you're working in across a real code base, constantly switching between your editor and an AI chatbot gets frustrating really fast. So, I wanted to

see what happened when the AI was built directly into the IDE instead. I used Trey IDE to build a simple dashboard that pulled data from an API and visualized it. Instead of bouncing between windows, I stayed inside the editor the whole time. It helped scaffold the project, explain unfamiliar code, refactor components, and even debug an API issue when I got stuck. The biggest difference wasn't that it wrote code, it actually understood the context of my project. So, I spent less time

explaining what I wanted and more time actually building. And I think that's where AI development is headed. The best AI tools aren't the ones that just answer questions. They're the ones that become part of your development workflow. If you want to take your workflow to the next level and try Trey IDE for yourself, check out the link in the description. And now back to the

video. >> That's what your day-to-day is going to be more of, and that's true for every worker. >> Okay, okay. So, I know in the past, maybe if I was trying to be an engineer, I would learn Java, Python, learn how to write test cases. Those are kind of like old math skills. What are new math

skills I should focus on? >> If you are a software engineer right now, just got hired or you're midway in your career, you can do this math. >> [music] >> Take your job, every week you spend your time on let's say a dozen tasks. What are the top 12 tasks you do every week? And you're going to bucket those tasks.

Bucket one is stuff that AI can do. So, basic coding, put it in that bucket. Bucket two is stuff you're doing with AI. Maybe you're having it prototype something that you then react to. Maybe you're using it to help you close an experience gap or expertise gap because you're going to go talk to sales.

>> mock-up. >> Yeah, but also translating. I need to talk to my sales folks about something. I don't speak sales. How do I explain this to them or how do I take what they're saying and make it make sense to me? Then that third bucket is stuff

you're doing with other humans. This is unique human capability. You're in a room coming up with new partnership ideas. You're in a conversation pushing on ethical judgment, reading the room, reading the signals. So take those dozen tasks. If you're in a job where like 11

of the top 12 tasks are in bucket one, like yeah, you're you're in danger zone. No one is in a job I think that's 100% bucket one. Even if you're heavy bucket one, there's some work you're doing in bucket two, maybe even some work you're doing in bucket three. What is that work? How do you start to do more of that?

>> Yeah. >> And if it isn't more of what you're already doing, how do you create more in those two buckets for what you want to do? Over the next few years, you're going to move tasks in your job. Title might not change, place in org might not change, nothing else might change except what you are doing day-to-day with your job as you move tasks from bucket one to bucket two. Supercharge your your high-value capabilities with AI in bucket two to open up new ways of work with other humans in bucket three. And

then that's how you're going to track it and that's how you're going to change it. >> Speaking of like using AI, especially when it comes to students, [music] I see there's some people who are like, "Oh, I don't need to learn this. AI got me." And all that. Is AI making us dumber?

>> There is a way to misuse AI. >> Okay. >> There is a way to overuse AI. >> Could you get into those? >> Yeah, but but the core is there's a need to use AI. So, overuse AI. If you are

sitting in a job and you are just copying and pasting what your boss asked you to think about or do into a tool and then copying and pasting what that tool said back to your boss and just acting as this you're in bucket one 12 out of 12 territory. Now, not only is that danger zone for your career, MIT has studied brain scans and said that there's cognitive debt that emerges. You cannot outsource critical thinking. I mean, just think about that. If you're copy and pasting, you're going to run into your boss in the hallway in a week or two and they'll be like, "Hey, that project. What did you think about that

dark that we changed?" And you're going to have no memory of it cuz your brain is actually not tracking any of this and retaining any of it cuz you're just flowing between the tools. So, you cannot overuse AI. You got to figure out when you're going to let it go and when you're going to bring, you know, your own unique capability there. Misuse, you're giving it data you shouldn't.

You're giving it stuff that like should be contained in a really safe place, especially if you're coding or engineering. >> The the sort of sleeper misuse, I think, that we don't talk enough about is prompting. If you don't give it enough context, it's not going to give you the right answer that you can then build from. The less context you're giving it, the weaker the answer. But, if you just think whatever AI says is a great answer and you give it very little context on what you want, you're going to give a exceptionally generic answer back out to whoever you're like trying to engage with.

>> So, the right way to use the tool, what are the stuff I want to shed from my day? The stuff that like again, Hadi said when he was growing up in software engineering, 70% of his time was looking for these like semicolons. Okay, AI, you get that. Now I get 70% of my time back. Okay, let me use this tool to think about higher value sort of >> coding I could do. Think about different

type of software engineering I could do. Let me use some of this time to go build new relationships with people in other parts of the organization. So, you get to decide kind of like how you're going to use it and if you're using it in the right way or in the wrong way. >> And just to end off here, do you have any final pieces of advice for the audience? >> Um our brain is wired to fear change. Our

brain is not wired to get exponential change. [music] A lot of us, through really hard work, did all the right things for a world that no longer is built around that playbook. So, it is completely understandable if you are feeling any range of emotions from anger to frustration to anxiety to despair to all of it. >> Yeah. >> It's completely understandable. It's

also completely unhelpful because you've got to push past that. And if you can find a way to do that, whatever it is, small steps, books like ours, podcasts like yours, surround yourself with the energy and surround your brain with the stories that are about how to do that and what comes if you do that and just get in the game day by day. Shed yourself of all those feelings that might be holding you back or keeping you from pushing yourself and just start doing it. And the more you get into the game, everything starts to get better and you start to feel more control. I think it's just push past the fear.

>> Well, that's about all I have in the studio. I really hope that you guys enjoyed it and if you did, make sure to hit the like button and subscribe if you haven't already. If you're interested in my absolutely free tech newsletter where I cover the latest in AI coding and the job market. >> Link for that down below in the description. And if you're interested in the top 12 highest paying tech jobs in this AI world, you might want to watch this video right here.