---
video_title: "Passionate Elon Musk Defends Government Help"
video_id: byc925HFUqc
channel_name: "TheMightyKappa"
channel_id: UC8hW9rmwJhW5pUujsYjosaw
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=byc925HFUqc
video_date: 2026-06-18T02:15:28+00:00
video_description: |
  Elon Musk, visibly frustrated, is interviewed by Sarah Lacy about the controversy surrounding Tesla's acceptance of government funding to build electric cars aimed at wealthy buyers. New York Times writer Randall Stross appears to have sparked the backlash with a provocative article targeting Tesla.
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE for more rare tech history, retro interviews, and deep cuts
  
  Source: 04/03/09 Sarah Lacy 
  
  #ElonMusk, #Tesla, #SpaceX, #TechHistory, #RareInterview, #ElonMusk2007, #YoungElonMusk, #BusinessMotivation, #Innovation, #futuretech
---
All right, guys, I got an old Elon Musk interview here. And it's actually doing an interview with someone who questions him on government handouts and subsidies. It's kind of wild to see how the media was pushing that narrative all the way back then. And they're still kind of pushing it now. So let's get into the interview and kind of see how Elon Musk defends his position. Sure, it's a pretty car. But should your taxpayer dollars go towards producing it? We asked Tesla CEO Elon Musk about one of the company's biggest controversies. New York Times did this piece that everyone in Silicon Valley got very up in arms about saying that the government money going to Tesla would be this huge risk of capital that would only benefit the wealthy and venture capital backers who'd put money in the company and called the roadster basically $109,000 concept car. What did you say to the article? Randy Spruss is a huge douchebag. And an idiot. OK. First of all, what is he doing picking on an electric car company? I mean, why would he pick on the little guy who's trying to do good when you've got a greatest waste of money in the tens of billions occurring in Detroit? Why? And he actually knew that we told him we're working on an electric smart. OK, this technology is going into a mass market car. We're developing the sedan, which is half the price. And even that's equivalent to a four-tourist $35,000 car. We're getting there as fast as humanly possible. Just a pause on that. He actually delivered under that. The Model 3 Technically in Canada, it's about $30,000. You should understand this is the idiot part. You should understand that when you have new technology, it takes time to optimize that new technology. New technology starts out at a high price point until you can get economies to scale and to design optimizations. So effectively, what he would be saying is, if you can't immediately make some new technology mass market affordable by anyone, you shouldn't do it. Right. And it shouldn't be supported. That's ridiculous. And how can somebody from Silicon Valley say that? Yeah. Well, a lot of people agree with you. Yeah. I can't imagine how. There was a huge outpouring of letters to the editor. And actually, I should point out, the new times printed a retraction. So did that. Yeah. Of course, I mean, when they print retractions, it's like on page 27 and like, microbiome. They actually print a retraction. Yeah. Well, let's get to the issue of what exactly you guys do. And they still do this today. They still like you to hate on Elon Musk to the point where they have to do retractions in the media. So let me give you an example here. So we got the Globe and Mail. And it says, opinion. SpaceX IPO makes Elon Musk the first trillionaire. Here's how to properly hate him. Wow. Using strong words on the titles, how to properly hate him. Like, give me a frickin' break. And of course, on June 12th, the previous headline that this article did not meet the Globe's editorial standard. It has been replaced. But of course, they still kept the main posts on how to properly hate Elon, probably because it get them 4.6 million views. So just on this post here. So they acknowledge that they messed up, but they still don't take the original posts down. So it's kind of funny how that kind of works. I would that story here, make a comment, how dare he create hundreds of thousands of jobs, trillions of wealth for others, accelerate the worth transition to sustainable energy, help paralyze, and or disable people to become more independent. And connect to poor and low income areas to the internet. The Linda, the previous CEO of X, reckless, biased propaganda. You should be grateful instead. And then that Shivran, his current girlfriend, just to leave this here, the Ontario Teachers pension pan could make billions on its early investment in SpaceX, the Toronto-based pension plan first invested in Elon Musk company back in June of 2019. So the bandwagon to hate Elon Musk continues, holds in lots of views, and realistically, nothing has changed from over a decade to now with us. It's something that was considered to be important for the environment and important for national security. There's been these reports that you guys tried to go out and raise another 100 million in capital, and you couldn't do it in this market. Your competitor just raised 85 million fiscal. I mean, is it that you can't raise the capital, or is it that you just rather have the government money, because it's a better deal for the company? Well, so a couple things there. The 100 million you were trying to raise was summer of last year. So we're talking almost a year ago. And that's what we put on hold, and basically raised 40 million of internal capital from existing investors, which was what was necessary to get the roads to business, to reach cashflow positive, and to still continue to spend 10% of our resources on model S development. Also, the 85 million in order was that, first-goer says they've raised fiscal. That's not enough to complete their development. I would suspect. And just as if we raised 100 million, that wouldn't be enough to complete our development. The model S program is really close to a $400 million program, of which 350 would come from a DOE loan. And the thing is, the sources of capital that would normally provide that, such as the public markets, the debt markets, they're in shambles. So the thing is Tesla could raise that money. I believe we could raise that money down the road. It would have to be after the public markets recover, after the debt markets recover. How long is that? That's anyone's guess. It's at least two years. But I'm still confident we could do that. And when starting Tesla and funding Tesla, it was never with the expectation or intent of using government loans. But in this environment, there's just not a lot of capital available. And you said you're 99% sure you think you're going to get it. Yeah, well, if you look at the criteria for the ATVM program, we all, if you substituted Tesla for company, it would be like a public fit. We're the leader in energy efficient vehicles. And it's a $25 billion program. We were asking for $350 million of that, which is 1.5% of the amount. And once again, why the hell is Randy Struss bugging us for a 1.5% loan on a $25 billion program? I'm like, how about, why doesn't he bug the guy instead of getting the 98%? It's ridiculous. So I mean, the vast majority of that's going to go to Ford, GM, Chrysler, maybe it'll go to a Nissan or a Mazda in part as well. Of all the people that money will go to. And it will be released. It was appropriated by Congress. It was Congress's decision to do this, not some loving effort by us. It will go out. You have to say, who will make the most efficient use to capital? Who is going to be the best steward of the taxpayer dollars in that loan program? Who is most likely to repay it? Is it General Motors, or Chrysler, or is it Tesla? Who has demonstrated a more efficient use to capital? I think it's unequivocally us. I mean, it's objectively us. We will only, all existing investors in Tesla, me, or comments, stockholders, the employees, will only get paid back if we repay that entire loan to the government. So you have a huge incentive to do it, obviously. So what if you don't get that money? Do you have financial backups? Are the people who are here at this event who put deposits down on the Model S? What are the odds that we're ever going to see that are in their driveway? I would say the odds of us getting that money are 99%. I'm extremely confident, down close to 100%. We can't say exactly what was transpired in the private meetings with the DOE, but suffice to say, I am extremely confident that we will get that, and we will get it soon. So there you have it, guys. I mean, obviously, very passionate Elon Musk's defending early days of Tesla. They did get the loan, and they did pay it back with full interest. So the taxpayer didn't lose any money on that. But we see the same narrative happen today with SpaceX and Tesla. Now you'll see people say that SpaceX wouldn't exist without the NASA contracts. And that it's a charity that they're getting free money. But that's not the case at all. Basically, it's a business deal that SpaceX will get to launch stuff to the ISS. They're basically selling a service, and they're not taking a hand out. The massive growth that we're seeing with Tesla and SpaceX is coming simply from next level engineering and the tech that they're developing. It's not free government money. And I think that's funny too, is that when the EV tax credit ended in the states, everyone predicted that sales of Tesla cars would crash. And it actually did the opposite. Sales of Tesla cars continued to increase quarter or over quarter. So that's pretty interesting. So I don't think long-term that we're going to see the shift in the media change that Tesla and SpaceX are dependent on government handouts. The media keeps pumping these shitty articles, like the Global Mail did, that continue to essentially be propaganda against Elon and his companies. It's kind of funny when they have a backtrack. They have mud on their face. But at the end of the day, I don't think they really care. So what do you guys think? Do you think the criticism against Elon is fair in regards to the subsidy? Or is it really just an outdated propaganda tool that the media just likes to stick with or clicks on their articles? Drop a comment, let me know. Please make sure you subscribe to like the video. And then I'll be sure to post some more old Elon Musk interviews for you guys. Thanks so much.