---
video_title: "In 1999, Young Elon Musk in documentary about millionaires"
video_id: IvzI61xs47A
channel_name: "TheMightyKappa"
channel_id: UC8hW9rmwJhW5pUujsYjosaw
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IvzI61xs47A
video_date: 2026-06-22T01:06:13+00:00
video_description: |
  A rare look back at one of Elon Musk’s very first TV appearances!
  In this iconic 1999 clip, a 28-year-old Elon Musk celebrates the sale of his first company, Zip2 (for roughly $22–307 million depending on the deal structure), by taking delivery of his legendary McLaren F1 supercar—one of only about 64 ever made. Instead of buying a house, he spent roughly $1 million on the hypercar and was filmed receiving it that same year.
  
  Watch as he excitedly maps out his next big gamble: pouring his millions into a brand-new online banking startup called X.com, which would later become PayPal.
  
  He went on to use the F1 as a daily driver (clocking over 11,000 miles on it), famously crashed it in 2000 while showing it off to Peter Thiel (uninsured), had it repaired, and eventually sold it around 2007.
  It’s a perfect time capsule of the wild, high-stakes mindset of the late ’90s Silicon Valley dot-com boom.
  
  #ElonMusk, #Tesla, #SpaceX, #TechHistory, #RareInterview, #ElonMusk2007, #YoungElonMusk, #BusinessMotivation, #Innovation, #futuretechgadgets
---
Wow, I can't believe it's actually here. It's pretty wild, man. It's just a moment in my life. All right, we got a look at one of Elon Musk's first rare television interviews. So this was back in 1999 and we got about a 28 year old Elon Musk. Any celebrating because he just sold his first company to Zephyl. He sold it somewhere between 22 million to 300 million depending on how they close out that deal. And he celebrated by of course taking delivery of a legendary McLaren supercar. So let's just jump right into it and check it out. How are you? I'm almost freaking. It's seven o'clock in the morning and Elon Musk anxiously waits for his golden payoff, his prize for paying his dues in the valley. I expect to receive a call that I've just bought which is called McLaren Airborne. It's a million dollars for a car. It's it's it's decadent. There are 62 McLaren in the world and I will win. Back in 95, there weren't very many people on the internet and certainly nobody was making any money at all. Most people thought the internet was going to be a fad. Not this South African entrepreneur Musk sold his first computer program at the age of 12 and he hasn't stopped selling since. Wow, I can't believe it's actually here. It's pretty wild, man. Just three years ago I was sharing in the at the Y and sleeping on the office floor and now I'll say I've got a million dollar car and quite a few creature comforts. It's just a moment to my life. All clear, my values may have changed but I'm not consciously aware of my values having changed. My fear is that we become spoiled brats that we lose a sense of appreciation and perspective. A year ago Musk sold his software company Zip2 which enabled newspapers to publish online for 400 million dollars cash. Receiving cash is cash. I mean those are just a large number of bankfront clums. It's a perfect car for Silicon Valley. It really is. There is still none in the fastest car in the world. I could go and buy one of the islands in the Bahamas and turn it into my personal beef dimmer. I'm much more interested in trying to build and create a new company. So this is an ATM. What we're going to do is transform the traditional banking industry. I do not fit the picture of a banker. X.com, this is Julian. Raising $50 million is a matter of making a series of phone calls and the money is there. I've sunk the great majority of my net worth into X.com which is the new banking and mutual funds company on the internet that I've started. They dig X. Exactly. X.com. I think X.com could absolutely be a multi-billion dollar bananza because if you look at the industry that X is pursuing it's the biggest sector of the world economy. Is that a McLaren F1? Oh my god. That's unbelievable. It's a like a series of poker games and now I've gone on to a more high-stake pro game and just carry those chips with me. And I haven't gone and taken my winning spend a big try but I've just really put almost all of it back into the new game. No, I'd say the real payoff is the sense of satisfaction having created the company that I sold. Yes, yes, yes, the cars. But the cars, sure, the cars. Sure, it's fine. It's supposed to be honest. Sure, it's fine. You'll take the car. If you talk to any of these people who have hit the jackpot early, they don't even have a conceptualization about money that they have. It's funny money. It's something you don't even think about. The amazing thing is you had no one's none of them quit. Even when they could, it's not a vesting thing. It's not that there's some secret claws and they'll keep some from doing it. They want to do what they're doing. They think that to stop doing that is death. I'd like to be on the cover of Rolling Stone. That'd be cool. So there you have it guys. So he eventually created x.com which later turned into PayPal and then he eventually sold PayPal of course. Now he did use this F1 McLaren actually as a daily driver. He put about 11,000 miles on it before of course he crashed it and then he fixed it and then he later sold it, I believe in 2007. So generally, they had pretty cool videos. It's kind of like a time capsule of a young Elon Musk and when he first gets access to those huge amounts of millions on how he's invested in companies and continue to be successful. Not much has changed though. He was sleeping on the floor at the YMCA and he still kind of sleeps at the floor at the factory. So pretty cool. Let me know what you guys think in the comments. If you guys want more old Elon Musk videos, I definitely got a few. Make sure you like them subscribe. Take