---
video_title: "In 2014, Elon Musk Was Busy Building (Rare Lost Interview)"
video_id: 1yAikFW-gyI
channel_name: "TheMightyKappa"
channel_id: UC8hW9rmwJhW5pUujsYjosaw
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1yAikFW-gyI
video_date: 2026-06-14T02:17:49+00:00
video_description: |
  Before the massive Twitter/X takeover, before the Mars colony timelines, and way before he became the richest man on earth—there was 2007 Elon Musk.
  
  In this rare, lost BBC interview with legendary journalist Gavin Esler, a young, intensely focused Elon Musk lays down the exact blueprint for his future empires. From the earliest, high-stakes days of Tesla and SpaceX to a surprisingly unfiltered response about Top Gear’s Jeremy Clarkson, this short clip proves one thing: Elon has always been exactly who he is today.
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE for more rare tech history, retro interviews, and deep cuts:
  https://www.youtube.com/@UC8hW9rmwJhW5pUujsYjosaw 
  
  Source: Musk on BBC Newsnight sometime in 2014
  
  #ElonMusk, #Tesla, #SpaceX, #TechHistory, #RareInterview, #ElonMusk2007, #YoungElonMusk, #BusinessMotivation, #Innovation, #futuretech
---
You want to do projects that are inspiring and that make people excited about the future. Life's got to be about more than just solving problems. You want to get up in the morning and say, yes, I'm looking forward to that thing happening. Clarkson is showing us much more about entertainment than it's about truth. So we got another video here. This is Elon back in 2014, just when the model less launched overseas in Britain. He talks a little bit about tests, like talks a little bit about SpaceX. And he still got that GenUI and Elon Musk in him. So it's definitely a good interview for us to watch together. What we really tried to achieve with the model less was to create a compelling electric car, something that was really different from people's prior experience, because most people last time they drove an electric car was probably a golf cart or maybe a milk float. So they're used to their idea of an electric car, something that doesn't look good, isn't fast, doesn't have high performance, has low range. We wanted to break the mold of all of that. And so if you do something that was beautiful, had high acceleration, incredible handling, had tons of capability, lots of room, and really was better than any gasoline car. That's what we sought to achieve. This is the front trunk with nothing. Yeah, with nothing in it. Now if somebody buys this car in the United Kingdom now, how many places are there where you can plug it in? Well, anywhere there's an electrical outlet. Anywhere? Yes. The charger is built into the car. So you can plug it in anywhere you go. You can plug it in. If you're traveling somewhere, if you're a cottage at a hotel, in addition to that however, we're going to be creating super charger locations throughout the UK. So you'll be able to charge anywhere at a Tesla super charger location. And one of the things that we do with these super charger locations is that they're free. So if you buy a Tesla, you'll be able to travel for free anywhere in Britain and it's free forever. And I'll add one more thing that which is we're going to be installing solar panels at all of the super charger locations, which are intended to develop or generate more electricity in the course of the year than the cars consume that charge there. So the net result is that you'll not only be able to travel for free forever, but on pure sunlight. Yeah, that's somewhat true. On the early Tesla's 2016-2017, some of them do come actually with free super charging. So you can technically travel for free if you have one of those models. I actually do have one of them. I made a video if you guys want to check that out on the details on that. But that didn't pan out exactly how he wanted only certain models that ended up getting it simply because I guess it's just like that too big and probably not reasonable for them to continue offering. Well, on this question of our energy bills, which is a huge political topic here now, have we got it wrong in terms of where we are sourcing our energy? Mark, my words, solar will be the single largest producer of energy in the UK long term. And you may say, well, isn't it rather cloudy around here? I was going to say, it would be nice sight. Yes. And even though it's cloudy, you still get probably 80 to 90 percent of the energy coming through the clouds. It's just that you don't have that bright point source of a sun. A way to appreciate this perhaps is to look at the fact that plants are essentially a solar powered chemical reaction. And the UK is a very green country. Now, you live in Southern California and Los Angeles. You travel a lot to San Francisco and you're also interested as a big thought in whether it's possible to travel by what's called a hyperloop. In other words, you go at 800 miles an hour on the ground essentially, like a kind of like a train from Los Angeles to San Francisco. Do we suffer from generally a kind of low level of ambition? Should we think bigger than HS2 and think about something like this? I think so. I mean, for reasons beyond the objective, oh, we'll get there faster. It's like you want to do projects that are inspiring and that make people excited about the future. Life's got to be about more than just solving problems. You want to get up in the morning and say, yes, I'm looking forward to that thing happening. And I guess that was my essential disappointment with the California so-called high-speed rail. It's like, well, no, something to say. He literally just said the other day, like with SpaceX becoming IPO, he wants to take the fiction out of science fiction. So the OGE line is still technically living living right now. He's changed, but he's still out there. Well, they did better things in Japan 30 years ago. They got something way better in China. Why are we doing this and spending so much money on it? And it's going to take 20 years and by that time, we'll be 50 years behind what they've got in Japan. I mean, this just doesn't make sense. That was my reaction. That was your reaction to what's happening in California. We are behind California. Oh my god. Really? Difficult though, maybe to imagine. Cally Stools never high-speed train, by the way. They just approved plans and it keeps getting delayed. It's like a billion dollars. So, I mean, that's brutal. That's the most unfortunate. Okay. The other big part of Musk's life is with his company SpaceX, which is committed to improving rocket technology and even getting the human race to other planets. You see really the future must be in space for the human race. You really see this. This is not science fiction. This is actually going to be a fact. Yeah, absolutely. I think history fundamentally bifurcates in one of two directions. Either we are a multi-planet species and out there exploring the stars or we are a single-planet species waiting around for some eventual extinction event. It's really that that I personally I find more motivating, which is you're going and setting up a base on Mars, which is be the greatest adventure ever. Not everyone's a fan. Back on Earth, Tesla sued the program top gear after it rubbish the Tesla reached it. Tesla lost. So, what does Musk think about Jeremy Clarkson? I think what the media was around us then, the media continues to be relentless now, but with Musk and his sons. Nothing's changed. Clarkson shows much more about entertainment than it is about truth. And I think most people realize that, but not everyone. And I've actually enjoyed a lot of his shows. It's not as though I just hate top gear or anything. He can be very funny and reverent, but he does have a strong bias against electric cars, and he particularly seems to hate American. Like his two pet peeves are American cars and electric cars. And we are an American electric car. So, we're in the worst possible situation for someone like Clarkson. So, do you see this as a missionary activity? You're over here trying to convert. Jeremy Clarkson, too. I don't think there'll be any converting of Jeremy Clarkson. That seems quite unlikely. Yeah, that was a pretty good entry. It was pretty casual. Around this time, 2013, 2014, 2015, honestly, it's like peak Elon Musk. Another thing that they mentioned in this interview was actually the Hyperloop. The Hyperloop never really happened. I think you released the white paper, the general public, and you basically said he doesn't have enough time on his hands so we figured it out. And no worries, really designed that since the kind of high speed rail. He's still got the Born Company digging tunnels in LA, so we'll see where that goes. But as far as I know, the Hyperloop project is dead. So, I got a whole bunch of all the Elon Musk interviews and clips coming down the pipeline for you guys. If you find it useful, leave a like, subscribe so that you don't miss on the next one, guys. Thanks so much.