---
video_title: "Can You Solve This?"
video_id: o34ywK8pN7w
channel_name: "Brain Station"
channel_id: UCFdTgUEt2-UCVzPwQ8v9jFg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o34ywK8pN7w
video_date: 2026-05-28T12:30:22+00:00
video_description: |
  Your support makes all the difference! By joining my Patreon, you’ll help sustain and grow the content you love
  
  www.patreon.com/BrainStation
  
  Logic Puzzle | Math Puzzle | Google Interview Questions | Amazon Interview Questions | Area of Triangle | Pythagoras Theorem | Nice Cubic Equation! | Math Olympiad | Oxford University Entrance Exam | Harvard University Entrance Exam | Only 1% of Students Got this Math Question Correct | You should know this trick
---
Today, let us solve a very famous water bucket puzzle. Suppose we have only two empty buckets. One bucket can hold five liters of water, and the other bucket can hold three liters of water. The challenge is to somehow get exactly four liters of water using only these two buckets. There are no markings on the buckets, so you cannot directly measure anything in between. Also, assume there is an unlimited supply of water available. So, can you solve it? Okay, let us start. The first step is to completely fill the five liter bucket with water, so now the large bucket contains exactly five liters, while the small three liter bucket is still empty. Our goal is to slowly manipulate the water amounts until we are left with exactly four liters inside the large bucket. Now pour water from the large bucket into the three liter bucket until the smaller bucket becomes full. Since the smaller bucket can hold exactly three liters, it takes away three liters from the large bucket, so the large bucket is now left with only two liters of water. Next, empty the three liter bucket completely, so now the small bucket becomes empty again, while the large bucket still contains the two liters left from before. After that, transfer the remaining two liters from the large bucket into the empty three liter bucket. Now the large bucket becomes empty, while the smaller bucket contains exactly two liters of water. Notice something carefully now. The smaller bucket can hold three liters total, but it already contains two liters. This means it needs exactly one more liter to become completely full. Now fill the five liter bucket completely again. Then start pouring water from the large bucket into the smaller bucket until the smaller bucket becomes full. Since the smaller bucket needed only one more liter, exactly one liter gets transferred from the large bucket, so the five liter bucket loses only one liter of water. This means exactly four liters of water remain inside the large bucket, and that is the answer to the puzzle. There is also another way to solve this same puzzle by starting with the three liter bucket instead of the five liter bucket. Try thinking about that second method yourself, and let me know in the comments if you can figure it out. Like, share, and subscribe. Sooo good!