---
video_title: "Can you solve this?"
video_id: 2DDYjbBQwSk
channel_name: "Brain Station"
channel_id: UCFdTgUEt2-UCVzPwQ8v9jFg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2DDYjbBQwSk
video_date: 2026-08-04T12:30:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Can You Solve This? Find Radius of Circle | Find Area | Calculus | Integration | Area under curve | Derivative | Math Olympiad | Harvard University Entrance Exam Interview | This question frightened 300K+ examinees! | Hard Geometry Exam Question | Only 1% of Students Got this Math Question Correct | USA | China | Russia | Germany | UK
---
This problem will blow away your mind. We have a circle inscribed inside a square, and in the top left corner there is a small rectangle. The rectangle has length two units and width one unit. Our goal is to find the area of the circle using only this much information. So can you solve it? OK, since the area of a circle depends only on its radius, our first task is to determine the radius. As a first step, draw a vertical diameter through the center of the circle and label the top point as A, the bottom point as B, and the center as O. Notice that the top side of the square touches the circle at exactly one point, making it a tangent. According to the tangent radius theorem, the diameter A B is thus perpendicular to this tangent. Another nice thing about this diameter is that it also serves as the line of symmetry for the entire figure. Imagine reflecting this small rectangle across the diameter A B. Since A B is the axis of symmetry, we get an identical rectangle on the right side as well, with exactly the same side lengths. Next, join the two lower corners of these rectangles like this. Hey, we get a cord of this circle. Let us name it CD. Also, let this cord intersect the diameter A B at point E. Now, because the two rectangles are mirror images, the diameter bisects the cord, so A B is perpendicular to CD, and E is the midpoint of the cord. Next, draw the horizontal radius from the center O to the left side of the circle, and call the point of contact as F. Again, by the tangent radius theorem, the radius OF is perpendicular to the left side of the square. Let the radius of the circle B are. Since all radii are equal, segments O A, O B, and OF are all equal to R. Also, the diameter A B has length 2R. Okay, great. Now, the length of each rectangle is two units, and its width is one unit. So this is equal to two units. Since the horizontal distance from the left side of the square to the center is equal to R, the remaining horizontal segment CE becomes R minus 2. By symmetry, segment ED is also R minus 2. Similarly, the vertical distance from A to E is one unit because it is the width of the rectangle. Therefore, the remaining segment EB becomes 2R minus 1. Amazing. Now, here comes the magic. We have everything required to apply the intersecting cord's theorem. This theorem states that when two cords intersect inside a circle, the product of the two segments of one cord equals the product of the two segments of the other cord. In our figure, the two segments of cord CD are both R minus 2. The two segments of diameter AB are 1 and 2R minus 1. So we get R minus 2 times R minus 2 equals 1 times 2R minus 1. Expand this to get R squared minus 4R plus 4, and this equals 2R minus 1. Take this on the left-hand side to get this. Simplifying the equation gives R squared minus 6R plus 5 equals 0. Factoring this equation gives two possible values for the radius. We get R equals 1 or R equals 5. But a radius of 1 would make the segment R minus 2 negative, which is impossible for a length, so we reject that solution. Therefore, the only valid radius of the circle is 5 units. Now that we know the radius, finding the area is very easy. Let me know in the comments what will be the area of this circle. My mind is literally blown away right now. If you enjoyed this video, please don't forget to like, share, and subscribe to our channel. Also, you can support my channel by joining our community and becoming a member. So good.