---
video_title: "Very Clever Solution"
video_id: oF8q1AGJ4BY
channel_name: "Brain Station"
channel_id: UCFdTgUEt2-UCVzPwQ8v9jFg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oF8q1AGJ4BY
video_date: 2026-08-16T12:30:18+00:00
video_description: |
  Your support makes all the difference! By joining my Patreon, you’ll help sustain and grow the content you love
  
  www.patreon.com/BrainStation
  
  Find Radius of Circle | Find height of triangle | Math Olympiad | Oxford University Entrance Exam | Harvard University Entrance Exam | Only 1% of Students Got this Math Question Correct | You should know this trick | USA | Russia
---
Hello. In this problem, we have a right triangle ACB, where AC has length 24 units and CD has length 7 units. We are also told that AE and EB are equal, meaning E is the midpoint of AB. Our goal is to find the height H shown in the diagram. So can you solve it? Okay, let us start. Our plan is to first find the length of BD, because once we know that, the rest becomes much easier. To do that, let's connect A and D. This creates a smaller right triangle ACD. We can use the Pythagorean theorem to find AD. So we get 7 squared plus 24 squared equals AD squared. That gives us 49 plus 576, which is 625. Taking the positive square root, AD becomes 25 units. Now let's look at the two right triangles, AED and BED. They have equal corresponding parts, AE and EB, and ED is common to both triangles. Both also contain a right angle, so the two triangles are congruent. Therefore, their corresponding hypotenuse AD and BED must also be equal. Therefore, BD is also 25 units. Therefore, the entire side BC is simply BD plus DC, which gives 25 plus 7 or 32 units. Great! Next, we can return to the large right triangle ACB. We know its two legs are 24 and 32, so once again, the Pythagorean theorem will give us the full length AB. We get 24 squared plus 32 squared equals AB squared. After doing some math, that gives us AB equal to 40 units. And since E is the midpoint of AB, both AE and EB must therefore be 20 units. Now we are almost done. Focus on the small right triangle, BED. Applying the Pythagorean theorem one last time gives 20 squared plus H squared equals 25 squared. So 400 plus H squared equals 625. So we get H squared equal to 225. And thus, H equals 15 units. And that's it. That was simply mind-blowing, wasn't it? Like, share and subscribe. So good!