---
video_title: "I Didn't Expect This!! 😱"
video_id: x1wzCLZQzqo
channel_name: "Brain Station"
channel_id: UCFdTgUEt2-UCVzPwQ8v9jFg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x1wzCLZQzqo
video_date: 2026-08-06T12:30:14+00:00
video_description: |
  Your support makes all the difference! By joining my Patreon, you’ll help sustain and grow the content you love
  
  www.patreon.com/BrainStation
  
  Find Area of Square | Find Area of Circle | Find Radius of Circle | Math Olympiad | Oxford University Entrance Exam | Harvard University Entrance Exam | Only 1% of Students Got this Math Question Correct | You should know this trick | USA | Russia
---
Just wait for an amazing result at the end of this video. We have two squares resting on the same line. The smaller square has an area of 1 square centimeter, while the larger square has an area of 2 square centimeters. Between them is another square placed at some angle, touching both of them exactly as shown. Our goal is to find the area of this tilted square. So can you solve it? OK, let the side length of the tilted square be x. So what do you think will be its area? Yes, right. Since the area of a square equals the side length squared, the required area is simply x squared. Similarly, the left square has area 1, so its side length is 1. The right square has area 2, so its side length is equal to the square root of 2, isn't it? OK, now label this point as a, this is b, this is c, then this is d, and finally, this point is e. Notice that triangle a, b, c is a right angle triangle with one side equal to 1, and hypotenuse equal to x. Applying the Pythagorean theorem, we get b, c squared, plus 1 equals x squared. So b, c equals the square root of x squared minus 1. Good. Now look at the right triangle cde. Here again, the hypotenuse is x, while this side length is square root of 2. Applying Pythagorean theorem again, cd squared, plus root 2 squared equals x squared. So cd becomes the square root of x squared minus 2. In the next step, let the two acute angles in triangle, a, b, c, b, alpha, and beta. These two angles are complementary, which means alpha plus beta equals 90 degrees. Now this angle is the angle of the square, and thus it is 90 degrees. Now let this angle be some value gamma. Then using the fact that angles in a straight line equals 180 degrees. We have beta plus 90 plus gamma equals 180. So gamma plus beta equals 90 degrees. Hey, from both these equations, it means that this angle gamma is equal to angle alpha itself. Wow. So now, if we consider the triangle cde, we get this angle as beta as well, because cde is a right triangle, and alpha and beta are complementary angles. So in short, we can see that triangle abc and triangle cde have two equal angles. Now they also share the same hypotenuse length, which is x. Therefore, by the angle side angle congruence theorem, the two triangles are congruent. Since the triangles are congruent, their corresponding sides must also be equal. Now the side opposite to angle beta in triangle abc is side ab or 1. This means the side opposite to angle beta in triangle cde, or segment cde is also equal to 1. But we already found that cde is equal to the square root of x squared minus 2. Equating both of them gives the square root of x squared minus 2 equals 1. Squaring both sides gives x squared minus 2 equals 1. Rearranging, we get x squared equals 3. But hey, since the area of the tilted square is x squared, the required area is therefore 3 square centimeters, and that's it. Before we end this video, here's something fascinating. You know what? The area of this tilted square is always equal to the sum of the areas of the two fixed squares. In other words, if the side lengths of the two fixed squares are a and b, then the side length of the tilted square satisfies x squared equals a squared plus b squared. Since the left square has area 1 and the right square has area 2, we immediately get x squared equals 1 plus 2, which is 3. Isn't this a beautiful result? If you enjoyed this video, please don't forget to like, share, and subscribe to our channel. Also, you can support my channel by joining our Patreon and becoming a member. So good.