---
video_title: "Find The Area of The Square"
video_id: JfOmGhuhidg
channel_name: "Brain Station"
channel_id: UCFdTgUEt2-UCVzPwQ8v9jFg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JfOmGhuhidg
video_date: 2026-08-10T12:30:32+00:00
video_description: |
  Your support makes all the difference! By joining my Patreon, you’ll help sustain and grow the content you love
  
  www.patreon.com/BrainStation
  
  Find The Area of The Square | Find Radius of Circle | Math Olympiad | Oxford University Entrance Exam | Harvard University Entrance Exam | Only 1% of Students Got this Math Question Correct | You should know this trick | USA | Russia
---
We have two circles with a radius of 5 meters and a square in between these circles. The question is to find the area of this square. You can pause this video and try to solve it on your own. First, let us label the side of this square as x. So, the area of this square will be x square. Now, let us draw a radius from the center to the intersection point and another radius from center to this tangent line. It will be at a right angle. Since both of them are the radius of this circle, both of them will be 5 meters. Now, draw a line parallel to ground from the intersection point to this line. This will also be right angle. Let us call it y. Now, this piece is the same as the length of the square, so it will also be x. Since this entire length is 5, this piece will be 5 minus x. Now, we have a right triangle here. This will help us get the relation between x and y. We can use Pythagoras theorem. We can do 5 minus x whole square plus y square equals 5 squared. 5 minus x square is 25 plus x squared minus 10 times x. And we still have this y square which will be equal to 25. This 25 gets canceled out, and on rearranging we get y squared equals 10x minus x squared. Taking square root on both sides, we get y equals under root 10x minus x squared. Next, we will make some other construction lines. Let us put this over here and let us duplicate this y over here. Here comes the magic. This entire distance will be equal to this distance, so we get y plus x plus y equals 5 plus 5. And we can clean this up a little bit to get 2y plus x equals 10. Now in this place of y, we can substitute y as under root 10x minus x squared. And now we just have to solve for x. We can subtract x from both sides to get 2 times under root 10x minus x squared equals 10 minus x. And we can now square both sides to get this. Square root will be canceled out, and this will be 4 times 10x minus x. Square equals 100 plus x squared minus 20x. Solving this quadratic equation will give us two values of x, which are x equals 2 and x equals 10. We can see right here that these radius are 5, so there is no way that x can be 10. So this is discarded, and we are left with x equals 2. This one is a valid solution. Now since x equals 2, therefore the area of this square will be 2 squared, which is 4. Don't forget to put the meter square. Now here's the extended version of this question. Suppose the radius of these circles is capital R, so what will be the area of the square? Let me know in the comments. So good.