---
video_title: "End Result Will Give You Goosebumps!!"
video_id: noKhElhUTuU
channel_name: "Brain Station"
channel_id: UCFdTgUEt2-UCVzPwQ8v9jFg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=noKhElhUTuU
video_date: 2026-08-12T12:30:30+00:00
video_description: |
  A Nice Square Root Algebra Simplification | Math Olympiad | You Should Learn This Trick! This question frightened 300K+ examinees! | Hard Algebra Exam Question | Only 1% of Students Got this Math Question Correct | Math Olympiad | USA | Russia | China
---
We are given this expression with so many square roots, and our job is to make this ratio into a more simpler form. So, can you do it? First, we rewrite the square root of 9 as the square root of 3 times square root of 3 and the square root of 15 as square root of 3 times square root of 5. Similarly, we can rewrite the square root of 12 in the denominator as square root of 4 times square root of 3, which simplifies to 2 times square root of 3. Now, this square root of 1 will simply be equal to 1. Great. Next, we observe that the numerator contains terms that can be grouped. The terms square root of 3 plus square root of 5 remain the same. While from this part, we can take square root of 3 as common to get square root of 3 times square root of three plus square root of five. While the numerator factors out as one plus the square root of 3 times the square root of three plus the square root of five, for the denominator we rearrange the terms one plus square root of five plus two times square root of three as one plus square root of three plus square root of three plus square root of five. Noise. Let us call this fraction as a variable x. Now, here comes the magic. If this is x, then 1 over x will be this, right? Let us simplify it. To do so, we split the fraction into two separate terms. The first term is 1 plus square root of 3 divided by this, which simplifies to 1 divided by square root of 3 plus square root of 5. The second term is square root of 3 plus square root of 5 divided by this, which simplifies to 1 divided by 1 plus square root of 3. As a next step, we will rationalize each term separately. To rationalize 1 divided by square root of 3 plus square root of 5, we multiply both the numerator and denominator by square root of 5 minus square root of 3. Use a plus b times a minus b equals a square minus b square here to get this denominator as 5 minus 3 or 2. So 1 divided by square root of 3 plus square root of 5 simplifies to square root of 5 minus square root of 3 divided by 2. Similarly, to rationalize 1 divided by 1 plus square root of 3, we multiply both numerator and denominator by square root of 3 minus 1. Again, using this, we get this denominator as 3 minus 1 or 2. So this simplifies to square root of 3 minus 1 divided by 2. Now, by adding these two results, since the denominators are the same, we combine the numerators to obtain this. Oh, look, square root of 3 gets canceled out, and we are left with square root of 5 minus 1 divided by 2 as 1 over x. So x equals 2 over the square root of 5 minus 1. We will rationalize this one last time by multiplying both numerator and denominator by the square root of 5 plus 1. Again, using this, we get the denominator as 5 minus 1 or 4. This two gets canceled out with 4, and we get x equals 1 plus square root of 5 divided by 2. This is giving me goose bumps, and I am in shock right now, because this number is equal to none other than the well-known golden ratio, which is a special number that appears in nature, art, and mathematics. So all this ugly looking square roots simplify to this beautiful golden ratio. If you enjoyed this video, please don't forget to like, share, and subscribe to our channel. So good!