---
video_title: "Can you solve this?"
video_id: 0ngYcnypGkI
channel_name: "Brain Station"
channel_id: UCFdTgUEt2-UCVzPwQ8v9jFg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ngYcnypGkI
video_date: 2026-08-18T12:30:28+00:00
video_description: |
  Can You Solve This? Find Radius of Circle | Find Square Area | Math Olympiad | Harvard Entrance Exam | USA | China | Russia | Germany | UK
---
This is a fun geometry problem. We have a square and a circle, and the circle touches the square at the left side, and it extends to the right side like this. The distance from the midpoint of the right side of the square to the circle is given as one unit. Our task is to find the area of the square. If you want, pause the video and try solving it yourself first, and let me know your answer in the comments. Alright, let's begin by calling the side length of the square s, so its area will be s squared. Now mark the center of the circle somewhere here, and draw a radius from the center to the top right corner of the square. Let's call this radius r. Then look at the horizontal diameter of the circle. Since the side of the square is s, therefore this part is equal to s, and thus the full diameter of the circle is s plus one. But the diameter is also two r, so we get two r equals s plus one. Noise. Now let's focus on the small right triangle formed by the radius, the horizontal distance and half the side of the square. This length is equal to the radius r, and therefore the horizontal leg is r minus one. The vertical leg is half the side of the square, so it is s divided by two. The hypotenuse is the radius r, applying the Pythagorean theorem we get r minus one squared plus s divided by two squared equals r squared. Expanding the first term gives r squared minus two r plus one, while the second term becomes s squared divided by four. Oh wow, r squared on both sides cancel, leaving us with this. Now take this two r on the right side to get two r as s squared divided by four plus one, but hey, two r also equals s plus one, so by equating both of them we get s plus one equals s squared by four plus one. The ones cancel from both sides, leaving s equals s squared by four. Multiply both sides by four, and we get four s equals s squared. Bringing everything to one side we get s squared minus four s equals zero. Now take s as common to get s times s minus four equals zero. Therefore, either s equals zero or s equals four. Clearly s equals zero cannot be the answer, so the only valid solution is s equals four. And now the final step is almost too easy. The area of the square is s squared. Therefore, the area of the square is 16 square units, and that's it. This was pretty satisfying, right? Like, share and subscribe. So good.