---
video_title: "AI Recreates Movie Scenes in 3D. GPT-5 | Grok 4 | Claude | Gemini"
video_id: Tm3u3hw3ozY
channel_name: "Simulation Sandbox"
channel_id: UCWNXIhwz9haaoQ5ulbFrsnw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tm3u3hw3ozY
video_date: 2025-08-09
video_description: |
  Animations were created using Three.js and other open source javascript libraries the AIs chose to import in their code. They received a basic prompt for each film scene, and then some technical requirements that allowed continued iteration on the code. They also had access to a ‘screenshot’ tool that would take screenshots at any time in the animation the AI wanted, which helped them orient and design the scenes. 
  
  Models:
  GPT-5
  Gemini 2.5 Pro
  DeepSeek R1
  Claude Opus 4.1
  Grok 4
  
  To be fair to DeepSeek it's the only model that isn't multimodal, so it wasn’t able to use screenshots. 
  
  0:00 Star Wars Trench Run
  1:09 ET: Moon Scene
  2:09 Matrix: "Bullet Time"
  3:03 Transformers: Optimus Prime
  
  Basic Prompts:
  
  Star Wars:
  Create a 3d recreation of the Death Star trench run scene from Star Wars with Three.js. The Death star should be detailed and procedurally generated, with gun turrets shooting at the ship as it flys through. The X-Wing is flying on autopilot in an intelligent and interesting way. Make the animation detailed, interesting, and aesthetic. Make the whole scene go for 15 seconds.
  
  ET:
  Recreate the scene from ET where the bike silhouette goes over the moon with Three.js. Try to recreate it as closely and make it as interesting and aesthetically pleasing as you can. The whole scene is 15 seconds. Carefully plan out the timing and coordination with the camera and other elements. Make the whole scene go for 15 seconds.
  
  Matrix
  Create a 3d recreation of the famous Matrix 'bullet time' scene with Three.js. The whole scene should last 12 seconds. Be very careful about getting the coordination, timing and pacing right between the elements and use the screenshots to spot issues. Make it as aesthetically pleasing and cinematic. Try to recreate the original scene details. Make the whole scene go for 15 seconds.
  
  Transformers:
  Create a 3d scene recreation of the iconic Optimus Prime turning from a car to a robot with Three.js. Make it as interesting and aesthetically pleasing as you can. Carefully plan out the timing and coordination with the camera and other elements. Make the whole scene go for 15 seconds.
  
  Music was created with Suno.
---
Muhammad Ali