---
video_title: "How Tucker Carlson FORCED Ted Cruz Into 8 Minutes of Pure Panic"
video_id: fBs-FSBZjEA
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fBs-FSBZjEA
video_date: 20251111
video_description: |
  You can go to my sponsor https://aura.com/rationalityrules to try 14 days for free. That’s enough time for Aura to start scrubbing your personal info off these data broker sites, without you lifting a finger.
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  When Tucker Carlson asked Ted Cruz to name one time AIPAC disagreed with Netanyahu, the senator's response exposed something far more revealing than foreign lobbying—it revealed how political deflection collapses under sustained questioning. This forensic breakdown identifies every logical fallacy, rhetorical dodge, and psychological tell Cruz deployed while defending AIPAC against basic accountability questions. You'll witness the exact moment a U.S. Senator who claims Israel's enemies are America's enemies realises he can't provide a single example to support his own confident assertions. I'll show you the specific techniques Cruz relies on—false dichotomies, appeals to normalcy, red herrings, and whataboutism—and why they catastrophically fail when an interviewer actually demands follow-up answers. From his "fever swamp" accusations to his inability to address whether Israeli espionage on American soil is acceptable, you'll understand the precise pattern politicians use to avoid accountability, and more importantly, you'll learn to recognise when deflection tactics are masking the absence of substance.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  Tucker Confronts Ted Cruz on His Support for Regime Change in Iran: https://youtu.be/smemFVe0l5E?si=hbf31b9LwpI10m2B
---
When was the last time AIPAC took a position that deviated from Prime Minister Netanyahu's? All the time. >> Okay. Let me go back and give a little history. If you want to do a deep dive on AIPAC we I don't. I want to do a

shallow dive. It gets There it is. The exact moment a US senator realized that he can't answer the simplest possible question. Ted Cruz claims with complete confidence that AIPAC, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, one of Washington's most influential lobbying organizations, deviates all the time from the Israeli Prime Minister. But when Tucker Carlson asks him to name a single example, suddenly Ted needs to give the entire origin story.

>> Let me go back and give a little history. If you want to do a deep dive on AIPAC >> If you strip out the dodge, you can see what's really happening. Ted's got nothing, and he knows that everyone else knows that he's got nothing. I don't. I want to do a shallow dive. It gets

What follows is something genuinely rare in modern political media. A senator getting systematically destroyed by a member of his own political coalition who refuses to accept deflection as an answer. But I'm getting ahead of myself. But what do they do? I thought they were swamp of terrified of AIPAC and AIPAC I'm not terrified of AIPAC at all. I'm

You're the one who seems a little uncomfortable when I'm asking. >> No, not uncomfortable at all. Why, hello my fellow apes. I hope you are well. You're about to witness Ted Cruz, Texas senator and professional twister player, attempt to defend the American Israel Public Affairs Committee against basic questions about foreign lobbying. And

before we dive in, let's be crystal clear about something. Asking whether AIPAC lobbies on behalf of the Israeli government is not anti-Semitism. It's the same reasonable question we ask about every other lobbying organization that coordinates with foreign officials. From the Turkey lobby to the Saudi Arabia lobby to trade organizations representing Mexican and Canadian interests. So, what's the difference?

Well, when you question those groups, no one accuses you of bigotry. You're just doing basic oversight. But question AIPAC and suddenly you're feverish, obsessed, and trafficking in conspiracy theories. It's a deflection tactic designed to shut down legitimate scrutiny by weaponizing sensitivity around anti-Semitism. And Ted deploys it repeatedly throughout this exchange.

>> It's weird, the obsession with Israel. Now, Let's also be clear about who we're watching here. Tucker Carlson is a far-right conspiracy theorist, a MAGA propagandist, and someone who spent years platforming white nationalist talking points. >> This is the replacement doc theory. But It's not a theory, it's the reality. Ted Cruz is, well, Ted

Cruz. He's the same man that called the Obama administration the world's leading financier of radical Islamic terrorism. He's also a senator who, in 2020, led an effort by a group of Republicans to refuse to count Pennsylvania's Electoral College votes. Neither of these people are good guys. But here's what makes this exchange so fascinating. Despite

being a far-right philosopher in the same way that McDonald's is fine dining, Tucker actually performs real journalism here. He asks simple, factual questions and refuses non-answers. And that's worth studying, regardless of what you think of his politics, because it exposes how rarely this kind of sustained accountability actually happens in political media. >> I've never taken money from the Israel lobby, have you? So, strap in, because we're about to watch twister Ted learn what happens when deflection tactics that work in short cable news segments fail catastrophically under sustained focused questioning. This is what real

accountability looks like when someone actually demands it, and it is absolutely brutal. We get massive benefits from Israel. Okay, this is absolutely wild. Data brokers are building files on people like you and me that stretch to 11 pages and beyond. We're talking address histories, phone numbers, family connections. Hell, they're even tracking

what we buy and where we shop. So, here's what's happening. These data broker companies are pulling in billions, literally billions, trading our personal information without our consent to whoever's buying. Marketers, scammers, spammers, stalkers, the whole bunch. And yeah, they're technically required to delete your data if you request it, but they deliberately make it a bureaucratic nightmare. You'd have

to go through hundreds of these sites one by one. That's where today's sponsor, Aura, comes in. They handle all of the heavy lifting for you. Aura is the complete security solution. You're getting dark web monitoring to flag when your data appears, real-time alerts for credit and bank fraud, continuous identity protection, a built-in VPN, antivirus, and password manager, plus actual US-based support who answer their phones. Sure, other identity protection

services might have a couple of these features, but nobody else delivers this full arsenal at this price point. And if things go sideways, you're covered for up to 5 million in identity theft insurance. Once you subscribe to Aura, you'll see them methodically purge your information from dozens of these parasitic sites. Spam calls, they will drop off a cliff. Those creepy targeted ads stalking you everywhere, history.

That unsettling sense that your digital life is being monitored, finally gone. Honestly, it's maddening that these companies are cashing in on our data, but at least now you can fight back. Try Aura free for 14 days at aura.com/rationalityrules. Within those 2 weeks, you'll see exactly where your data is being sold, and Aura will be actively scrubbing it from broker sites without any effort from you. Stop leaving yourself vulnerable

online. Thanks. We get massive benefits from Israel. Israel shares the Mossad is one of the best intelligence sources on the planet. The enemies of Israel, the people who hate Israel, they all hate us. It's almost a

perfect overlap. And so, if we tried to recreate If we're just trying to defend America, we tried to recreate the national security benefits of our alliance with Israel, it would cost, I don't know, 30 billion, 300 billion. We start off with Ted not describing the alliance, but selling it. Notice how he front-loads the indispensability. Massive benefits, best intelligence, perfect overlap.

>> Massive benefits, best intelligence, perfect overlap. >> This language is intended to position support for Israel as synonymous with defending America itself. And do you know what? That's useful optics for a senator who materially benefits from the US-Israel relationship. Whether motivated by genuine conviction or political calculation, arguing purely from self-interest wouldn't be persuasive. So, Ted's move is to recast

this as patriotic realism instead. In doing so, he transforms his later exaggerations into what sounds like hard-nosed security analysis. And when he says that the enemies of Israel hate us, The enemies of Israel, they all hate us. we're already encountering our first major fallacy, the false dichotomy. That's when someone presents two positions as if they are the only possibilities when more may exist. Think

about how this plays out in debates about policing. Someone might say, you must support the police unconditionally, or you want total anarchy in the streets. But hang on, you could support police reform, better training, improved accountability measures, community policing models, or any number of positions between those two extremes. The false dichotomy collapses all of that nuanced middle ground into a simplistic binary choice. What Ted is doing here is exactly the same pattern.

He collapses every possible position on the Israeli-US relationship into just two options. If Israel's enemies are America's enemies, then either you support Israel and defend America, or you oppose Israel and side with America's enemies. By reframing the relationship this way, Ted makes it nearly impossible to question specific policies or military aid without appearing anti-American. So, let's test this claim. Does this perfect overlap between Israel's enemies and America's enemies actually exist? Turkey, a NATO

ally, maintains strained ties with Israel. Saudi Arabia and the UAE kept close US relationships for decades before even considering normalization with Israel. India stands as a key US partner while historically backing Palestinian positions. China trades with both nations, but pursues entirely distinct interests. Even Iran has maintained US back channels while remaining hostile to Israel. So, no, the

overlap isn't perfect. What Ted presents as a geological fact is actually geopolitical fiction, a convenient story that erases complexity to sell a predetermined conclusion. Building on the shaky foundation, Ted then throws out his cost estimate, and this is where things get interesting. The comment about what it would cost America without the Israel alliance, 30 billion, 300 billion. 30 billion, 300 billion.

reveals another rhetorical technique at work, namely hedging, avoiding commitment by using vague, cautious, and noncommittal language. You'll recognize this in everyday politics. Think of a senator asked whether they're run for president who replies, "I have no plans at this time." They haven't ruled it out, have they? They've just padded the answer with ambiguity to dodge the commitment while keeping every door open. By admitting "I don't know," Ted

shields himself from scrutiny if challenged on specifics, while those huge, wildly shifting numbers still plant the impression of overwhelming value. He threw out two numbers separated by 270 billion dollars and kept talking. 30 billion, 300 billion. 100 billion dollars. Gentlemen, silence. That's a spread wide

enough to essentially contain Finland's entire GDP, tossed out as a casual estimation. What's the foundation of that calculation? Where's the analysis? Because here's what Ted conveniently leaves out. The alliance also generates significant costs in defense spending, precisely because of Israel's relationship with its neighbors. Talking

of which, consider Israel's current military incursions into its neighbors, Lebanon, Syria, Gaza, and the West Bank, and its expansionist policies, which create ongoing regional instability. The United States sends billions in military aid supporting these operations, which not only generates blowback in the form of terrorist attacks specifically targeting America, but also, and more importantly, erodes its relationships and thus its influence with much of the world. Each escalation deepens global resentment, isolating the US diplomatically and undermining the credibility it relies on to lead international coalitions. The US isn't just paying for intelligence, it's inheriting enemies. That is a cost that Ted never factors into his back-of-the-napkin calculation. And

speaking of things that Ted leaves out, notice how Mossad appears in his presentation as a pure asset, as a gift that keeps on giving. What he conveniently omits tells you everything about how this argument is constructed. Mossad's records include assassinations and sabotage operations abroad, including in friendly countries, operations conducted without host nation approval, operations that have resulted in collateral damage, civilian casualties, and repeated accusations of violating international law. You see, presenting Mossad as an unqualified benefit requires deliberately ignoring a rather substantial file of diplomatic incidents. Ted wants you to see the intelligence victories while carefully editing out the sovereignty violations and the bodies those operations leave behind.

>> It would cost, I don't know, 30 billion, 300 billion. Which who's who can you elaborate? Again, I'm I'm going into this as someone who's always liked Israel um and still does, but I also think at this point, given where we are, it's fair to ask rational questions about what the benefits are. Good. Um so does Mossad share all of its intelligence with us? Oh, probably not,

but they share a lot. Um we don't share all of our intelligence with them, but we share a lot. It's a close alliance. >> All right. Notice Tucker's careful positioning before he even asks his question. He presents himself as someone

who's always liked Israel and still does, a deliberate protective posture. >> as someone who's always liked Israel um and still does, Criticizing Israeli policy is still, for Republicans at least, controversial. And so, knowing his audience, he casts himself as a sympathetic insider rather than an adversary, making his challenge appear fair-minded rather than hostile. The question itself, whether Mossad shares all of its intelligence with the US, is one that Tucker thoroughly knows the answer to. As an experienced journalist, this isn't a quest for information, it's a carefully set trap. He's forcing Ted

to acknowledge an uncomfortable asymmetry in the relationship. Even after all that talk about perfect overlaps and massive benefits, there are clearly some notable gaps. Does Mossad share all of its intelligence with us? Oh, probably not, but they share a lot. Um we don't share all of our intelligence with them, but we share a lot. In Ted's answer, he immediately

jumps to deflection via the tu quoque fallacy, when someone rejects criticism by accusing the other person of doing the same. Think about when, for instance, Trump imposed travel restrictions on several Muslim-majority countries. When critics called it discriminatory, his supporters responded, "Well, Obama did it, too." Ignoring that Obama's actions was not an executive order, did not involve visas, and was a temporary pause in response to a specific security threat from one country, not a sweeping ban on multiple nations. The you do it, too deflection sidesteps whether the policy itself is justified. In this conversation, Ted

concedes "Probably not" on Mossad sharing everything. Oh, probably not, but they share a lot. A hedge that protects him from being called wrong while still sounding cooperative. But he immediately pivots to "We don't share all of our intelligence, either." We don't share all of our intelligence with them, but we share a lot.

>> This sidesteps Tucker's actual question entirely. Instead of defending whether or not Mossad delivers the massive intelligence that Ted just claimed, he normalizes the fact that Mossad withholds information, making it sound like business as usual in intelligence partnerships. >> It's a close alliance. >> spy domestically in the United States? Oh, they probably do, and we do as well.

And and friends and allies spy on each other. And and I assume I assume all of our allies spy on us. Here, after Ted's vague but confident dodge on the first question, Tucker sharpens his probe, representing a deliberate, calculated escalation, moving from "Do they share?" to "Do they spy?" >> Do they spy domestically in the United States? It's no longer about information

exchange between partners, it's about foreign espionage on US soil. Tucker is forcing Ted to confront a taboo truth rather than coast on abstractions about alliance. And the response is fascinating. The casual, offhand tone, "Uh yeah, probably." Oh, they probably do, and we do as well.

>> makes it sound like Tucker asked to borrow his lawnmower rather than asked a serious question about foreign espionage on American soil. And make no mistake, Ted's tone is part of the deflection itself. What we're seeing here is the tu quoque again, the same technique that we saw him use before. He admits that they probably do, then instantly pivots, saying "And we do as well." Once again, redirecting scrutiny away from Israel by invoking mutual guilt, transforming a moral question into a shared shrug of complicity. Pressing on, building on

that deflection, he frames espionage as not a controversial choice, but as a standard practice. I assume all of our allies spy on us. In other words, he employs an appeal to normalcy, where someone justifies behavior simply because it is considered normal or common. Think about when one defends corporate lobbying or PAC donations by saying all politicians take money from special interests. The fact that a practice is widespread doesn't make it ethical, it just means that the problem is systemic. The appeal to normalcy

tries to use prevalence as a substitute for justification. So, back to when Ted acknowledges Israeli surveillance of America and then follows with "Friends and allies spy on each other, and I assume all of our allies spy on us." >> I assume all of our allies spy on us. He transforms foreign surveillance from a controversial act into standard diplomatic procedure. If everyone does it, how can it be wrong? You know what?

I think it's time we ground this in actual history, because Ted glosses over something significant. Israeli espionage against the US is extensively documented and has been for decades. The Government Accountability Office reported in 1996 that Israel conducts the most aggressive espionage operations against the United States of any ally, a pattern that, while dated, underscores how long-standing and serious the concern has been. The evidence includes the Jonathan Pollard case, where Pollard received a life sentence for passing classified information to Israel. The 2004 Lawrence Franklin scandal involved leaked classified Iran documents, and the 2019 Politico report identified Israel as planting surveillance devices near the White House. This isn't

speculation, it is an established record. >> I assume all of our allies spy on us. And that's okay with you? You know what? One of the things about being a conservative is that you're not naive and utopian.

You You don't think humans are all Part of the reason socialism doesn't work is is the the the mantra from each according to his abilities to each according to his needs doesn't work. As a conservative, I assume people act in their rational self-interest. So, it's serving to After hearing Texas Ted repeat the same deflection twice with "Yeah, but everyone does it," Tucker shifts his strategy to close off the escape route. He asks if it's okay. >> And that's okay with you? It's more

pointed, more direct, and so Ted has to either explicitly condone Israeli espionage or contradict himself. Or, well, an honest person would have to answer. But what happens instead? We catch a spectacular red herring when someone introduces an unrelated point to distract from the original issue. To witness an example, we need look no further than Pumpkin Palpatine once again. In October 2016, Trump was asked

about the Access Hollywood tape, in which he was recorded talking about grabbing women by the How did he respond? You brag that you have sexually assaulted women. Do you understand that? >> You know, when we have a world where you have ISIS chopping off heads, where you have, and frankly, drowning people in steel cages, I hate it, but it's locker room talk, and it's one of those things. >> It was mere deflection, introducing a different outrage to avoid accountability for the original. In this

conversation, Ted, rather than addressing whether he finds Israeli spying acceptable, launches into a conservative monologue about socialism, utopianism, human nature, free markets, but none of it directly answers the question at hand. >> Socialism doesn't work is is the the the mantra from each according to his abilities to each according to his needs Is spying on America acceptable? By the time he's done rambling through ideology, you've almost forgotten what Tucker asked in the first place. And in the midst of all that rambling, by calling objections to espionage naive and utopian, >> being a conservative is that you're not naive and utopian. Ted is implicitly insulting Tucker. Whether intentional or

not, this paints Tucker's question as childish, as the kind of thing that only an idealist or a fool would ask. It is a risky move from a fellow Republican, and an ad hominem at its heart, when someone attacks the person instead of addressing the argument. Think about when Greta Thunberg began her activism about climate change. Instead of addressing the science, critics attacked her personally, calling her a manipulated child, claiming her parents were exploiting her, questioning her mental health. >> A miserable child, a child that's been manipulated by adults.

>> The attacks had nothing to do with climate data or her arguments, right? In this case with Ted, rather than addressing a straightforward national security question, he transforms it into a culture war loyalty test, where rejecting foreign spying becomes evidence of softness or ideological impurity, which insults anyone outside of his particular ideological camp as hopelessly naive and irrational. >> As a conservative, I assume people act in their rational self-interest. It's why the free market works. >> to pay people to spy on you? It's

conservative to recognize that human beings act in their own self-interest, and every one of our friends spies on us, and I'm not >> Rather than let Ted hide behind conservative philosophy, Tucker cuts through the abstraction with a reductio ad absurdum. When someone takes an idea and pushes it to an extreme or absurd conclusion to discredit it. In the case at hand, Tucker applies a reductio sharply when he asks, "So, is it conservative to pay people to spy on you?" The question traps Ted within his own vocabulary. If self-interest justifies Israeli spying, then by Ted's logic, America ends up paying for another country's self-interest, the exact opposite of conservatism. The

contradiction surfaces in the very terms Ted hides behind. But, the senator is very good at retreating behind his repeated platitudes about self-interest. This part of the exchange, in fact, crystallizes what will define their entire encounter. Put simply, Ted has established his escape route. Whenever a concrete question threatens about spying, about reciprocity, about cost, he'll launch into the clouds of abstraction of markets, ideology, and human nature. Yet, Tucker's question is

a tether, dragging him back to ground level where his generalities can't support their own weight. And every one of our friends spies on us, and I'm not >> Do you like it? That's my question. I'm not asking whether they have motive to do it. Of course, they do. I understand

that, and I I'm not mad at that. >> you're an American lawmaker, so I just want to want to know Hold on. I want to know your attitude. You said that your guiding principle, in fact, the only principle, the only criterion >> guiding The overwhelming I wouldn't say only. >> Is Is it in America's interest? Is it in

America's interest for Israel to spy on us, including on the president? It is in America's interest to be closely allied with Israel because we get huge benefits for it. And you want us to want to see the clearest By this point, Tucker has watched Ted dodge and deflect repeatedly. So, he does what any good interviewer does when faced with evasion. He restates the question, stripping away any ambiguity. "Do you

like it? That is my question." It's direct, simple, impossible to misunderstand. >> Do you like it? That's my question.

>> And Tucker doesn't stop there. He anticipates Ted's next deflection and builds a fence around the question, making it harder for him to slip away. But, of course, Ted seizes on the one small part of what Tucker said with "I said guiding. I wouldn't say only" in order to stall once again. >> I said guiding. The overwhelming I

wouldn't say only. >> It's pedantic hairsplitting dressed as intellectual rigor, but Tucker is having none of it, demanding an answer. And the result, we get another red herring, the same distraction technique Ted used to avoid the "Is it okay?" question. Is it in America's interest to be spied on by its allies, no less, becomes "We get huge benefits from the alliance."

>> We get huge benefits for it. You see, Ted answered a completely different question, with the breach of trust getting repackaged as proof of partnership strength. Now, if you're already tired of hearing a politician never answer the damn question, buckle up. There is more to come. Ah, Here we go again.

>> We get huge benefits for it. And you want us to want to see the clearest But, I just want to stop on this line for a second that it it takes place, as you know, um and including on the president of the United States and several presidents, and I just want to know if that's okay, and why is it okay? Wouldn't an American lawmaker say to a client state, "You're not allowed to spy on us. I'm sorry. I know why you want to. I'm not mad at

you, but you're not allowed to, and I don't care for it. I don't want to be spied on by you." Is that It's kind of weird not to say that, but you don't seem able to say that. Sure, I would say don't spy on us. They're going to anyway. And by the way,

the Brits are, the Canadians are, like The kitchen is getting hot, huh? Tucker tries once more to pin Ted down, even modeling what a reasonable answer would sound like. "You're not allowed to spy on us. I'm not mad at you, but you can't do it." >> mad at you, but you're not allowed to.

>> Sure. And I don't care for it. >> By defining the moral baseline in advance, Tucker makes any deviation instantly obvious. It's like showing someone the answer key before the test. Their failure to match it becomes damning. And Tucker's tone stays calm

throughout, which makes Ted's eventual dodge even more glaring. There's also a subtle dig here. Tucker reminds Ted that he is an American lawmaker, not as a credential, but as an obligation. >> Wouldn't an American lawmaker say to a client state, "You're not allowed to spy on us"? >> The message is, "You, of all people, should be defending national sovereignty." For Tucker's audience,

perpetually suspicious of foreign influence, this move is especially devastating. He doesn't call Ted compromised, not quite, just observes that he doesn't seem able or willing to defend American interests, letting viewers draw their own conclusions. Ted's response compounds yet more fallacies. He begins with apparent resolve. >> Sure, I would say don't spy on us.

>> But, what happens next? >> They're going to anyway. >> This is an appeal to inevitability. When someone dismisses opposition to something by claiming it's unavoidable or bound to happen regardless of what we do. That is the sound of inevitability.

>> Let's look back at climate change debates again. This time with the line of thinking, "China and India will keep polluting anyway, so why should we act?" It's a way of transforming choice into a foregone conclusion, turning agency into helplessness. This is what Ted does here, transforming moral violation into natural law. By presenting espionage as inevitable, "They're going to do it anyway," he shifts the focus from "Should this be allowed?" to "Can it be

stopped?" In an instance, we're not discussing principles, but accepting realities, not demanding respect, but acknowledging powerlessness. >> The Brits are, the Canadians are, >> the cascade of whataboutism. When someone deflects criticism by pointing to others supposedly doing the same thing instead of addressing the original point. You know the trick. It might just

be the tangerine tyrant's favorite tactic whenever he's criticized. For instance, when Trump was pressed on his respect for Vladimir Putin, a man known for ordering killings, he shrugged, "There's a lot of killers. You think our country's so innocent, do you?" >> I do respect him. >> Do you? Why? Well, I respect a lot of

people, but that doesn't mean I'm going to get along >> with him. Putin's a killer. There's a lot of killers. We got a lot of killers. Well, you think our country's so innocent?

>> It's pure whataboutism. Deflect blame by pointing to other villains. With Ted, we see the same move when he's challenged on the acceptability of Israel spying on the US. He responds, "Yeah, but >> are, the Canadians are, >> which additionally ties this particular whataboutism to the earlier appeal to normalcy. And that, of course, is exactly the point. He wants to make

moral violation seem like standard operating procedure. >> And by the way, the Brits are, the Canadians are, like I don't think >> Well, I'm not for that at all. I think it's disgusting, but we don't actually pay them you know, we're not their most meaningful sponsor. We're not sort of paying for the operations of the British government. Tucker's response is principled and razor sharp. He refuses

Ted's whataboutism outright. Espionage isn't a matter of comparison or degree, it's wrong, no matter who does it. >> Well, I'm not for that at all. I think it's disgusting. >> And in doing so, Tucker strips the dodge of its power before it can take hold.

And notice the choice words. Tucker doesn't call it wrong or concerning, those are bureaucratic words, the distancing words of a politician. No, he calls it disgusting. >> I think it's disgusting. >> That's visceral, moral language that draws a sharp line between principle and Ted's cynical accommodation, establishing Tucker as the defender of American dignity, while Ted plays, at best, an apologetic middle manager. Then

comes the hammer blow, the obvious part that Ted is ignoring. America doesn't send money and arms to Britain and Canada in the same way that it freely does to Israel, money that is then used to spy back on the US. For the record, Israel receives approximately 3.8 billion in annual US military aid, about 16% of Israel's entire defense budget. Britain and Canada, they receive no such comparable aid, instead purchasing equipment or sharing development costs.

The relationship is categorically different, and Tucker will not let Ted hide that fact with yet another diversion. >> We're not sort of paying for the operations of the British government. >> to say, and this is it it's weird. We're talking about isolationists, the obsession with Israel. Why is Israel >> The pattern here is getting ridiculous.

Ted cannot respond to any of the pushback, and instead begins the usual tactic for defending Israeli policies, calling the opponent anti-Semitic. Now, I know that he didn't use those words explicitly, but by implying that criticism is weird and suggesting an obsession with Israel, he's clearly heading down that path. >> It's weird. We're talking about isolationists, the obsession with Israel. >> Knowing there is no longer any real defense that he can offer, Ted turns once again to the ad hominem. And it's

also gaslighting. When someone manipulates another into doubting their perception, memory, or sanity. Picture a situation where you point out that a team member's comment felt dismissive or biased, and your boss says something to the effect of, "You're just being overly sensitive. No one else had a problem with it." They immediately compare your reaction to others, implying that you're the problem. That's gaslighting. Here,

Ted is calling scrutiny of US aid to Israel and its spying an obsession, pathologizing legitimate inquiry as irrational fixation. So, he's not just attacking Tucker, he's making Tucker question whether his concerns are even reasonable. >> The obsession with Israel. Why is Israel >> don't think I'm obsessed with Israel. >> Okay, but I think a lot of people are.

And like the question, "Israel spies on us." Well, so does every other country. Why are you mad at Israel? >> Tucker is having none of it. The moment Ted tries to pin obsession on him, he cuts in with a calm rejection with his quick, measured interruption preventing Ted's framing from taking root.

>> Well, I don't think I'm obsessed with Israel. Okay. And by denying the label outright, Tucker forces Ted to redirect the accusation elsewhere. >> A lot of people aren't. >> A lot of people are, he says, which greatly weakens it. It's a small but

vital move maintaining conversational control, keeping the power dynamic tilted in Tucker's favor. And then Ted returns to his security blanket, his primary defense mechanism. What about it? Israel spies on us. Well, so does every other country.

>> Indeed. When pressed for accountability, Ted generalizes into distractions disappear. When forced to address specifics, he retreats into universals. He's playing the same track on repeat hoping that nobody notices. Not finished with the nonsense, Ted's follow-up question continues the gaslighting.

>> Why are you mad at Israel? >> Notice what he's doing. Tucker hasn't expressed anger and most critics of US-Israeli policy aren't motivated by rage. They've questioned policy, raised sovereignty concerns, and pointed out financial hypocrisy. But by characterizing critics as angry and emotional, Ted can dismiss their concerns as irrational rather than engaging with the substance. It's a

classic you're being too emotional manipulation making critics doubt whether their concerns are even legitimate. Israel spies on us. Well, so does every other country. Why are you mad at Israel? I guess all No, no, no.

I'm I'm I'm hardly the one who I've never taken money from the Israel lobby. Have you? It is getting nasty though. Notice how Tucker's tone moves from measured inquiry to visible irritation. He knows he's not going to get an honest response from Ted at this point. And so rather

than letting the obsession insinuation settle, he calls into question Ted's financial backing. >> I've never taken money from the Israel lobby. Have you? We were discussing who's emotionally fixated on Israel. Now we're examining who's financially compromised by Israel. And by moving to

whether Ted is bought, Tucker has turned the implied insult back on him. Have you? That final question, have you, isn't really a question at all. Tucker knows the answer. It's a trap. Whether

through research or preparation, he's aware that Ted has received life-changing donations connected to pro-Israel lobbying networks. The question's power lies in that foreknowledge. Tucker isn't seeking information. He's forcing a public acknowledgement. It's an ambush delivered with the casual tone of asking about the weather. I've never taken

money from the Israel lobby. Have you? It Taken money from the Israel >> You've got to admire Ted's processing delay, or rather stalling tactic. His tone feigns confusion, perhaps even offense, but his mind is scrambling for the least damaging answer to a question he clearly didn't see coming and definitely doesn't want to answer. Seeing that Ted is looking for a way out, Tucker brutally clarifies, "From AIPAC." Closing the walls. Israel AIPAC.

Now any potential deflections Ted was thinking of will be hard to offer with Tucker having named a specific publicly documented organization. Make no mistake, Tucker knew exactly what he was asking. And now he's narrowing it from the general Israeli lobby to a specific, traceable, publicly documented entity. Taken money from the Israel AIPAC. Uh so AIPAC raises a lot of money for me, but it's actually a misnomer because the people who raise money are individuals.

So it's not the PAC itself, but they're individual members who believe in the American-Israeli uh friendship and relation of tangent Ted cannot respond without invoking some form of fallacy. And this time it's a distinction without a difference, where an apparent difference between two things is claimed but no meaningful or practical difference exists between them. Think about some large company accused of exploiting warehouse or gig workers. The company deflects by claiming that the workers aren't technically employees but simply contractors or agency workers. Technically true, but the company still controls their pay, their hours, and their working conditions, making the distinction meaningless in practice.

It's linguistic sleight of hand, changing the label without changing the reality. Here Ted insists that donations come from individuals rather than AIPAC itself, attempting to dissolve an organized lobby into disconnected private citizens, repackaging its institutional influence as spontaneous grassroots support. But it's actually a misnomer because the people who raise money are individuals. Yes, individual donors write the checks, but the money remains coordinated, encouraged, and directed through AIPAC's network. The structure of control doesn't vanish just because the signatures change. And the

factual record exposes this In the 2022 election cycle alone, AIPAC poured more than $17.5 million into campaigns through its super PAC, the United Democracy Project. Money that goes well beyond individual donations. The organization openly boasts of executing coordinated political strategy with its leadership holding regular meetings with Israeli prime ministers and cabinet members. In light of that, Ted's claim that it's just individuals isn't clarification, it's camouflage. Is

it an AIPAC of foreign lobby? No, it's an American lobby. It's the AIPAC stands for the America Israeli Political Action Ted's response reveals his position's weakness immediately. He claims that AIPAC is an American lobby and then cites the organization's name as proof. Technically, AIPAC is an American lobby. Its staff and donors are

US citizens. But that is beside the point. Ted isn't defending its structure, he's using the label itself as evidence of allegiance. AIPAC stands for the America Israeli Political Action Think about the MAGA defense of Trump. He must be a good president because why else would he win the election? The

reasoning goes in a loop. It assumes that winning proves goodness and that goodness explains winning. But election results don't necessarily reflect the quality of leadership. They reflect popularity, strategy, timing, and public sentiment. The argument just circles back on itself without offering any real evidence of Trump being a good president. Here Ted treats the label

American Israel Political Action Committee as proof that it represents American interests. But a name doesn't define function, does it? It's like insisting that North Korea must be democratic because it calls itself the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The dodge is transparent, avoiding substance by hiding behind a self-applied label. Oh, and uh even more amusing, he got the name wrong. It's the American Israel Public

Affairs Committee, not Political Action Committee. AIPAC stands for the America Israeli Political Action >> What does it lobby for? So to be honest, not a whole lot effectively. Listen, I came in to to Congress 13 years ago with the stated intention of being the leading defender of Israel in the United States Senate. I've worked every day to do that. Tucker's follow-up

appears casual, simple curiosity. But he knows exactly what AIPAC lobbies for. But by asking as if he doesn't, he forces Ted to define it on the record. It's a classic journalistic move, shift from accusation to apparent innocence so the subject walks into their own trap. And Ted does exactly that. His response

attempts to minimize AIPAC's influence. >> To be honest, not a whole lot effectively. Listen, Notice that hedge word, "effectively." rhetorical trick when someone uses cautious, noncommittal, and qualifying language to escape accountability. Consider someone stating, "I think the project might be delayed." instead of

directly saying, "The project will be delayed." The speaker hedges with "I think" and "might" to reduce certainty. When Ted says "not a whole lot" and "effectively," he creates an escape hatch. If anyone later points to specific lobbying victories, he can dismiss them as minor exceptions rather than the rule. It's preemptive damage control. And yet within seconds, he

contradicts himself, boasting that he came to Congress with the explicit intention with the stated intention of being the leading defender of Israel in the United States Senate. The juxtaposition is extraordinary. He downplays the lobby's influence while simultaneously aligning his entire political identity with its mission. It's a self-own that confirms precisely what Tucker has been baiting him to reveal. Put another way, Ted just denied foreign influence while centering his political career around defending the very country whose lobby funds him. He

doesn't need to explicitly say that he's paid to represent Israel. He's declared it his life's work. The audience can draw that line themselves. And the fact that he doesn't see the problem makes it even more damning. I came in to to Congress 13 years ago with the stated intention of being the leading defender of Israel in the United States Senate. I've worked

every day to do that. AIPAC a lot of times AIPAC I wish were much more effective. Ted offers perhaps the mildest criticism possible, wishing that AIPAC were more effective. But more effective at what exactly? He didn't answer what it actually does, only that it isn't very good at doing it. AIPAC I wish were much

more effective. Like They're they're But what do they do? I thought they were swamp of terrified of AIPAC and AIPAC At this point, Tucker recognizes the pattern. Ted keeps dodging substance with vagueness and deflection. So he sharpens his next question. But what do

they do? Instead of asking about AIPAC in general terms, he presses for specifics, forcing Ted to define what the organization actually does. It's a smart move. The more precise the question, the harder it becomes for Ted to hide behind abstraction. In response, Ted poisons the well. When someone attacks the

credibility or character of critics to dismiss their arguments before they're even made. Think about dismissing critics of a film by saying, "The haters just can't handle a strong female character." Now, anyone with legitimate criticisms, be it pacing, scripting, acting, whatever it might be, gets lumped in with the misogynists. The well has been poisoned. Ted's fever swamp phrase does exactly this. He's

characterizing all critics of AIPAC as diseased and hysterical. >> I thought the fever swamp of terrified of AIPAC >> The metaphor invokes imagery of infection and contagion, casting dissent as something sick that needs quarantining. By framing the criticism this way, he contaminates the source before any arguments can arrive. Now, anyone, Tucker included, who questions AIPAC risks being lumped in with this fever swamp. You see, it's not about addressing specific concerns. It's about

making criticism itself seem suspect and illegitimate. I thought the fever swamp of terrified of AIPAC and AIPAC I'm not terrified of AIPAC at all. I'm You're the one who seems a little uncomfortable when I'm asking. >> No, I'm not uncomfortable at all. And Tucker refuses to play the role that Ted has scripted for him, the irrationally terrified critic lost in the fever swamp. Instead, he again flips the

insinuation that Ted is the one that's uncomfortable, turning the attack into an exposure of his own defensiveness. You're the one who seems a little uncomfortable when I'm asking. >> No, I'm not uncomfortable at all. And Ted's denial only reinforces that impression. His tone, his interruptions, his mounting insistence throughout this exchange all signal tension. It's an

instinctive deflection that portrays exactly what he's trying to hide. You're the one who seems a little uncomfortable when I'm asking. >> No, I'm not uncomfortable at all. I'm just asking what AIPAC does. My understanding, having known a lot of people who would AIPAC, is that it lobbies on behalf of the Israeli government.

>> Wrong. Oh, okay. That it's objective wrong. When was the last time AIPAC >> This is key. Tucker reiterates he's asking for what AIPAC does, a request that couldn't be more straightforward.

>> I'm just asking what AIPAC does. >> But Ted immediately interjects, "I can tell you." Attempting to seize authority over the exchange, to establish that he will define the truth in this conversation. >> My understanding, having known a lot of people who would AIPAC, >> This time, however, Tucker doesn't yield. Instead of deferring, he continues speaking, calmly laying out his understanding of AIPAC's function.

>> I can tell you. is that it lobbies on behalf of the Israeli government. >> Wrong. This subtle refusal undermines Ted's dominance bit and keeps the conversational power exactly where Tucker wants it. Then comes Ted's hard wrong, a dominance move designed to stop the conversation dead.

>> Wrong. The repetition that follows, "No, it is objectively wrong," adds a veneer of factual certainty to shut down Tucker's line of reasoning. Wrong. Oh, okay. That it's objective wrong.

When was the last time another significant shift in this conversation. Ted now recognizes Tucker as an adversary, not as a neutral interviewer, abandoning decorum for forceful contradiction. The factual record, however, undermines. AIPAC's own mission statement explicitly aims to strengthen, protect, and promote the US-Israel relationship. >> That's fine, of course. But the question

lies in how that goal is pursued. AIPAC's annual conferences regularly feature Israeli prime ministers as keynote speakers. Its legislative priorities mirror Israeli government positions on Iran sanctions, military aid, and Palestinian policy. And leaked documents from 2009 revealed coordination with Israeli officials on messaging strategies. These consistent consistent patterns contradict Ted's claim that AIPAC doesn't operate as a proxy for Israeli government interests.

>> Wrong. Oh, okay. That it's objective wrong. When was the last time AIPAC took a position that deviated from Prime Minister Netanyahu's All the time. >> Name one. Well, damn. After Ted

escalates with his condescending "objectively wrong," Tucker knows that he has to ask a question that lands cleanly, one that will leave Ted no room to dodge. So, he moves from generalities to specifics. Rather than debating whether AIPAC represents Israeli interests, he asks for a single instance when it didn't. It's a precise strike designed to corner Ted. And when he can't answer, it is absolutely devastating. When was the last time

AIPAC took a position that deviated from Prime Minister Netanyahu's All the time. >> Talking of which, Ted's answer, "All the time," is an attempt to sound confident while saying nothing. If it happens all the time, naming a single instance should be effortless, right? >> All the time. >> Name one. And that's precisely the

challenge he receives. "Name one." It demands specificity that Ted clearly doesn't have. And his silence says everything. When was the last time AIPAC took a position that deviated from Prime Minister Netanyahu's All the time.

>> Okay. Let me go back and give a little history. If you want to do a deep dive on AIPAC >> I don't. I want to do a shallow dive that gets This is brutal. Ted attempts a total evacuation from the battlefield. "Let me

go back and give a little history," he says. "Let me go back and give a little history." But before he can bury the exchange under a history lesson, Tucker cuts him off. "I don't want a deep dive. I want a shallow dive." If you want to

do a deep dive on AIPAC >> I don't. I want to do a shallow dive The message is essentially, "No, Ted. How about you actually answer the damn question?" It's a sharp escalation, stopping Ted from diluting the objection and forcing him to stay exactly where he's at his weakest. I want to do a shallow dive that gets I want I want to get to the core question. AIPAC is lobbying for a

foreign government. Wrong. Notice how Ted explicitly acknowledges what he's doing, rejecting Tucker's request like a child refusing to eat their broccoli. No, I'm not going to do a simple It's an open admission that he will not answer the straightforward question that's been posed. The dodge is no longer disguised as confusion or a need for context. It's

outright defiance. And when Tucker tries to press forward with his question, one that's designed to prevent verbal obfuscation, Ted cuts him off mid-sentence, asserting control through sheer force of contradiction rather than argument. >> I want to get to the core question. AIPAC is lobbying for a foreign government. Wrong. It's not. It's

lobbying for the United States. It is lobbying for a strong US-Israeli relationship. Okay. So, it's not It has nothing to do with a foreign government. It It wants America and Israel to be closely allied. As seen, Tucker

challenges this denial of yet another strong reductio ad absurdum. If AIPAC is not lobbying for Israel or any other foreign entity, then is it lobbying for the United States? It's not. It's lobbying for the United States. By taking Ted's denial to its logical end point, he exposes the incoherence of claiming that a lobby so thoroughly aligned with Israeli interests isn't acting on behalf of Israel. But this

binary framing has a weakness that Ted exploits. He frames AIPAC's mission as lobbying for a strong US-Israeli relationship. This is a euphemism, when someone softens or downplays the severity of a reality by using mild, vague, or less direct language. It's a feel-good phrasing that conceals the asymmetry of that relationship, an attempt to sound patriotic while dodging specificity. >> It is lobbying for a strong US-Israeli relationship. The logic is hollow, like

saying an arms dealer just wants a strong buyer-seller relationship. It sounds cooperative, bilateral, even. But only one side is getting the real benefit. >> It wants America and Israel to be closely allied. Okay, but it's lobbying on behalf of the interests of another country.

>> that's not true at all. And And if you It's not true. No. How much contact do you think AIPAC leaders have with the government of Israel? Tucker is demonstrating that he can do real journalism here. No matter

how much Ted squirms behind political jargon, he can't escape the steady pressure. Once again, Tucker exposes the obvious. If AIPAC's goal is a US-Israel alliance, it's clearly advancing Israeli interests. Ted, meanwhile, seems trapped in a loop, desperate to avoid any mention of foreign influence, even as he keeps denying it. And each time he does, Tucker tightens the noose a little more.

>> How much contact do you think AIPAC leaders have with the government of Israel? No idea. I imagine some. I think the government of Israel is often frustrated with AIPAC because they think that they're not nearly strong enough. Ted begins by feigning ignorance, then collapses instantly when he speculates some, and then volunteers inside knowledge about Israel's frustrations with AIPAC. The contradiction is

striking. He can't simultaneously know nothing and yet know this much, can >> much contact do you think AIPAC leaders have with the government of Israel? No idea. Lay down. The government of Israel is often frustrated with AIPAC because they think that they're not nearly strong enough.

>> What we're witnessing here is a rhetorical unraveling that undercuts the authority he's been projecting throughout the exchange. For a man who's spent years styling himself as Israel's leading defender in the Senate, and who's taken extensive AIPAC support, this claim of ignorance strains credibility far past the breaking point. He's bluffing, and the bluff is transparent. Further, and perhaps more critically, if AIPAC isn't trying to advance Israeli interests, then what exactly are Israeli officials frustrated about? This is simply incoherent. Ted

believes the government of Israel is frustrated with AIPAC because the latter isn't advancing their interests enough. Israel is often frustrated with AIPAC because they think that they're not nearly strong enough. Do you think there's any coordination between the government of Israel and AIPAC? Do they talk? Sure. If you're lobbying for more

US-Mexico trade, would you talk to people in the US and Mexico in the government? Sure. Like Like if Tucker continues applying the pressure, very well done, I will add, and is finally rewarded with Ted's concession. After the repeated denials that AIPAC acts on behalf of Israel, this yes-or-no question finally forces him to confront reality. Do they talk? Sure. So, let's

pause and consider what's just happened. After all that deflection, after all those denials, old tangent head finally admits coordination exists. But, see how quickly he tries to bury the submission under normalization. He immediately pivots to comparing it to US-Mexico trade, softening what is controversial into something routine, mundane even. It's the same rhetorical move he deployed earlier when downplaying Israeli espionage as something that everyone does. Oh, they probably do and

we do as well and and friends and allies spy on each other. If you're lobbying for more US-Mexico trade, would you talk to people in the US and Mexico in the government? Sure. Remember that? He takes the uncomfortable admission and reframes it as business as usual.

Nothing to see here. Perfectly normal operations. Here's what makes this analogy so deceptive. Ted wants you to think that APAC coordination with Israel is just like any other trade organization working with foreign partners. It sounds reasonable, right?

Except there's a critical legal distinction he's hoping you'll miss. Under US law, organizations that coordinate with foreign governments on lobbying, like Ballard Partners, which work on behalf of Turkey, must register under the Foreign Agent Registration Act or FARA. That's the law that requires transparency when you're working on behalf of a foreign government's interests. It's not controversial. It's not punitive. It's just disclosure,

letting the American public know who's lobbying them and on whose behalf. Now, here's the problem with Ted's comparison. APAC doesn't register under FARA, despite comparable coordination with Israeli officials, despite advancing Israeli government policy priorities, despite the very coordination that Ted just admitted exists, APAC claims exemption from the transparency requirements that apply to other foreign aligned lobbying groups. So, Ted's analogy doesn't defend APAC. Rather, it actually exposes the double standard. He's accidentally arguing that

APAC should be held to the same legal standards as the trade organizations he's comparing it to, standards APAC has spent decades avoiding. Do they talk? Sure. If you're lobbying for more US-Mexico trade, would you talk to people in the US and Mexico in the government? Sure. Like like if

So, I'm not mad about that. There are a million countries that lobby Washington. I like a lot of those countries including the Okay, but APAC are Americans, they're not Israelis. >> on. Notice what Tucker just did there. He

appears to be lowering the temperature, acknowledging that foreign lobbying happens all the time and he's not inherently opposed to it. >> I'm not mad about that. There are a million countries that lobby Washington. But, this is deliberate. It's a tactical softening meant to look conciliatory while actually tightening the pressure, framing his critique as calm reasonableness against Ted's defensiveness. Ted, however, still

doesn't take the bait. Instead, he returns to a familiar deflection, shifting the conversation from what APAC does to who its members are. Okay, but APAC are Americans, they're not Israelis. By emphasizing that APAC's members are Americans, he's implying that citizenship somehow is a shield against accountability for coordinating with foreign governments. It's a deflection you hear constantly in these debates and it sounds intuitive. Of

course Americans advocating for American policy can't be foreign agents, right? Except here's the problem. Citizenship is completely irrelevant to how this law works. Under the Foreign Agents Registration Act, FARA, remember, any American acting on behalf of a foreign principal must register. Let me give you two concrete examples so that this isn't just abstract legal theory. Paul

Manafort, former campaign chairman for Donald Trump, was prosecuted in 2018 for a range of financial crimes, including money laundering and tax fraud connected to his lobbying work for pro-Russian Ukrainian politicians. While he wasn't directly charged under FARA, the Justice Department made it clear that he should have registered for his work on behalf of Ukraine. His US citizenship did not shield him from prosecution for related offenses. And then there's Michael Flynn, a retired US Army general and briefly Trump's national security advisor, who had to register retroactively under FARA in 2017 for lobbying work tied to Turkey's government. Same story. American

citizenship didn't exempt him from the law. And shh, okay? Nobody point out that these are yet more criminals surrounding felon 47 and that Trump himself should probably register as acting on behalf of Russia. >> I mean, what he's done for Russia is really amazing. >> Just keep that quiet. Anyway, the

statute explicitly includes American citizens lobbying for foreign interests. It has to. Otherwise, any foreign government could just hire Americans and bypass all transparency requirements. Ted's nationality defense doesn't just miss the point, it collapses under basic legal scrutiny. Okay, but APAC are Americans, they're not Israelis. There

are tons of Americans who lobby on behalf of foreign governments. I know them. I'm related to some of them. I know how it works. I'm I'm from here.

So, my question is not is it outrageous that foreign governments lobby the United States? They all do, okay? Including Israel. My only question is why don't we admit that is what's happening? You're denying it, but it's true. See how Tucker dismantles Ted's

deflection by flipping his own defense back on him. Ted has repeatedly insisted that foreign lobbying is normal. Everyone does it. And Tucker doesn't dispute that premise. Instead, he sharpens it into a blade. Yes, I know

Americans can lobby for other countries. I never said otherwise. There are tons of Americans who lobby on behalf of foreign governments. I know them. I'm related to some of them. The question

is, if it's normal, why pretend that Israel isn't doing it, too? This framing turns the exchange into a moral trap rather than a factual one, one that Ted can't escape precisely because Tucker accepts his premise. My only question is why don't we admit that is what's happening? You're denying it, but it's true. With the discussion shifted from is it happening to why deny it, Ted can't hide behind technicalities or legal distinctions. The whataboutism

that once shielded him now exposes. But, notice what else Tucker does here. His appeal to personal authority, I know them, I'm related to some of them, goes beyond establishing credibility. I know them. I'm related to some of them. I

know how it works. I'm I'm from here. This is a declaration of inside insight, a statement that says, I know how this works and so do you. It's an impactful addition, definitely. But, it's also tipping his cards. You see, this line

shatters Tucker's earlier pose of wide-eyed inquiry. For anyone wondering whether Tucker knew exactly what he was doing from the very beginning throughout this entire exchange, this confirms it. >> Does Mossad share all of its intelligence with us? The feigned innocence, the seemingly naive questions, the persistent I'm just trying to understand routine, it was actually all tactical. Tucker wasn't confused. He was never confused. He was

building a case, question by question, letting Ted tie himself in knots before revealing that he knew the whole game all along. And I should add that Ted knew that Tucker was doing this. Tucker knew that he was doing this. They knew what was going on. This is politics. My

only question is why don't we admit that is what's happening? You're denying it, but it's true. Yeah, because what you're saying is why aren't they Why aren't they registered as a foreign lobby? Because they're not. Cornered, Ted just keeps looping back to outright denials, despite the fact that he himself equated APAC to other foreign lobbies. But,

here's what makes these denials even more brazen. Multiple APAC members have received indictments for funneling classified US information to the Israeli government. We're not talking about policy disagreements or lobbying intensity. We're talking about actual espionage charges involving the transfer of classified American intelligence to a foreign power. And the organization's influence goes far beyond traditional lobbying. In the 2022 midterms, APAC

spent 24 million through its political action committee, the United Democracy Project, specifically to defeat Democratic primary candidates who weren't considered pro-Israel enough. Think about what that means. A lobbying organization claiming to represent American interests is spending tens of millions to eliminate American legislators based on their positions towards a foreign government. Now, you might be wondering, how does APAC actually avoid FARA registration? The legal mechanism is worth understanding because it reveals just how calculated this arrangement is. FARA requires an

organization to register if it acts at the order, request, or under the direction or control of a foreign principal to influence US policy. Notice the specific language, direction or control. APAC's defense hinges on that phrasing. They argue they represent American citizens who support pro-Israel policies, not the Israeli government itself. Sure, they talk to Israeli officials.

Ted already admitted that coordination exists, but they claim they don't act at Israel's request or direction. It's a technical distinction that allows them to coordinate with a foreign government while maintaining that they're not working for that government. Oh, and let's tie this up with a bit of APAC's history that I don't think that Ted would have included in his deep dive. >> If you want to do a deep dive on APAC. The part that shows that the arrangement didn't happen by accident. APAC emerged

after its predecessor organization, the American Zionist Council, was required to register under FARA in the 1960s. Let me say that again. The group that became APAC was told to register as a foreign agent. So, what happened? They restructured, rebranded, and created what became APAC, a new name and a new organizational structure specifically designed to avoid the FARA requirements their predecessor couldn't escape. This

isn't ancient history or conspiracy theory. It isn't anti-semitism. It's documented institutional evolution, a strategic transformation undertaken explicitly to manage the legal implications of foreign agent registration. AIPAC exists in its current form because its predecessor was designated exactly what Tucker is suggesting that AIPAC should be designated today. Why aren't they registered as a foreign lobby?

>> Because they're not. They're not a foreign lobby. >> No, they're not. And And this is the There's a fever swamp. >> Now that he's cornered on the registration question, Ted retreats to the familiar fever swamp metaphor. As

before, when the facts offer no cover, he pathologizes dissent instead. It's not coincidence. It's reflex, a defensive pattern now fully exposed. >> There's a fever swamp. Look, it's not a fever swamp. These are very reasonable

questions, and you've accused me of being obsessed with Israel, which I'm not. >> I I actually haven't. I've said isolation is a >> about it, which I'm not at all. And now Ted denies having called Tucker obsessed with Israel, despite very clearly implying it earlier in this very conversation. This is just more gaslighting. The problem for Ted is that

Tucker's composure throughout this entire exchange nullifies the attempt. The steady restraint, the refusal to take the bait, it's brought Ted to the brink of looking completely out of control. Ted's aggressive denials and repeated deflections look increasingly desperate when contrasted with Tucker's calm. And you've accused me of being obsessed with Israel, which I'm not. >> I I actually haven't. I've said

isolation is a >> about it, which I'm not at all. I'm just I find it It's a very tender spot when you ask it, and I don't know why. This is masterful. Tucker calls out Ted's visible sensitivity directly, making the defense pattern itself part of the discussion. By labeling the reaction as a tender spot, he's signaling to the audience that Ted is avoiding the substance of that question, that something about the topic makes the senator unusually uncomfortable, unusually irrational. I mean, we know

that it's actually pretty standard irrationality from Ted, but, you know, the conservative audience don't necessarily see it that way. It's a very tender spot. >> And it's devastating precisely because it deepens the focus. We're no longer talking about AIPAC's registration status or foreign lobbying. We're now talking about Ted's inability to address these questions calmly, turning his evasiveness into the very evidence Tucker needs to make his case. It

lobbies on behalf of the Israeli government. >> Wrong. Oh, okay. All right, then. We'll stop the interview at this point as it basically just goes in circles from here on. Ted accepting coordination

Coordinate They They talk with them. I don't know what they do. to denying it seconds later. They're coordinating with the government. You know that that's true. That is not only not true, that is

false. And then on to yet more evasion. It's a simple question. Is AIPAC goals shaped by the goals of the Israeli government? And I'm just going to ask you the question straightforwardly, and if you say no, I think we both know that's not true. Are they shaped by The

pattern continues on and on. So, let's step back and take stock of everything that we've witnessed. First, to give credit where credit is due, Tucker Carlson executed a masterclass in adversarial interviewing. He established credibility preemptively, making it impossible for Ted to dismiss him as biased. His questions forced Ted to keep conceding ground that made the next question unavoidable. And brilliantly,

he turned Ted's own defenses into weapons. When Ted said foreign lobbying is normal, Tucker agreed and then asked why we can't admit that Israel does it, too. Is it outrageous that foreign governments lobby the United States? They all do, okay, including Israel. My only question is why don't we admit that?

>> move, calling out the tender spot, made Ted's own behavior the evidence. Tucker completely exposed Ted's psychological inability to confront the topic at all. It's a very tender spot when you ask it, and I don't know why. Tucker may be a far-right but next to Ted Cruz, he's a far-right next to a gaping void where a spine should be. Which brings us to the second noteworthy thing, Ted's complete rhetorical collapse. He offered fallacy after

fallacy, contradiction after contradiction. AIPAC isn't a foreign lobby. It lobbies on behalf of the Israeli government. >> Wrong. But it's just like other foreign lobbies. Or if you're lobbying for more

US-Mexico trade, would you talk to people in the US and Mexico in the government? Sure. There's no coordination. They're coordinating with the government. You know that that's true. That is not only not true, that is

false. But of course they talk. >> Do they talk? Sure. >> Israel is frustrated that AIPAC isn't advancing their interests strongly enough. The government of Israel is

often frustrated with AIPAC because they think it's not nearly strong enough. >> Despite AIPAC not advancing their interests at all. It's lobbying on behalf of the interests of another country. >> And so that's not true at all. >> And most damning of all, Ted couldn't provide a single concrete example, not one time that AIPAC disagreed with Netanyahu. He couldn't do it. His entire

defense rested on assertion and deflection, and both crumbled under pressure. When was the last time AIPAC took a position that deviated from Prime Minister Netanyahu's? All the time. >> Okay. Let me go back and give a little history. If you want to do a deep dive

on AIPAC, we I don't. I want to do a shallow dive that gets No, I'm not going to do a simple The sad truth is that most politicians survive interviews through the techniques that Ted deploys here, deflection, false equivalence, pathologizing criticism, strategies that work remarkably well in standard cable news formats where hosts move on quickly, but they fail catastrophically under sustained focused questioning from someone who actually listens to the answers and builds follow-ups from the contradictions. What Tucker demonstrated here isn't revolutionary. It's just journalism, good journalism. Ask simple questions, listen to the answers, ask follow-ups, let the evasion speak for themselves. And that, ultimately, is the

lesson. crumbles under basic follow-up questions. The problem isn't that politicians lie, it's that interviewers let them. I've never taken money from the Israel lobby. Have you?

Anyhow, as always, thank you kindly for the view, and an extra special thank you to everyone who supports the channel, including today's sponsor, Aura. Without your backing on Patreon, the odd PayPal donation, and the help of sponsors, videos like this simply wouldn't exist. It takes a tremendous amount of time to research, write, record, and edit each video. And our team, who you can probably hear in the background clacking on the keyboards, couldn't do it without you. On this note, if you're willing and able to support us, then please find our Patreon and PayPal link below. Every

little goes a really long way. Thanks.