---
video_title: "Exactly How Charlie Kirk got SCHOOLED by a Cambridge Student"
video_id: 9O7y50cNb7c
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9O7y50cNb7c
video_date: 2025-07-15
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/rationality to stay fully informed on breaking news, compare coverage and avoid media bias. Subscribe through my link for 40% off unlimited access this month.
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  Watch a Cambridge archaeology student systematically dismantle Charlie Kirk's entire worldview in just 5 minutes, exposing 15 different logical fallacies along the way. In this episode of Fallacy Forensics, we break down the viral Cambridge University exchange where Charlie Kirk - founder of Turning Point USA - faces Rudy Ellis Jones, a student studying archaeology and biological anthropology. What starts as Kirk confidently defending "universal moral truths" ends with him admitting "I still think it's wrong" - essentially confessing his entire argument is based on feelings, not facts.
  
  Enjoyed this episode? Click here to see our complete Fallacy Forensics series: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLMd8xj-C1CsOwoNymOmWV2vI_ZIb0vagW&si=v4BqtXAIZKIXmJwT
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  Charlie Kirk + Q&A / Debate | @cambridgeunionsoc1815  https://youtu.be/dkiM-z0Mzyg?si=hZ88J7n85lLPB6J0
  
  Episode 2: Feminist SPANKS Charlie Kirk With This 1 Ancient Trick: https://youtu.be/GRLV5Is-Pc4
  
  @RealCharlieKirk
---
I think you can irrefutably say that it was the teachings of Christ for one man and one woman because the church tradition has been unbroken for 2,000 years and they derived it from scripture of that original language. Linguistically that is undeniably an error. Regardless of what you say, you know better than the church fathers. Maybe you can educate me. Can you point to me a great power that endorsed samesex marriage, not cohabitation, but marriage ancient Mesopotamia >> as marriage as as as recognized by this. How did that work out for them?

It worked out perfectly fine. It was an accepted norm of society. >> Okay, I still think it's wrong. >> I still think it's wrong. >> In one breathtaking moment of honesty, Charlie Kirk inadvertently revealed that his entire philosophical foundation rests on quicksand. When confronted with

historical evidence that systematically undermined his claims about universal moral truths, his sophisticated theological view collapsed into little more than, "Well, I just think that it's yucky." >> Okay, I still think it's wrong. >> On this day, and maybe every day, Charlie Kirk's feelings didn't care about your facts. >> Facts. >> Don't care about your feelings. And this

moment of accidental transparency unveils everything about how modern conservative apologetics actually operates. But I am getting ahead of myself. >> You guys are easy. >> Why hello my fellow apes. I hope you are well. Today we're dissecting a debate

that beautifully illustrates the intellectual house of cards that is modern Christian apologetics. Charlie Kirk, founder of TurningPoint USA and professional purveyor of rapidfire conservative talking points, found himself at Cambridge University facing Rudy Ellis Jones, a student studying archaeology and biological anthropology. And what makes this exchange so instructive isn't merely that Kirk loses the debate, though he definitely does. Even his own audience agrees with this. No, it's how he loses. So, what we're

going to do is journey through this exchange chronologically, watching Kirk deploy an increasingly desperate array of logical fallacies as his position crumbles under scrutiny. And by the end, we'll understand exactly why his final retreat of I still think it's wrong wasn't just a moment of honesty. It was the only move he had left. Here's Rudy's opening question. >> Hello. Thanks for coming today's talk.

Um, so my question as someone studying archaeology and biological anthropology, um, I've learned that moral codes and social norms have always been fluid, shaped by time, culture, power. So many ancient and recent societies embraced samesex relationships and even the idea of third genders uh, well before western conservatism even existed. So when you claim that modern conservative values represent some kind of universal objective moral truth like you said on your chair over there, um aren't you just defending a selective historically recent ideology that erases most of human history and targets people who have always been part of it? Now this this is genuinely a brilliant start. And here's why. Rudy isn't just asking a

question here. He's presenting a fundamental challenge to Charlie's entire worldview. He's not making some simple argument about right or wrong. No, he's doing something far more devastating. He's making a historical and anthropological observation about the relativity of moral systems across cultures and across time periods.

>> Moral codes and social norms have always been fluid, shaped by time, culture, power. >> And notice what he's doing strategically, though it is possible that it's not deliberate. Of course, he establishes his credentials right up front. He's actually studied this stuff >> as someone studying archaeology and biological anthropology. >> And then he frames the entire question using Charlie's own language about universal objective moral truth.

>> So when you claim that modern conservative values represent some kind of universal objective moral truth like you said on your chair over there. >> He's essentially saying you claim your values are universal but I've studied human history and well they're not. Aren't you just defending a selective historically recent ideology that erases most of human history and targets people who have always been part of it? >> Crucially, this isn't some gotcha question thrown out for cheap points. It's a genuine philosophical challenge that deserves a genuine philosophical response. Theologians know this. They

recognize it as a very serious problem. For the vast majority of Christendom, slavery was perfectly kosher. But now it's not. So, who got these universal objective moral values wrong? Aquinus or Kirk? So, let's see how Charlie handles

this inquiry. >> Aren't you just defending a selective historically recent ideology that erases most of human history and targets people who have always been part of it? No. But can you point to me of a and maybe you can educate me. Can you point to me a great power that endorsed samesex marriage? not cohabitation, but

marriage. >> Charlie's response here is problematic. You see, instead of engaging with Rudy's broad historical and anthropological point about moral relativism across cultures, Charlie immediately pivots to a very specific demand. Show me a great power that endorsed same-sex marriage. >> Point to me a great power that endorsed samesex marriage.

>> Now, this move does several things at once. First, it significantly narrows the scope of the discussion. Rudy mentioned same-sex marriages and third genders across various cultures throughout history. >> Many ancient and recent societies embrace same-sex relationships and even the idea of third genders. >> But Charlie immediately reduces this to one specific institution, marriage, and one specific criterion, endorsement by great powers.

>> Point to me a great power that endorsed samesex marriage, not cohabitation, but marriage. This is a classic instance of moving the goalposts, a fallacy where someone changes the criteria for evidence or proof whenever their original claim has been met. For example, imagine someone claims no scientist supports this theory and then when you name one, they respond with, "Well, noble prizewinning scientist supports it." Basically, the standard for evidence keeps shifting to avoid conceding the point. And that is what's happened here and will continue to happen with Charlie. Second, Charlie's

move shifts the burden of proof. He claims that conservative values represent universal objective moral truth, but when challenged on this universality, he doesn't defend his claim. Instead, he demands that Rudy provide specific counterexamples that meet Charlie's newly introduced narrow criteria. >> Point to me a great power that endorsed samesex marriage. >> It's a shaky start, but you know what?

Let's work with Charlie's new goalposts because there's a curious assumption at the back of the net. The moral validity somehow depends on political power. That is a rather odd standard, isn't it? >> Point to me a great power that endorsed samesex marriage. >> Why should it matter whether a great power endorse something? Are we to

believe that military might determines moral truth? I mean, Jesus didn't command legions, did he? By Charlie's logic, we should be worshiping Caesar. Or if you want a contemporary example, Islam since Islam is growing in power. Talking of which, here's a story. Islam

gains grounds globally as Christian share shrinks. When I saw this headline, I knew that it would be one of those stories where perspective is everything. And I was right. This single Pew Research report has been covered by 50 different outlets. But here's where it gets interesting. 53% of the coverage

comes from right-leaning sources and only 39% of all outlets covering it have high factual ratings. That's a red flag that tells me that I need to dig deeper to understand what's really happening. This is exactly why Ground News has become an indispensable part of my daily routine. It cuts through the spin and shows me how different outlets frame the exact same data. You can follow along at ground.news/rationality.

Newsweek, a centrist outlet, keeps it straightforward. Islam is world's fastest growing religion, simply noting that the proportion of the world's population that is Christian slipped from 2010 to 2020. Just the facts. But the National Post leaning right headlines it as Islam growing, Christianity slipping as share of world's population. Yet they blur the lead, focusing instead on how nearly a quarter of the world's population did not identify with religion in 2020. Same

data, completely different emphasis. Graham News's biased comparison reveals how left-leaning outlets frame Islam's growth positively as fast growing while highlighting Christianity shrinking. Meanwhile, right-leaning outlets employ cautionary tone stressing Christianity slipping and often implying cultural threat. In today's polarized media landscape, tools like Ground News are essential, showing you how facts get filtered through different ideological lenses. and they're offering you, my subscribers, 40% off their Vantage plan at ground.news/rationality.

Your subscription supports this channel while giving you access to balance news coverage. Thanks for watching and thanks for supporting transparent journalism. Getting back to Charlie, here's the thing about moving the goalposts. Sometimes your opponent can still score. >> Point to me a great power that endorsed samesex marriage, not cohabitation, but marriage. in Mesopotamia

>> as marriage as as as recognized >> as marriage in existence recognized by the state >> 100%. >> Oh dear. Charlie received the direct answer he didn't want. He moved the goalposts and yet the ball is going in anyway. So what does he do?

>> How did that work out for them? >> Yep. He simply moves them again. To be clear, his original big beautiful goalposts were that conservative values represent universal objective moral truth. When challenged, those goalposts became, "Show me a great power that endorsed same-sex marriage."

>> Point to me a great power that endorsed samesex marriage. >> When Rudy cleared that bar with ancient Mesopotamia, suddenly the goalpost shifted to was it recognized by the state? >> 100%. And now, even when Rudy confirms that it was state recognized, Charlie picks up those goalposts one more time and carries them to, well, how did it work out for them? >> How did that work out for them?

>> With the tiniest amount of pressure, we've gone from defending universal moral truth to essentially asking, "But did their civilization last forever?" Boy, oh boy, it's exhausting just keeping track of where the goalposts are at this point. But again, let's address the new goalpost positioning, shall we? To get technical, we're witnessing post hawk eropter hawk. After this, therefore, because of this, Charlie implies a causal link between accepting same-sex marriage and the eventual decline of Mesopotamian civilization with absolutely zero evidence for this connection.

>> How did that work out for them? >> It's like saying Rome legitimized Christianity and then the empire fell. So, Christianity destroyed Rome. Yeah. Do you think that Charlie would find that convincing? That the greatest power

on earth let Jesus into its heart and because of this it crumbled. No, of course he wouldn't accept this. Likewise, the fact that Mesopotamian civilizations eventually declined, like literally every civilization in human history, has nothing to do with their marriage customs. But Charlie's reasoning here also represents an appeal to consequences, arguing that something must be false based on its alleged negative outcomes. You see, Kirk suggests that because Mesopotamia eventually fell, their acceptance of same-sex marriage must have been wrong.

>> How did that work out for them? >> But he wouldn't accept this elsewhere, would he? He wouldn't say that monogamous marriage is wrong because the Roman Empire failed despite practicing it. He wouldn't claim that traditional gender roles are invalid because Victorian Britain, the very embodiment of this traditional value, lost its empire. And in any case, this completely sidesteps the question of whether such marriages actually existed. Anyhow, when

Rudy scored despite Charlie moving the goal for the billionth time, his final form emerged. >> How did that work out for them? It >> worked out perfectly fine. It was an accepted norm of society. >> Okay, I still think it's wrong.

Can I Okay. Okay. And there's the moment of accidental honesty. After his sophisticated theological and historical arguments have been systematically dismantled, Charlie Kirk falls back on his feelings. >> Facts.

>> Don't care about your feelings. >> This exemplifies the argument from incredility. Rejecting evidence simply because one personally finds it hard to believe or accept. You see, I still think it's wrong isn't an argument. It's a confession that his position isn't based on evidence, history, or even consistent biblical interpretation. It's

based on whatever Charlie Kirk personally finds icky. >> Okay, I still think it's wrong. >> But Charlie can't just leave it there, can he? He knows that the answer, I just think it's yucky, isn't going to convince anyone that he's in possession of universal moral authority. So when Rudy moves on to ask about the biblical basis of these supposedly objective moral truths, Charlie deploys another classic deflection.

>> Simply moving on. So you said it was based on scripture and you believe that there are moral, objective, universal truths. >> Yes, there are. >> So >> murder is wrong today and murder was wrong 2,000 years ago. >> Ah, here it is. The classic fallback for

anyone defending universal moral values. Murder is wrong. It's devastatingly effective with lay audiences because it seems so obviously true. Who could possibly disagree? It's intuitively compelling. It's morally satisfying. And

it appears to prove the existence of timeless moral truths. But as anyone who studied philosophy or law knows, this is actually a rhetorical toy. >> Murder is wrong today and murder was wrong 2,000 years ago. >> Here's why. Murder is by definition the unlawful or wrongful killing of a human being. So when Charlie says murder is

wrong, he's essentially saying wrongful killing is wrongful, which is a tortology, a statement that's true by definition. It's like declaring that illegal activities are against the law and expecting applause for your profound moral insight. You haven't actually said anything substantive about morality. You've just restated a definition. The real moral questions are which killings count as murder, who decides by what metric, and has that been consistent across time and cultures? This is where

Charlie's universal truth completely falls apart. Because here's the thing, and this is where it gets interesting for those of you who are familiar with the good book. The Bible is absolutely packed with God-commanding killings that would definitely classify as murder today. The conquest of Canaan alone involved the systematic slaughter of entire populations including children. But because God commanded it, it wasn't murder by the biblical definition. It

was righteous lawful killing of babies. So Charlie's supposed universal moral laws dissolves into a tortology at worst and a mere data point at best the moment you examine it closely. What counts as murder depends entirely on who's making the rules and what they consider to be justified. And notice what he's doing strategically. He's using a red herring, introducing irrelevant information to distract from the argument at hand. The

question was specifically about the biblical basis for views on homosexuality and whether scripture provides universal moral truths. >> Many ancient and recent societies embraced samesex relationships and even the idea of third genders. Instead of defending his position on same-sex relationships, Charlie pivots to murder, something everyone by definition agrees is wrong. >> Murder is wrong today, and murder was wrong 200 years ago. >> And this creates the impression that he's on solid moral ground without actually addressing the challenge to his views on sexuality. But as Rudy astutely

points out, >> that's not same sex, but fat. Fat. I see. In other words, nice try changing the subject, but murdering someone, ending their life isn't the same as consensual sex between adults, making love. But Charlie can't help himself. He

doubles down on his claim. >> There are moral truths that that are transcendent of time, place, and matter. >> Okay. But but so just to clarify, you believe that this is in the Bible. This is laid out in the Bible that man shall not sleep with man. And so therefore,

>> it's also repeated throughout the New Testament as well. Matthew, in the book of Matthew, Jesus reaffirms the biblical standard for marriage. And here we encounter the fundamental lie or to be fair, ignorance underpinning Charlie's entire argument because the biblical standard for marriage really doesn't bear the resemblance that he claims. So let's talk about what marriage actually looked like in biblical times, shall we? Biblical marriage was fundamentally centered on property transfer. I'm

sorry, ladies, but that's how it was. Women were literally bought and sold. Genesis 34:12 states, "Make the bride price and gift as great as you like, and I will give whatever you ask. Only give me, the young woman, to be my wife." You could capture wives in war. Deuteronomy

21:10-14 explicitly outlines the process. When you see a beautiful woman whom you desire among your captives, you can force her to shave her head, pair her nails, and after a month, and we all know why it's a month, you can go into her and be her husband. Oh, here's one. You can even marry the victim you had forced yourself on for a fee, of course. Remember, women were property. If you

damaged the goods, you buy it. Deuteronomy 22:28 and 29 declares, "If a man meets a virgin who is not engaged and seizes her and lies with her, the man who lay with her shall give 50 shekels of silver to the young woman's father, and she shall become his wife." Yeah, such a wholesome, familyfriendly book, isn't it? Anyway, let's talk about polygamy. Something Charlie very much doesn't like. He probably finds it

yucky, too. >> Okay, I still think it's wrong. >> It's absolutely everywhere. Lamech had two wives. Solomon had 700 wives and 300 concubines. Jacob, the guy Israel is

literally named after, had four women bearing his children. Likewise, David, described as a man after God's own heart, had multiple wives. In 2 Samuel 12:8, God literally tells David, "I give you your master's wives, and if that had been too little, I would have added as much more." You hear that? God would have given him more wives if he wanted them. So when Charlie claims that Jesus

reaffirmed the biblical standard for marriage, >> in the book of Matthew, Jesus reaffirms the biblical standard for marriage. >> He's engaging in massive cherry-picking, selecting only the evidence that supports his position while ignoring the mountains of contradictory material. And this is cafeteria Christianity at its finest. Take what you like, ignore what you don't. Funny, ain't it? Charlie is

guilty of the very thing Rudy emphasized in his original comment. >> Okay, so I'm gonna make two very very quick points. So the first um so if we look at the Old Testament in isolation just to start off with as an example. So let's look at Exodus 35:2 which suggests that if you work on the Sabbath you should be put to death. If you look at Leviticus 11:7 it suggests that if you have pork you should be put to death.

Let me finish he'll be done. Uh if you plant two crops side by side you should be stoned by your entire village. If you wear a suit, which you are wearing now, that contains two different fibers intertwined into the same jacket, you should be burnt at the stake by your own mother. Now, following that rationale, in Leviticus uh 18:22, and it states that man shall not sleep with man, why aren't we burning ourselves at the stake as well? Why aren't we stoning ourselves to death?

And this is the checkmate move, and the audience knows it. Rudy has just exposed the fundamental inconsistency of Charlie's position using Charlie's own methodology. We can put it this way. If we're supposed to follow biblical law as the source of objective moral truth, then we need to follow all of it, not just the bits that happen to align with our contemporary prejudices. Charlie stands there in his mixed fiber suit, probably having eaten bacon for breakfast, definitely not observing the Sabbath laws that require the death penalty for violations. And yet he wants

to enforce the biblical prohibitions on homosexuality. This exemplifies the core of cafeteria Christianity. Charlie loads up his plate with the dishes he likes. Anti-gay verses, love thy neighbor as long as they're not gay, while ignoring the ones he finds yucky, anti-mix fabric verses, slavery endorsing verses. It's intellectually incoherent but emotionally satisfying because it allows him to use religious authority to justify his prejudices. Now, before

moving on, I should make a pedantic note, if only because this is the only thing that Charlie's core audience will latch on to. Rudy gets a few minor details wrong. Some of these laws don't prescribe the specific punishments that he mentions, but his fundamental point is rock solid. If you're going to cite biblical law as your moral authority, you need to explain why you follow some laws but not others. So, how does Charlie respond to this devastating challenge? Do you care to address my

main contention that Christ affirmed biblical marriage in the book of Matthew? And can you tell me the difference between the ser ceremonial, the moral, and the ritual law? And then finally, also tell me about Christianity, the difference between the new and the old covenant, or you just going to cherrypick certain verses of ancient Israel that do not apply to new Christianity. Ladies and gentlemen, behold the gish gallop overwhelming your opponent with a rapidfire barrage of questions and demands, making it impossible to respond to all of them in the limited time available. This is a classic desperation move. Charlie is

effectively on the ropes. And so instead of addressing Rudy's point about inconsistency, he one tries to redirect back to his Matthew claim, red herring. >> Do you care to address my main contention that Christ affirm biblical marriage in the book of Matthew? Two, demand that Rudy explain complex theological distinctions. Burden of proof reversal.

>> Can you tell me the difference between the ser ceremonial, the moral, and the ritual law. >> Three, asks about the difference between covenants, more burden shifting. >> Also, tell me about Christianity, the difference between the new and the old covenant. >> And four, accuses Rudy of cherrypicking projection. >> Are you just going to cherrypick certain verses of ancient Israel that do not apply to new Christianity?

>> But here's the biblical irony. Charlie accuses Rudy of cherry-picking while simultaneously claiming >> we do not live under the ceremonial. We do not live under the ritual and but we do live under the moral. >> This represents special pleading applying different standards to your own position than you do to others. And here's where it gets really interesting.

This neat tripartite distinction between moral, ceremonial, and ritual law that Charlie presents is not actually in the Bible. Sure, there are biblical passages that hint at different types of commandments. Jesus prioritizing certain laws, the Jerusalem council in Acts 15 exempting Gentiles from circumcision, Paul discussing dietary laws. But this specific three category system that Charlie uses, that's a later theological invention. >> We do not live under the ceremonial. We

do not live under the ritual and but we do live under the moral. >> The Bible itself never says here are the moral laws you must keep forever. Here are the ceremonial laws that you can ignore and here are the ritual laws that no longer apply. You won't find a verse declaring Leviticus 18:22 is moral law condemning homosexuality, but Leviticus 19:19 about mixed fabrics is ceremonial. This framework was developed centuries later by theologians trying to solve the exact problem that Rudy has identified.

How to keep some biblical laws while discarding others. Thomas Aquinus developed it extensively. The Westminster Confession codified it for many Protestants. But make no mistake, it's theological interpretation, not biblical text. In my opinion, it's apologetic acrobatics designed to make inconsistent practices seem consistent.

So, let's get this straight. Charlie uses post-biblical theological tradition to justify ignoring biblical law. >> We do not live under the ceremonial. We do not live under the ritual. And but we do live under the moral >> while simultaneously claiming that biblical law is the source of objective moral truth.

>> There are moral truths that that are transcendent of time, place, and matter. >> The circular reasoning is dizzying. But the most revealing part of Charlie's response is his attempt to dismiss the Old Testament entirely by invoking the New Covenant. >> Also, tell me about Christianity, the difference between the New and the Old Covenant, or you just going to cherrypick certain verses of ancient Israel that do not apply to New Christianity. And here's where he steps directly into a theological landmine as Jesus himself had some pretty clear things to say about this. Matthew 5:17

and 18 states, "Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. I have come not to abolish but to fulfill. For truly I tell you, until heaven and earth passes away, not one letter, not one stroke of a letter will pass from the law until all is accomplished." Let's repeat that. Not one letter, not one stroke of a letter.

Jesus continues, "Therefore, whoever breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven." Now, Christians debate what these commandments refer to, but taken at face value, Jesus is warning against exactly what Charlie is doing, teaching people the large portions of God's law no longer apply. Poetic, isn't it? By his own savior's standards, Charlie may have just disqualified himself. >> We do not live under the ceremonial. We

do not live under the ritual, and but we do live under the moral. >> But we're not done. It gets worse. Charlie claims the Christians only follow the Ten Commandments. >> There's only 10 of the moral that we as Christians believe we're bound to. Some

believe nine, which of course is the Decalogue. >> Well, Charlie, I say that we check this out, right? Which of the Ten Commandments prohibits homosexuality. No other gods? Nope. No idols? Nope. Don't

take God's name in vain. Nope. Remember the Sabbath? Nope. Honor parents? Nope.

Don't murder. Nope. Don't commit adultery. Nope. Don't steal. Nope. Don't

bear false witness. Nope. Don't coveret. Nope. >> Okay, I still think it's wrong.

>> So, by Charlie's own stated standard that Christians are only bound by the Ten Commandments, homosexuality is not prohibited. >> There's only 10 of the moral that we as Christians believe we're bound to. >> Quite the 4D chess move, huh? Charlie has accidentally argued himself out of his own position. But he's not done digging his grave. Moments later, when

pressed on linguistic difficulties, this happens. >> Yes, the Old Testament and New Testament harmonize one another, but Christ brought it to a different level, a different covenant, and a different moral teaching. >> Well, we translate things, but translations are linguistically ambiguous. As a former classicist, I know that language can't be translated directly. So, for example, if we look at the translation of of of certain words into man. So, I've got two words here.

So, I've got maloy, which means essentially soft, which isn't necessarily directly saying a gay man. And then we've got oh god how do I say that? Um arson arsonai which essentially means prostitutes. Now if we look at things linguistically we can pick apart the bible and say that actually it wasn't saying man shall not sleep with man. It's saying man shall not sleep with prostitutes which is an entirely different linguistic thing. This

linguistic argument cuts to the heart of biblical interpretation. These Greek words have genuinely been ambiguous for centuries. Early church fathers like Chris Austin interpreted malachoy as referring to masturbation. Lufer translated arenquiti as child molesters. And it wasn't until 1946, I'll repeat that, 1946 that any English Bible first translated these terms as homosexual. Before that,

epheminus of themselves various interpretations, but not specifically homosexuality. This is new. Now, here's what's peculiar. Throughout Christian history, believers have embraced translation ambiguity when it helps them, just as Charlie does when it suits him. Problematic verses about slavery versus about women's submission, divine genocide. Bro, the cultural context

changes the meaning. The Hebrew is complex, dude. But suddenly, when the translation ambiguity doesn't favor Charlie's position on homosexuality, watch how he responds. Now, if we look at things linguistically, we can pick apart the Bible and say that actually it wasn't saying man shall not sleep with man. It's saying man shall not sleep with prostitutes, which is an entirely different linguistic thing.

>> I'm not even getting into Leviticus, though. My contention is completely New Testament focused. >> This isn't Leviticus. >> Oops. Rudy is discussing Greek words, which means he's talking about the New Testament.

>> I'm not even getting into Leviticus, though. My contention is completely New Testament focused. >> This is Leviticus. Charlie has gotten his own Bible wrong. So he needs to quickly make it look like Rudy's all in the wrong.

>> Well, actually in Romans 1, it was actually women sleeping with women. So you got your verses wrong. In Romans 1, Paul is prophesying about the end of the world. And he's saying that in the end times, woman will like with woman like and man will I I think it might say man like men like. You have to get the verses specifically.

>> At this point, Charlie is completely unraveling. He's trying to correct Rudy. You've got the verses wrong. while simultaneously admitting that he's not even sure what Romans 1 says. Think about that. He's debating biblical

sexual ethics. In >> Romans 1, it was actually women sleeping with women. So, you got your verses wrong. >> And yet, he's reduced to guessing about the content of one of the most frequently cited passages in this debate. >> In the end times, woman will like with woman like and man will I I think it might say man like men like.

>> You see, this isn't just about getting a verse wrong. It's about watching someone who has built their entire career on biblical authority fall apart upon the slightest push back. The confident facade is cracking and what's underneath is surprisingly uncertain. Sensing that his biblical arguments are crumbling, Charlie retreats to his ultimate fallback position. >> Church tradition has had an unbroken chain affirming matrimony. Holy

matrimony being one man, one woman. One even as a a non-atholic, I'm glad that Pope Leo has reaffirmed in the last couple of days. This represents an argument from tradition. Claiming something is true or good because it has been believed for a really long time. But let's examine the logic for a moment. The Mesopotamian civilization

that Rudy mentioned with its acceptance of samesex marriage flourished for over 3,000 years. That's longer than Christianity has even existed. Ancient Egyptian religion persisted for nearly 4,000 years. If longevity validates truth, should we be worshiping Ra? The Roman pantheon held sway for a millennium. Does Jupiter's thousand-year

reign make him real? Charlie's selective appeal to tradition reveals the game. Antiquity only counts as evidence when it supports his predetermined conclusions. And of course, Charlie's claim of an unbroken chain is simply historically false. >> Church tradition has had an unbroken chain.

>> Early Christian history was characterized by enormous diversity of belief and practice. The Marcianites, the Ebianites, the Gnostics, all held radically different views within the first two centuries. Some denied Jesus's humanity, others his divinity, others believed that Jewish law was still binding. Perhaps we can put it this way. If church tradition was so clear and unbroken, why did it take until 325 CE, three centuries after Jesus, for the council of Nika to decide that Jesus was actually God? Why did it take until 393

CE for the Council of Hippo to establish which books even belong in the Bible? The fact is obvious to anyone willing to absorb it. These weren't confirmations of a static tradition. They were decisions made amid massive theological conflict hugely influenced by politics. And just before we move on, we need to enjoy the irony here. Charlie appeals to

an unbroken chain of church tradition when it supports his views on marriage. But he's remarkably selective over which parts of tradition he embraces. >> Church tradition has had an unbroken chain affirming matrimony. Holy matrimony being one man, one woman. >> The same unbroken tradition also insisted on the divine right of kings for over a millennium. Does Charlie

support absolute monarchy? Maybe he does. >> Where is democracy in the US Constitution? Democracy is not an American value. >> Likewise, the church fathers he cites approvingly on marriage also wrote vicious anti-semitic treatises. Chrissum

called synagogues the dwelling of demons and Augustine laid the theological groundwork for centuries of Jewish persecution. Indeed, that same tradition burned heretics, launched crusades, and sold indulgences. So, this is again cafeteria Christianity, taking what he wants from tradition while ignoring what he doesn't. >> Woman will like with woman like and man will I I think it might say man will like men like. >> But Charlie isn't done with his appeals to tradition. When pressed on

translation issues, he makes this remarkable claim. >> But what about specifically in Matthew or in the book of Romans? And but in order for you to be correct, you mean the church fathers translated it wrong when they were within like 50 years of this? >> This is another desperate deflection combined with a massive historical error. First, the church fathers weren't within 50 years of biblical events. The

early apostilic fathers, Clement of Rome, Ignatius, Polocarp, wrote between 95 and 150 CE. that 65 to 120 years after Jesus's death and decades after the New Testament books were written. Second, the church fathers weren't translating. They were interpreting Greek texts that were themselves already translations of Jesus's Aramaic sayings. So, they were reading translations, not making them. Third, by the time we get

to the church fathers, we're dealing with interpretations of translations of oral traditions filtered through decades of theological development. It was a game of telephones spanning a century. But here's the real issue. Charlie assumes that being closer in time automatically makes you right. By that logic, the people who were closest to Jesus, his own Jewish disciples, kept following Jewish law after his death.

So, should we all be keeping kosher? Look, the church fathers were brilliant theologians, but they were no more immune to interpretive errors than anyone else. They disagreed with each other constantly, which is why there was a dire need for all those cancels hundreds of years later to settle disputes. >> You know better than the church fathers. >> And this classic appeal to authority fallacy morphs into an ad hominant attack designed to make Rudy look arrogant for daring to question received wisdom which happens to you know completely agree with Charlie's views.

What a coincidence. It's my view that Charlie is aware that this sentence, especially delivered with the shock that he imbued it with, will elicit a strong defensive ear from the Christians in the audience. >> You know better than the church fathers. >> The problem though is that the same argument can be used to defend every position of the church fathers, including their defense of slavery, their subordination of women, and their persecution of Jews. If Charlie won't accept what you think you know better than the church fathers as an argument for slavery, which of course he wouldn't, he can't use it as an argument for his interpretation of biblical marriage. As the debate winds down,

Charlie makes one final attempt to salvage his position. >> But if the tradition lasts for 2,000 years, then we look back as to how did they get to that conclusion? How did they reach that verdict? And if that verdict is in alignment with what we see in scripture, it means that their verdict was correct in script. So this is circular reasoning. Tradition

validates scripture and scripture validates tradition with no independent verification. It's like saying, "I know the Bible is true because my church says so. And I know that my church is right because the Bible says so." But here's what really gives the game away. Mesopotamia maintained its acceptance of same-sex relationships for 3,000 years, and it thrived. Now, if Charlie truly

believed that tradition plus longevity equals truth, he'd have to concede the point. But he won't because this was never about logic or consistency. The truth is he started with the I think it's yucky. That visceral response he accidentally admitted earlier and worked backwards to find justifications. >> Okay, I still think it's wrong. the

biblical arguments, the appeals to tradition, the theological gymnastics, it's all post hawk rationalization for a conclusion he'd already reached based on personal disgust. He's not following reason to arrive at a position. He's deploying reason to defend feelings he refuses to examine. And this is why we're seeing him struggle so badly. It's a literal struggle to give his emotions a facade of reason.

>> You guys are easy. >> Moving on. In his last response, Charlie reveals the game entirely. >> The idea of biblical Christianity goes back to the early early times of the church. When it was a scattered, persecuted church well before King Justinian and well before the Eastern Roman Empire well before mass conversions. When it was a persecuted

church, the church believed in one man, one woman. And because they got it from the script scripture itself. >> Again, this is the ultimate cherry-picking finale. Charlie appeals to the scattered, persecuted church when it supports his position on marriage. But he completely ignores what the same church believed about slavery, women's rights, wealth, anti-semitism, and social justice. Augustine, one of the

most influential church fathers, explicitly defended slavery as part of God's natural order. Aquinus later did the same. If Charlie wants to lean on early church tradition for marriage, he needs to explain why he rejects early church tradition on slavery and everything else that he doesn't like. But of course, he won't because his argument was very obviously not derived from consistency or truth. It was about finding religious justification for his personal and political preferences. As

Rudy astutely noted at the beginning, Charlie isn't defending universal moral truth. He's defending a selective historically recent ideology that erases most of human history. >> So when you claim that modern conservative values represent some kind of universal objective moral truth, like you said on your chair over there, um aren't you just defending a selective historically recent ideology that erases most of human history and targets people who have always been part of it? >> All righty. So, now that we've walked through this entire exchange chronologically, the devastating pattern that emerges has become crystal clear.

You see, Charlie employs virtually every rhetorical fallacy and manipulative debate tactic in the book. Red herrings and deflection. He consistently avoids answering direct questions by changing the subject, often by asking the opponent a question. Aren't you just defending a selective historically recent ideology that erases most of human history and targets people who have always been pounded? You point to me a great power that endorsed samesex marriage, not cohabitation, but marriage.

>> Moving the goalposts, he repeatedly changes the criteria for evidence when his challenges are met. You >> point to me a great power that endorsed samesex marriage by the state. >> How did that work out for them? Gish Gallops. He overwhelms his opponent with rapidfire questions to avoid coherent discussion.

>> Do you care to address my main contention that Christ affirmed biblical marriage in the book of Matthew? And can you tell me the difference between the ser ceremonial, the moral and the ritual law? And then finally also tell me about Christianity the difference between the new and the old covenant or you just going to cherrypick certain verses of ancient Israel that do not apply to new Christianity. >> Special pleading. He applies different standards to his own position than to others. We do not live under the

ceremonial. We do not live under the ritual and but we do live under the moral >> cherrypicking. He selects only evidence that supports his conclusion while ignoring contradictory material. >> Christ affirmed biblical marriage in the book of Matthew >> appeals to tradition. He invokes a mythical unbroken chain that simply doesn't historically exist.

>> Church tradition has had an unbroken chain affirming matrimony. Holy matrimony being one man, one woman. >> Circular reasoning, his entire argument becomes a self- validating loop. But if the tradition lasts for 2,000 years, then we look back as to how did they get to that conclusion? How did they reach that verdict? And if that verdict is in

alignment with what we see in scripture, it means that their verdict was correct. >> False equivalence. He treats consensual adult relationships as equivalent to murder. Burden of proof reversal. He demands that his opponent prove negatives and explain complex theological systems rather than, you know, defending his position.

>> You point to me a great power that endorsed samesex marriage. But what about specifically in Matthew or in the book of Romans? Also tell me about Christianity, the difference between the new and the old covenant. Can you tell me the difference between the ser ceremonial, the moral and the ritual law? How did that work out for them?

>> Hasty generalizations. He makes sweeping claims about church history and ignores the complexity. >> Church tradition has had an unbroken chain. The idea of biblical Christianity goes back to the early early times of the church. ad homminin attacks. He

questions Rudy's authority to challenge established interpretations. >> In order for you to be correct, you mean the church fathers translated it wrong when they were within like 50 years of this. You know better than the church fathers. >> But here's what makes this so instructive. Charlie genuinely believes that he's defending objective truth. And

assuming that this is the case, he's not consciously trying to manipulate the audience. This is the intellectual tragedy of apologetics. It teaches people to defend predetermined conclusions by any means necessary, then mistake those defenses as discovering truth. The entire exchange exemplifies what I call a biblical buffet approach to moral authority. Want to condemn homosexuality? Here's Leviticus 18:22.

>> I'm not even getting into Leviticus. >> Don't want to stone people for working on the Sabbath? Well, that's just ceremonial law. >> We do not live under the ceremonial. >> Want to defend traditional marriage?

Here's Matthew 19:5. >> Christ affirmed biblical marriage in the book of Matthew. >> Don't want to submit to the government during COVID. Yeah. Well, Romans 13 is just vibes. Yeah. Want to appeal to

church tradition? The church fathers were basically eyewitnesses. >> In order for you to be correct, you mean the church fathers translated it wrong when they were within like 50 years of this. >> Don't want to follow church tradition on slavery. Well, tradition evolves. You

know, God's really smart. We call it progressive revelation. Christ brought it to a different level, a different covenant, and a different moral teaching. >> And this whole discussion reveals a deeper philosophical problem. If moral truths were genuinely universal and objective, we wouldn't need ancient texts in disputed translations to discover them. Real universal truths, or

at least experiences like the wrongness of unnecessary suffering, are recognizable across all cultures precisely because they're grounded in shared human experience. The fact that Charlie's universal truths align perfectly with 21st century American conservative politics should tell us everything we need to know. It is a massive red flag. In stark contrast to Charlie, Rudy demonstrates what genuine intellectual engagement looks like. Despite facing a professional pundit with years of debate experience who gets off on basically humiliating his opponents, it's why, by the way, he goes to so many colleges. It's just he

underestimated what he's going to get in Cambridge. >> You guys are easy. Okay, I still think it's wrong. >> This student maintains composure, cites evidence from his field, responds directly to questions, and even acknowledges limitations in his own examples. His primary concern is truth, not victory, even though maybe he probably enjoyed a bit of it. Now, the

final thing I want to say is that beneath the entertainment of the debate, cuz it was entertaining, I think it's worth really appreciating what's at stake. This isn't just an academic exercise. It's about real people's lives and dignity. When Charlie deploys these rhetorical tricks to defend discrimination, he's contributing to a world where LGBTQ plus people face violence, rejection, and despair. And unfortunately, he's so committed to his prejudices that he's willing to torture logic itself to justify them. In the

end, Charlie's intellectual house is built entirely on sand, the shifting dunes of cultural prejudice. And when genuine inquiry blew against that house, it collapsed instantly. All that remained is the naked admission that we heard at the beginning. >> Okay, I still think it's wrong. >> His sophisticated theological arguments were never about discovering truth. They

were about justifying what he already decided that he believed. He said the quiet part out loud. And perhaps that's the most important lesson here. In a world full of Charlie Kirks claiming divine authority for their political positions, the ability to distinguish between genuine moral reasoning and prejudice in fancy dress isn't just an intellectual skill. It's essential for human dignity. Guys, I really appreciate

you. If you want more content just like this, then please consider supporting me and the team on Patreon. It makes a massive difference. Talking of support, big shout out to Ground News. Genuinely use them every single day. They are a

wonderful sponsor for the channel. I've had them for ages at this point. They are offering you 40% off their Vantage plan. Cut through the See the stories for what they actually