---
video_title: "How to Debate Someone Who's Totally UNHINGED"
video_id: ZrPnO20uups
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZrPnO20uups
video_date: 2025-09-12T21:10:24+00:00
video_description: |
  You can go to my sponsor https://aura.com/rationalityrules to try 14 days for free. That’s enough time for Aura to start scrubbing your personal info off these data broker sites, without you lifting a finger.
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  When Mehdi Hasan faced off against far-right activist Richard Black on Jubilee's Surrounded series, what unfolded wasn't just another political debate—it was a masterclass in how extremist rhetoric collapses under forensic examination. This isn't about watching someone get "owned" or "destroyed"—this is about understanding the precise rhetorical techniques authoritarians use to dismantle language itself. In this forensic breakdown, I identify every fallacy, every pivot, and every self-defeating contradiction Richard employs while literally claiming "Whites are Native Americans" and redefining crime to excuse political violence. You'll learn to recognise the specific patterns of racial gatekeeping, semantic fraud, and tribal justice that define modern far-right discourse. From ethnic interrogation tactics to the weaponisation of instability, I'll show you exactly how Mehdi Hasan's razor-sharp redirections expose not just bad arguments but the authoritarian worldview beneath them. Most importantly, you'll understand why Richard's audience—who initially applauded his racism—ultimately voted him out, and what this reveals about the fragility of extremist rhetoric when confronted with principled clarity.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
---
You're a descendant of immigrants, settlers. Colonialists. >> Yeah, you don't look very Native American to me. >> Native I am Native American. Whites are Native Americans. What are you talking

about? >> Well, that's quite something, isn't it? What you've just seen isn't a parody. It's not satire. It's a real exchange from Jubilee surrounded series. You know

the one where one person sits in the middle while challenggers rotate in to debate them until enough of their teammates raise red flags to vote them out. In this case, Medi Hassan, veteran journalist and author of Win Every Argument, found himself across from Richard Black, a self-identified far-right activist who sincerely believes that descendants of European settlers are the true Native Americans. >> I am Native American. Whites are Native Americans. >> In this short exchange alone, Richard exposes the racial core of his worldview, ancestry as legitimacy, history rewritten as entitlement, and white colonialism recast as indigenity.

Truly, it's unhinged. But I am getting ahead of myself. >> Here's the thing. I am happy that he released J6. In fact, so much so that I was prepared to protest if he didn't.

So, when you say, "Are you okay that he's pro- crime?" Sure. Because you know what? We're changing the definition of what crime is. >> Why hello, my fellow apes. I hope you

are well. Today, we're dissecting another of the most jaw-droppingly incoherent and revealing debate performances Jubilee has ever put on stage. See, Medy came armed with facts, focus, and decades of rhetorical experience. But Richard came armed with bloodline tests, moving the goalpost and a dictionary he kept rewriting on the fly. Much like what we saw with Connor Estelle, this wasn't two people clashing over Trump or crime policy. What

unfolded was something far more telling. In the span of a few minutes, Richard managed to hit every square on the bad faith bingo card. So, what we're going to do today is slow down this train wreck and really look at it piece by piece. will unpack Richard's every pivot, fallacy, and self-own and show how many countered with razor sharp redirections. Because the truth is, Richard's performance is, of course, laughable. But it's more importantly a

distilled version of far-right discourse itself. Deny the facts, attack the speaker, redefine words, and hope that nobody notices the collapse of your own logic. By the end of this breakdown, you'll see why Medi didn't even need to outar argue Richard. He just needed to let the man expose the rotten foundations of his entire worldview. Okay, so this is pretty freaky. I just

Googled my name and uh yeah, there's my address and there's my phone number. I mean, damn, even my family members' names are there. I'd recommend that you look up your own name, but I kind of don't. You see, companies called data brokers make billions selling your information to marketers, scammers, and even your stalking ex. And while they're technically required to remove your data if you ask, they deliberately make it confusing and timeconuming and you have to contact hundreds of these sites individually. That is unless you're

using today's sponsor, Aura. Aura is a digital security platform that protects you by automatically removing your data from those broker sites, saving you from the worst parts of being online. Identity theft, hackers, data breaches, and of course, your ex. When you get a notification such as, "Hey, we found your info on these three data broker sites and removed it," it feels pretty damn good. But is much more than just that. They're the Swiss Army knife of

online protection. In addition to dark web monitoring, you get realtime credit and bank fraud alerts, a handy VPN, an antivirus, and a password manager. So rather than remembering a 100 different passwords, you just press a single button. Oh, and should the worst ever happen, Aura will back you with up to 5 million in identity theft insurance. Honestly, it's infuriating knowing that companies profit by selling my personal information. And that's why I use Aura.

Right now, Aura is offering my viewers a 14-day free trial so you can see where your data is being exposed and start protecting yourself today. Just head to aura.com/rationality rules. That's aura.com/rationality rules or click the link in the description below. Don't leave yourself

vulnerable when you can take action in minutes. Try Aura for free for 14 days and see just how much safer you feel online. Thanks. My first claim is Donald Trump is pro crime and procriminal.

>> How's it going? >> Hey, how's it going? Medie, >> what is it? Medi, >> you're from Northern UK, I guess. >> I'm from London. North London.

>> Okay. Okay, fair enough. What's your ethnic background, if you don't mind asking? >> And we're off. Like, holy crap. So, Midi

walks in with this clean, straightforward claim about Trump and crime. The kind of thing that you would expect to trigger immediate denials, fact-checking attempts, maybe even some what aboutism. Instead, Richard heard pro- crime and immediately veers into ethnic documentation. So, in a heartbeat, we've abandoned the entire premise of constitutional debate for ancestry paperwork. I mean, the man didn't even pretend to engage with the argument before launching into his demographic reconnaissance mission. And

as you won't be surprised, it's taken mere seconds to land into a compounding list of fallacies. First up is the obvious, the red herring fallacy, when someone diverts attention from the issue at hand by introducing an irrelevant topic. Here's one. Picture someone asked about his relationship with Epstein suddenly discussing the floods in Texas. >> I can't believe you're asking a question on Epstein at a time like this where we're having some of the greatest success and and also tragedy with what happened in Texas.

>> Well, it's the same trick here. You see, this isn't just a pivot away from the topic. It's the construction of a hierarchy of who gets to speak about American politics based on their bloodline. The sequence was straightforward. mishar the name, guess the foreign origin, demand ethnic credentials, and it all serves the same goal, marking Medi as fundamentally other before a single claim about crime can be addressed. Secondly, we've got

some poisoning the well, when someone tries to discredit their opponent before they even make their argument by preloading the audience with suspicion or bias. Think of a courtroom where the defense lawyer begins, "Ladies and gentlemen, remember this witness is a convicted liar." before the witness has even opened their mouth. The testimony might be solid, but the audience has already been primed to doubt it. >> What's your ethnic background, if you don't mind asking?

>> That's Richard's move. By fixating on Medie's ethnic origins, he sets up the lens of outsider before Medi even gets to substantiate his claim about Trump. The whale is tainted. Richard's target audience is nudged to distrust the speaker, regardless of the argument's actual merit. Now, of course, this maneuver won't sway an audience not already racially primed to dismiss someone on ethnic grounds, but that's not Richard's concern. His goal isn't

universal persuasion. It's rallying those who already see foreigness as disqualifying. And lastly, at the bottom of this poison well is a type of ad hominin. When someone attacks the person rather than the argument, in this instance, by pointing to some circumstance that supposedly undermines their credibility. To give a neutral example, picture a White House official dismissing a journalist's questions on the grounds that they're from a British outlet.

>> Anybody else? >> Should the defense secretary >> What country are you? Wait, what country are you from? From the UK. >> Okay, we don't give a crap about your opinion and your reporting. Why don't

you go back to your country where you have a major migrant problem? >> The critique bypasses the evidence and instead targets the individual's position or background. That is what Richard does here. Instead of testing Medie's Trump is pro-chrime claim, he effectively says your background disqualifies you from even making it. So what sounds like a harmless question curdles under scrutiny. Less curiosity

than it is calculated dismissal. And it's aimed squarely at Medi rather than his argument. And the speed of the pivot, it's immediate, tells you everything. This is Richard's debate strategy. Racial gatekeeping dressed up as small talk.

>> What's your ethnic background if you don't mind asking? >> My parents are from India. >> Okay, perfect. Just getting premise here. First of all, I want to >> This is [ __ ] outrageous. Perfect.

What exactly is perfect about learning someone's ethnic background for a debate on crime? Richard's not collecting context. He's loading ammunition. Did you see how he framed Medie's ethnic background as the premise he needs to gather? >> Just getting premise here.

>> Parental origin has become not just relevant, but a requirement for discussing whether pardoning violent criminals is acceptable. I mean, really, it should be obvious to everyone, right? The true premise for debating Trump's relationship with crime isn't ethnicity or lineage. It's the criminal code. But Richard's already running off to rewrite the rules. You see, Medi doesn't need an

argument. Oh, no. Far worse. He actually needs permission to speak. >> Okay, perfect. Just getting premise

here. First of all, I want to say >> the premise of Donald Trump being pro crime. >> No, no, no. I want to concern myself with why you care about what's happening in the US first and foremost. Secondly, I want to say this.

>> Not missing a beat, Medi, who spent decades dismantling political spin, cuts through the irrelevance and refuses to let Richard hijack the frame. His experience shows he doesn't chase the ethnic rabbit hole, doesn't get defensive. Instead, he just calmly redirects to the actual topic. And here's what's particularly striking. Richard still doesn't challenge the claim itself. The gatekeeping is no

longer subtle. It's explicit. Richard is building a permission structure where your ancestry determines your standing to discuss American law. His first and foremost goal is to establish a racial hierarchy. >> I want to concern myself with why you care about what's happening in the US first and foremost.

>> So again, he's leaning on the circumstantial ad hominin, policing Medie's right to speak instead of addressing Trump's relationship to criminality. And as I'm sure you're aware, this outsider invalidation tactic is common in farright discourse. shift from substance to identity, forcing opponents to defend their right to speak before they can defend their argument. It's deflection by demographic disqualification. >> No, no, no. I want to concern myself

with why you care about what's happening in the US first and foremost. Secondly, I want to say this with the argument like people who live in the US. Let's let's not interrupt each other because I'm I have this thing like people know I have this thing. I have to stay calm. Okay. Medi immediately recognizes the

racial gatekeeping for what it is and goes straight for the jugular. Should people who live in the US not care about crime? >> Should people who live in the US not care about Richard's insinuating that Medi is engaging in foreign interference? But Medy's pointing out the absurdity. He lives in the US. He is

in fact a US citizen. Indeed, this isn't some British journalist parachuting in with hot takes. He's an American resident discussing American politics. But Richard can't let him finish that thought. Ironically interrupting to complain about interruptions and to warn about his own volatility. What's

remarkable here is the way that Richard frames his own fragility as a weapon. >> Let's not interrupt each other because I'm I have this thing like people know I have this thing. I have to stay calm. Okay. So, >> okay. Remember, he's just finished

diminishing Medi's right to speak based on perceived foreignness. And yet, he now pivots to demanding civility as if Medi were the one who was crossing the line. This is insanity. And look closer. What sounds like a disclosure actually functions as a veiled threat. The

conversational equivalent of don't make me hurt you. He wants to make absolutely sure everyone understands that he's a powder keg. And if he explodes, well, you were warned. Now, as to whether or not this is true or fabricated, the effect is the same. He's weaponizing his supposed instability to seize control of the exchange. And as a result, Medi

isn't just navigating bad faith arguments. He's walking through a minefield, one wrong step away from triggering Richard's so-called thing. >> Let's not interrupt each other because I'm I have this thing like people know I have this thing. I have to stay calm. Okay. So,

>> okay. >> Here's the thing. >> I am happy that he released J6. In fact, so much so that I was prepared to protest if he didn't. So, when you say, "Are you okay that he's pro- crime?"

Sure. Because you know what? We're changing the definition of what crime is. Right on quue, we get the naked admission that just vaporizes the pretense. Richard isn't concerned about justice or president. No, he's happy

that violent criminals were vindicated by a criminal president. >> I am happy that he released J6. >> And in fact, he was prepared to protest if they weren't. >> In fact, so much so that I was prepared to protest if he didn't. >> So, let's get this straight. The same

man who demanded everyone tread lightly around his fragile temper. people know I have this thing. I have to stay calm. >> He's suddenly raring to storm the streets to defend an insurrection. But that's not all. He openly rejects the

rule of law when it suits him. >> We're changing the definition of what crime is. >> This is an explicit endorsement of legal relativism. Presidents can pardon, sure, but using clemency to void courtroom outcomes and then insisting that those acts weren't crimes isn't law. It's team loyalty dressed up as Jewish prudence.

This, my friends, is the deafenest fallacy. When someone tries to win an argument by rewriting the meaning of a key term instead of engaging its established public definition. You've seen it when self-styled law and order leaders suddenly redefine crime as only to be what their opponents do while their own misdeeds become witch hunts. >> The greatest witch hunt of all time. >> In Richard's own words, he isn't defending the conduct. He's

reclassifying it. >> We're changing the definition of what crime is. And once crime means whatever my side says it is, justice collapses into team rules. Your allies get acquitted by thesaurus, not law. For context, the January 6th defendants were convicted under specific federal statutes, obstruction of official proceedings, assaulting federal officers, and entering restricted grounds. These laws have clear

definitions established by Congress and have been interpreted by courts for decades. But in tribal justice framework, any judicial outcome that contradicts partisan preferences can be invalidated retroactively by narrative fear. And this is precisely the reasoning used by authoritarian regimes to criminalize disscent and absolve loyalists. Mass repression becomes necessary order and atrocities are redefined as virtue. We saw this exact nonsense with Connor Estelle treating General Franco as a benevolent dictator.

benevolent leaders such as >> because the hundreds of thousands he killed were definitely all rapists of nuns and killers of priests. >> The white terror was only punishing those people who did acts of terrorism. And again, are you supporting like raping innocent women? Nuns. Dude, >> seriously, if you haven't seen my video covering that, I'd encourage you to do so. It's a horrifying case study in how

historical atrocity gets rebranded as virtue by redefining terms. But let's get back to today's racist. >> Here's the thing. I am happy that he released J6. In fact, so much so that I was prepared to protest if he didn't.

Okay. So, when you say, "Are you okay that he's pro- crime?" Sure. Because you know what? We're changing the definition of what crime is. First and foremost,

>> you don't think stomping on police officer's heads is a crime? >> I don't think it's it's it's no longer a relevant conversation anymore. You're argu No, it's not because you know what? Okay. Have you seen the US in the last four or five years?

>> A subtle but phenomenal move here. Medi snaps back by utilizing a technique known as concrete language. when someone uses vivid sensory words about specific tangible details to make an idea feel real and immediate. And he doesn't just pick any example. He pulls it straight from January 6th itself. The very event

that Richard is defending. >> You don't think stomping on police officers heads is a crime? >> It's a move that forces Richard into an impossible corner where he must either condemn the violence outright or insist that curb stomping police officers somehow isn't a crime. And Richard's response is, well, he short circuits on the spot and evades the question entirely. >> I don't think it's it's it's no longer a relevant conversation anymore. You're

arguing. No, it's not because you know what? >> And of course he does. He can't justify stomping on police officers heads. So, he declares that it's no longer relevant. Really appreciate what he's

saying here. Not that it didn't happen, nor that it was justified, but that brutally attacking police officers has somehow expired as a topic worth discussing. I mean, bro, when did head stomping get a statue of limitations in public discourse? >> Have you seen the US in the last 4 or 5 years? >> And here's the what aboutism when someone dodges a charge or uncomfortable truth by pointing to something else bad that's happened as if it cancels out the original point. It's the rhetorical

equivalent of let's say offender from the Epstein files deflecting with but what if Bill Clinton is in there? By the way, I never went to the island and Bill Clinton went there supposedly uh 28 times. >> The wrongdoing hasn't been addressed. The topic has just been shifted. And that's Richard's move here. Many pressed

him on the visceral image of stomping on police officers heads. >> You don't think stomping on police officers heads is a crime? >> And rather than condemning or defending it, Richard waves it away as irrelevant because of other events in the last four or five years. an obvious reference to things like Black Lives Matter and certain protests that erupted in violence. >> Have you seen the US in the last four or five years?

>> The logic is clear. Because other bad things happened, we should ignore the specific bad thing that I'm defending. For the record, over 140 police officers were injured on January 6th. Officer Brian Siknic died after being assaulted. Officer Michael Fenone suffered traumatic brain injuries. The Department

of Justice secured over 1,000 convictions with many defendants receiving multi-year prison sentences specifically for assaulting law enforcement. But somehow this documented violence becomes irrelevant the moment Richard's team gets pardoned for it. And you know, there's one last thing of absurdity that I want to highlight here. Richard insists on pivoting to events in the last four or 5 years. But the pardoning of the January 6th criminals, something that happened this year, is supposedly not relevant. For someone

attempting to highlight left-wing hypocrisy, that is quite something. >> Have you seen the US in the last four or five years, BLM protest? Have you seen Okay, I myself have been involved in these protests. I've seen >> egregious things, things that you couldn't even imagine done to conservatives. It's not about that. It's

about tribal warfare. That's where we're at in the US. I don't know where you're at in the UK. You're from India, so I don't really >> And there it is. What about BLM? He just

couldn't resist it. But we'll dig into that in just a second. Medi, true to form, refuses to play with Richard's framing. He won't be shoved into the role of some outsider peering in across the ocean. He lives in the US. He said

it twice now. >> Protest. >> And yet Richard barrels ahead because ethnic othering isn't about facts. It's about hierarchy. >> I don't know where you're at in the UK.

you're from India, so I don't really >> indeed. Even after being told twice that Medi lives in America, Richard snaps back with, "I don't know where you're at in the UK. You're from India." Because of course, as everyone knows, India is right next to Manchester. He heard I live here and 8 years and simply rejected it. In his framework,

Medi will always be foreign, will always be from India even though he's not. Will always be commenting from the UK even though he's not. The facts don't matter the moment they collide with Richard's feelings. >> Have you seen the US in the last four or five years? BLM protest. Have you seen

>> So, let's return to the BLM comment because here lies a false equivalent. When someone presents two sides as equally valid when they're actually quite different. Think of someone comparing skipping breakfast to starving during a famine. Yes, both involve not eating, but the scale and consequences are worlds apart. And that's the trick Richard is pulling with his what about BLM dodge >> BLM protest? Have you seen

>> he flattened protest related crimes and an organized assault on the capital as if they're interchangeable. But here's the thing about those protests. Both were prosecuted. Over 300 people were federally charged for crimes during the 2020 protests nationwide, while over 1,500 people were charged for January 6th alone. Violent offenders in 2020 received prison sentences. They were not

pardoned on mass. The system prosecuted both, but only one side's criminals got presidential absolution. So, Richard's false equivalence collapses under basic factchecking. And through it all, he openly declares that justice now depends on tribal allegiance. >> It's about tribal warfare. That's where

we're at in the US, >> not legal standards. Law as a weapon for allies and chains for enemies. >> I don't know where you're at in the UK. You're from India, so I don't really >> I'm not from India. >> Oh, sorry. Your parents are from India,

so you have your own states. >> I'm an American. You know, >> you're an American citizen. Okay, fair enough. I don't know how you got that, but fair enough.

>> At this point, he's just self-parody, but we know exactly what he's doing. Once again, appealing to Medie's racial heritage to shove him out of American politics, implying his concern should be with other nations, you know, the ones he supposedly has quote unquote legitimate ties to. I'm >> You have your own states. I'm an American. You know, >> you're an American citizen. Okay.

>> Then comes Medie's exasperated clarification. He is an American citizen. This shouldn't need explaining, and it's not relevant to the argument, but he has to keep stating it because Richard either keeps forgetting or just won't accept it. >> You're an American citizen. Okay, fair enough. I don't know how you got that,

but fair enough. >> And then comes the line that strips away any plausible deniability for his racism. I don't know how you got that. Medie citizenship suddenly becomes suspicious. Richard can't handle the argument, so he muddies the speaker instead. But the civics are plain. Under

the 14th amendment and United States versus Wong Kim, citizenship isn't a pedigree check. Whether you're born in the country or naturalized, you're a full citizen. Yet Richard suggests that Medi has somehow acquired citizenship dishonestly, implying illegitimacy without evidence. It's just more ad homminin attacks generously seasoned with racism. >> You're an American citizen. Okay, fair

enough. I don't know how you got that, but fair enough. Here's the thing. >> Are you an American citizen? >> Absolutely.

>> But here's the thing. >> Not sure how you got that, but okay. >> Born here. >> Okay. >> Born here. And my my family lineage is

settlers from the 1500s, so I have some stake in in the claim here. Okay. A little different. >> Honestly, that is a genius quip from Medi. He flips the script, tossing Richard's own xenophobic insinuation right back on his lap. And notice Medi

isn't just being witty here. He's setting a trap. By paring Richard's language, he forces him to spell out what he thinks are the necessary and sufficient conditions for real citizenship conditions Medie knows will expose the racial core of Richard's worldview. But Richard doesn't see it. In fact, he doesn't even pause to process the point. Instead, he takes the

bait and reveals what's at the center of his position. >> My family lineage is settlers from the 1500s. So, I have some stake in in the claim here. >> He says it with pride, as if conquest itself were heritage. But he doesn't stop there. He goes on to claim that his

ancestry gives him some stake in the claim. Unlike Medi, you can almost hear the subtext dripping from that line. >> So I have some stake in in the claim here. Okay, a little different. >> This is blood and soil rhetoric, pristine and unvarnished. The idea is

that the first theft creates permanent ownership. That citizenship has a genealogical VIP section. On the surface, it's just laughable. boasting about being descended from settlers while missing the obvious. Those settlers were immigrants, too, often violent ones. But for me, the joke

curdles fast because his ignorance isn't harmless. It's the poison seeping into the political bloodstream. To get analytical, this is an exemplary appeal to tradition fallacy. When someone argues that something must be right or good simply because it's been done that way in the past. Think of the claim monarchy has always ruled in this country and so it's the proper order.

Richard runs the exact script using arbitrary ancestral arrival time to claim superior standing in political discourse. And in doing so, he inadvertently highlights the colonial nature of his claim. He's literally arguing that conquest creates legitimacy while suggesting immigrants today are illegitimate invaders, which is quite the self-own when you think about it. >> Born here. >> Okay.

>> Born here in my my family lineage is settlers from the 1500s. So I have some stake in in the claim here. Okay. A little different. You're a descendant of immigrants. Settlers. Colonialists.

>> Yeah, colonialists. >> I'm not sure if Richard's even thinking at this point. Just reflexively contradicting Medi. Immigrants. H. Nope.

Settlers. Still no even though he literally just used the word himself. >> My family lineage is settlers from the 1500s. >> But then Medi tries colonialists. And that one he proudly embraces.

>> Colonialists. >> Yeah, colonialists. >> He just denied being descended from immigrants. and then immediately admitted to being descended from colonialists. I mean, does he think that colonialists materialized from Finire?

They immigrated. They just did it with the direct intention of altering the fabric of the country. Apparently, if you arrive with a musket, it's not immigration. It's heritage. Seriously, the cognitive dissonance is breathtaking.

>> Colonialists. >> Yeah, >> you don't look very Native American to me. >> Native I am Native American. Whites are Native Americans. What are you talking about? What are you talking about?

>> The whites are Native Americans. >> Really? >> Despite the absurdity, Medi doesn't take the bay or raise his voice. He just drops a dry, controlled jab. One line delivered cooly that exposes Richard's nonsense without even breaking a sweat.

>> You don't look very Native American to me. >> And Richard, well, walking it back was never on the cards. He's too far gone for that. But detonating the whole conversation with whites are Native Americans, that is next level. It's not just obviously wrong. It's historical

erasia delivered with the unearned confidence of someone who has never been fact checked in his life. >> I am Native American. Whites are Native Americans. What are you talking about? >> And I have to just highlight it. He said

whites are Native Americans. I What do you What do you do with that? But then the audience cheers. They're clapping for a man attempting to hijack an entire identity through nothing but sheer semantic fraud. This is a room of self-identified far-right conservatives applauding the idea that white colonizers are the indigenous people of America. Revisionism so audacious it

would be laughable if it wasn't actively being celebrated. But if we strip away all the noise, you can clearly see the equivocation fallacy. When someone uses a word in two different senses to prop up an invalid argument. Consider someone claiming free speech means that I can say whatever I want. Therefore, I'm free from consequences. The word free shifts

away from freedom from government restrictions to freedom from social accountability. And the whole case rests on that sneaky substitution. That's Richard here swapping Native American from its established meaning, indigenous people, to mean simply white people born in America. >> Whites are Native Americans. What are you talking about? It's semantic

laundering, turning conquest into heritage. The problem, of course, is that federal law is unambiguous. The Bureau of Indian Affairs defines Native Americans as members of recognized tribes with documented ancestry predating European colonization. Richard's claim collides headon with legal reality. Well, maybe we should just say reality in general.

>> You don't look very Native American to me. >> Native I am Native American. Whites are Native Americans. What are you talking about? >> What are you talking about? The whites

are Native Americans. >> Really? >> I I think >> what was happening before the 1500s. >> I think you're getting confused with it. >> I don't mind going on the 1500s.

>> Calm down. I think you're getting >> What was happening before the 1500s? >> Uh, there was indigenous people here that came here from I think Medy's restraint here lands harder than outrage ever could. A flat sorry you're not followed by the simplest historical question. >> And Richard's reflex is immediate. Tone

policing calmed down. Except Medi is perfectly calm. He's just trying to get Richard to clarify one bit of nonsense before he runs off to the next. This is pure projection. When someone accuses others of the very flaw or behavior they're guilty of, deflecting attention from themselves. Think of a country, any

country, that arrests its own students for protesting genocide and cuts funding for universities that allow it, while its vice president jets abroad to accuse other nations of failing to protect free speech. In Britain and across Europe, free speech, I fear, is in retreat. >> The charge functions as both a shield and a sword. It deflects scrutiny from the accuser's own record while forcing their target onto the defensive. That's what Richard's doing here. He's the one

derailing, the one making the exchange personal. Yet, he projects all that onto Medi. Calm down. You're derailing in an attempt to seize procedural control. >> But Medi pushes forward. He wants an

answer. What happened before the colonists arrived in the 1500s? >> There was indigenous people here that came here from >> Is this really his answer? He can't just say that Native Americans were there before the 1500s. Yeah, he can't say that because that would be against his narrative. So, by invoking the

Lambbridge theory, he attempts a slight of hand, a sort of timeline collapse, condensing 15,000 years of distinct history into a blur, as if ancient migration absolves modern colonization. Simply put, when cornered, he moves the target. And it's an example of moving the goalposts when someone keeps changing the criteria so their position can't be proven wrong. You think you've scored a goal, landed a point, but someone's run off with the posts. Picture beating a final boss in a video game only to have a friend tell you that it doesn't really count because you lost a life while doing so. Richard started

with whites on Native Americans. >> Whites are Native Americans >> which puts the goalposts of being a Native American way before 500 years ago. But when Medi pressed suddenly those goalposts were 15,000 years back in Siberia. >> There was indigenous people here that came here from >> You know what indigenous means? Listen, before America come from somewhere else.

>> Why do you ask a question if you're going to interrupt? >> I'm not sure if you know what the meaning of indigenous means. >> I do know what it means. It means they came here first, right? They came here from Asia by way of landbridge. Have an

argument with Neil Degrass Tyson or anybody else about that. I don't care. >> Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. He can't actually say that. >> By his own definition, the colonists and therefore their descendants aren't native.

>> That means they came here first, right? If indigenous means the people who got there first, then it means the people that got there first, you know, the native Indians, not the Europeans who showed up in the 1500s. So, to be clear, he just conceded the point without even realizing it. And then comes the punchline to his joke of an argument. He invokes Neil deGrasse Tyson, an astrophysicist.

>> Have an argument with Neil Degrass Tyson or anybody else about that. Now, I love Neil as much as the next guy, but why is he being presented as an authority on anthropology? What's next? Gordon Ramsay on nuclear physics. LeBron James on string theory. This is a Hall of Fame

worthy appeal to false authority. When someone tries to strengthen their argument by referencing someone who isn't, in fact, an authority. Picture someone defending medical conspiracies by saying, "But Elon Musk agrees with it." He may know rockets and cars, or at least have people who are hired that know rockets and cars, but that doesn't make him a doctor. That's exactly what Richard does here, tossing in Tyson's name as if astrophysics grants insight into anthropology. But of course, he's

not making an argument. Not really. He's appealing to the outside, his own tribe. So, he's throwing out smart sounding names and hoping the gloss of authority sticks. >> Have an argument with Neil Degrass, Tyson, or anybody else about that. I

don't care. I genuinely don't care. Yes, he is. Okay, just my my point is my point is okay, >> nothing to do with crime. So far, you've agreed with me that these people >> derailing, dude.

>> Of course. What else was missing from this absolute [ __ ] show? A false victimhood reversal. It's amazing, isn't it? Richard was the one who launched the ethnic interrogation.

>> What's your ethnic background, if you don't mind asking? >> Who insisted on redefining Native American? >> I am Native American. Whites are Native Americans. >> Who dragged in tribal warfare.

>> It's about tribal warfare. That's where we're at in the US. But now suddenly he's the orderly one scolding Medi for his derailment >> because you're derailing dude. >> This is the script abusers and bad actors reach for. It's known as Daro.

Deny, attack, reverse victim and offender. He's the one who's been ducking the constitutional question all along. Yet he cries derailment like medies the problem. It's a pickpocket shouting thief while his hand is literally in your wallet. >> Nothing to do with crime. So far you've

agreed with me that these people >> you're derailing dude. I'm like, I'm trying to literally sat down and asked me where I'm from. I think you derailed this conversation from the get lays out the timeline as cleanly as it gets. Richard opened with an ethnic interrogation instead of addressing crime. And so what's Richard's defense from?

>> That's gaslighting when someone manipulates another into doubting their own perception, memory, or sanity. It's the same playbook as a public figure insisting, "I was never friends with Epstein." despite photos and quotes to the contrary. All of which obviously fake news. Of course, >> you are fake news.

>> It's the same here with Richard switching roles, pretending that he's the reasonable one while Medi is getting emotional. The tactic is simple, but it's insidious. Shift the blame, rewrite the record, and make the critic feel irrational. >> He's not offended. I'm just wondering what it has to do with crime.

>> Always curious. >> We're going to talk about immigration. Don't worry. Later on, you can come back. >> I hope so. right now you're doing a very

bad job of making the case that he's not pro crime criminal. >> The false innocence would almost be charming if it wasn't so transparent. I'm always curious, Richard says >> what it has to do with crime. >> Always curious. No, mate. That is

targeted ethnic interrogation in a nice little disguise, dressing up an attempt to delegitimize your opponent as harmless small talk. And Medy's response here is tactically brilliant. >> We're going to talk about immigration. Don't worry. Later on, you can come back. By promising that their revisit

immigration later, he's acknowledging the obvious, the Richard's ethnic fixation isn't going anywhere. But more importantly, he's calling out the central failure. Richard hasn't even attempted to address the actual claim about Trump being pro- crime. Medi is making it clear to everyone watching. Richard has abandoned the actual debate entirely, and he did so from the very beginning. Yet graciously, Medi is also

extending a lifeline to get him back on the topic. >> And you can come back. >> I hope so. >> Right now, you're doing a very bad job of making the case that he's not pro crime. >> He's got a round of applause. I could

probably get another one actually if I asked for it. So, >> but uh Richard doesn't climb Medie's offered rope. Of course, he doesn't. No, his response is to point to the audience like a child showing off a gold star. It's funny, he's actually doubling up on fallacies with this comment. Firstly,

it's a nonsequiter fallacy. Latin for it does not follow. It's when a conclusion of an argument does not logically follow from its premises. Imagine a politician asked about rising crime who replies, "Well, my approval ratings are up." The two points aren't connected. One doesn't

answer the other. And obviously, if you ever watch politicians answer questions, you'll see this all the time. That's Richard here. Many pressed him on Trump being pro- crime. And his answer is the audience clapped. He is losing on

substance. So he retreats to mere validation instead. >> I just got a round of applause. >> I just got a round of applaud from people who quite literally were paid to come and applaud other people just like them. A room full of people who cheered him on for claiming that whites are Native Americans. That is not exactly a

tough crowd. >> Whites are Native Americans. What are you talking about? >> What are you talking about? >> Whites are Native Americans. Which means

he's also jumping on the bandwagon fallacy. When someone argues that something is true or valid because many people agree with it, you might as well argue that the earth is flat because your flat earth club gave you a standing ovation. Of course they did. They already agree with you. It's why they're there. It's the same stunt that Richard

is pulling here, substituting crowd approval with logical argument. Whether he knows this or not, it's an admission of defeat, dressing up the failure of logic as success through sheer noise. Wow. >> So, I I don't think this is how you get rounds of applause. You sit in a room with 20 people who agree with you. Wow.

Amazing. Amazing. That must You know what? I'm actually agree with you. >> Emotionally outraged right now. This is

This is great. Do I have to say anything at this point or you just going to keep going? >> You have to appreciate Medie sarcasm here. He's treating Richard like he's someone proud of breathing without instructions. >> Do I have to say anything at this point or you just going to keep going?

>> And this this is yet more of Richard's tone policing. He blurts out, "Do I have to say anything?" Which isn't clever, nor is it a victory claim. It's actually a revelation that he has no substantive response left, framing his inability to argue as Medi's fault for interrupting. But we can see that Medi's not enraged at all. He's calm. He's incredulous. And

well, he's clearly holding back laughter at the racist clown across from him. >> Do I have to say anything at this point, or you just going to keep going? >> No, please make your claim. Well, my claim is that I don't care if it's pro crime. You want to go back to the topic?

That's fine. We agree then he's pro crime. I have a question. >> There it is. There is the complete capitulation. Richard flat out admits

Trump is pro- crime, but that he doesn't care. That's it. >> I don't care if it's pro crime. >> Any talk of constitutional principles is gone. Definition of crimes are out the window. So, what's left is pure

tribalism. Plain and simple. For him, crime isn't a universal wrong. It's a partisan weapon. If his side does it, it's fine. It's only wrong when the

other side does. But that's not law and order, is it? No. That's just moral rot repackaged as loyalty to the party line. And Medie's summary lands with devastating simplicity. So, we agree.

Then he doesn't need to spin anything that Richard has said. There's no need for theatrics. He's just forcing everyone to sit with the raw stink of Richard's admission hanging in the air. We agree then he's pro. >> I have a question for you though. Do you

care on the opposite side of the spectrum? Yes. >> Do you care about law being administered to the opposite side? >> Well, I hope you're all holding your bingo cards from earlier because here comes the inevitable two coquay fallacy. Latin for you too. When someone rejects

criticism by accusing their opponent of hypocrisy instead of addressing the claim. To give you another political example, it's like a politician caught taking bribes saying, "But the other guy takes them too." The corruption doesn't vanish just because someone else also does it. Even if Medi were inconsistent, and he's not, it wouldn't make Richard's defense of pro- crime any less indefensible. You're a hypocrite doesn't suddenly transform stomping police officers into patriotism. This is all

just a lastditch diversion tactic. >> Do you care about law being administered to the opposite side? >> I think anyone who assaults a police officer shouldn't be pardoned. I think that Donald Trump shouldn't have pardoned nine Republican members of Congress who were convicted of crimes. And I don't think Joe Biden should commit. I don't think Democrats should

pardon Democrats. >> Fair. But I don't think you understand where we are in the US then. >> I think I do. >> No, because you're arguing from the position of like an a US that doesn't exist anymore.

>> Having completely lost the hypocrisy gambit, he retreats again, this time into performative condescension. This is another circumstantial ad hominin in disguise. dismissing Medy's principle not on its merits, but on the grounds that only an insider, or perhaps more bluntly, someone with white skin could really understand America. And note the phrasing. >> Fair, but I don't think you understand where we are in the US. That

>> that's not just arrogance and condescension. Underneath that lies a subset of an appeal to motion known as appeal to despair fallacy. This is when someone argues that because the situation is supposedly hopeless, the normal rules no longer apply. It's the rhetorical cousin of saying, "The ship is sinking, so may as well loot the safe." Or, "The game is already lost, so fouling doesn't matter anymore." The

logic collapses in on itself because the supposed collapse is being used as the very excuse to keep dismantling the guard rails. This isn't new. Authoritarians have been running this play for centuries. First, declare that the old order has already broken down, and second, justify breaking the laws on the grounds that the old order doesn't exist anymore. And by the time that anyone points out that the system is still functioning, courts still convicting, police still enforcing, jurors still deliberating, the damage is already done, the audience has been primed to treat collapse as an inevitable conclusion. Mousolini in

particular mastered the trick. He declared parliamentary documentary already dead and then dared the institutions to stop him, to impeach him, to hold him accountable. And when they couldn't or wouldn't, he pointed to their paralysis as proof that he was right. Richard is doing this in miniature. If the ship is sinking, it's because people like him are hammering holes into the hole, then pointing out the leaks as proof the rules don't matter.

>> You're arguing from the position of like an a US that doesn't exist anymore. We're headed towards >> nihilism, no laws, nothing matters. Everyone's >> pro. It's not about that. It's that conservatives, listen, conservatives for too long have been playing it safe.

They've been playing by the law. They've been playing >> Conservatives have been playing by the law. >> Wait, what? Conservatives for too long have been playing it safe. They've been playing by the law.

>> Playing by the law. He actually says this with a straight face. It's the kind of claim that makes you wonder what planet he's on. It's particularly brazen when he then recasts lawabinding behavior as weakness, suggesting conservatives nobody restrain themselves with rules while the left supposedly did not. This inverts virtue and vice while engaging in historical revisionism that ignores decades of conservative lawbreaking. But notice what he's doing

here. He's setting up a rigid choice, a false dilemma, also known as a black and white fallacy, when someone presents only two states as if they are the only possibilities when more may exist. Imagine saying that you either support every action the government does or you hate America. Richard creates this false choice between playing it safe by following laws and abandoning laws altogether. When in fact, there is a third obvious option. Play fair and

enforce accountability consistently. They've been playing by the law. >> And come on, this all collapses under 50 years of receipts. Playing by the law. Tell that to Watergate, Iran Contra, the Abramoff corruption ring, and Trump's endless parade of convicted advisers.

Hell, Trump himself was convicted on 34 felony counts before escaping other trials by winning the presidency. Calling that playing by the law isn't history. It is fanfiction. Conservatives for too long have been playing it safe. They've been playing by the law. They've

been playing by the law. Yes, they have. Maybe you missed the Bush presidency. Did you live here during the Bush years? Conservative Conservatives are play by the law. George W. Bush, nor did Ronald

Reagan. Many punctures the victim mythology with receipts. Consider the record. The Bush administration green lit torture programs at Abu Grae and Guantanamo. Then sold his war on false pretenses about weapons of mass destruction. Reagan's team orchestrated

the Iran Contra scandal, illegally selling arms to Iran and funneling money to death squads in Central America. Nixon's crew was caught red-handed, breaking into offices and obstructing justice all the way to a presidential resignation. Fast forward, and the pattern continues today. Nick Flynn, Paul Magafort, Rick Gates, Peter Navaro, Roger Stone, and Steve Bannon. The roll call of Trump's inner circle could practically hold reunions in prison visitation rooms. The pile of Republican

felons is too high to ignore. But of course, why bother ignoring history when you can just rewrite it? >> Conservatives are play by the law. George W. Bush, nor did Ronald Reagan.

>> Let's be Let's be respectful to each other. Let's let me >> I'm not sure you've been that respectful, but okay. >> I'm trying to bring it back. So, let's both bring it back. Okay.

>> I'm conservative. Okay. >> Really? >> Let me tell you this. We do play it too safe. You've been playing it by the book

for too long. At this point, gloves are off, right? The left has made their point. >> Oh, look. Here's another smoke screen of false equivalence. He's just pointing at

some undefined wrongdoing by the left to excuse well doumented crimes by Trump's supporters. There's no specifics. There's no comparable outcomes. Just handwaving to neutralize an actual list of Republican indictments, convictions, and pardons. >> Gloves are off. Right. As for his gloves

off comment, it's explicitly an admission that rule of law has been abandoned for political warfare. This is the end point of his tribal logic. When you can't win by the rules, you declare a state of exception and step outside them. >> Gloves are off, right? The left has made their point. They're willing to

>> the police force in Washington. The left. >> Are you kidding me? The left? Are you Are you insane?

>> Police officers. I just can't, you know, like the incredul in Richard's response is fascinating. As if the truly insane position here is suggesting that police officers aren't leftist revolutionaries. >> The police force in Washington, the left. >> Why are you kidding me?

>> By the way, this is the same capital police force that included Trump supporters, military veterans, and career cops from across the political spectrum. They weren't defending some leftist ideology on January 6th. They were defending the US capital, the symbolic and functional heart of American democracy. Inside that building, Congress was certifying the results of a free and fair election. The very process that makes the United States a constitutional republic instead of just a country run by whoever holds power through force. The officers

weren't merely protecting walls and windows or even people inside from violent assault. They were protecting the very principle of self-government and the peaceful transfer of power. And you know, to all the MAGA dieards that somehow made it this far, what are we meant to believe? That when Trump and the Republicans were in charge, the left still rigged the election. But when Biden and the Democrats were in charge, and Trump still won, suddenly that's fair. Yeah, it sounds like elections

only work properly when Democrats run them. But I digress. The evidence doesn't just fail to support Richard. The facts cut the other way entirely. The Fraternal Order of Police, the largest police union in the country, endorsed Trump in both 2016 and 2020.

Law enforcement as a whole has went allin on him. So, the idea that American law enforcement is secretly Marxist would be hilarious if Richard and his kin weren't so dead serious. The truth is he needs the police to be the left because if they're not, then he's defending people who stomped legitimate public servants into the ground and that simply doesn't square well with the law and order brand. >> Police officers >> look Okay, look at LA right here. You think those standown uh those standown >> You think the LAPD are a bunch of liberal Marxists?

>> No, but I think they listen to liberal Marxists who tell them what to do. >> I I think they listen to who signs their paychecks. It's incredible to watch the conspiracy evolve in real time. This moving target reasoning is how conspiracy theories survive contact with reality. Every contradiction adds fuel to the claim, adding another layer to the plot. Police vote Republican, then

they're secretly leftists. Police unions endorse Trump. Well, they must somehow be controlled by Marxist mayors. It looks like goal shifting, but there's a difference. With goalpost shifting, the standard for proof keeps moving further out. Show me the evidence. Okay, but not

that evidence. Okay. Uh but but we need more evidence. Whereas in conspiracy thinking like this, the story itself mutates to absorb contradictions. The posts don't just move. The rules of the

game change entirely. The conclusion is fixed and reality has to bend towards it. Here the conclusion that attacking those cops was justified cannot be abandoned. So when facts contradict the premise, the premise becomes that cops are secretly Marxists undermining America. This is why conspiracy theories so often feel elastic. They're never

falsified, only rewritten. >> I think they listen to who signs their paychecks at the end of the day. >> You're doing lots of little diversions. We both agree Donald Trump's program. You're just fine with it.

>> That's what you said so far. >> Betty's patience with this circus is remarkable. He refuses to chase the conspiracy rabbit hole and instead keeps returning to the simple fact pattern. >> We both agree Donald Trump's pro crime. You're just fine with it.

>> Trump pardoned violent criminals. Richard supports it. Therefore, Richard is fine with Trump being pro- crime. The math is elementary, but Richard can't accept the conclusion. >> That's what you've said so far.

>> I don't agree with your I don't agree with your definition. >> What's your definition of crime? Stomping on a police officer's head is not a crime. That's your definition of crime as the Native American. I am Native American if you say so.

>> So, going back to the topic at hand, we have different definitions of crime because you're talking about the call back to Native American is brilliant. Medie's reminding everyone that Richard has already shown that he'll bend any word until it snaps. If Native American can be redefined to mean white colonizers, then of course, why not turn assault into patriotism? >> As the Native American, >> I am Native American. And throughout the previous exchanges, Medi has been essentially hammering home that Richie is agreeing that Trump is pro- crime, but that he's just fine with it. He's

using that concrete language again, stamping on police officers heads. >> Stomping on a police officer's head is not a crime. >> Now, this can come across as subtle, the way that he keeps bringing up the concrete language, keeps bringing the point back, but it is rhetorically brilliant. And it's because of this pressure that we see Richard's final refuge of different definitions of crime. a pattern that we have, to be fair, seen before.

>> We have different definitions of crime because you're talking about this is an instance of the equivocation fallacy. Shifting the meaning of a key term to dodge an inconvenient conclusion. Picture a thief insisting, "I didn't steal it, I just borrowed it permanently." Law doesn't work that way unless you're Richard, I guess. When all else fails, when the facts won't bend, the language itself must. Assault isn't

assault if we just decide to call it something else. Crime isn't crime if my team does it wrapped in the flag. In the real world, though, assaulting a federal officer is spelled out in 18 USC with crystalclear penalties. You don't get to rewrite the statute book mid debate. History shows how dangerous that move is. When regimes start redefining crime,

it's never to clarify, it's to weaponize. In fascist Italy, Mussolini turned strikes into treason. In Stalin's USSR, ordinary descent became counterrevolutionary crime. Once language itself is untethered, the law no longer is a shield. It's a cudel.

Richard's word games echo the same authoritarian logic. If crime only means what the other side does, then the rule of law is already dead, which of course is Richard's goal. >> We have different definitions of crime because you're talking about >> there's a criminal code in this country. It's called the US criminal code. >> You know what? Let's focus on what we

agree on. I'm sure you and I actually agree on a lot. We agree that >> this plea for common ground is revealing. Medi has just nailed Richard down with the obvious. There is a criminal code in the United States. It

is in fact called the US criminal code. Richard's response, however, is let's focus on what we agree on. It isn't a reset. It's an evasion. He's implicitly admitting that he doesn't agree with the criminal code itself. There's a criminal

code in this country. It's called the US criminal code. >> You know what? Let's focus on what we agree on. I'm sure you and I actually agree on a lot. We agree that people

shouldn't stomp on police officers heads. Can we agree on that? >> What we see here is Medi once again doubling down with the same concrete language. Stomp on police officers heads. And he's doing so calmly without rising to Richard's bait about being emotional. It's rhetorical dominance.

Holding the frame, keeping composure, and forcing the opponent to squirm on the very words they want to escape. >> Do we agree that people shouldn't stomp on police officers heads? Can we agree on that? If you don't agree on that, then I really think this conversation is kind of >> No, because first of all, you're saying what? That the police have the authority that they're given the authority. I

don't accept the authority that's been given by liberals. And now Medi has dropped the simplest moral test on the table. Not should police exist or what level of force is acceptable, just should people stomp on police officers heads. >> Do we agree that people shouldn't stomp on police officers heads? Can we agree on It's a yes or no question that any functioning adult should be able to answer without asking the audience. But

Richard can't even pass that low bar. His way out is its own confusion. I don't accept authority that's been given by liberal Marxists. >> I don't accept the authority that's been given by liberal. >> Translated from fascist speak, police authority is legitimate only if it comes from the side that he agrees with. By

this logic, every arrest in a blue state, every traffic stop, it's all void because somewhere up the chain, a Democrat might have signed a paycheck. >> I don't accept the authority that's been given by liberal conservative position. >> Call the conservative a pro police. >> Then you don't know what a real Hey, listen. You're jugging Richard's word games, although he's definitely doing that. He's splitting

the ground under his feet by pointing out that a self-styled conservative who rejects the police isn't really conservative at all. Medi is driving a wedge between Richard and the broader right. >> The conservative or pro police. >> It's a classic divide and conquer move. It's one of Medie's favorite moves from watching him have many debates. What

he's doing is reminding the audience what conservatives claim to value, then showing how far Richard has wandered away from it. Richard, it seems, doesn't catch it, but the audience does. And that is who Medi is really speaking to. He's hyper aware of the optics and he's playing to the crowd as much to his opponent. >> I'm telling you right now, you are going to be blown off if you think that >> if we're going to struggle with the English language for the next couple hours, then >> what you're up against right now. Okay.

>> Ah, hold on everybody. It's time to cue the tough guy act. You have no idea what you're up against. We've got to ask, is this a debate tactic or is it a boss battle? Richard's trying to sound intimidating, but he comes off as incoherent.

>> For the next couple hours, then what you're up against right now, okay? >> Worse, baked into that line is something darker. It isn't just aimed at Medi. It's a veiled warning to the left in general. A suggestion that his side isn't bound by rules anymore and that anyone opposing them should expect consequences. It's the rhetoric of

escalation, not persuasion. And that's exactly why Medie's rejoinder about struggling with the English language cuts so sharply through the theatrics. >> If we're going to struggle with the English language for the next couple hours, >> instead of seeding to the menace, he's highlighting that this isn't about ideology anymore. It's about whether words and by extension truth still have any meaning at all. >> Language for the next couple hours what you're up against right now. Okay. Yeah.

News flash, the conservatives are liberal to me. Okay. neocons, libertarians, all those mainstream people, there might as well be leftists to me. Okay, that's how far to the right I am. Do you understand my position?

>> As we can see, the political spectrum, according to Richard, has exactly two positions. Richard and everyone else who in his telling are secretly Marxists. Reagan, ah, he's a leftist. Bush definitely a Marxist. The Federal Society, you're probably running a communist book club somewhere. When

you're so far right that mainstream US conservatism looks like socialism, you're not on the political spectrum anymore. You've broken orbit and launched into your own ideological solar system. The conservatives are liberal to me. >> Beneath the bravado, what he's really doing is trying to shift the Overton window so far that anyone short of his extremism looks like liberalism. In his attempt to shift the window, he ends up demolishing the frame entirely, declaring only his own position as the true right. News flash, the

conservatives are liberal to me. Okay? Neocons, libertarians, all those mainstream people, there might as well be leftist to me. Okay? That's how far to the right I am. Do you understand my

position? I >> kind of guessed it when you sat down. >> Yeah. That line lands with a mix of dry wit and weary precision. Medi doesn't need to grandstand. He just needs to

highlight what we've already seen. Richard's extremism didn't suddenly surface here. It was there all along. It was there when he made his entrance. From the moment he opened with an ethnic interrogation and declared that whites are Native Americans, the pattern was obvious. Redefine terms, inflate

threats, and place himself at the sole center of legitimacy. By the time Richard announced that even mainstream conservatives are liberals to him, Medy's rejoinder works less as a joke than it does as a diagnosis. >> That's how far to the right I am. Do you understand my position? So I kind of guessed it when you said when you say uh you know about obeying police, why would I give the authority to police? Do you

know do you know you're an American? Do you think Donald Trump should be pardoning nine members of Congress who committed financial crimes? Are you are you pro financial crime? >> Richard is mid-stride into yet another conspiracy riff when Medi slams the brakes. You can almost see the gears turning. He's ready to spin up another

tale about Marxist mayors, shadowy elites, or some imagined plot behind police authority. But Medi cuts him off with a different angle entirely. Financial crimes. So this time, no police involved, no violence to justify, just straight up corruption. >> Do you think Donald Trump should be pardoning nine members of Congress who committed financial crimes? Are you are

you pro financial crime? >> Hence, Richard isn't able to pivot to cultural war scapegoats. Financial crime is simple. Money, corruption, theft from the public trust. You can't wave it away as patriotism or playing by the book.

There's no mob to excuse, no liberal Marxists to blame, just politicians caught breaking the law. If Richard can't at least call this a crime and call into question Donald Trump's pardoning of them, then his lack of principle is as transparent as it ever could be. Yet, it's too late for Richard to engage with this new question. >> Are you pro financial crime? You pro financial crime? No, Thomas is.

>> Pause. >> I think the people who clapped you voted you out. All right, head back to your seat. You've been voted out by the majority. >> The final irony is pretty damn sweet.

The same audience that applauded Richard claiming that whites are Native Americans has decided to move on to better prospects. When you've lost the room that was cheering your racism 5 minutes ago, you've achieved a special level of rhetorical self-destruction. Medie's parting shot of I think the people who clapped you have voted you out perfectly captures the arc from smug applause seeker to majority rejection. >> I think the people who clapped you have voted you out. The exchange ends with rhetorical and moral clarity on Medie's side. He forced clear admissions,

refused every bad faith detour and anchored the conversation in first principles. The rule of law matters. Corruption is corruption and tribal loyalty is not a defense. >> It's about tribal warfare. That's where we're at in the US. I don't know where

you're at in the UK. You're from India. So, >> all right. So, let's wrap this up. What we've just seen is how authoritarian rhetoric eats itself alive. Medi didn't

need insults or theatrics. He just kept asking the obvious. What do words mean? What do laws mean? What counts as a crime? And Richard showed us that when

your politics can't survive those basic questions, you burn the dictionary to keep your tribe warm. Look at the arc. He opened with applause for claiming that whites are Native Americans. A room cheering historical erasia like it's a joke. But by the end, even that audience voted him out. Along the way, cops

became Marxists. I think they listen to liberal Marxists who tell them what to do. >> Reagan became a socialist. >> Neocons, libertarians, all those mainstream people. There might as well be leftist to me.

>> And crime itself became a matter of perspective. >> We have different definitions of crime because you're talking about every time Medi pressed, Richard retreated. That's the whole point. Authoritarian rhetoric doesn't defend. It dismantles the ground rules of argument itself. And notice

what Medie didn't do. He didn't call Richard evil. He didn't lose his call. He forced clarity and let Richard choke on his own logic. Trump is pro- crime and you don't care. That was his thesis

stripped to its core. >> We both agree Donald Trump's pro crime. You're just fine with it. >> Anyhow, once again, a special thank you to Aura for supporting the channel. Without sponsors like them, I simply wouldn't be able to bring you content just like this. Please go to

aura.com/rationality rules. And of course, a massive thank you to patronons. Literally wouldn't be here without you. You're the ones that allowed me to invest in the right people to put the right teams together so that we can bring this content to a standard that sponsors even wanted to be with us.

If you can help us, however, because we have been making a switch in our content and have thus losing quite a few patronons, we could really do with your help. Links are in the description. Appreciate you. Nothing else to say. I'll catch you in the next one.