---
video_title: "The 1 Question That BROKE Piers Morgan"
video_id: GlH6wVAWsGM
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GlH6wVAWsGM
video_date: 2025-12-29T23:33:06+00:00
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/rationality to stay fully informed on breaking news, compare coverage and avoid media bias. Subscribe through my link for 40% off unlimited access this month.
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  When Piers Morgan stepped into Jubilee's "Surrounded" to defend the claim that masculinity has "never" been toxic, he walked straight into a philosophical contradiction of his own making. A guest named Kyla deployed a single historical question about Spartans and Athenians that Piers simply could not answer without destroying his own argument. What follows is a textbook demonstration of Frame Control: the art of winning a debate you're actually losing. I'll identify each evasion technique—from the Gish Gallop of "Axe body spray and board games" to the desperate pivot to the Barbie movie—and show you the precise moment his logic collapsed into self-contradiction. You'll get better at recognizing how burden-shifting, definition dodging, and performative outrage work together to bury an unanswerable question. And you'll start to see why the audience voted for the person who never addressed the actual argument. This is essential viewing for anyone who wants to see through confident-sounding nonsense.
  
  --
  
  Piers Morgan vs 20 Woke Liberals | Surrounded: https://youtu.be/o_DByg8bjtw
  
  Kyla Turner's YouTube channel: @notsoErudite 
  
  Kyla Turner's Link Tree: https://linktr.ee/notsoerudite
---
I think the left hate men. I mean I >> just surprise you. Just surprise you. >> They do. They do. Even Even movies like

Barbie. I'm slightly left. I think masculinity has never changed. All that's changed is the interpretation of it. >> In one breathtakingly confident sentence, Piers Morgan just defeated his own argument. He is trying to claim that

masculinity is a fixed eternal truth while simultaneously admitting that our understanding of it changes completely depending on where and where we live. It is a moment of total philosophical incoherence. He's essentially saying the thing hasn't changed. Only everything about how we practice the thing has changed. >> The interpretation of it.

>> And this accidental self-own is just the crack in the dam. What we're about to see is a man realizing that he cannot answer the question in front of him, leading to moments of deflection so clumsy they become accidental comedy. >> What's that got to do with them being masculine? >> Why hello, my fellow apes. I hope you are well. Today we're breaking down

Piers Morgan's appearance on Jubilee Surrounded where he faced off against someone named Kyler. And the reason we're watching this isn't just because Piers gets frustrated. It's because Kyla traps him with a single devastating historical question regarding Spartans and Athenians. You're going to see Pierers realize that if he answers her question honestly, his entire premise collapses. So instead, he uses every trick in the book to ensure that the conversation happens on his terms, not hers. Put simply, frame control. So

we're going to track that one unanswered question throughout this exchange. We count the dodges. We're analyze the escape tactics and ultimately we see how Jubilee's own editors had to step in to expose him. It starts right here with the claim that builds the trap he's about to walk into. My first surrounded claim is that masculinity has never been toxic.

>> So there's the claim on the table. Piers Morgan, a man who's made a career out of being the loudest person in the room, steps into the circle to defend a claim that is absolute, provocative, and as we're about to see, intellectually impossible to defend, unless you cheat, of course. Masculinity has never been toxic, he says. Not rarely, not often. misunderstood, but never. It is a

universal negative claim. And anyone who's ever taken a philosophy 101 class knows that universal negatives are incredibly difficult to maintain because all it takes is a single contrary example to shatter the entire structure. Now, before we get to the mechanics of how he defends this, or rather how he avoids defending it, we need to appreciate the setting. This is Jubilee surrounded. It is a gladiator pit. The

format itself favors the aggressor. It favors the person who can dominate the conversation and hold control simply because one side will always get voted out. This is where nuance goes to die. But every once in a while, someone genuinely brilliant steps into the ring. Enter Kyler.

>> One second. >> How do you do? >> How you doing? >> I'm Pierce. So, I guess where I want to kind of start is talking about masculinity. So, uh I view this. Do you

think that this is like socially emergent? I imagine to some degree. >> Right out of the gate, Kyla is trying to establish a shared reality. If Piers admits that masculinity is socially emergent, meaning that it's constructed by society, shaped by culture, and changes over time, then his claim that it has never been toxic, becomes impossible to defend. If society builds masculinity and societies have built terrible things, slavery, fascism, segregation, then it stands to reason that a society could build a toxic version of masculinity. But if he grants

this premise, the game is over before it begins. So how does he answer the question? Does he engage with the concept of social emergence? >> Do you think that this is like socially emergent? I imagine to some degree.

Well, I think the truth about the whole toxic debate about masculinity is it's a completely new phenomenon. Before about 30 years ago, nobody ever used that phrase. It's only really in the last 10 years, it's suddenly been amplified and used for absolutely everything. Notice how he doesn't even glance at the question. He treats it like something foul, catches a whiff, and bins it immediately. Instead, he pivots to a

meta commentary about the phrase toxic masculinity. This is the first trick of frame control. Ignore the concept, attack the terminology. It's a completely new phenomenon. And in doing so, Pierce commits a category error.

He's confusing the linguistic category with real world existence, suggesting that because the label is new, the phenomenon must also be new. Honestly, it's like arguing that gravity didn't exist before Newton named it. But Peers is just warming up because he now launches into his favorite tactic, the Gish Gallup. Named after the creationist Dwayne Gish. This involves drowning your opponent in a torrent of weak arguments and halftruths, overwhelming their cognitive load. It exploits Brandolini's

law. The energy required to refute [ __ ] is an order of magnitude greater than the energy required to produce iter. Throw enough mud at the wall and your opponent spends all their time cleaning up instead of making their own point. It's only really in the last 10 years, it's suddenly been amplified and used for absolutely everything. So, I thought it might be useful to just start with something that Chris Williamson, you may know him, uh, great guy and he came on my show recently. And

he said that all the following things have been blamed on toxic masculinity. Okay, before we let him roll, just look at his source. He cites Chris Williamson, a podcaster and former reality TV star, as his primary reference. No offense to Chris, but this is a comically obvious appeal to false authority. In a debate about sociology and history, citing Chris Williamson is the intellectual equivalent of citing Joe Rogan to disprove evolution.

>> If if evolution is real and if there is this constant I don't know >> it is absurd on its face but peers uses this authority to unleash a deluge of nonsense. Chris Williamson, you may know him, uh, great guy, and he came on my show recently, and he said that all the following things have been blamed on toxic masculinity in the media in the last year and a half. Gang violence, climate change, the financial crisis, Brexit, the election of Donald Trump, not wearing a face mask, eating meat, physical fitness, fast food, capitalism, communism, hip hop, smelling of axe, body spray, being stoic, risk-taking, religion, but also secularism and atheism, playing board games, being interested in cars, and saying hello or have a nice day. Do I um do I need to point out the obvious? No one thinks that saying hello or using deodorant is toxic. If anything, deodorant tends to

deal with a lot of toxic smells. But I uh [snorts] I digress, brother. >> And of course, the list contains logical contradictions. Religious and atheistic, capitalist and communist. This would discredit any serious argument immediately, but that's the point. This

isn't a real list. It's a prop. Piers isn't trying to prove anything. He's trying to make the entire topic look ridiculous. What we're seeing here is an appeal to ridicule via a straw man. He's

using Chris's misrepresentation to make the argument easier to attack and presenting it as so absurd it's not worth serious consideration. Remember, this is his response to Kyla's question about whether masculinity is socially emergent. >> Do you think that this is like socially emergent? I imagine to some degree. >> He never answered it. Instead, he forced

her into new terrain entirely. On the topic of framing, this one stomped me. Trump says Venezuelan airspace should be closed. Now, depending on the outlet, this story is framed in completely different ways. On the left, there's a tendency to immediately question the legitimacy of the operation. And on the

right, the tendency is to simply state what Trump has done with no further context. And I couldn't find a single headline that mentioned the legality of the declaration. >> Don't you need to uphold the Constitution of the United States as president? >> I don't know. >> So, if you only read right-leaning sources, you might not realize that this move is illegal. This level of insight

is only possible thanks to Ground News. They're a website and app designed to make reading the news easier and more datadriven. Every day they pull in thousands of articles from all over the world and organize them by story with each one including visual breakdowns of political bias, reliability, and ownership to give you a clearer sense of how the news is being framed. Returning to this story, Ground News offers more than just headline comparisons. Right away, you can see that it's being covered by over 700 outlets with the political balance almost perfect. 31%

left, 31% right. Yet the framing is completely different. They even show bullet by bullet how left-leaning and right-leaning outlets are presenting the event. And above each headline, you can see the same insights for every specific outlet. That is what makes ground news essential. It doesn't just tell you what

happened. It shows you the different ways the outlets try to shape your view off it. And honestly, those factuality flags alone are indispensable. Right now, you can get 40% off their Vantage plan at ground.news/ news/rationality or by scanning the QR code on screen.

Your subscription supports this channel and helps you spot the spin. Thanks >> and saying hello or have a nice day. So, I have already committed at least one crime because I've already said hello to you. So, my point being this >> Kyla laughs. She has to. If she responds

by pointing out the dishonest framing, she looks humoral. She becomes the triggered leftist that Pier's narrative requires. So, she plays along. I'm >> actually offended by become this. It's a smart deescalation, but it also gives peers the time to cement his straw man.

>> I'm actually offended by become this. >> Sorry. >> But I'm actually very offended by [laughter] that, too. >> No, the thing is I think the point I would make is I think in a time when young men in particular, I've got three sons from 32 to 24. I think we've got to a weird place where they feel like they are the most downtrodden, picked upon people in society. Having ridiculed the

opposing view, Piers now claims the moral high ground. He is the defender of the weak. This is crucial because he has now established the filter through which everything Kyla says will be interpreted. If she critiques masculinity from this point forward, she's attacking downtrodden young men. I think we've got to a weird place where they feel like they are the most downtrodden picked upon people in society with good reason in many cases and a lot of it is down to this where they don't know what masculinity is. My

argument is I don't think it's ever been toxic. What's happened is you have men behaving badly but you also have women behaving badly and no one calls that toxic femininity. >> Why you I actually do call it toxic femininity. I think when you look at I do >> Kyla lands a small but significant hit. Pier's attempt to use whataboutism. What

about women behaving badly assumes that Kyla will defend women or deny the existence of female toxicity? The obvious implication is that a double standard exists and if Kyla accepts this frame, it will mark her as a hypocrite. But she sidesteps the trap entirely. >> I actually do call it toxic femininity. I think when you look at >> you can hear Pier's response. He wasn't

expecting consistency. He was expecting an ideologue. Now notice what Kyla does with this momentary opening. She tries to get back to the foundation. >> When you look at I do uh when you look at like gender studies and philosophy on this, right? We use this term called

masculinities and femininities because we understand that like the like samurai era of masculinity looks very different than maybe the knights of the round table and whatnot. >> This is brilliant. She's introducing the concept of masculinities plural. Why is this so important? Well, if there is only one masculinity, then it is a monolith, an objective standard you measure a person against to decide if they're man enough.

>> We use this term called masculinities and femininities. >> But if there are masculinities, plural, then it becomes a menu, a collection of behaviors exhibited by different cultures that we can examine and choose from. The samurai code of honor, interesting. Victorian emotional repression, maybe less healthy. And by comparing samurai to knights of the round table, she is choosing examples that are historically undeniable and politically neutral. Well, at least

today. >> The like samurai era of masculinity looks very different than maybe the knights of the round table and whatnot. So, we understand that masculinity has so much morphed and shifted and in every form of these masculinities or femininities, there are unhealthy elements to each of them. Could you grant me that? >> Could you grant me that? She pleads.

It's a humble request for a tiny patch of common ground. She is asking, "Can we agree that things change and sometimes have bad parts?" If Piers is honestly tracking the argument, he'd say, "Sure, some elements can be negative. Cultures are different." But Pierers isn't here to engage. He's here to disgrace the

woke. Weak, whiny, woke wasting her premise, even a single historical fact, would mean conceding that her argument has merit. he'd lose control of the frame. >> And in every form of these masculinities or femininities, there are unhealthy elements to each of them. Could you grant me that?

>> Well, it depends what you mean. I mean, what do you think masculinity is? >> Again, he refuses to answer directly, instead deflecting with a question of his own. Suddenly, Kyler is the one on trial. She has to present a definition for his approval.

>> What do you think masculinity is? >> This is yet another move to control the frame. You see, the person asking questions runs the interview. The person answering is the subject. Pis is an interviewer by trade. He knows that if

he stops asking questions, he loses power. So, he doesn't answer her. He demands a definition. One that he'll reject before she's even finished. >> What do you think masculinity is?

>> Uh, in our society, I think masculinity >> No, no, not in your society. Just generally, what is it? >> Stop. Rewind. >> In our society, I think masculinity >> No, no, not in your society. Just

generally, what is it? This is really quite insidious. Pis demands that Kyla define masculinity and she begins exactly as she should, defining it as something relative to society. >> In our society, >> this is, for what it's worth, the nuanced academic way to define a social construct. You define it by its context.

But Pierce blocks this immediately. He rejects the very premise of her definition before she can even finish the sentence. >> No, no, not in your society. just generally. >> He wants her to define it just generally. Appreciate how rigged this

is. Piers insists that she define masculinity as a universal eternal constant, the very thing she is arguing it isn't. So, put bluntly, Piers is insisting that she adopt his worldview in order to even speak with him. He is the bouncer of the club of this conversation, and he's telling her that she can't come in wearing those shoes. >> No, no, not in your society. Just

generally, what is it? >> Yeah. In North America, we would broadly view it as like >> you can't just say North America masculinity is a thing. It's not it's not like territory specific. It has become that way with a toxic element.

But actual masculinity when it was first devised as a word. It's not an American thing. It's a global thing. There it is. The platonic ideal, the divine form.

Pier believes that there is a pure global actual masculinity that exists outside of time and space, floating in the ether, untouched by history or culture. But really, I mean, being a man in 13th century Tashima involve different expectations than being a man in a Nordic raiding party or a monk in 12th century Tibet or a tech CEO in modern America. Look, to claim otherwise is to deny the entire history of human civilization. You have to be profoundly ignorant. But Pierce says it with so much confidence.

>> It's not an American thing. It's a global thing. >> Okay. Then Pierce has blocked her definition, rejected her context, and retreated to a mystical claim of global masculinity. Kyler realizes that he simply won't let her use a definition that isn't his. So, she shifts tactics.

If he won't accept a definition, maybe he'll accept a history lesson. >> It's not an American thing. It's a global thing. Do you think that Athenian masculinity and Spartan masculinity were the same in the Greeks? >> That right there is the silver bullet, the perfect question to puncture Pis's fragile understanding of masculinity.

It's concrete. It's not about feelings or society generally. Generally, but two specific groups of people. It's historical, relying on records rather than speculation. And everyone, and I mean everyone, even people who only know history from the movie 300, knows the answer. The Spartans were militaristic,

austere, communial, and obsessed with physical prowess. The Athenians were democratic, philosophical, artistic, and mercantile. Their versions of how to be a man were radically famously different. They fought wars over these differences. Intentionally or not, Kyla has led Pier straight into a double bind. Piers has

two options. He can admit that they were different, which forces him to admit that masculinity is socially constructed and collapses his never toxic claim. Or he can claim that they were the same, which would be historically illiterate and make him look foolish. So what does he do? >> Do you think that Athenian masculinity and Spartan masculinity were the same in the Greeks?

>> I think masculinity has never changed. All that's changed is the interpretation of it. >> That's right. He chose to be historically illiterate and to look foolish. Pier is trying to separate the essence of masculinity from the practice of masculinity. He's saying that the

thing itself is eternal like gravity. But here's the thing. Gravity doesn't change based on interpretation. Gravity pulls you down whether you're a Spartan or an Athenian. >> I think masculinity has never changed.

All that's changed is the interpretation of it. >> And what he hasn't realized is that by pointing to changing interpretations, he's inadvertently accepted Kyla's claim. You see, if the interpretation of masculinity changes such that cultures conceptualize it differently to the point where one group writes poetry and debates philosophy while another throws babies of cliffs and forbids money, then functionally they are multiple masculinities. Call them interpretations if you like. Call them cultural expressions. The label doesn't matter.

The point stands. Masculinity is not a single fixed universal practice. It varies. Hilariously, then Piers thinks he's contradicting Kyla, but logically he is agreeing with her in substance. All he's really done is reject her vocabulary. And notice Pierce still

hasn't answered the question about Sparta because he knows on some level that he's standing on a trap door. That's why he's sprinting away from this philosophical failure into the warm embrace of victimhood. I think masculinity has never changed. All that's changed is the interpretation of it. And what I can't abide is this modern phenomenon that everything about masculinity, everything about being a man, which I am currently identifying as. Everything about me is supposedly

toxic. This is a defensive flare. Piers is making it personal, playing the victim, and daring Kyler to attack him. I am a man. Are you calling me toxic? It

forces Kyler to stop her intellectual advance to reassure him. She now has to switch from professor [snorts] to therapist. Everything about me is supposedly toxic. >> So, I I would reject the idea that everything that masculinity is is toxic. I think that there can be bad elements of anything.

>> And there it is. Pierce has succeeded in controlling the frame again. Kyler clarifies her position, rejecting the woe is me straw man that he's built. But notice what's happened in the momentum. The pressure is off Piers entirely.

Instead of pinning him on history and interpretation, she's now having to explain that she doesn't hate men, which is exactly the angle that Pierce latches on to to avoid returning to where he's weakest. >> I would reject the idea that everything that masculinity is is toxic. I think that there can be bad elements of anything. >> What do you like about men? >> Just look at how far we've drifted. The

claim from peers is that masculinity has never been toxic. >> Masculinity has never been toxic. The question that Kyla placed on the table is whether the masculinities of Sparta and Athens are the same. >> Do you think that Athenian masculinity and Spartan masculinity were the same in the Greeks? >> But somehow the current topic that he's wandered off to is Kyla, tell me nice things about men.

>> What do you like about men? >> This is a red herring introducing irrelevant information to distract from the argument at hand. What Kyla likes about men quite obviously has zero relevance to whether masculinity is socially constructed or whether it can be toxic. But Kyla is gracious. She decides to play bull. And honestly, she

plays it beautifully. >> What do you like about men? >> What do I like about men? Lots of things. I think that like the idea of protectionism is good. I think the like

uh willingness to kind of like self-sacrifice is very tied to the version of masculine we have. I think that that's a very good thing. I think the like desire to provide is also a really good thing. >> She lists the hits protection, self-sacrifice, desire to provide. This is a crucial moment for those watching.

Peers and indeed most conservatives often paint a picture of the left as a group of blue-haired harpies who want to castrate all men and banish them to an island. Kyla just shattered that caricature. She is sitting there identifying as a leftist praising the virtues of traditional masculinity with her short list. This undercuts the idea that all masculinity is toxic. In theory, this should allow the discussion to return to whether certain elements are toxic. But Pierce has other plans.

>> I think the like desire to provide is also a really good thing. Um, and stand up for like principles uh and strength. I think all of these things are things. Well, the >> you like men to be hunters, providers, protectors. >> I don't really care about them being hunters.

>> Really? Well, how are they going to get all these things to help you and protect you >> in this economy? I'd prefer them just to be like physically capable. >> He's trying to box her in. What's that?

You like men being providers? Then you must accept the hunter killer archetype. It's a false dichotomy presenting only two options when more exist. The problem for peers is that we don't live in huntergatherer societies anymore, do we? I mean, I don't know if anyone's actually told peers, but it's been a few thousand years. Kyla doesn't take the

bait. Instead, she drags the definition of provider out of the stone age and into the modern economy. >> In this economy, I'd prefer them just to be like fiscally capable. >> With time on the clock running down, Kyla does something that most people can't. When you've been dragged through three different tangents, it's easy to forget where he started. Lost in the

weeds of irrelevant questions and pity appeals. But Kyler has clearly recognized the weakness. She drags him back to the issue that he never answered. In this economy, I'd prefer them just to be like fiscally capable. Let's go back to the Athenians. Let's go

back to Athenians and Spartans. >> Yes, Kyla. This is how you fight frame control. You politely, relentlessly return to the scene of the crime. >> Let's go back to Athenians and Spartans, though, right? If you want to say

masculinity has always been the same. Well, the issue is history would disagree with you, right? In Athens, for example, it was completely normal for you to participate in civility and talk and do philosophy. But Spartan men, for example, wouldn't even touch coins, right? that they viewed it as a very different thing.

>> She lays it out crystal clear. In Athens, philosophy, civility, and discourse were manly. In Sparta, touching money was unmanly. Both societies considered these the height of masculinity in their respective contexts. This demonstrates undeniably the masculinity is varied across time and space. Pierce has nowhere to go. The

logic is airtight. The history is sound. So, what does he say? Does he concede? Does he say, "Fair point, there are variations, >> but Spartan men, for example, wouldn't even touch coins, right? They viewed it

as a very different thing." Whereas, >> what's that got to do with them being masculine? >> This is the moment the NPC glitches using the wrong dialogue line. Kyla just explained in specific detail how these societies defined masculinity differently. She's just explained exactly what it has to do with being masculine. And Pierers asks, "What does

that have to do with masculinity?" What's that got to do with them being masculine? >> It's like a chef explaining how flour and water make dough and then Pis charges in and says, "What does that have to do with bread?" I think the chef would have the right to say, >> "WHAT ARE YOU >> AN IDIOT SANDWICH?" >> by asking, "What does that have to do with it?" Pierce attempts to sever the

logical link that Kyla just built. He's banking on his confidence to overwhelm her logic, hoping that the audience won't stop to notice that he's asking a nonsense question. Kyla, though, doesn't blink. She doesn't throw up her hands in exasperation. She assumes, perhaps naively, that he genuinely doesn't understand. So, she explains it again

and she brings reinforcements. >> What's that got to do with them being masculine? >> Well, because the version of masculinity that they had viewed certain things like commerce as feminine. If you go to samuris, they viewed poetry as masculine. Whereas if you go to like Victorian era, poetry is often associated with >> if Pier won't touch the Spartans and Athenians, maybe he'll engage with the samurai and the Victorians. She's

stacking the evidence. For the samurai, poetry was masculine, part of the warrior culture. For the Victorians, poetry was a feminina, associated with sensitivity, distinct from the stiff upper lip that it demanded of men. Same activity, writing poems, but opposite gender associations. These are yet more examples that masculinity is socially constructed. She's proving it over and

over again, bludgeoning him with history. But Pierers remains as dense as Victorian heart attack. >> Whereas if you go to like Victorian era, poetry is often associated with >> Right. Okay. But what does any of that got to do with toxic masculinity?

>> Pier must be feigning stupidity at this point. It's too obvious to be anything else. He is losing on history. He is losing on logic. So he abandons the battlefield entirely. But the answer to

his question is simple. Kyla is building a syllogism. Masculinity is constructed by society as proven by Sparta and the samurai. If society constructs it, society can construct healthy versions or unhealthy versions. Therefore, some versions like Victorian repression can be unhealthy or toxic. She needs to

establish the premises to support her conclusion, but Pierce keeps demanding that she skip straight to the end so that he can yell at her about hating men. He's trying to burn the bridge while she's still crossing it. >> But what does any of that got to do with toxic masculinity? >> Because if we look at masculinity, we have to acknowledge that it is emerging out of a society that we are participating in. When I said, "Well, in North America, you rejected that." And I

go, "Well, that's the foundational piece of this." >> Kyla calls him out. This is a key moment. She explicitly names his evasion. She says, "I tried to tell you it was North American. You rejected

that. So I had to go to history to prove to you that culture matters." >> You got to say North America. >> She's exposing the mechanism, pulling back the curtains and showing the audience the gears of the conversation. Essentially, she's only having to go this slow because peers refuse to accept the obvious.

>> Well, that's the foundational piece of this. What we're talking about, toxic masculinity, is essentially a North American version of masculinity that we seem to not like. >> She lands the plane. The toxic stuff isn't all masculinity. It's a specific local cultural version that isn't working for us anymore. Piers needs an

out. He needs a way to escape this relentless logic. And he finds it in the most reliable escape hatch of the 21st century. The cultural war >> is essentially a North American version of masculinity that we seem to not like. >> Well, no, it's not. It's it's a symptom

of, and forgive my phraseiology here, but it's a symptom of weak, whiny, woke wastrols who've decided they're going to revise what masculinity is. Weak, whiny, woke wastiteration, insult, buzzwords. We've left the realm of debate and we've entered his safe space of talk show theater. Pierce realizes that he can't argue about samurai. He can't argue about Spartans.

So, he attacks a phantom. He conjures up an image of a weak, whiny waistrol, someone pathetic, someone annoying, someone the audience is primed to despise. He frames the critique of masculinity not as a historical analysis, but as a conspiracy by weak people to drag strong people down. Weak, whiny, woke wastrols who've decided they're going to revise what masculinity is. Hang on, hang on. I'll give you a

chance to respond. And they're going to make all men feel terrible. They're going to make men hate themselves. are going to make everybody else hate men. And at that point, I'm like, what are you doing here? Why would why would

women, for example, want their men to be weak, whiny, woke wast? This is a straw man again. Kyla just told him that she likes protection, strength, and provision. She explicitly stated she values those things. And Piers looks her in the eyes and says, "Why do you want men to be weak? Why would women, for

example, want their men to be weak, whiny, woke waistrols? >> Piers is arguing with a ghost. He is arguing with a Twitter thread that he read 3 years ago. He is not arguing with the person in front of him. He never was. But Kyla refuses to get baited into

an insult match. She does something empathetic. She brings up trauma. >> Why would women, for example, want their men to be weak, whiny, woke wast? Well, I think I think the issue that you're neglecting here is the high levels of intergenerational trauma amongst men. I

mean, if we go back to World War II, it's followed by the Vietnam War, right? We see men dying by the thousands and then they come back and they have PTSD and then they go off again and die by the thousands. And so, when we look at like the lack of masculinity, masculinity and masculine role models, we have to understand this through a lens of understanding that like men have been like scooped out and killed over and over and then when they come back, they're destroyed. and there isn't really an answer for men. >> This is an excellent insight. She is

arguing that what we call toxic often stems from unadressed trauma. Men were sent into the meat grinders of the 20th century, came back broken, and were told to suck it up. This was the principle of Victorian stoicism, the stiff upper lip, and they passed that hardness down to their sons. Kyla is expressing deep sympathy for men. She is framing men as victims of history, not villains. and

then when they come back they're destroyed and there isn't really an answer for men. I agree that there's a systemic lacking of answer on the left for men in a lot of ways. >> She hands him an olive branch. It is a moment of vulnerability, a moment of rapport and Pierers takes that branch and snaps it over his knee. >> There's a systemic lacking of answer on the left for men in a lot of ways. The

issue is that we can't address Pier ignores the history of war. He ignores the trauma. He ignores the nuance. He latches onto the word left and unloads his real thesis. >> It is a breathtaking rejection of the complexity she just offered. She talks

about Vietnam veterans with PTSD. He responds with, "Your side hates guys." Kyla tries to stop him. She sees where this is going. She sees the bad faith train leaving the station. She tries to

pull the emergency break, but Pierers has a full head of steam. >> I think the left men I mean I >> just surpass you. Just surprise you. >> They do. They do. Even movies like

Barbie >> Barbie. We've gone from the battle of Formopol and the Samurai Bashido to the Barbie movie. >> Do you guys ever think about dying? >> This is a red herring deployed once more. We are now debating the criticism of a movie about a plastic doll. The

distance between this topic and the one point that Kyla has been making that masculinity is different across cultures, it can only be measured in light years. >> They do. They do. Even movies like Barbie. >> I'm left.

>> Okay, here's a little secret for you. I'm slightly left. I'm a I'm an oldfashioned liberal. >> You hate men. >> A perfect checkmate. The logic has him

trapped because the claims are already at odds with themselves. If the left hate men, >> I think the left hate men. >> And if Pierce claims he is left, >> I'm slightly left. >> Then peers must hate men. It's beautifully simple.

>> Do you hate men? >> Pier realizes that he stepped in it. So he just babbles through, reclaiming his title as a liberal to distance himself from the woke, effectively playing a shell game with his own political identity. I'm an old-fashioned liberal. You hate men.

>> I'm not a You see, they all think probably I'm a right-wing heckbanger. I'm not. I'm I'm an old-fashioned liberal. I believe in liberalism, and I believe there's nothing wrong with being feminine or masculine. I hate the way that masculinity has been tred with this brush of everything about it is toxic.

>> No one cares. Pier. Anyway, >> oh no. Anyway, Kyla has another card to play. She wants to talk about stoicism, specifically the difference between the philosophical school and the damaging emotional repression often confused with it. I hate the way that masculinity has

been tred with this brush of everything about it is toxic. >> I agree. And but the issue is that you can't put the baby out with a bath water. You have to look at things like Victorian stoicism and recognize how that has harmed young men because >> stoicism stoly ridiculous. Pier is shocked shocked that anyone could criticize the noble virtue of stoicism.

But Kyla was and remains precise. >> Stoicism stoic. >> Hold on. Victorian stoicism, not Greek, not Greco stoicism. Stoicism.

>> She makes the distinction. Greek stoicism like that of Marcus Aurelius and Senica is about emotional regulation and logic. Victorian stoicism is about suppression and silence. They are different. Pier ignores her distinction and conflates them.

>> Victorian stoicism, not Greek, not Greco Stoism. >> Stoicism generally is a good choice. >> I love stoicism. Hellenistic stoicism, not Greek. >> Piers is still trying to muddy the waters even as she seeks to clarify. And

then he reaches for his trump card, a piece of paper, the undeniable proof. >> I love stoicism. Hellenistic stoicism, not Greek. >> Well, let me read you something. you've raised. The American Psychological

Association released a set of guidelines to help psychologists work with men and boys in which it stated that male masculine traits like stoicism, competitiveness, achievement, assu of the appearance of weakness, adventure, and risk should all be discarded. Pierce reads the list with sneering contempt. He presents the APA, the leading body of psychology in the US, as declaring war on adventure and achievement. He is framing it as an attack on excellence itself. But here is where the editors of Jubilee step in. While Piers is reading

his sanitized, cherrypicked version of the text, a graphic appears on screen. A fact check. Let's read it. Traditional masculinity such as emotional stoicism, homophobia, not showing vulnerability, self-reliance, and competitiveness might deter them from forming close relationships with male peers. Quite the difference, huh? The APA doesn't warn

against stoicism generally. It warns against emotional stoicism along with homophobia, suppressing vulnerability, and hyperco competitiveness. Pierce translates this as achievement and adventure. How is attacking gay people an adventure? >> Achievement, adventure, and risk should all be discarded.

>> Pier is lying. He is looking at a document that says suppressing vulnerability is bad for mental health and telling the audience confidently that they want to ban adventure. It is the clearest evidence yet that he is not engaging with the actual arguments. In fact, he came prepared not to engage with them. He is engaging with a fantasy version of them that is easier to defeat. Kyla sees the misrepresentation.

She opens her mouth to correct him. And then adventure and risk should all be discarded. Now, I would categorize all of those things as the very best of being a real man. Why would you want them discarded? >> I don't want most of those things. Let's

talk about stoicism. >> The buzzer sounds. The crowd has voted. Kyla is out, which sucks. She was winning on substance. She was crushing

him. She navigated his gish gallop. She exposed the contradictions. She kept returning to the unanswerable question. She showed empathy. She made smart

concessions and she was voted out. But that's the format of surrounded. Everyone wants their turn. Understandably so. And Kyla's time ran out just as she was about to land yet another blow. It's not enough though.

She has done such a good job that Pierce still needs to control the frame. He needs to deliver one final insult. >> I don't want most of those things. Let's talk about stois. >> I think we agree. I think we agree with

each other. I think you agree with me too much. Anyway, it's lovely to meet you. >> Thank you. >> It may not look like it on the surface, but I assure you this is a patronizing pat on the head. Nice try, but I win.

>> I think you agree with me too much. >> They do not agree. Kyla believes that masculinity is socially constructed. We understand that masculinity has somewhat morphed and shifted. >> While Pierce believes that it's eternal.

>> I think masculinity has never changed. She believes that Victorian stoicism is harmful. >> You have to look at things like Victorian stoicism and recognize how that has harmed young men. >> Or he thinks that it's ridiculous to criticize it. >> Stoicism stoic.

>> She believes that history shows variation. >> The like samurai era of masculinity looks very different than maybe the knights of the round table and whatnot. Well, he believes that history shows a single global thing. >> Actual masculinity when it was first devised as a word, it's not as an American thing. It's a global thing.

>> He is saying, "See, you couldn't disprove me. You basically came over to my side." But this is rewriting the history of the conversation that we just watched. It's frame control. Pier never answered the Sparta question once. He

dodged it at the beginning, he dodged it in the middle, and he drowned it out at the end. And that is the lesson of frame control. You don't have to be right. You don't have to make sense. You don't even have to be coherent. You just need to

ensure that the question that would destroy you is never ever answered. >> Do you think that Athenian masculinity and Spartan masculinity were the same in the Greeks? >> And that unanswered question is still hanging in the air, haunting the studio. So, shall we? Did Spartan and Athenian masculinity look the same? Did samurai

and Victorian masculinity look the same? No. No, they didn't. And because they didn't, Piers Morgan is wrong. And deep down in the quiet moments when the applause dies down, >> I think he knows it.

>> I think the left hate men. I mean, I >> just surpris you. Just >> They do. They do. Even movies like Barbie. I'm slightly left.

>> Anyhow, as always, thank you kindly for the view and an extra special thank you to everyone who supports the channel, including today's sponsor, Ground News. I for one am off. I'm going to read some poetry while wearing my samurai hat. So, catch you in the next one.