---
video_title: "The 3 Questions That DESTROYED Ben Shapiro"
video_id: cCqbLZ47Nr0
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cCqbLZ47Nr0
video_date: 2025-07-02
video_description: |
  Go to https://piavpn.com/RationalityRules to get 83% off from our sponsor Private Internet Access with 4 months free! 
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  This interview, between Andrew Neil and Ben Shapiro, still remains one of the most spectacular disasters in modern media history, and it's time we properly dissect every painful second. In this episode of Fallacy Forensics, Ben Shapiro - the guy who built his entire career on "DESTROYING" college students in debates - completely fell apart when a British journalist simply read his own tweets back to him. Andrew Neil wasn't even trying to debate him, just asking basic questions about his book on civility. What happened next was so catastrophic that even Shapiro later referred to it as his worst interview ever. In this video, I break down every fallacy, every deflection, and identify the exact moment when the master debater became a master rage-quitter.
  
  Enjoyed this episode? Click here to see our complete Fallacy Forensics series: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLMd8xj-C1CsOwoNymOmWV2vI_ZIb0vagW&si=v4BqtXAIZKIXmJwT
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  Original video: Ben Shapiro: US commentator clashes with BBC's Andrew Neil - BBC News: https://youtu.be/6VixqvOcK8E?si=7S7PE-wxz2_4VHCO
---
A woman who miscarries could get 30 years. These are extreme hard policies. Are you an objective journalist or are you an opinion journalist? I'm a journalist that ask questions. Wish you would at least be honest in your own biases. Why don't you just say that

you're on the left? Is this so hard for you? Why can't you just be honest? Well, you said Israelis like to build. Arabs like to bomb crap and live in open sewage. You can think whatever you want

of me. Why don't you I don't care. I don't I don't frankly give a damn what you think of me since I've never heard of you. I'm popular and no one has ever heard of you. Frankly, I find this whole thing a waste of time. I think we're

done here. I appreciate your time. All right. Well, thank you for your time and uh for showing that anger is not part of American political discourse. Now, Mr.

Shapiro, we'll say goodbye. Why hello, my fellow apes. I hope you are well. Today we're going to be dissecting a classic, a quintessential example of what happens when a debater famous for his lightning fast rhetoric and slogan ready takedowns ventures into unfamiliar territory. Here was Shapiro miles away from the familiar hunting grounds where he routinely eviscerates unprepared college students, suddenly finding himself across from a very different species of interviewer. Andrew

Nil, a seasoned conservative journalist who actually came prepared. And it went so catastrophically wrong that even Shapiro himself later called it the worst interview of his career. I was appropriately chided for that. I mean, I acknowledged that it was a bad interview and I acted like and I acted poorly during the interview. You see, Shapiro, whose entire brand rests on the mantra, facts don't care about your feelings.

Facts don't care about your feelings. had his feelings hurt so badly that he picked up his toys and stormed off. I appreciate your time, sir. But what transformed this routine book promotion into such a spectacular disaster? What was it about this particular interview that triggered such an epic meltdown?

The answer is elegantly simple. This wasn't a debate. It was an interrogation. And Andrew Neil had done his homework. Some of the ideas that are popular in your side of politics uh would seem to take us back to the dark ages. Now, we're not going to be merely

rubbernecking at the wreckage, as fun as that might be. We're going to conduct a forensic investigation examining every piece of twisted metal to understand precisely how this collision occurred. And we map in excruciating detail the systemic dismantling of a rhetorical giant, one fallacy at a time. So, let's cook. Why don't you just say that you're on the left? Is this so hard for you?

Why can't you just be honest? To truly appreciate the carnage that follows, we must first understand the setup. Because the genius of what unfolds lies entirely in the preparation. Ben Shapiro was on a promotional tour for his new book, The Right Side of History, which, and here's where the irony shines, argued for a return to civility and Judeo-Christian values to rescue Western civilization from its angry tribalistic impulses. This entire book is about how secular values that we all hold dear, things like freedom of speech and free markets, are actually rooted in Judeo-Christian values. His promotion tour brought him

to the BBC to have an interview with Andrew Neil. For the uninitiated, Andrew Neil isn't your garden variety cable news host. He is a journalist, heavyweight, deeply researched, famously aggressive, and utterly unimpressed by media personalities. You have no idea where I live. Just answer the question.

More crucially, though, Neil is a conservative, and the fact that he's the former editor of the Sunday Times and chairman of the conservativeleaning spectator group brought impeccable right-wing credentials to the table. This detail, this allegiance changed everything. You see, Shapiro's entire defense strategy, the very operating system of his rhetorical style depends on painting any serious challenge as an attack from the liberal media. The Democrats in the media, they they eat in the same circles. They talk to the same people. It is an absolute echo chamber.

But what happens when the person systematically taking him apart shares his political affiliation? In effect, Neil's credentials neutralized Shapiro's primary defense mechanism. He couldn't cry liberal bias. He couldn't dismiss questions as partisan attacks. Indeed, for perhaps the first time in his public career, he was forced to defend his statements on their own merits. And as

we're about to witness, he simply couldn't handle it. But before we continue, a quick question. Ever connect to public Wi-Fi and wonder who else might be watching? At coffee shops, airports, even friends houses, your personal data is exposed to anyone techsavvy enough to grab it. Passwords, photos, everything. This is why I use

private internet access. It's a VPN that creates an encrypted tunnel for your internet connection, hiding your IP address from hackers and internet service providers. And here's what sets Private Internet Access apart. They're the world's most transparent VPN provider. Their no logs policy isn't just a promise. It's been proven in

actual court cases and independently audited by Delaware. They literally cannot hand over your data because they don't store it. I can choose from over 91 countries as well as all 50 US states. So, when Netflix says not available in your region, problem solved. It works with all major streaming services. Plus, they're one of

the few VPNs that actually support peer-to-peer file sharing. But here's the best part. One subscription protects unlimited devices. Literally unlimited. I've got it on my phone, my laptop, my tablet, even on my smart TV. My whole

family is protected under just one account. Right now, they're offering my viewers, you an incredible deal, 83% off, which brings it down to just $2 per month, and you get four extra months completely free. Plus, there's also a 30-day money back guarantee, so it's completely risk-free to try. And with over 300 million downloads and 247 support, they've earned their reputation. Go to piaavvpn.com/rationality

rules to get 83% off private internet access with 4 months free. Thanks. I'm popular and no one has ever heard of you. Shapiro began in his comfort zone, deploying his standard framing techniques with practiced ease. Ben Shapiro, you're followed by millions of people online and on social media.

You're one of the biggest names in American conservatism. What is it you think you're tapping into? Well, I think that there there are a couple of things. One, there is actually a hunger for different ideas. The the monolithic nature of the United States media is pretty evident in terms of its politics. people tend to agree on

essentially the liberal point of view and increasingly a radical leftist point of view in the media and obviously I speak to in response to that. At the same time I try to provide an honest take on the issues of the day and that means that I'm not beholden to the Republican party for example uh it means that I am going to speak out whenever I think that a principle is being violated just no matter who is doing the violation. So before a single challenging question had been posed Shapiro unleashed a rhetorical barrage. First comes the classical poisoning the well. When someone presents adverse information about someone or something before they speak or before they're heard to discredit them in advance. For

example, before Jon speaks, you should know that he's been divorced three times and that he's got a drinking problem. That's exactly what Shapiro does here. By preemptively framing the entire US media landscape as a monolithic radical leftist entity, he's discrediting any potential criticism from media sources before it can be even voiced. He's salulting the earth before any criticism can take root. The monolithic nature of the United States media is pretty evident in terms of its politics. And by

positioning himself as speaking in response to that, he casts himself as the lone voice of reason battling a corrupt establishment. Obviously, I speak to in response to that. It's a comfortable narrative for him, albeit one built on a hasty generalization when someone draws a broad conclusion from a limited number of examples, like saying, "I met two rude people from New York, so all New Yorkers must be rude." Shapiro takes whatever examples of liberal bias he's encountered and extrapolates them to encompass the entire US media ecosystem. tens of thousands of outlets across the political spectrum presenting them all as a singular ideological uniform hive mind. And as for his second

response, I try to provide an honest take on the issues of the day and that means that I'm not beholden to the Republican party for example, uh it means that I am going to speak out whenever I think that a principle is being violated just no matter who is doing the violation. This is an appeal to personal virtue. when someone emphasizes their own moral character or integrity to make their claim seem more credible without providing actual evidence. For example, as an honest person who always tells the truth, I can assure you that this is correct. Or I'm not like other politicians. I have

principles so you can trust what I'm saying. That's precisely what Shapiro is doing here. He's not merely presenting himself as a commentator. He positions himself as a trutht teller, someone who provides an honest take. I try to provide an honest take on the issues of the day and is not beholden to anyone.

And that means that I'm not beholden to the Republican party, for example. He will speak out whenever a principle is being violated. I am going to speak out whenever I think that a principle is being violated. This preemptive self arandiseman constructs a rhetorical fortress, hoping any attack will appear as an assault on honesty and principle itself rather than on the actual substance of his arguments. The problem for Ben though is that Andrew isn't and doesn't attack his principles. Rather,

he tests them. After briefly touching on Shapiro's departure from Breitbart, Neil probes deeper into his claim about providing new ideas, and the exchange that follows proves remarkably telling. I'm interested that you think there's a thought movement inside the Republican party. I mean, haven't the Conservatives uh run out of ideas in America? All the new policies, the Medicare for all, $15 minimum wage, the Green New Deal, they're all coming from the left and they're popular. Well, Frank, I mean,

frankly, I'm confused by the idea that any of those are are particularly new ideas. I mean, most of those ideas have been around since Franklin's Delano Roosevelt at the very earliest or at the very latest rather. Some of them go all the way back to Woodro Wilson. But the idea that new ideas are absent in the Republican party is obviously untrue. We have a a very strong debate that goes on inside sort of the the conservative halls of intelligencia uh about what is the appropriate action to take with regard to the medical system. Should

global warming be considered uh a real threat or should global warming be be considered something that technology will solve and if so what are the best best aspects of of solving that? Now there's a there's a rich intellectual debate on the right about nationalism versus patriotism for example or populism versus free marketeteerism. It might not be immediately obvious, but this response is exquisite in its evasiveness. Neil asked a straightforward question. What new ideas do conservatives have? And he provided

concrete examples from the left. Medicare for all, $15 minimum wage, Green New Deal. These are specific, actionable policies with implementation plans. All the new policies, the Medicare for all, $15 minimum wage, the Green New Deal, they're all coming from the left. And what was Shapiro's response? A textbook red herring. When

someone introduces irrelevant information to distract from the argument at hand. That's exactly what Shapiro does here. Neil asks, "What new conservative ideas do you have?" And instead of answering, Shapiro pivots to, "Well, those liberal ideas aren't actually new. And most of those ideas have been around since Franklin's Delano Roosevelt at the very earliest. It's the

rhetorical equivalent of someone asking, "What's for breakfast?" and you respond, "Well, breakfast isn't actually the most important meal of the day." Adding to this, when he finally attempts to address the actual question, what does he offer? He says, "We have debates about what to do with the medical system, but that's not policy, is it? That's thinking about maybe having a policy. we have a a very strong debate

that goes on inside sort of the the conservative halls of intelligencia uh about what is the appropriate action to take with regard to the medical system. Likewise, when he says should global warming be considered a real threat, that's not a solution. It's not a policy. It doesn't even acknowledge that the problem exists. Should global warming be considered uh a real threat or should global warming be be considered something that technology will solve? Compare Neil's examples,

specific policies with names and implementation strategies to Shapiro's response, debates, discussions, and intellectual conversations. It's the policy equivalent of having concepts of a plan. I have concepts of a plan. I'm not president right now. So, what we're led to believe is that conservatives are not actually doing anything. They're

just thinking really hard about maybe doing something someday. The cuda grass was when Shapiro says there's a rich intellectual debate on the right about nationalism versus patriotism. No, there's a there's a rich intellectual debate on the right about nationalism versus patriotism, for example. Right. So, the conservatives are just super busy debating dictionary definitions.

That's not policy development. That's a philosophical seminar. What is a woman? What is a woman? What is a woman? What

is a woman? Define what a woman is without reference to the word woman, please. The irony cuts deep, doesn't it? Shapiro began this interview implicitly claiming that conservatives overflow with fresh ideas, but when pressed for specifics, he can only offer abstract debates while the left presents actual legislation. A very rough start, shall we say, and Ben knows it. Having

established the emptiness behind Shapiro's claims, Neil decides to test those vaunted principles under pressure. This is where the interview truly begins and it's where Shapiro's composure starts to fracture. Some of the ideas that are popular in your side of politics uh would seem to take us back to the dark ages, Georgia, new abortion laws, uh which you are much in favor of. Uh that uh a woman who miscarries could get 30 years. A Georgian woman who travels to another state for an abortion procedure could get 10 years. These are

extreme hard policies. Well, okay, a couple of things. One, I'm not sure. I mean, frankly, I don't know whether you're are you an objective journalist or are you an opinion journalist? There it is. The first

defensive reflex. Notice how he doesn't answer the question, doesn't defend the policy, doesn't engage with the substance at all. Instead, he immediately attacks the questioner. Are you an objective journalist? Are you an opinion journalist? This is a straightup

ad homonym when someone attacks the character or circumstances of an individual making an argument rather than addressing the argument itself. For example, don't listen to John's claims on climate change. He's just a high school dropout. Here, Shapiro questions whether Neil is an objective journalist rather than addressing whether a 30-year sentence for miscarriage is extreme. Are you an objective journalist? But Neil's

journalistic objectivity is completely irrelevant to the question at hand. The policy either is or it's not extreme, regardless of who's asking. At Bedrock, Shapiro desperately wants to shift the spotlight from something uncomfortable defending the Georgia law specifics to a meta debate about journalistic nature. And so he needs Neil on the defense. But Neil is a professional. He recognizes

the bait and refuses to bite. I'm a journalist that ask questions. Okay. So, you're you're a supposedly objective journalist calling policies with which you disagree barbaric and suggesting only one side of the political aisle has ideas. So, I just want to point out that I wish I wish you would at least be honest in your own biases. Shapiro

doubles down constructing a straw man when someone misrepresents or oversimplifies another person's argument to make it easier to attack. For example, you say that we should have stricter gun laws. Oh, so you just want to take everyone's guns away and leave us defenseless. That's exactly what Shapiro does here, though it becomes more obvious as the conversation goes on. And you'll see this when you call policies you disagree with brutal and bringing us back to the dark ages, sir.

Sir, you just suggested that the pro-life position is inherently brutal and terrible. But the thing is, Neil never said the pro-life position itself is brutal and terrible. He said, "A 30-year prison sentence for a miscarriage is regressive. Big difference." And then, of course, Shapiro followed with yet another ad homonym. I wish you would at least be

honest with your own biases, presupposing both bias and dishonesty. I wish you would at least be honest in your own biases. So, in just 30 seconds, Shapiro has refused to answer a direct question and instead deployed multiple ad hominemm attacks and a straw man. His entire defensive line has been breached and he knows it. Neil, observing Shapiro's determination to derail the conversation, calmly returns to the original point. Cornered, Shapiro plays

what he believes is his ace. What I'm asking you is that why is it that a bill banning abortions after a woman has been pregnant for six weeks is not a return to the dark ages. What's your answer? My answer is something called science. Human life exists at conception. It

ought to be protected. Oh boy. This is a magnificent train wreck of multiple fallacies wrapped in pseudo authority. First, we have the classic appeal to authority. When someone accepts a claim because an authorative figure endorses it without considering the authorities's expertise in the specific area. For

instance, Einstein believed in God, so atheism must be wrong. Or my doctor said this diet supplement works, so it must be effective for everyone. That's what Shapiro does here when he invokes science as if it were a monolithic deity that has issued unambiguous commandments. My answer is something called science. But here's the thing.

Science can tell us when unique DNA forms, when hearts begin beating, when brains develop. It cannot, however, determine when personhood begins, or what moral and legal protections should apply at various developmental stages. Those remain questions of philosophy, ethics, and law. More fundamentally, Shapiro commits the fallacy of begging the question when the conclusion of an argument is assumed in the premises. For example, the Bible is true because it says so in the Bible or I'm trustworthy because I always tell the truth. The

entire abortion debate centers on precisely when during gestation we can meaningfully say human life begins. Is it at conception without a nervous system? When the heart forms, when consciousness emerges? That's literally the central question under debate. But Shapiro simply declares it as a fact.

Human life exists at conception. If we accept his premise, then certainly his conclusion follows. But he hasn't proven his premise. He's merely asserted it and labeled it science. My answer is something called science. Human life

exists at conception. It ought to be protected. To state this all another way, by proclaiming my answer is science. Shapiro performs multiple facious maneuvers simultaneously. One, appeal to authority, treating science as a unified voice rather than a methodology. Two, begging the question,

assuming the very point being debated. Three, oversimplification, reducing complex bioethical questions to a single sentence. And four, asserting without evidence, no studies, no data, just science as a shield. It's a conversation ending cliche designed to claim intellectual superiority without doing any intellectual work. But he's not finished. Having raised his scient, he

immediately returns to his previous attack. Now, back to my question to you. You purport to be an objective journalist. BBC purports to be an objective downthe-middle network. It obviously is not. It never has been. And

you, as a journalist, are proceeding to call one side of the political aisle ignorant, barbaric, and sending us back to the dark ages. Why don't you just say that you're on the left? Is this so hard for you? Why can't you just be honest? Back to the attack now enhanced with a false dilemma. when someone presents

only two options when more may exist. For example, you're either with us or against us in this war. Or you can either support the environment or the economy, but not both. Shapiro creates in his binary universe only two possibilities. Either you embrace his scientific hardline abortion stance that entails 30 years for a miscarriage, or you're on the left. Why don't you just

say that you're on the left? Is this so hard for you? Why can't you just be honest? The notion that a conservative like Andrew Neil might find a 30-year sentence for miscarriage extreme. Well, that possibility cannot exist in Shapiro's framework. You're either in

complete agreement with the Georgia law or you're a secret leftist. No middle ground allowed. The desperation becomes increasingly evident. Shapiro has tried deflection by attacking the journalist and failed. Are you an objective journalist or are you an opinion journalist? I wish you would at least be

honest in your own biases. He's tried shutting down debate with empty appeals to authority and failed. My answer is something called science. And now he's attempting to force a political label onto his interviewer. Why don't you just say that you're on the left? Is this so

hard for you? Why can't you just be honest? And he's about to fail again. Having established that Shapiro prefers attacking him to answering questions, Neil turns up the heat by examining the titles of Shapiro's own YouTube videos. You're a star of new media, of conservative new media. uh you and

others on the left and the right, you position yourselves as supposed tellers of hard truths. But haven't you all just really coarsened public discourse in America and exacerbated its divisions? You know, it's kind of odd to be to be hearing about me coarsening public discourse when you call policies you disagree with brutal and bringing us back to the dark ages, sir. Ah, quite the fallacy. Tuoqu Quay, Latin for you too. This occurs when someone deflects

criticism by pointing out that the critic has done the same thing. For example, you can't tell me not to smoke, you used to smoke, too. Or, how can you criticize my driving when you got a speeding ticket last month? In this case, rather than addressing Neil's legitimate question about his role in degrading public discourse, Shapiro essentially says, "Well, you're coarsening discourse, too, by calling policies brutal." It's kind of odd to be to be hearing about me coarsening public discourse when you call policies you disagree with brutal and bringing us back to the dark ages, sir. But here's

the thing. Whether Neil uses strong language is completely irrelevant to whether Shapiro's destroyed videos contribute to toxic public discourse. It's pure deflection. But Neil won't be deterred. Well, maybe it's also part of your problem, too, because we have from your YouTube videos Ben Shapiro destroys the abortion argument. Ben Shapiro

destroys trans transgenderism and abortion. Is that not a kind of coarse public discourse? Well, are those videos labeled by me? I have no idea. But why are you picking out why why are you why I have a question. Why are you picking

out random YouTube videos put up by people who are not me? Are you contributing the titles to me? The defense here is remarkable. Those aren't my titles, so they don't represent me. But they're Ben's videos, aren't they?

that uploaded on his channel under his name which he owns. It's like claiming I didn't write my business card so you can't judge my business by it. This sophisticated straw man combines with denying the antecedent when someone assumes that if A leads to B, then not A leads to not B. For example, if it's raining, the ground is wet. It's not raining, therefore the ground isn't wet.

But the ground could be wet from a sprinkler, a spilled bucket, or morning dew. You get the point, right? But that is what Shapiro is doing here. His implicit argument runs, if I personally titled the videos, then I'm responsible for the tone. I didn't personally title them, therefore I'm not responsible. And

why are you picking out random YouTube videos put up by people who are not meributing the titles to me? But this reasoning collapses under pretty basic scrutiny. His lack of direct authorship doesn't absolve him of the responsibility of the content and brand that he's built on his channel, destroying opponents. Whether he typed the titles himself or approved them, they're still his videos on his channel, building his brand. From here, Shapiro's deflections grow increasingly desperate.

I mean, I I hope you're having fun, by the way, going through every old tweet that I've ever sent to try and do gotcha questions. But if you'd like to have a discussion about my general philosophy or things I've done in say I don't know that it's 2012 so it's now 2019. If you'd like to discuss something I've done in say like the past 5 years, why don't we do that? How about that? This is fascinating. Shapiro is trying to

move the goalposts. When someone changes the criteria for evidence or success to avoid admitting they're wrong. For instance, if the company makes profit this quarter, I'll admit the strategy works. The company makes profit and then I say one quarter doesn't mean anything. Let's see a full year. Here, Shapiro is

attempting to establish new rules about what evidence can be considered. Apparently, seven years is too long ago to be relevant to understanding his character and consistency. If you'd like to discuss something I've done in say like the past 5 years, why don't we do that? How about that? But the problem is that these statements that Neil was quoting reflect fundamental worldview issues that don't typically change rapidly. And more importantly, they are

directly relevant to the thesis of Shapiro's book about civil discourse. You can't write a book criticizing America's angry rhetoric while having a history of well angry rhetoric. So the expiration date Shapiro wants to put on his own words is nothing more than a transparent attempt to avoid accountability. Now as a quick side note, I just want to highlight and appreciate the peculiar American habit of aggressively saying sir when annoyed. It's somehow simultaneously respectful, condescending, and adorable. It's a hell

of a cocktail. Sir. Sir. Anyhow, Neil, undeterred by Shapiro's deflection tactics, continues presenting receipts, and it's here that Shapiro truly begins to unravel. Your book is a criticism of uh how angry America is and how America has to do better. And I'm simply I have

an entire list on my website, sir. Sir, on my list, I have an entire website. I'm simply trying to point out some of the things you you've said that seem to me to help to stalk that anger. For example, you said, "Sure, Israelis like to build. Arabs like to bomb crap and live in open sewage." Well, as I say in

an article entitled, "Here's a list of all the giant bad dumb things I've ever said." Was that was that? Well, yes, that's a dumb tweet. Finally, an admission. But Neil isn't offering easy absolution. No, actually, it

wasn't. What you went on to do and say, uh, you are correct about the slur Arabs. It's not all Arabs that want to live in open sewage and blow things up. It's just Palestinians, you went on to say, "No, no, it's the ones who take sides against Israel in the Palestinian population is rotten to the core." You went on to say, "Not Hamas." The

Palestinian Arab population. I say that by poll numbers. They elected Hamas. They elected Hamas. They educate their childrens in school that Israel should be obliterated. Sir, notice Neil's

technique here. He's not cherry-picking one isolated tweet. He's demonstrating a pattern. And Shapiro's response is to double down with more generalizations about an entire population. It seems that we're witnessing the emergence of the real Ben Shapiro. Not the Polish

media figure, but the person who wrote those tweets in the first place. This is where things become truly spectacular. Shapiro, realizing that his usual tactics have failed, decides to go nuclear. You know, honestly, this is a giant waste of time in the sense that the entire interview is designed for you to shout slogans or old things that I've said at me. I don't see how this fors the debate. You talk about you talk

about undermining the public discourse. It seems to me that simply going through and finding lone things that sound bad out of context and then hitting them with and then hitting people with them is a way for you to make a quick buck on BBC off the fact that I'm popular and no one has ever heard of you. And there it is. The moment the mask slips completely, this multi-layered personal attack represents Shapiro's total loss of composure, he deploys an ad hominin, attacking Neil personally rather than addressing the question substance. The accusation that Neil seeks to make a quick buck constitutes a classic appeal to motive. When someone attempts to

discredit an argument by claiming the person making it has ulterior motives rather than addressing the argument itself. We see this all the time. you only support environmental regulations because you own stock in solar companies or she only criticizes the mayor because she wants his job. In this case, Shapiro asserts that Neil is only asking tough questions for financial gain rather than journalistic integrity is a way for you to make a quick buck on BBC off the fact that I'm popular and no one has ever heard of you. But whether Neil makes money from the interview has absolutely nothing to do with whether Shapiro's past statements contradict his book's message. It's pure deflection dressed up

as insight. And then to cap it all off, the claim that no one has ever heard of you serves as poisoning the well designed to undermine Neil's credibility with viewers before they can judge the interview on its own merits. I'm popular and no one has ever heard of you. In essence, we're witnessing a tantrum. It's an utter mess. But seriously, we do

need to pause here to appreciate the absurdity of what's transpired. Ben Shapiro told Andrew Nil, a man who has interviewed every British prime minister since Margaret Thatcher, who edited the Sunday Times, who chairs press Holdings, that no one has ever heard of you. I'm popular and no one has ever heard of you. It's just brilliant in every way. I love it. There not many bucks have to be

made on the BBC unlike American broadcasting. Mr. Shapiro, that British dead pan delivery, magnificent. Neil calmly corrects Shapiro's assumption while simultaneously highlighting that he's projecting his own financial motivations onto others. But Shapiro's full meltdown has actually only just begun. And I asked you a question. You

failed to answer a single one of mine. Frankly, I find this whole thing a waste of time. If you want to read the book and critique the book, why don't you read and critique the book? If you want to read If you want to critique me, you can think whatever you want of me. Frankly, I don't care. I don't I don't

frankly give a damn what you think of me since I've never heard of you. This is genuinely extraordinary. It's why, in my opinion, this interview is so infamous. Let's unpack this final collapse. First, Shapiro complaining that Neil failed to answer a single one of his questions reveals a fundamental misunderstanding.

And I asked you a question, you failed to answer a single one of mine. Ben is the interview subject. He's being interviewed. He's not conducting the interview. It's like attending a job interview and becoming furious that the hiring manager won't answer your questions about their personal life.

Second, we have the false dilemma of read and critique the book or critique me, which ignores that Neil is doing both. If you want to read the book and critique the book, why don't you read and critique the book? If you want to read, if you want to critique me, you can think whatever you want of me. Frankly, I don't care. He's using Shapiro's past statements to examine the consistency between his written philosophy and actual behavior. And

third, his repeated, "I've never heard of you," isn't just an ad hominin, but also an appeal to ignorance, suggesting that Shapiro's unfamiliarity with Neil somehow renders him unqualified or irrelevant. I don't frankly give a damn what you think of me since I've never heard of you. Now, I've got to say, I have witnessed many people lose a debate, but this is the first time that I've watched someone lose an interview. And I've never heard of you until I briefed myself for this. But that's not the issue. You haven't

The question, why the hell are you interviewing me, sir? Reveals Shapiro's complete inability to comprehend that Neil might interview him for legitimate journalistic purposes to examine consistency between public statements and written philosophy. It seems that in Shapiro's mind, interviews exist only for fan service or ulterior motives. Finally, then comes the Smackdown. You haven't interview it's an interesting book, but my point is your book claims that you would quote it from time to time. Your book is well actually I've

done so several times and I'm about to do so again if you would let me just finish the question. Your book is turning back on Judeo-Christian values. Yeah, this is what are those values considering what are the values it's turning its back on? I I you know I I'm not inclined to continue an interview with a person as badly motivated as you as an interviewer. So I think we're done here. I appreciate your

time, sir. And there it is. Let's call it argumentum at exatum. Taking your ball and going home. Rather than engaging with the substantive criticisms, rather than defending his positions when challenged by a skilled interviewer, Shapiro chose dramatic exit. And he does so while framing his

departure as a principled stand against Neil's bad motivation rather than what it actually is, an inability to defend his own possessions. All right. Well, thank you for your time and uh for showing that anger is not part of American political discourse. Now, Mr. Shapiro, we'll say goodbye. And that is

top tier British irony. Neil's dead pan delivery calmly educates Shapiro. He exposes how Shapiro embodies the exact anger discourse his book supposedly opposes. Thank you for your time and uh for showing that anger is not part of American political discourse. On this day, Shapiro lost a debate to someone who wasn't even trying to debate him. In

fact, he was half asleep. Maybe we should title it Ben Shapiro destroys the BBC schedule by leaving the interview early. So, I think we're done here. I appreciate your time, sir. All right.

All right. So, what have we learned from this beautiful slow motion catastrophe? Well, Ben Shapiro built his career on being the smartest person in the room, on destroying unprepared college students with a rapid gish gallop of talking points. His entire style depends on his opposition's inability to keep pace. But Andrew Neil wasn't an unprepared college student. He was a

prepared, professional journalist who had done his homework. and he systematically dismantled Shapiro's entire persona through three simple techniques. First, he neutralized Shapiro's primary defense. Being a conservative himself, Neil eliminated the liberal buyer shield that Shapiro very regularly relies upon. Why don't you just say that you're on the left? Is

this so hard for you? Why can't you just be honest? Second, he employed the quote back method, forcing Shapiro to confront his own statements and prevent any straw man arguments from taking root. what you went on to do and say uh you are correct about the slur Arabs. It's not all Arabs that want to live in open sewage and blow things up. It's just Palestinians.

And third, and most importantly, he stayed calm and persistent throughout. When Shapiro tried to derail with deflections and personal attacks, Neil simply returned to his original questions again and again. So, why don't you answer my question, sir? Sir trapped with his usual tricks rendered useless, Shapiro's logical framework collapsed, revealing the emotional, angry, and ultimately fragile core beneath. His performance deteriorated through three distinct stages. It started with

deflection, attempting to change subjects and attack the questioner through two quoquay and red herrings. You're a supposedly objective journalist calling policies with which you disagree barbaric. Are you an objective journalist or are you an opinion journalist? When that failed, he escalated to personal attacks, resorting to insults and impuging Neil's motives with ad homonyms and appeals to motive. I don't frankly give a damn what you think of me since I've never heard of you. Is a way for you to make a quick

buck on BBC off the fact that I'm popular and no one has ever heard of you. And when those attacks bounced off Neil's professional character, Shapiro chose complete retreat. I'm not inclined to continue an interview with a person as badly motivated as you as an interviewer. So, I think we're done here. I appreciate your time, sir. Thank

you so much. You know, the argument at exatum, taking his ball and going home. The ultimate irony, of course, is that a man promoting a book about returning to civil, reasoned, Judeo-Christian values devolved into a puddle of univil, facious, ad homininfueled rage and stormed out when asked to simply defend those very values. So, I think we're done here. I appreciate your time, sir.

All right. Well, ultimately, this infamous interview embodies a fundamental truth. Rhetoric cannot substitute for substance. You can build a brand on destroying opponents, but eventually you'll face someone who's done their homework. And when your entire playbook only works against those who come unprepared, your intellectual kingdom isn't built on rock, but on sand. And Andrew Neil on that day

brought the tide. Why don't you just say that you're on the left? Is this so hard for you? Why can't you just be honest? Mr. Seriously, it's a serious question.

Mr.