---
video_title: "The ONLY Tactic MAGA Can't Defend Against"
video_id: HkwQkWt5MUk
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HkwQkWt5MUk
video_date: 20250927
video_description: |
  Go to https://piavpn.com/RationalityRules to get 83% off from our sponsor Private Internet Access with 4 months free!
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  When RFK Jr. appeared before the Senate Finance Committee, Bernie Sanders deployed the only tactic that actually destroys MAGA logic - and watching it work was absolutely beautiful. This isn't your typical senate hearing highlight reel. This is a masterclass in exploiting the fundamental weakness of Trump's movement: their blind loyalty to their dear leader. In this forensic breakdown, I identify the devastating combination Sanders uses - a double bind trap merged with divide-and-conquer strategy - that forces Kennedy into an impossible choice: denounce Trump as part of the corrupt establishment (political suicide) or admit vaccines work (ideological suicide). What makes this tactic so lethal against MAGA logic is that it divides their conspiracy theories from their cult worship, forcing an impossible reconciliation. I'll show you exactly how Sanders weaponizes Trump's own pro-vaccine statements, why the "corrupt pharmaceutical industry" defense collapses when Bernie asks "So is Trump corrupt too?", and the precise moment Kennedy realizes he can't reason his way out. You'll learn why this approach works where fact-checking fails - you can't reason MAGA out of their delusions, but you can force them to choose between their conspiracies and their dear leader. The man who built an empire calling vaccines poison suddenly discovered nuance when his cabinet position hung in the balance.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
---
So, who's right? Is Trump in the medical community right or are you right? >> President Trump did some did an extraordinary piece of leadership. >> Is he right or wrong? Did co save millions of lives?

As I said, he got Americans back to work at that time. That particular vaccine was perfectly matched to the virus that was circulating then. And I have no idea how many lives it saved, but it saved quite a few. >> There it is. The moment President Trump's health secretary, Robert F.

Kennedy Jr., 's entire antivaccine mythology collapsed into rubble. The man who built his brand calling COVID vaccines the deadliest vaccine ever. >> It is the most dangerous vaccine and and has killed more people than uh than anybody than any other vaccine in history. >> Suddenly admitted that they save lives.

And it wasn't because the evidence finally convinced him. Oh no. Nor because he experienced some road to Damascus conversion. It was because Democratic Senator Bernie Sanders had laid a trap so elegant, so airtight that Kennedy was forced to choose between denouncing Donald Trump or abandoning his own conspiracy theories. And he chose to sacrifice his own mythology at the altar of Trump.

>> Everybody is corrupt, but you. Is that what we're looking at? >> Why hello, my fellow apes. I hope you are well. This disastrous exchange, part of an examination during a Senate committee hearing, is something genuinely rare in modern politics. A

conspiracy crusader recanting his own gospel on camera. Not because facts pierce the armor, he is famously invulnerable to those, but through the brilliant exploitation of competing loyalties. See, Sanders understands the man in front of him. He knows that Kennedy's antivaccine crusade, however loud, however lucrative, will always rank second to his political survival. And in Trump's administration, survival means never ever contradicting the tangerine tyrant. In the next few

minutes, we track the dodges, the pivots, and the stress fractures as Kennedy's cathedral of conspiracies groans under the weight of its own contradictions. We see how Sanders exposes not just Kennedy's intellectual bankruptcy, but the hollow core of antivax activism itself. >> There's no vaccine that is, you know, safe and effective. I do believe that autism does come from vaccines. >> When push comes to shove, it's not about protecting children or exposing truth.

It's about continuing a pilgrimage for power marched under the banner of healthcare. Quick story that might save you some money. I've heard incredible things about The Blacklist. Everyone saying it's one of the best crime thrillers out there. So, I was excited to finally watch it, but it is completely missing from UK Netflix.

Yeah, turns out it's a US exclusive. You're lucky. Slightly disappointed, I was ready to fork out for yet another streaming service until I remembered that I have private internet access. A quick switch to Texas and just like that, I could enjoy the show. But streaming is just a bonus feature. The

real power of private internet access is how it creates an encrypted tunnel for your internet connection, making your IP address invisible to anyone trying to access your data. From hackers lurking on public networks to ISPs logging your every click, be it coffee shop Wi-Fi, airport lounges, hotel connections, doesn't matter where you're at, your login details, banking information, and everything else that you do online stays locked down and private. Now, here's what truly sets private internet access apart. They're the world's most transparent VPN provider. Their no lock policy has been proven in court multiple times and independently audited by Deote. The bottom line is that they

can't hand over your data because they don't keep it. With servers in 91 countries and all 50 US states, you can browse from virtually anywhere. Plus, they're one of the few VPNs that actually support persontoperson file sharing. But here's what is to me at least the best thing. One subscription protects unlimited devices. I've got it

running on my phone, laptop, tablet, smart TV. Everyone in my house is covered with just one account. Right now, they're offering my viewers, you, an exclusive deal, 83% off, which brings it down to just $2.3 per month, plus 4 months extra free. And with their 30-day money back guarantee, it's 100% risk-f free to try. With over 30 million people

already using it and 247 support, they've earned their reputation. You're in good hands. Head to piavpn.com/rationality rules to get 83% off private internet access plus 4 months free. Thanks. So,

let's dissect this beautiful catastrophe, shall we? Next question. President Trump, who I don't usually agree with, called COVID vaccines, quote, one of the greatest miracles in the history of modern-day medicine that saved tens of millions of lives worldwide. Scientific community agrees with Trump. Lancet study found that it prevented almost 20 million deaths during their first year of use. Quite

the start here. Sanders begins with an outstretched hand of solidarity, deafly concealing the rope that will hang RFK Jr. He cites Donald Trump of all people as if the Cheeto chief were Florence Nightingale reborn. For a brief moment, one might feel incredulous. Bernie Sanders aligning himself, however briefly, with a man that he spent years denouncing. But the maneuver is

brilliant precisely because it's absurd. He isn't elevating Trump to the level of medical authority. He is inviting Kennedy to the gallows and asking whether he would like to place the noose around his own neck or have someone else do it for him. Amusingly, this is technically an appeal to a relevant authority fallacy when someone cites an authority lacking expertise treating their opinion as decisive evidence. You hear this all the time in creationist spaces. We know that humans and

dinosaurs live together. My pastor said so, and he knows the Bible. But a pastor's knowledge of scripture does not make him an expert in paleontology. The same is true with Trump. Citing the man who once suggested bleach injections as if he were reliable in medicine is absurd on its face. But the brilliance

lies in weaponizing that absurdity. Sanders knows that Kennedy cannot dismiss Trump's opinion without admitting that his movement's leader is unqualified, ignorant, or lying. Crucially, notice that Sanders does not stop there. He cites actual evidence. The Lancet study, a global analysis across 185 countries showing that vaccines prevented 19.8 million deaths

in their first year. By doing this, he sets Kennedy's anecdotes and paranoia against one of the most comprehensive epidemiological assessments in history. Okay, before we go any further, we need to really appreciate Bernie's setup. Obviously, and as covered, Trump's medical opinion is as valuable as a chocolate teapot. But for RFK Jr., Trump

isn't just an ally. He is the golden calf. This is more than a simple challenge. >> It's a trap. >> Let me lay this out. First, the bait.

Trump says that vaccines are miraculous. >> They'll be talking about this great great thing that we did with the vaccines. A truly unprecedented amazing medical miracle. >> Second, the scientific community agrees we're placing science in alignment with Trump. And third, Kennedy himself once called them the deadliest vaccine ever made.

>> The most dangerous vaccine and and has killed more people than uh than anybody than any other vaccine in history. >> With the demand of the binary choice, Trump and science or you Sanders has set a double bind when someone must choose between two options that both result in their own defeat. You know, like your annoying boss who demands that you take the initiative and be more proactive, but then criticizes you for not focusing on the priorities that they set for you. The reason it's a double bind here is because Sanders built this trap using divide and conquer when someone creates divisions between opponents to prevent them from uniting against a common foe. Much of Trump and RFK's base oppose vaccines. But with Sanders forcing Trump

on the side of science, it creates a scenario where if Kennedy says that Trump is right, he betrays his antivax branding and admits that his entire movement is built on lies. But if he says that Trump is wrong, he humiliates his patron and risks political exile. It is the perfect lose-lose. Kennedy must choose which form of political suicide he prefers. Secretary Kennedy, are President Trump and the medical community right or do you still believe that the COVID vaccine was quote the deadliest vaccine ever made? No, I first

of all, I didn't say that. Oh, I said that in terms of affairs reports a while ago. I said today I think that President Trump should get the Nobel Prize. >> Oh dear. That is the graceless shuffle of a cornered demagogue. I didn't say

that. Oh, well, I I guess I kind of did. One could hardly script a more pitiful collapse. Kennedy begins with outright denial and almost involuntary reflex in the hopes that his past words might vanish. But within seconds, the facade buckles, and he conceds that, yes, he did indeed utter those very words. Not

once, by the way, but repeatedly, year after year. >> I said that in terms of affairs reports a while ago. He even tries a little minimization when someone acknowledges something serious but downplays its scale, severity, or significance as if this were just some casual outdated remark rather than the central position that he spent years repeating. >> What would your advice be to someone to a mom of a newborn or a mom who's expecting a new newborn in regards to vaccines knowing that trai- most traditional western doctors do not like to entertain the idea that vaccines are not safe? I would say that we live in a democracy and part of the responsibility of being a parent is to do your own research.

>> It's quite sad actually. You can see that Kennedy wanted to feain amnesia, but he clearly realize that in the internet age, your words are always waiting for you. Actually, you know what? It isn't sad. No, it's uh it's pretty damn hilarious. The stumbling

thoughts, well, okay, I did say that, but now I think that Trump should get a Nobel Prize. You can practically see him on his knees at Trump's feet kissing his shoes. >> I think that President Trump should get the Nobel Prize. >> This isn't an answer. It is a performance of loyalty. A sickopantic

red herring tossed out to avoid the question that he can't bear to face. This of course is a fallacy. When someone introduces an unrelated point to distract from the original issue, it is a staple in this administration. Think of Trump himself. When pressed on the economy, he suddenly pivots to warn a violent invasion of millions of immigrants from mental institutions.

>> This has been a disaster for people, for the middle class, but for every class. On top of that, we have millions of people pouring into our country from prisons and jails, from mental institutions. >> It is a smoke bomb, a way to redirect outrage away from the original question he couldn't or wouldn't answer. Here, Sanders asked, "Who is correct, Trump or you?" So, who's right? Is Trump in the

medical community right or are you right? >> And Kennedy's reply was to suggest that Pumpkin Palpatine should get a Nobel Prize. >> The Republic will be reorganized into the first Galactic Empire. >> So, let's not get distracted. Kennedy has repeatedly in black and white declared COVID vaccines the deadliest vaccine ever made.

>> It is the most dangerous vaccine. His 2021 book, The Real Anthony Fouchy, is practically scripture for that lie. And his podcast appearances from 2021 through 2023 repeat the same bile on loop. I did a book in which I I I have uh 450 studies that are digested in that book, you know, that I summarize and site and 1,400 references. And everybody will say, "Oh, there's no study that shows autism and and vaccines are connected.

That's just crazy." His favorite distortion is veyors, the vaccine adverse event reporting system. It is an open ledger where anyone can report anything verified or not. What's that? Your grandmother faints in the supermarket 2 weeks after getting a vaccine. Report it. A man dreams of a

bat after his booster. Better write that down. But veyes does not prove causation. It is designed to flag signals for investigation and those investigations have been done. The CDC and FDA combed through the data and found serious adverse events to be vanishingly rare. But of course,

Kennedy's trick is to turn allegations into confirmation, suspicion into fact. >> I've said today, I think that President Trump should get the Nobel Prize. >> So, who's right? Is Trump in the medical community, right? Or are you right?

>> We are not getting off topic here. Sanders refuses to bite on the Nobel bait. He returns, as any disciplined interrogator must, to the question at hand. Who is right? The medical community or you? Trump or you?

>> Is Trump or the medical community right or are you right? >> Stop trying to run to your safe space of Trump flattery. >> President Trump did some did an extraordinary piece of leadership. >> If this evasion stinks to you, that's because it's yet another red herring. He has been asked whether Trump was right about vaccine saving lives. Instead, he

praises Trump's extraordinary leadership. He's not answering the question. President Trump did some did an extraordinary piece of leadership. >> And it's worth asking which leadership exactly. Is it the leadership of suggesting bleach injections or perhaps the leadership of packing stadium rallies during a pandemic? Kennedy

cannot say. The phrase is like perfume on garbage. A quick spritz to cover the smell, but the rot still seeps through. Now, the best red herrings, while still misleading, don't look like distractions at all. No, rather they sound like they're addressing the question because all the right names and phrases are in the mix. In this case, mentioning Trump

praising his leadership regarding COVID response, it makes the misdirection harder to spot. For many listeners, it might even work, but not for Bernie. He's not going to let Kennedy wrigle off the hook. Is he right or wrong? Did co save millions of lives?

>> As I said, he got Americans back to work at that time. That particular vaccine was perfectly matched to the virus that was circulating then. And I have no idea how many lives it saved, but it saved quite a few. >> Again, Bernie presses. He is the prosecuting attorney, refusing to let the witness wander into irrelevancies.

The question will be repeated until it gets answered. Kennedy cannot escape by retreating to a manufactured middle ground. And as a consequence, we are rewarded with the inevitable retreat. >> But it saved quite a few. Kennedy conceds at last the vaccines saved lives. But note the qualifiers. That

particular vaccine. >> That particular vaccine. >> At that time, >> at that time >> and quite a few >> quite a few. >> This concession is reduced to the most grudging form. These hedges are classic goalpost moving, a fallacy where someone keeps moving the criteria so their position can't be disproven.

Flatearthers, for instance, do this all the time. When presented with the 15 degree per hour drift on a gyroscope that proves the Earth's rotation, they pivot to something else. Well, there's no 24-hour sun at the North Pole. We see it with Kennedy here. This is a man who once declared vaccines the deadliest ever.

>> The most dangerous vaccine and has killed more people than than any other vaccine in history, >> but is now admitting that they saved lives. >> But it saved quite a few. >> But only that particular one and only at that time. His claim has been reshaped from total condemnation to grudging partial acceptance while leaving every other vaccine open for attack. But of course, reality doesn't bend so easily.

Vaccines have continued to protect against severe illness and death even as new variants emerged and updated boosters have preserved the strong protection. In fact, a 2023 Commonwealth Fund study estimated vaccines prevented over 3 million deaths and 18 million hospitalizations in the US alone through late 2022. Kennedy's supposed surrender is just camouflage for his intent to keep fighting this war. But good old Bernie isn't blind. >> And I have no idea how many lives it saved, but it saved quite a few.

>> Um, you know what I find a little bit weird in this discussion? I'm hearing it over and over again. this morning, Mr. Chairman, is we've got the entire medical community on one side. You got the AMA representing hundreds of thousands of doctors, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Public Public Health Association.

All of these organizations are telling us that COVID vaccine and vaccines in general are safe and effective. You are casting doubt on that. Who are your scientific who are the organizations that are agreeing with you and casting dispersions on vaccines? >> The uh the the primary advisors are Marty McCary, uh Jay Badachara, Dr. Oz >> Sanders continues to build his case against Kennedy, institution after institution, each representing tens of thousands of professionals, all in alignment. Finally, he throws down the

glove. Name the organizations that agree with you. >> Who are the organizations that are agreeing with you? >> It's a challenge designed to expose emptiness because Kennedy knows and Sanders knows that he knows that there are none. And emptiness is indeed what follows. A shabby parade of names all

inadequate. Marty Machi criticized vaccination mandates for most populations. Jay Batachara, a physician turned health economist best known for co-authoring the widely condemned Gray Barington Declaration. Vinnie Prasad compared vaccine mandates to Nazi Germany, saying this is how democracy ends. You know, I'm not quite sure on how requiring your nation to protect themselves against transmittable disease is equivalent to a genocidal state, but uh okay. And last but not least, Dr.

Ros, a pseudoscientific TV salesman who platformed energy healing and pushed miracle weight loss pills until Congress dragged him in to explain himself. >> Green coffee bean extract. Yakone syrup. Red palm oil. Garcinia cambosia. It's a

miracle flour. Miracle pill. Brand new miracle. >> Do you believe that there's a miracle pill out there? There there's not a pill that's going to help you long-term lose weight and live your the best life without diet and exercise.

>> You ought to be ashamed of yourself. >> Pitting these men against credible institutions is a prime example of the false equivalence fallacy when someone presents two sides as equally valid when they're actually quite different. To return to the flat Earth community, it's like pitting one of their YouTubers against NASA, pretending that a man with a GoPro in his backyard is on equal footing to the people who put a rover on Mars. The trick in this case is to pretend that a lone crank or a minor celebrity carries the same authority as an institution built on decades of research and oversight. It doesn't. For

Kennedy to set Dr. Oz, the television hawker of magic beans against the American Medical Association is an insult not just to the AMA but to the very idea of medicine. >> The primary advisors are Marty McCary, uh Jay Barachara, Dr. than I presume. >> So you got a few doctors who agree with you, but I'm giving you the >> not a few doctors. What you're talking

about is there's a big difference, Senator, between established science and the the scientific establishment, which has been co-opted by the pharmacy. >> Whoops, there it is. He just can't help himself when it comes to conspiracies. Established science versus the scientific establishment. It's word play. the refuge of a sophist.

>> There's a big difference, Senator, between established science and the the scientific establishment. >> He's pretending there's some pure incorruptible real science floating out there that conveniently agrees with him while the actual scientists and institutions doing the work, he insists, are hopelessly corrupted. Notice how carefully he must navigate these questions. He has to be super selective about where the corruption supposedly lies. I mean, he can't very well claim Trump is corrupted by farmer money. That

would burn his political bridge. So, the conspiracy must somehow stretch across every medical institution on Earth while miraculously sparing his political allies. Hiding behind the rhetoric is a form of ad hominant fallacy when someone attacks the person or group instead of addressing their argument. In particular, this is a circumstantial variant where they attack the situation of the opponent rather than the person themselves. A common example that you've probably heard goes something like this.

Of course, he criticizes billionaires. He's a communist. Kennedy engages this when instead of dealing with the point that these venerable institutions contradict him, he claims that they are co-opted, that their doctors are corrupted by industry money. >> There's a scientific establishment which has been co-opted by the whole. >> But the problem he faces is that the scientific consensus spans beyond the reach of American pharmaceutical lobbies. Cuba developed its own vaccine

free of FISA's touch and still promotes vaccination. Japan, Europe, and the UK, you know, major public health authorities around the world all endorse vaccines. Are they co-opted, too? Is that what we're meant to believe? To believe this is to believe in a global conspiracy of doctors, which all right, never mind. It's RFK. There's a big

difference, Senator, between established science and the the scientific establishment, which has been co-opted by the pharmacy. Hold on. So, you're telling me, you're telling the American people that the American Medical Association representing hundreds of thousands of people have been co-opted and that they should not trust their doctors. The American Academy of Pediatrics, the American, and by the way, just for the record, every single Republican, I don't mean to be political here, Mr. chairman has received pack money from the pharmaceutical industry.

Are they all corrupt as well? >> Bernie Sanders may be 84 years old, but damn, is he on the ball. He immediately grabs RFK's insult and delivers this excellent reductio adabsum when someone takes their opponent's reasoning and stretches it out to the extremes to show that it doesn't hold up. Assume for a moment that being ignorant makes people happier. You know, the ignorance is bliss and all that. If your opponent is

arguing this point, you could point out that if this were true, then we should stop educating children to make them happier. Of course, that way lies idiocracy. >> Mankind became stupider at a frightening rate. Sadly, the greatest minds and resources were focused on conquering hair loss and prolonging erections. What Sanders highlights here is that Kennedy claims that farmer money corrupts medical institutions. Okay, then follow

it through. If farmer money corrupts, that means that Republicans and Trump himself, all swimming in pack cash, are also corrupt. It's a return to the divide and conquer method that Bernie used earlier. First, he split Kennedy from his antivax crusade by pitting him against Trump. >> So, who's right? Is Trump in the medical

community right or are you right? >> Now, he splits Kennedy from his Republican allies by showing that his corruption argument, if true, condemns them all. Every single Republican, I don't mean to be political here, Mr. Chairman, has received pack money from the pharmaceutical industry. >> Kennedy is trapped by his own words. So,

um, well, let's see how he deals with it. >> Are they all corrupt as well? And I'm telling you, the American Heart Association has been co-opted by the >> Oh dear. Now, we're talking about hamburgers or maybe fish, as it's yet another red herring. And not just that, but a spectacular irrelevant conclusion fallacy. When someone avoids the issue

in question, proving or addressing something else entirely. Picture the argument. Look, there's a housing crisis. Costs are going up faster than wages. And the reply is, you know, immigration is a huge problem. It sounds

like it's addressing the same big societal problem bucket, but it's actually dodging the housing point entirely. Sanders asks whether Republicans who take farmer money are corrupt according to Kennedy's own reasoning. >> Are they all corrupt as well? >> And Kennedy takes a hard turn and claims that the heart association is corrupted by the food industry. >> The American Heart Association has been co-opted by the food >> to further compound the problem. This is

also a genetic fallacy when someone dismisses information based solely on its source rather than its merit. picture. I don't know. Trump's press secretary, Caroline Levit, earlier this year when she brushed off a court ruling against deportation orders, not by arguing the law, but by attacking the judge. She called Judge Boseberg a Democrat activist.

>> Judge Booseberg is um a Democrat activist, >> emphasizing he was appointed by Obama. >> He was appointed by Barack Obama >> and even dragged in his wife's campaign donations. >> His wife has donated more than $10,000 to Democrats. None of that engages with the legal reasoning. We see the genetic fallacy in play when Kennedy discards the Heart Association's findings because, as he claims, their funding is tainted rather than any problem with their evidence or findings. But like

Levit, he doesn't even have his facts straight because the association frequently opposes food industry interests such as urging less meat, less processed food, less sugar. Hardly the behavior of puppets. And I'm telling you, the American Heart Association has been co-opted by the flu. >> Everybody but you, Senator, but you know what? When you ran for president, you know, we have a corrupt campaign finance system. Maybe you will agree with me on

that. Okay, you brought in per president. You got a billionaire behind it. You received $300,000 from people, not from the industry, people in it, as I did, from individuals. You corrupt.

President Trump got $3 million. Every Republican got corporate pack money for the pharmaceutical industry. Democrats as well. Everybody is corrupt but you. Is that what we're looking at? I don't

think so. And I think the issue now I mean what can I say? This is my favorite moment of the whole exchange. >> Everybody is corrupt but you. >> It's the distillation of Kennedy's narcissism. A man who claims to be the

sole custodian of truth while the world conspires against him. Bernie spots the implicit special pleading fallacy when someone asserts that something is an exception to a rule without justification. To give you an example, picture someone arguing that we should avoid superstitions, beliefs born of ignorance, fear of the unknown, trust in magic or chance, except of course for astrology, which is totally real. The rule bends conveniently to protect their personal favor. What have we seen with Kennedy? The claim that every

institution is corrupted. The American Heart Association has been co-opted by the flu. >> Every politician is bought. Every scientist is compromised except of course himself. >> There's a scientific establishment which has been co-opted by the pharmacy.

>> He alone is pure. Yet campaign records show that his coffers are filled with money from Timothy Melon, a Republican mega donor who also bankrolled Trump. The hypocrisy is total. Rules for thee, but not for me. >> I don't think so. But I think the issue

now >> I don't even know what you're talking about. >> Well, I think you do know what I'm talking about. >> I don't know what you're talking about. >> And we arrive at the final refuge. Figned stupidity. Repetition as

stonewalling. Kennedy clings to an act of ignorance in the hope that if he says it often enough, it will harden into truth. >> I don't know what you're talking about. >> The issue is every time anyone >> Are you saying Are you saying the pharmaceutical industry was supporting my presidential bank? Everybody, welcome to the Straw Man.

Almost every word out of Kennedy's mouth carries a new fallacy, and this time it's the one where someone misrepresents or oversimplifies another person's argument to make it easier to attack. Let's stick with healthcare as an example. One might say, "We should fund public healthare," only to be dismissed with, "Oh, so you want socialism and government control of everything?" The real argument is ignored because the cartoon version is easier to knock down. That's exactly what happens here.

Sanders never said that farmer funded Kennedy. Rather, he spoke of systemic influence and corruption to which Kennedy is pleading special exemption. But Kennedy rewrites it as, "Are you saying that they supported my presidential campaign?" >> Are you saying the pharmaceutical industry was supporting my presidential campaign? >> Because that at least he can deny.

>> No, I'm not saying that. I'm saying that the pharmaceutical industry is a greedy institution which is charging us the highest prices in the world. They are pervasive. But to suggest that every institution, the AMA, the pediatrics people is corrupt because they disagree with you is an insult to the American. >> And with that, Sanders plants a flag of honesty and its very presence singes Kennedy. Here's the truth. You can call

out big farmers greed and still acknowledge the vaccines save lives. They're not mutually exclusive. >> People disagree with me all the time. I have arguments in my agency, heated arguments every day with Jay Bachar, with Marty McCary, with Dr. Oz.

>> You know, I'm starting to think that Kennedy really does love fishing. Because here comes yet another red herring. Sanders calls him out for insulting the American people by declaring entire medical associations corrupt simply because they disagree with him. Every institution, the AMA, the pediatrics people is corrupt because they disagree with you. >> And how does Kennedy respond? By talking

about arguments he's had with Dr. Oz and a couple of fringe allies. >> Heated arguments every day with Jay Butch or with Marty McCary, with Dr. Oz. >> An irrelevant anecdote that dodges the actual point. And let's not let him get

away with this fake reasonleness, pretending openness to debate with people disagree with me all the time while in the same breath waving off the entire medical establishment as corrupt. This is gradea This also circles us back to our earlier false equivalents. Kennedy's rattling off his buddies as if they stand on the same tier as the American Medical Association or the Academy of Pediatrics. Thankfully, even if Bernie doesn't label the fallacies, he clearly spots them. >> People disagree with me all the time. I

have arguments in my agency, heated arguments every day with Jay Bachar, with Marty McCary, with Dr. You have given the names of a few people. I have given you the names of organizations representing hundreds of thousands of doctors and scientists. I yield, Mr. President.

>> And with this, Sanders slams the hammer, yelling, "A few people versus hundreds of thousands. I have given you the names of organizations representing hundreds of thousands of doctors and scientists. >> The contrast is overwhelming. Kennedy is revealed as a man stranded on an island of delusion, surrounded only by conspiracy theories and television doctors, unable to reconcile his loyalty to Trump with his hostility to science. The yield is both procedural and theatrical. The Senate formality

doubling up as a mic drop. Sanders knows that he hasn't just won the exchange. He's left his opponent exposed, flailing, and absurd. >> Everybody is corrupt, but you. >> In the end, this wasn't a debate so much as a seafood festival. Buckets of red

herrings and a roasted conspiracy theorist. Every fish in the market was on display, slippery, shiny, and flopping. But Bernie Sanders came with receipts. what Trump had said, what the medical community had said, and most damning of all, what Robert F. Kennedy Jr. himself had said.

>> So, who's right? Is Trump in the medical community right or you right? >> And under that weight, the fantasy collapsed. The man who once swore COVID vaccines were the deadliest ever made was forced to admit they saved lives because he couldn't bring himself to contradict his political idol. >> There's no vaccine that is, you know, safe and effective at that time. That

particular vaccine was perfectly matched to the virus that was circulating then. The most dangerous vaccine and and has killed more people than any other vaccine in history. And I have no idea how many lives it saved, but it saved quite a few. This is what this administration has always been about. Not health, nor children, not truth, just loyalty or exile. Power at any

cost, even if you have to climb over corpses to keep your seat at the table. Anyhow, thank you kindly for the view and a special thank you to everyone who supports the channel, including today's sponsor, Private Internet Access. Click the link below or scan the QR code on screen to grab one of the best VPN deals out there. Thanks.