---
video_title: "Feminist SPANKS Charlie Kirk With This 1 Ancient Trick"
video_id: GRLV5Is-Pc4
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GRLV5Is-Pc4
video_date: 2025-07-23
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/rationality to stay fully informed on breaking news, compare coverage and avoid media bias. Subscribe through my link for 40% off unlimited access this month.
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  This video examines a debate between Charlie Kirk and Cambridge student Tilly Middlehurst, focusing on rhetorical strategies and logical argumentation. Through systematic analysis, we identify Kirk's use of multiple fallacies, including false cause, straw man arguments, and repeated red herrings. Middlehurst employs one ancient philosophical technique to devastating effect, exposing internal contradictions in Kirk's reasoning, particularly regarding happiness metrics and gender equality. The exchange demonstrates the difference between performative debate tactics designed for social media clips versus substantive philosophical discourse. We analyse each logical failure, fact-check statistical claims, and examine how Middlehurst maintains argumentative discipline despite constant attempts at derailment.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  Episode 1: Exactly How Charlie Kirk got SCHOOLED by a Cambridge Student: https://youtu.be/9O7y50cNb7c
  
  Original video: Charlie Kirk + Q&A / Debate | Cambridge Union: https://youtu.be/dkiM-z0Mzyg?si=fYEUfVJoj9puzE9R
  
  Charlie Kirk + Q&A / Debate |  @cambridgeunionsoc1815 : https://youtu.be/dkiM-z0Mzyg?si=hZ88J7n85lLPB6J0
  
  @RealCharlieKirk
---
The women of the West are miserable because we've told them to suppress how they are made by God. We should tell them to stop freezing their eggs and start finding their partner earlier and have lots of babies. >> It's the week before my university exams uh right now and I'm standing here explaining the basic basic methodology behind survey collection in sociology which you don't even think is a real subject to Charlie Kirk. If I took one of those surveys right now, I'd check extremely miserable. But so would a Palestinian child who's been taunted to smith. How are we going to measure

>> say extremely miserable? >> No, I'm I'm kind of making a joke. >> Okay, good. So we agree that we actually many many things >> and we should shut off Muslim immigration to the UK. Right. We totally

agree. >> I think that all religious fundamentalism is bad. And if you take that logic, we should also not allow evangelical Christians in Hold on. Just hold on a second. Hold on. That's funny.

Hold on. There it is. The exact moment, well, one among many that a Cambridge student body slammed the supposed conservative master debater. But I'm getting ahead of myself. >> Does tearing down statues correspond to some kind of smiles per capita data set that I wasn't aware of? again. It's like

it's a little bit of a oneliner. [Music] Why hello my fellow apes. I hope you are well. Charlie Kirk, the founder of Turning Point USA, has, like so many other prominent conservative voices, built his entire brand on destroying college liberals in debates, turnurning out endless viral clips of himself owning unprepared students on American campuses, which is precisely why flying across the pond to debate students at Cambridge University was such a spectacular mistake. Now, you might recall our previous episode where we watched another Cambridge student joust with Charlie over homosexuality.

>> How did that work out for them? vote are perfectly fine. It was an accepted norm of society. >> Okay, I still think it's wrong. >> Well, we're going back to the same event because there's another exchange that very much deserves our attention. Truly,

you are going to see one of the oldest tactics in philosophy applied extremely successfully again and again and again. The topic is the role of women in society and the student is Tilly Middhhurst who didn't just debate Charlie, she took him to school. It's the week before my university exams uh right now and I'm standing here explaining the basic basic methodology be behind survey collection in sociology which you don't even think is a real subject to Charlie Kirk. >> We're going to go through their exchange chronologically identifying every fallacy, every rhetorical trick, every desperate pivot. And we see how someone who actually understands logic can dismantle years of practiced talking points with nothing more than clear thinking, sharp wit, and one particular extremely effective technique. So strap

in cuz this is going to be beautiful. >> So I'm a feminist. Um my question uh is about the role of women though. What should women's role in public and private life look like and what are the material benefits of that? >> Well, thank you uh for that. Can Can I

take I I don't even want to take this detour, but can we both agree on what a woman is? >> Okay, so I appreciate that we're only two sentences into this exchange, but there's already so much to unpack, especially considering that it's going to come up many times throughout. You see, Charlie, like many popular conservative speakers, has a handful of rhetorical traps loaded and ready to spring. These aren't random diversions. They're carefully selected topics designed to shift the battlefield to more favorable terrain. And whenever any

conversation even tangentally relates to women, gender, or feminism, they immediately try to steer it towards one specific trap. Can you define what a woman is? What is a woman? >> What is a woman? What is a woman?

>> What is a woman? >> This is what's known as a red herring. When someone introduces an unrelated point to distract from the original issue, but it's a particularly clever red herring because of how it functions strategically. I mean, think about what's happening here. Till's asking a question about women's role in society.

What should women's role in public and private life look like and what are the material benefits of that? >> A question that could lead to Charlie having to defend some genuinely controversial positions. Should women prioritize careers or family should they even have the ability to have a career? What about mandatory parental leave or pay gap legislation? These are areas where conservative positions often amount to stripping away rights and opportunities from women. And because of

this, they're not exactly popular. This is dangerous territory for Charlie. But the question, what is a woman? >> Can we both agree on what a woman is? >> Now, that is safe ground. It's a

definitional debate that most people haven't spent time thinking about, and it gets into linguistics and the philosophy of language. So, it makes the conservative speaker look philosophical and rigorous while making their opponent appear confused about basic concepts. Never mind that the definition of woman has absolutely nothing to do with whether we should have universal healthcare, equal pay legislation, or what role women should have in society. You don't actually need a perfect definition to have these conversations. And the beauty of this trap is in its efficiency. In one swift move, Charlie

avoids having to defend positions like women should stay home and have babies or the pay gap is actually good. And instead, he gets to play philosophy professor, forcing his opponents to navigate complex discussions about biology and gender theory that have absolutely nothing to do with the actual policy question at hand. And notice the transparent disclaimer. I I don't even want to take this detour, but can we both agree on what a woman is? >> It's like a pickpocket saying, "I would never steal from you." While his hand is

already in your wallet, the disclaimer is part of the distraction technique. He absolutely wants this detour. It's his escape route from having to engage with Till's substantive question about material status and social roles. >> What should women's role in public and private life look like? And what are the material benefits of that?

>> But here's what makes Charlie specifically particularly fascinating to watch. Many conservatives who deploy this red herring are actually quite clever about it. They find subtle ways to guide the conversation, dropping breadcrumbs that naturally lead to the what is a woman trap. They make it seem organic, like a logical progression of thought. But Charlie, he just crashes through the wall like the Kool-Aid Man.

>> Oh yeah. >> Can we both agree on what a woman is? >> No finesse, no subtlety, just I don't want to take this detour followed immediately by taking this exact detour. >> I don't even want to take this detour. And it's this inability to hide his rhetorical maneuvers that makes Charlie such an interesting case study. He shows

us the tricks without the misdirection, the slide of hand performed with all the lights on. >> Yes. Um, an adult human female. It's a biological state of being that is also socially experienced. Can I please elucidate just one example of that social experience?

>> Great start from Tilly here. She gives Charlie exactly what he asked for, a definition, and then immediately steps over his trap. She clearly knows that if she lingers on definitions, they spend the next 10 minutes in philosophical weeds about chromosomes and social constructs instead of discussing actual policy. You know, the things she's actually asked about. >> An adult human female is a biological state of being that is also socially experienced.

>> By acknowledging both biological and social aspects, she's given a complete enough answer that Charlie can't claim that she's dodging while simultaneously driving straight back to her original question about women's role in society. Can I please elucidate just one example of that social experience? >> Yeah, I was going to answer your question, but sure. Go ahead. >> Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So, let's say

you're a member of a tribe and that in that tribe to uh you have the biological female anatomy and in order to become a woman in that tribe, you have to also get a tattoo. That's a social experience that's mapped onto biological reality. >> So, can can a woman have a prostate? >> And this is an abysmal start from Charlie. Tilly just offered a genuinely fascinating anthropological point about how societies lay social expectations onto biological categories. She's

illustrating how womanhood isn't purely biological. Different cultures are different requirements, whether it's tattoos, clothing, hairstyles, or rights of passage. It's a sophisticated observation about how gender roles vary across societies while still being connected to biological sex. >> And in order to become a woman in that tribe, you have to also get a tattoo. That's a social experience that's mapped onto biological reality.

>> It's nuanced. But Charlie, he will have none of this complex discussion about cultural practices and social roles. No. No. While Till's exploring how societies construct womanhood, Charlie can't stop thinking about prostates.

>> So, can can a woman have a prostate? >> But in terms of debate, this is Charlie desperately hammering on his red herring, trying to force Tilly to bite. He's not interested in discussing how societies construct gender roles, which was, remember, her actual question. He wants to talk about trans people and biological essentialism. So, no matter what thoughtful point Tilly makes about social experiences, Charlie's going to keep yanking the conversation back to body parts. The repetition,

>> can a woman have a prostate? It's super easy. Like, can a woman have a prostate? >> Shows just how determined he is to make this conversation go where he wants it to go. Biologically speaking, a woman is an adult human female that has a biological reality, but it's also social experience, right? So, I like I don't

>> It's super easy. Like, can a woman have a prostate? >> So, as per my definition of woman, I would say that people who have a prostate are biologically male, but they can sometimes be socially treated as women. >> Okay, got it. So, so, so, so women can have prostates. Got it. Okay. Um, that's

So, you're a feminist that actually isn't just fighting for women, you're also fighting for men. And here we see, at least in my opinion, Charlie's true colors. This isn't about understanding or engaging with ideas. It's about manufacturing a gotcha moment for his audience. The type of gotcha that goes viral among his base. You can literally

see him grinning, so proud of his little rhetorical trap. And then comes his apparent slam dunk. >> So, you're a feminist that actually isn't just fighting for women, you're also fighting for men. >> The smuggness is palpable. He thinks he's already delivered a coup grass. But

here's what makes his gotcha so bizarre. It reveals that Charlie's completely ignorant about what feminism actually is. If he had read literally any feminist theory, he'd know that feminists explicitly fight for men, too. They argue that patriarchal systems harm men through toxic masculinity, emotional repression, and rigid gender roles. Feminists believe an egalitarian society benefits everyone. So his big own is

essentially, ha, you believe exactly what your movement has always said it believes. >> You're also fighting for men. >> That's not a win. But then again, it actually is, at least in terms of optics, since much of his core base also doesn't know the first thing about feminism. This is performance, not conversation. From the very moment Tilly

said, "I'm a feminist," Charlie's been working towards this predetermined punchline. He's not interested in hearing her thoughtful explanation of how biological and social elements comprise gender. >> An adult human female is a biological state of being that is also socially experienced. >> He's not engaging with her actual question about women's roles in society. >> What should women's role in public and private life look like? He's just

waiting for his moment to spring the trap and score points with his base. His grin and the way that he looks towards the audience for approval gives away the game. Again, he's not as subtle as other conservative champions. That's the look of someone who thinks they've just delivered a knockout blow. But all he's really demonstrated is that he's not listening. Tilly has been crystal clear.

Biological reality exists and social experience matters. These aren't contradictory ideas, but Charlie needs them to be for his gotcha to work. And here's the crucial thing. Even though Charlie didn't actually get the slam dunk here, he thinks he did. And with conservative audiences, this move is seen as a crushing victory. Look at

these confused leftists who can't even define what a woman is. It's easy, but they can't even do it. >> You guys are easy. >> It's rhetorically powerful because it takes complex discussions about social roles and reduces them to simple biological gotchas. This is precisely why whenever feminism or gender roles come up, conservatives will desperately try to steer the conversation towards prostates and chromosomes. It's not

about understanding, it's about humiliating your enemy. Something that Ben Shapiro has said is a good tactic to do. >> The only other reason that you should ever have a conversation or be friends with anyone on the left is and and not even be friends is if you are in public in front of a large audience and then your goal is to humiliate them as badly as possible. the fact that they're actually discussing something far more nuanced simply gets lost in the performance. >> So yes, yeah, men also experience harms from uh patriarchy, but I argue >> we're talking about the same feminism though, just make sure. Yeah, sure. Go

ahead. >> Again, fighting for men isn't a contradiction of feminism, it's practically a core tenant. Talking of misinformation, finding reliable, unbiased news has become increasingly challenging. >> You are fake news. Headlines compete for our attention, often sacrificing context and nuance for clicks. This is precisely

why ground news has become an indispensable tool in my daily routine. Let me show you how it works with a recent major story. Europeans win in UN clash with US over rival Ukraine resolutions. Looking at this story through ground news, I can immediately see that it's been covered by over 200 different sources. What's particularly interesting is the bias distribution.

The coverage skews slightly to the left with 39% left-leaning sources compared to 25% right-leaning ones. Ground news makes this political slant instantly visible. Diving deeper, we can see how different outlets frame the same event with dramatically different headlines and perspectives. Sky News UK, a center source with high factuality, reports, "US joins Russia, North Korea, and Barus to vote against UN resolution on Ukraine war." Their subheading explains, "Two motions were passed by the UN today as the world marks the third anniversary of Russia's invasion, with the US voting against one and abstaining on another.

The very same story takes on a completely different tone with the Evening Standard, rated as leaning right with high factuality." Their coverage includes charged language stating US accused of betrayal as it votes alongside Russia and North Korea against UN resolution condemning war. Then there's Salon, a left-leaning source which frames it as Trump admin refuses to back UN resolution condemning Russian invasion. Their coverage emphasizes political affiliations. There has never been a more crucial time for this comprehensive approach to news consumption. Ground News cuts through

the noise, allowing you to see every perspective on important stories and make your own informed judgments. And I'm excited to share that Ground News is offering my audience, you 40% of their unlimited access vantage plan. Experience this invaluable tool for yourself at ground.news/rationality. If you value balanced, reliable news coverage, I am confident that you'll find ground news as indispensable as I have. And by signing up through my link,

you'll be supporting the channel as well. >> Men also experience harm from some patriarchal domination, but I would argue that those harms come from that system of domination itself in the same way. For example, this isn't a threat, but if I reached across and punched you in the face, then my hand might hurt. Right. So, are we understanding that there are like patterns of power? So, I

would also fight for the rights of men as a feminist just as I would fight for the rights of women. >> Sure. Um, you think women are happier than they were 40 years ago? >> Here's the thing. Even if it were true that women were on average happier 40 years ago, a claim that's highly debatable, let alone the causes, this wouldn't justify forcing all women back into the kitchen. You can't derive an

ought from a happiness survey. I mean, should we also bring back leaded petrol because people were happier back when they had lead poisoning? The logic doesn't follow. So, this has become a pattern, hasn't it? Every time Tilly tries to have a substantive discussion about women's roles, the actual topic that they're meant to be discussing, Charlie desperately yanks the steering wheel towards something else. First, it

was prostates. >> Can a woman have a prostate? >> Then happiness surveys. >> Do you think women are happier than they were 40 years ago? >> Why can't he just tell Tilly what roles he expects women to have in society and then have an argument about justifying it?

>> Do you think women are happier than they were 40 years ago? >> Um, I think I would have a few responses to that. Um, I think that women report more stress and dissatisfaction today because uh not because they have more rights or because of feminism, but because they're under dual pressure to both excel professionally and also because of the domestic labor in homes that is structured around outdated expectations. So, for example, studies like the OECD's better life index show that women's life expectancy, education levels, professional achievements have risen in countries with higher gender inequality. So I would argue that what you're calling unhappiness is actually visibility because now we hear women expressing dissatisfaction whereas in the 50s we prescribed them valium and we lost.

>> This is a devastating response that tackles Charlie's happiness question from multiple angles. First the dual pressure point. >> They're under dual pressure to both excel professionally and also because of the domestic labor in homes that is structured around outdated expectations. >> This is exceptionally well documented in gender studies. Women are expected to excel in the workplace partly because of housing costs that have skyrocketed so much that a single inome household is nearly impossible while still carrying most of the domestic burden. They're

essentially working two full-time jobs that would impact anyone's mental health and reported happiness levels. It's not feminism making women unhappy. It's the failure to update domestic expectations alongside workplace participation. But her second point about visibility is even more devastating. >> What you're calling unhappiness is actually visibility because now we hear women expressing dissatisfaction whereas in the 50s we prescribed them Valium and we lost.

>> Are there now more unhappy women or are we seeing more reports of unhappy women because they're finally allowed to express dissatisfaction without being diagnosed with female hysteria and institutionalized? Seriously, I don't think these facts are registered enough. Well into the 20th century, women displaying anxiety, irritability, or basically any deviation from submissive contentment could be diagnosed as hysterical. What's that? Too much appetite for sex? Hysteria. Not enough

appetite for sex. Well, that's also hysteria. Tendency to cause trouble. Definitely hysteria. The treatments ranged from forced bed rest to labbotoies. It's not a surprise then

that today when we don't have such oppression, we see such reports. Another thing to consider is that this visibility phenomenon happens whenever marginalized groups gain acceptance. Take left-handedness. When religious conservatives stop beating children for using their left hand, suddenly there was a surge in left-handed people. Was it an epidemic of leftness? No, it just

rose to its natural rate of about 10% and then plateaued. The same pattern repeated in the 1990s when homosexuality became more accepted. Conservatives claimed that we were turning children gay. But in reality, the percentage simply rose to its natural level once people felt safe enough about being open. Now today, we're seeing the exact same pattern with trans people.

Conservatives call it an epidemic. And with autism, >> this mythology that this is, you know, that the autism epidemic is not real. It's not that there's more of these people, it's that they're finally visible and counted. They're finally accepted. And to an extent, our methodologies have evolved. So when

Charlie points to unhappiness surveys, he's not comparing apples to apples. He's comparing women who can finally voice dissatisfaction to women who literally were lobbomized for doing so. >> What you're calling unhappiness is actually visibility. Because now we hear women expressing dissatisfaction, whereas in the 50s we prescribed them Valium and we lobized. Yeah, that's um that's really rich. I I didn't

know women not to complain 50 years ago. That's funny. >> This is an egregious example of a straw man fallacy when someone misrepresents their opponent's argument to make it easier to attack. Tilly just offered a well-reasoned argument about visibility backed by evidence about how women's dissatisfaction was medicalized and suppressed through forced drugs and labbotoies. She's making a sophisticated point about data collection and social acceptance of women's voices. And

Charlie's response was, "I didn't know that women were not complaining 50 years ago." >> That's really rich. I I didn't know women not to complain 50 years ago. That's funny. >> That is not what she said, my dude, at all. She didn't say that women didn't

complain. She said that their complaints were pathologized and silenced through medical violence. >> Now we hear women expressing dissatisfaction whereas in the 50s we prescribed them Valium and we lost. >> But reducing her nuanced argument to women didn't complain makes Charlie sound sharp and witty to his base. Another lib owned. Another feminist

destroyed with facts and logic. >> Facts >> don't care about your feelings. It's the same performative smuggness we saw with his earlier smirk about trans people. He's not interested in engaging with the actual argument. He's interested in scoring points. And the quickest way to

score points is to pretend that your opponent said something much more stupid than they actually did. >> That's really rich. I I didn't know women not to complain 50 years ago. That's funny. Um, so >> always, hold on a second. Why are

suicide rates going up more for women? >> I think that encourages >> complaining materially. Women are killing themselves more. Why is that? >> And this is red herring number three.

First it was define woman. >> Can we both agree on what a woman is? >> Then are women happier? >> Do you think women are happier than they were 40 years ago? >> And now what about suicide rates?

>> Why are suicide rates going up more for women? >> Each pivot takes us further from Till's original question about women's role in society. >> What should women's role in public and private life look like? >> Why won't he answer the damn question? What is it precisely that Charlie thinks women should be doing with their lives?

What roles does he demand that they have? He can't answer. He won't answer. But there's something far more insidious happening here. Charlie's implying that feminism causes female suicide, a false cause fallacy. This occurs when someone

assumes that a correlation between two things means that one caused the other. An example would be noticing that as ice cream sales go up, so too do drowning deaths and then concluding that ice cream causes drowning. You can't just assume that correlation equals causation. You need to rule out other factors, such as in this case that summer might have something to do with it. The burden of proof is on Charlie to show not just that suicide rates have increased, but that feminism specifically caused this change. But he

doesn't even attempt to do this. He just throws out the statistics and expects Tilly to defend against his implied accusation. It is a brilliant rhetorical trap if you fall for it. And here's what makes his argument even weaker. The claim that suicide rates today are higher is completely false. But do you

know what? Two can play Charlie's correlation equals causation game. Female suicide rates in England and Wales peaked in the 1960s at 11.8 per 100,000 people. Today they're at 5.7 per

100,000 people. In fact, the suicide rate among women has almost half since 1981 when it was 10.5 per 100,000. Making this even worse for Charlie is that the lowest recorded suicide rates for both sexes in England and Wales have been in the 21st century. So when Charlie claims that women are materially killing themselves more, he's not just wrong. He's spectacularly demonstrably

wrong. The data shows the exact opposite of what he's claiming. >> Materially, women are killing themselves more. Why is that? >> I think that even if both men, both men and women have become unhappier. Men's

suicide rates have risen as well, and that's also been exponential. Can you at least concede that feminism offers only one potential explanation? There could be also other explanations. Understandably, Tilly has granted what we know is a false point about suicidality, but it's actually a brilliant move. She has effectively immediately flipped the burden of proof back to where it belongs, on Charlie.

She's emphasizing that even if the rates have gone up for men and women, Charlie still needs to demonstrate that feminism is the cause. He can't just assume it. He needs to demonstrate it. >> Materially, women are killing themselves more. Why is that? Today, there is

absolutely zero peer-reviewed literature demonstrating a causal link between feminism and suicide rates. None. What the actual research shows is that suicide is influenced by complex intersecting factors including economic stress like rising inequality and housing insecurity, social isolation and poor access to healthcare, discrimination especially against marginalized groups like LGBTQ plus people. Digitalized stressors like social media harassment and substance abuse combined with mental health stigma. The WHO report emphasizes that suicide is rarely the result of a single factor, but rather driven by an interplay of psychological, social, biological, cultural, and environmental factors. Notice what's not on that list.

Feminism, women having rights, equal pay legislation, the ability to open a bank without a husband's permission. Again, if we were to argue the way that Charlie does, drawing simplistic correlations, we could claim that feminism is responsible for saving thousands of lives by cutting suicide rates nearly in half. But that would be just as facious as his argument. The difference is we're not the ones making wild claims without data. Charlie doesn't present any actual statistics because when more savvy conservatives try this argument and cherrypick data, anyone who actually analyzes the full picture can see that they are completely wrong.

>> Can you at least concede that feminism offers only one potential explanation? There could be also other explanations. obviously, but feminism is the the glaring thing in front of us where we have fertility rates down, we have marriage rates down, we have unhappiness up, and we did something in the 1960s out of the universities of Betty Fredane and Gloria Steinum and all these feminists that basically said, "You're trapped in a home. Go get a job, freeze your eggs, take birth control, and all of a sudden, women are way unhappier than they were 40 years ago." >> Now, it's worth noting that we're witnessing a gish gallop when someone throws out a rapidfire series of claims without substantiating any of them.

Fertility rates are down. Marriage rates are down. Unhappiness is up. >> We have fertility rates down. We have marriage rates down. We have unhappiness

up. >> Women freezing eggs. Birth control. 1960s feminism. >> We did something in the 1960s out of the universities of Betty Fredane and Gloria Steinum and all these feminists that basically said, "You're trapped in a home. Go get a job. Freeze your eggs.

Take birth control." >> It's a machine gun of unsubstantiated assertions designed to overwhelm rather than convince. Each of these claims would require careful analysis. Are fertility rates down because of feminism or because of economic factors? Are marriage rates down because women have choices now or because education has led to a reduction in religiosity? But

Charlie doesn't pause to prove any of this. He just keeps firing, hoping the sheer volume of claims will substantiate for actual evidence. And he's not done. He continues, >> and I just have to ask the question, why is that? Is it working? And maybe there

are biological differences between men and women that we should respect and that deep down a lot of women want to get married and have children. In fact, we should applaud it and we should support it and we should say it means nothing if you're going to go be a CEO of some shoe company or be some banker in London. What matters if you raise children and you have something to pass down long after you're gone. >> Here we see Charlie constructing a complete straw man of what feminism actually advocates. He's painting feminism as some kind of anti-motherhood movement that demands that women should abandon their biological desires to freeze their eggs and climb corporate ladders. But this is absolutely not what

feminism has ever been about. Feminism recognizes that many women want children and it applauds and supports those choices. That's fine. What it doesn't support is forcing all women into motherhood, whether they want it or not. It doesn't support teenage girls getting pregnant and being trapped in incompatible relationships forever because that's what traditional values demand. Feminism is about choice. It's

about freedom. It's the radical idea that women should get to decide their own path like men. But there's two other fallacies lurking in Charlie's Gish Gallup. First, an appeal to nature. This occurs when someone claims that something is good or right simply because it's natural or that something is bad or wrong just because it's unnatural. Like saying humans shouldn't

fly in planes because we weren't born with wings or medicine is wrong because disease is natural. When Charlie talks about women being made by God and needing to respect biological differences, he's suggesting that biology equals destiny. >> There are biological differences between men and women that we should respect. But just because women can have children, doesn't mean they should or must. We don't say humans have legs, therefore everyone must become a runner.

We don't say men have more upper body strength on average, therefore they must all become construction workers. But somehow when it comes to women and reproduction, suddenly biological capability becomes moral imperative. Not everything natural is good. Disease, parasites, and dying in childbirth are natural too. And many good things are unnatural like vaccines, glasses, and the very building Charlie is debating in. Whether something is moral or

beneficial depends on evidence, not whether it exists in nature. The second fallacy is an appeal to tradition when someone argues that something must be right simply because it's been done that way in the past. Like saying, "We've always had slavery, therefore abolition is wrong." Charlie's entire argument rests on the idea that because women traditionally stayed at home, that's how it should remain. But tradition gave us slavery. It gave us bloodletting as

medicine. It gave us burning women while accusing them of witchcraft. We've always done this is not an argument. It's an admission that you don't have an argument. Now, in terms of rhetoric, notice that Charlie drops names like Betty Friedan and Gloria Steinum, giving an air of authority as if he's actually read their work >> of Betty Fredane and Gloria Steinum and all these feminists.

>> But if he had, he'd know that they never said don't have children. They said women should have options beyond only being mothers. >> All these feminists that basically said you're trapped in a home, go get a job, freeze your eggs, take birth control. >> There is a massive difference between you can be more than just a mother and you shouldn't be a mother. This is a colossal straw man dressed up in academic garb. And then there's his

grand finale. >> We should say it means nothing if you're going to go be a CEO of some shoe company or be some banker in London. What matters if you raise children and you have something to pass down long after you're gone? >> Really nothing. You can have both. So

the female doctors saving lives, the female teachers educating the next generation, the female scientists advancing human knowledge, all of that means nothing. >> It means nothing. >> This isn't about respecting biological differences. It's about dismissing any woman whose contribution to society extends beyond reproduction. what matters if you raise children and you have something to pass down long after you're gone.

>> Yeah, >> I think I would bring two points to that. The first one is just really simple, which is that you can ascribe liberalism all you want as the cause of the unhappiness. I would argue something else. I would say that it's certain economic policy that has very little to do with the social acceptance of alternative lifestyles. I would say that we can recognize that income inequality of across a vast swave of Western countries has increased which causes all kinds of social ills. A lack of social

cohesion, housing price growth doesn't correspond with wage growth. Monopolies increasingly become kind of emboldened to interfere with politics and monopolies don't prioritize social health either. >> Did you see Charlie's face during this response? Look, I'll put it on screen again. This is fascinating. Tilly is

giving a nuance data-driven answer that actually addresses the real causes of social unhappiness. And Charlie, he's completely checked out. You can see it in his body language, the glazed eyes, the barely suppressed impatience. He's not listening, not considering, not engaging with any of the economic factors that she's presenting. He's just waiting to take his turn to speak. This

is performance debate at its worst. Till's pointing to actual measurable economic factors. Income inequality, housing crisis, wage stagnation that research shows correlate with unhappiness. We can recognize that income inequality of across a vast swave of western countries has increased which causes all kinds of social ills. A lack of social cohesion. Housing price growth

doesn't correspond with wage growth. >> But Charlie doesn't care about the data or nuance or actual causes. He came with talking points about feminism ruining everything. And no amount of evidence is going to change that script. >> Feminism is the the glaring thing in front of us.

>> The visual cues are so obvious that it's comical. This isn't a conversation. It's two people taking turns making speeches except one of them is actually responding to what the other says. >> I think that those offer more compelling reasons for a decline in happiness than an increase in freedoms because just one more thing on an intuitive basis generally speaking people want more freedom not less. >> Okay. So if that's true why is it do you

do you agree that the happiest women of the west are married with kids? >> And there it is proof that Charlie didn't absorb a single word. Tilly just explained that happiness is influenced by complex multifaceted economic and social factors. She's arguing that simple correlation doesn't equal causation, that you can't just point to one variable and blame everything on it. >> Can you at least concede that feminism offers only one potential explanation?

>> Charlie's response is to completely ignore all of that and go right back to his one-dimensional talking point about married women being happier. >> Do you agree that the happiest women of the West are married with kids? >> But here's the thing. Even if we granted Charlie's premise that married women with children report higher happiness, which itself is a complex claim that requires nuance, so what? Pet owners report higher happiness than non- petet owners, but we don't mandate dog adoption. People who exercise regularly

report higher happiness than those who don't, but we don't have mandatory gym sessions. People who live near nature report higher happiness than city dwellers, but we don't forcibly relocate everyone to the countryside. The entire point of freedom is letting people choose their own paths to happiness. Charlie hasn't done the work to substantiate his claim that feminism causes unhappiness. He's just thrown out a correlation and expected everyone to accept his preferred causation. Till's

explaining that economic factors provide more compelling explanations. But Charlie can't hear her over the sound of his own agenda. >> Okay. So, if that's true, why is it do you do you agree that the happiest women of the West are married with kids? >> Um, I would have to look into it, but I think there are certain there are certain We know that, right? The the

women with kids are not the ones tearing down statues, right? They they're the ones that actually have obligations. >> Does tearing down statues correspond to some kind of smiles per capita data set that I wasn't aware of? >> Again, it's like it's a little bit of a brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. Tilly

just exposed the absurdity of Charlie's entire argumentative method with one perfectly timed quip. >> Does tearing down statues correspond to some kind of smiles per capita data set that I wasn't aware of? She's highlighting exactly what he's been doing this entire debate, drawing bizarre correlations and pretending they mean something profound. >> Do you agree that the happiest women of the West are married with kids? >> But let's humor Charlie and unpack his logic because it's even more ridiculous than it first appears. He's arguing that

because married women with children self-report higher happiness, we should what? Force all women into marriage and motherhood. That's like banning ice cream because people who eat it have higher drowning rates. They both peak in summer, Charlie. Correlation isn't causation. And then there's his truly

bizarre pivot to statute tearing. >> Objectively, we know that, right? The the women with kids are not the ones tearing down statues, right? >> Apparently, in Charlie's mind, political activism means that you wouldn't destroy property under any circumstance. I mean, has he ever heard of the suffragettes?

Those women who had children, households, and plenty of obligations, and they still fought tooth for nail for their rights. They smashed windows, chained themselves to railings, and yes, they would have absolutely torn down statues if it advanced their cause. Mary Wilstoncraft had children. Emiline Parkhurst had five. These women weren't childless radicals with nothing better to do. They were mothers fighting for a

better world for their daughters. But Charlie's so invested in his narrative that activist women must be miserable and childless that he's rewriting history in real time. >> Women with kids are not the ones tearing down statues, right? The audience applause says it all. They recognize that Tilly just demolished his entire argumentative framework with one simple question.

>> Does tearing down statues correspond to some kind of smiles per capita data set that I wasn't aware of? >> Again, it's like it's a little bit of a >> if tearing down statues correlates with unhappiness, where's the data? Oh, right. There isn't any. Just like there's no data supporting his claim that feminism causes suicide or unhappiness. It's all just correlations

strung together with conservative ideology in the hope that nobody would notice. >> Again, it's like it's a little bit of a oneliner. The the happy and the grateful. The happy and the grateful usually don't go burn down Wendy's in their spare time of which we saw in our country all throughout a single summer. >> Oh, so now Charlie's concerned about oneliners. This is from a guy whose

entire brand is built on trying to land oneliners. Just like his earlier attempt of gotcha, you're a feminist who also defends men. >> So you're a feminist that actually isn't just fighting for women, you're also fighting for men. >> He lives for these moments, but when Tilly delivers one that actually exposes his logic, suddenly it's just a cheap oneliner. >> It's a little bit of a oneliner.

>> And once again, Charlie reveals his historical ignorance. Throughout history, those fighting for their rights have had to make a scene. I wonder, would Charlie say the same thing about the enslaved people who destroy property during rebellions. Would he condemn the workingclass men who smashed machinery during the industrial revolution to fight the class system that was crushing them? The Boston Tea Party was literally destroying property for political ends.

Were those American revolutionaries just ungrateful and unhappy? >> The happy and the grateful usually don't go burn down Wendy's in their spare time. Time and time again, the comfortable always think that the oppressed should be more grateful, more patient, more quiet, but rights have never been won by asking politely. From here, Charlie then presses Tilly again on accepting his claim that women in the West who have children are happier than those who don't. And Tilly has this to say in response.

>> So, I also don't think that happiness is a very good metric, and neither do you because you think gay people shouldn't just pursue happiness by being gay. They have other moralistic considerations to be making. >> This is how you expose hypocrisy. Tilly just exposed that Charlie doesn't actually care about happiness as a metric. He only cares about it when it supports his predetermined conclusions.

When it comes to women, Charlie insists that we must follow the happiness data and structure society accordingly. Women with children are happier, so all women should have children. That is the implication. >> What matters if you raise children and you have something to pass down long after you're gone. But when it comes to gay people who report being happier when living openly, suddenly Charlie discovers moralistic considerations that override happiness metrics.

>> You think gay people shouldn't just pursue happiness by being gay. They have other moralistic considerations to be making. >> It's such a clean rhetorical killshot. It's beautiful. She's using his own logic against him. If happiness is the

ultimate metric for how people should live, then Charlie should support anything that makes people happier, including being openly gay. But of course, he doesn't because his appeals to happiness data were never about actually maximizing human well-being. They were about finding statistics that support his existing worldview while ignoring ones that don't. Tilly just exposed the game. Charlie picks his position, then shops for data and logic to support it. When the data and logic

contradicts his position, suddenly data and logic doesn't matter anymore. And Tilly isn't done. She follows up with this. So, I don't think smiles per capita is a particularly convincing way to measure whether or not we should encourage women to be autonomous. I think we should maximize agency within a fair system that has reasonable parameters because it's expedient, it's good for the economy, it's logical, it's the moral thing because if we can't prove the material harms, we shouldn't discourage it. And also, self-reported

studies is a really flawed way to do psychology. It's the week before my university exams uh right now, and I'm standing here explaining the basic basic methodology be behind survey collection in sociology, which you don't even think is a real subject, to Charlie Kirk. If I took one of those surveys right now, I'd check extremely miserable. But so would a Palestinian child who's been taunted smithetherines. How are we going to measure >> say extremely miserable?

>> No, I'm I'm kind of making a joke. >> What a rhetoric methodology that's apparently sailing right over Charlie's head. Happiness is relative. It's contextual. It's measured against personal baselines and immediate circumstances. Someone who's objectively

worse off might report being happier because they've experienced worse or because those around them have it worse. A millionaire who loses half their fortune might report misery while someone escaping poverty might report joy despite having far less. A student stressed about exams might check the same extremely miserable box as someone experiencing actual tragedy. That's why self-reporting happiness surveys are notoriously unreliable for making sweeping societal prescriptions. >> If I took one of those surveys right now, I'd check extremely miserable. But

so would a Palestinian child who's been taunted to smitherines. >> And this is basic psychology, like firstear undergraduate stuff. But it's clearly too complex for Charlie, who only thinks in terms of simplistic correlations and gotcha statistics. He's so focused on his talking points that he can't grasp why comparing happiness scores across different populations with different baselines and expectations might be methodologically flawed. >> Self-reported studies is a really flawed way to do psychology. It's the week

before my university exams uh right now and I'm standing here explaining the basic basic methodology be behind survey collection in sociology which you don't even think is a real subject to Charlie Kirk. >> The fact that Tilly has to explain this to him while stressed out about her own exams just adds another layer of absurdity. She's literally teaching him introductory research methods while he smuggly insists that women should restructure their entire lives based on his misunderstandings of happiness surveys. >> No, I mean, but ser like as a but hold on. I mean, like that's an important point though is that the women of the West have it the best in the world and yet they're way unhappier than women of subsaharan Africa. There's something

fundamentally wrong here because the women of subsaharan Africa have something that a lot of women in the West do not have. The women in the west have cats and they have good jobs. And the women of Sahara Africa, they have a belief in the divine and they have kids and maybe there's a biological undercurrent that is keeping a lot of women from realizing their full potential. And so without reading your phone and just like, you know, connecting, >> oh my word, Charlie just made a claim so spectacularly wrong that it's actually it's it's breathtaking. crossnational happiness comparisons show the exact opposite of what he's claiming. This is

demonstrably verifiably false. The World Happiness Report of 2023, you know, actual data rather than Charlie's feelings consistently ranks subsaharan African nations at the bottom of the global happiness index. Countries like Zimbabwe, Rwanda, and Tanzania have far lower average life satisfaction scores than Western nations. Meanwhile, the happiest countries in the world are Finland, Denmark, Iceland, all Western nations with strong, very strong, feminist movements and high gender equality. But Charlie doesn't care about actual data. He's too busy creating

bizarre caricatures where Western women are defined by cats and good jobs, while African women are blissfully happy because of faith and children. >> The women in the West have cats and they have good jobs. And the women of Samsahara Africa, they have a belief in the divine and they have kids. >> It's not just offensive, it is statistically illiterate. And yet suppose that Charlie was right. Well,

you know by now correlation doesn't equal causation. It's a false cause fallacy. Even if subsaharan African women were happier, and they're not, claiming it's because of religious faith and having children is the same nonsense logic he's been peddling all debate. He needs to demonstrate it. And do you know what? This right here is a mistake that

gives away his game entirely. Put it this way, Charlie is so eager to make these causal leaps that he does it even when his basic facts are completely wrong. If he's this sloppy with fabricated data, then you know exactly how reckless his reasoning is when he accidentally stumbles upon real statistics. And as for the condescension dripping from >> and so without reading your phone and just like you know connecting >> this is a subtle ad hominin when someone attacks the person rather than their argument. Till's been systematically dismantling his points with data and logic. And Charlie's response is to

imply that she's some disconnected Gen Z glued to her screen. >> You know connecting. >> This is what desperation looks like. He's realizing that he's losing both the crowd and the debate. The audience has already applauded Tilly Zingers. His

statistics have been exposed as false. His logical contradictions are piling up. So he retorts to this passive aggressive swipe, suggesting the university student who's teaching him basic research methodology is somehow the one who needs to connect. >> Connecting. >> Making things worse, suppose that Tilly was using her phone for notes, which she probably was. Why would that be a bad

thing? We don't criticize debaters for bringing paper and pen, do we? If anything, it shows that they are taking notes, that they are listening carefully enough to track the opponent's arguments. It shows that they've come with actual points of their own, that they're not just going to be giving you their feelings and fabricated statistics. We have unhappiness up. Why

are suicide rates going up more for women? Women are way unhappier than they were 40 years ago. Women with kids are not the ones tearing down statues. All these feminists that basically said, "You're trapped in a home. Go get a job.

Freeze your eggs. Take birth control." But no, in Charlie's world, being prepared is apparently a character flaw. You've got to wonder, would he have a go at his doctor or therapist for taking notes while he speaks to them? Anyhow, they go back and forth on this point for a bit and then Tilly delivers this.

>> I would ask you, would you say that a subsaharan African woman who's experienced female genital mutilation and checks extremely happy in a survey? And I also would check extremely happy in a survey, who do you think would be objectively more happy even if they both check the same answer? This is such a powerful illustration of why self-reported happiness is a flawed metric. Responses aren't straightforward measurements of well-being because of cultural adaption, normalization of suffering, and lack of alternative experiences. Someone who's enduring trauma might report happiness because it's all they've ever known. Someone

who's never experienced freedom might not know what they're missing. Tilly made this point earlier, but here she's really hammering it home with a visceral example. No. Okay. So, I I fully if you want to talk about how Islam mistreats women, we could talk all day long. Like,

I'm I'm all for that. >> My word, there is another red herring. Tilly was critiquing the limitations of self-reported happiness metrics using FGM as an example of normalized suffering. >> Would you say that a subsaharan African woman who's experienced female genital mutilation and checks extremely happy in a survey? And I also would check extremely happy in a survey. Who do you

think would be objectively more happy even if they both check the same answer? Charlie immediately pivots to Islam bashing, completely missing her methodological point. >> If you want to talk about how Islam mistreats women, we could talk all day long. Like, I'm I'm all for that. >> But here's what makes this deflection even more ridiculous. Charlie just spent

several minutes claiming that subsahara and African women are happier because of their belief in the divine. >> The women in the west have cats and they have good jobs and the women of Subsahara Africa, they have a belief in the divine and they have kids. >> Now he wants to attack Islam. I mean, does he not know that Christianity is the dominant religion in subsahara and Africa, comprising about 62% of the population? Female genital mutilation isn't an Islamic practice. It's a

cultural practice that predates both Islam and Christianity in the region. Both faiths have adherence who practice it, and both have adherence who condemn it. It's justified post hawk with various religious reasonings, but it's fundamentally a cultural phenomenon. So Charlie simultaneously wants to claim that subsahara and African women are happier because of religious faith while attacking Islam, not realizing that he's also talking about Christian women. The layers of ignorance here are astounding.

>> If you want to talk about how Islam mistreats women, we could talk all day long. Like I'm I'm all for that. >> Me too. >> Okay, good. So we agree that we actually many things >> and we should shut off Muslim immigration to the UK, right? We totally

agree. >> Boy, that escalated quickly. >> It jumped up a notch. >> It did, didn't it? We started with what should women's role in society be? And

somehow through prostates, happiness surveys, suicide rates, statue tearing, Wendy's, and subsahara in Africa, we've arrived at shutting off Muslim immigration to the UK. >> What should women's role in public and private life look like? And what are the material benefits of that? >> Can a woman have a prostate? >> What should women's role in public and private life look like?

>> It's super easy. Like, can a woman have a prostate? >> What should women's role in public and private life look like? Do you think women are happier than they were 40 years ago? >> What should women's role in public and private life look like?

>> Do you agree that the happiest women of the West are married with kids? >> What should women's role in public and private life look like? >> Why are suicide rates going up more for women? >> What should women's role in public and private life look like? >> Materially, women are killing themselves more. Why is that?

>> What should women's role in public and private life look like? >> Women with kids are not the ones tearing down statues, right? >> What should women's role in public and private life look like? >> The happy and the grateful usually don't go burn down Wendy's in their spare time. What should women's role in public and private life look like?

>> And the women of Sahara Africa, they have a belief in the divine and they have kids. >> What should women's role in public and private life look like? >> We should shut off Muslim immigration to the UK. Right. We totally agree.

>> This is peak Charlie Kirk and it's a clear representation of his debate style. He's not having a conversation. He's working through a checklist of conservative talking points. It doesn't matter what the topic is or how the discussion flows. He will find a way to hit every item on his list.

>> We should shut off Muslim immigration to the UK, right? We totally agree. >> I think that all religious fundamentalism is bad. And if you take that logic, we should also not allow evangelical Christians in >> Hold on. Hold on a second. Hold on.

>> Another zinger from Tilly. I told you that she's brilliant, didn't I? Christian fundamentalism has its own extensively documented issues with women's rights, including campaigns against reproductive rights, abortion bans, contraception restrictions, and opposition to LGBTQ plus rights. We're talking about violence at abortion clinics, murdered providers, and terror campaigns against LGBTQ plus individuals. Studies show that 40% of Christian nationalists support the idea that true patriots might need to resort to violence to save the country. That's

2.5 times higher than the general public. These beliefs strongly correlate with authoritarianism, anti-black racism, anti-immigration sentiment, and yes, anti-Muslim and anti-semitic attitudes. But Charlie would never apply his own logic consistently. Religious fundamentalism is only bad when it's the other team's fundamentalism. His own

sides extremists, well, that's just good old-fashioned Judeo-Christian values. >> Hold on. Hold on a second. Hold on. That's funny. Hold on.

Can you show me a single show me what would your example cuz I have 50 of a single Christian country that you would say mistreats women right >> America. >> Oh really? >> Yes. >> We mistreat we had a female woman vice president. We had a female vice president a female speaker of the house.

Women earn more than men in America. >> Oh this is rich. Charlie's using the we had a female leader defense. But by that logic Pakistan must be a feminist paradise. They've had a female prime minister, don't you know? India has also

had women in power and so has Bangladesh. Are these suddenly bastions of women's rights? And let's talk about the female vice president Charlie's citing. >> We had a female vice president. >> This is the same Charlie Kirk who called Camela Harris a DEI hire.

>> Camela Harris is a JV player. She is a DEI pick. She was not selected because she's a good candidate. among other charming descriptions. The same Charlie who said, "If you're a Christian that votes for Camela Harris, you are voting for things that God hates."

>> If you're a Christian that votes for the Democrat party, you are voting for things that God hates. That's between you and God. >> And Camela Harris is wired to be repulsed by the name of God. >> Kla Harris is wired to be repulsed by the name of God. They She mocks God.

Again, everything Democrats love, God hates. >> But wait, it gets worse. >> Women earn more than men in America. This is just a flatout lie. Women in America earn less than men, about 15% less over a career. That means hundreds

of thousands of dollars less in lifetime earnings, which translates to 30% less in pension and retirement income. Charlie's not just wrong. He's stating the exact opposite of reality. Again, >> women earn more than men in America. >> And if we want to talk about how America treats women, let's look at the actual data. The US is the only wealthy country

without federal guaranteed paid parental leave and it has the highest maternal mortality rate among wealthy nations. But Till's not done. Once again, she takes Charlie's own metric and turns it against him. >> In Rwanda, female representation in government out outs like supersedes the UK by quite a lot. Do women get treated better in Rwanda?

>> Okay. I is I might be super off this. Like is Rwanda Islamic? Like I'm not totally sure. I don't think it is. like

is it like I don't know actually I don't >> this is absolutely beautiful. Charlie has just argued that America can't be sexist because it had a female vice president from a party that he despises. >> Everything that Democrats love God hates. >> So Tilly brings up Rwanda which has the highest percentage of women in parliament in the entire world over 60%. >> Do women get treated better in Rwanda?

>> By Charlie's own logic then Rwanda must be a feminist utopia. But what was his response? He didn't engage with the logic. He didn't address the contradiction. His only move was to desperately ask if Rwanda is Islamic, hoping he could somehow pin this on his favorite scapegoat.

>> Is Rwanda Islamic? >> He's so locked into his Islam bad talking point that he can't even process that he's been hanged by his own logic. The stammering. >> Like, I'm not totally sure. I don't think it is. Like, is it like I don't

know actually. >> Is Charlie's brain shortcutting in real time? He has no idea about Rwanda's religious demographics. It's about 90% Christian, by the way. But he's frantically hoping it's Muslim, so he can salvage his argument.

>> Is it like I don't know, actually. >> So, once again, Tilly has taken Charlie's reasoning to its logical conclusion and shown how absurd it is. Female representation clearly doesn't equal good treatment of women. Otherwise, Rwanda would be a paradise. But Charlie can't acknowledge this because it would mean admitting that his metric is meaningless. Is it like I

don't know actually I don't it's not so again we were talking about Islam as a little bit of side note. >> Speaking of side notes just look at Till's face at this moment. It says everything. You can almost see the exact second she realizes that Charlie's not going to engage with her argument at all. He can't follow the dialectic or refuses to. He's not interested in

building on ideas, challenging them, or even understanding them. He's just here to repeat conservative talking points. No matter what's actually being discussed, >> it's not. So again, we were talking about Islam as a little bit of side note. >> And there it is. Charlie trying

desperately to save face. He's got caught in a massive logical contradiction. His own metric for evaluating women's treatment, female political representation, >> a female vice president >> completely backfired when Tilly brought up Rwanda. Unable to defend his position or engage with the obvious flaw in his reasoning, he dismisses the entire humiliating exchange as a little bit of a side note. >> We were talking about Islam as a little bit of side note.

>> But this wasn't just a side note. It's a devastating exposure of his entire argumentative method. Tilly just proved that Charlie doesn't actually have any consistent principles for evaluating how societies treat women. He just has conclusions he wants to reach and will grab whatever statistics seem convenient in the moment. When those same statistics prove him wrong, suddenly it's all irrelevant.

>> A little bit of side note >> to put a name on it. This is a classic case of moving the goalposts. When someone changes the criteria for evidence after their original standard has been met, it's like saying if you can run a mile in under 6 minutes, you're a great athlete. And then when someone does it, you change the condition to, well, actually, you need to run it in under 5 minutes. or anyone who graduates from Cambridge is smart, but then when you meet a Cambridge grad that you don't like, suddenly declaring, "Well, grades don't really measure intelligence." Charlie just did exactly

this. His goalpost was, "Female political representation proves good treatment of women." That's why America having a female vice president supposedly proves the US doesn't mistreat women. >> A female vice president. But when Tilly points out that Rwanda has the world's highest female parliamentary representation >> in Rwanda, female representation in government out out sees like supersedes the UK by quite a lot. Do women get

treated better in Rwanda? >> Suddenly that goalpost shifts. Now representation doesn't count. >> A little bit of side note, >> the standard of evidence mysteriously changes the moment it stops supporting his argument. >> I'm making a simple observation which is which is objectively true regardless.

The women of the West are miserable. And they're miserable for a reason. Because we've told them to suppress how they are made by God and pursue something else and get a bunch of trinkets and get a bunch of promotions. And they end up at 38 years old with a big flat in London and they're miserable. And we should tell them to stop freezing their eggs and start finding their partner earlier and have lots of babies.

>> Notice that everything that Charlie just said is completely irrelevant to the exchange that just happened. Tilly made a specific point. Rwanda has more women in government than the UK or the US. By Charlie's own reasoning that female political representation proves good treatment of women, Rwanda should be better for women than the West. >> Do women get treated better in Rwanda?

>> When Charlie tried to deflect to Islam, he discovered Rwanda is majority Christian. >> I don't. >> It's not. So again, we were talking about Islam is a little bit of side note. >> So what does he do? He completely

abandons the discussion and retreats to his memorized talking points about Western women being miserable with their trinkets and big flats in London. >> And they end up at 38 years old with a big flat in London and they're miserable. >> And notice the loaded language here when someone uses emotionally charged words to manipulate rather than inform. Calling women's career achievements trinkets and promotions isn't a neutral description. It's deliberately dismissive language designed to minimize and mock >> and get a bunch of trinkets and get a bunch of promotions.

>> A woman's medical degree. Ah, it's just a trinket. Her position as a judge merely a promotion. Years of hard work and achievement worthless. Apparently, this isn't accidental word choice. By

reducing professional accomplishments to trinkets, a word associated with cheap, worthless decorations, Charlie's trying to make careers seem inherently meaningless compared to motherhood. we should tell them to stop freezing their eggs and start finding their partner earlier and have lots of babies. >> It's the rhetorical equivalent of calling someone's life work a hobby. But there's an even deeper problem with Charlie's framing. He's creating a false dichotomy when someone presents only two options when many more exist. It's like

saying you can either be healthy or enjoy food when obviously you can do both. Charlie's painting exactly two pictures. miserable career women with cats and big flats >> and they end up at 38 years old with a big flat in London and they're miserable >> or happy married mothers with children. >> We should tell them to stop freezing their eggs and start finding their partner earlier and have lots of babies. >> That's it. Those are the only options in

Charlie's world. But what about women who have successful careers and happy families? Or women who choose not to have children and are perfectly fulfilled? What about women who have children later after establishing careers? or those who adopt or foster or mentor. What about women who find

meaning in their careers serving others? And let's not forget the stay-at-home mothers who are miserable. By presenting only two extreme options, lonely cat lady or blissful trad, Charlie's trying to force a choice that doesn't reflect reality. Really, this is rhetorical cowardice of the highest order. He can't defend his position. He can't engage

with the contradiction. He can't even acknowledge that his own metric just backfired spectacularly. So, he simply pretends that the last two minutes didn't happen and launches into a pre-written speech about career women and egg freezing. Objectively true regardless, >> the objectively true claim is particularly rich given that he's just spent several minutes spouting objectively false statements about women's earnings and happiness. But why let facts get in the way of a good sermon about women needing to have lots of babies?

>> Yeah. Okay. I think I'd bring two just final points to this. First one is just really intuitive, right? which is that if you actually care about women's happiness, then the solution is to structurally support them. That means

universal child care, shared legally enforceable parental leave. Um, and in Nordic countries where women have high workforce participation and also some state support, they report higher life satisfaction than in more conservative countries including America. So if your metric is high satisfaction surveys or not? Because you told me do you acknowledge satisfaction surveys or not? >> You just told me that they're BS. Do you

think they're object we can use that as data? >> Yeah. Look, um, either Charlie has the listening comprehension of a goldfish or he's being deliberately obtuse. She's using his reasoning, not endorsing it herself. This is a basic debate tactic that Till's been masterfully employing throughout. She takes Charlie's

preferred metric and shows where it actually leads to Nordic countries with universal child care and parental leave, not to conservative paradises. She's not saying that surveys are good data. She's saying that if we use Charlie's own chosen data, it proves the opposite of what he claims. >> So, are satisfaction surveys or not? Because you told me, >> do you acknowledge satisfaction surveys or not?

>> Just told me that they're BS. Do you think they're object? We can use that as data. >> Notice how he cuts her off while she's trying to explain again that she's using his methodology, not hers. This, it seems to me, is either spectacularly bad faith or genuine inability to follow basic argumentation. When someone says

according to your logic, they're not endorsing that logic. They're testing it. It's an internal critique. >> So if your metric is >> I mean suppose Charlie said that the Bible says X. And then Tilly responded by saying, "Well, the Bible also says Y." And then Charlie screamed, "Ha, see

you do believe in the Bible. >> You guys are easy." >> No, Charlie. She's showing the inconsistency in your framework. The fact that he can't grasp this basic argumentative structure after Tilly has patiently explained it multiple times suggests either willful ignorance or an actual inability to engage with logical reasoning. And either way, it is painful

to watch. Anyhow, at this point, the conversation comes to an end, but I want to play Till's final words. Here they are. >> Okay. I think just one final thing which is in which case we get to a really interesting argument about what kind of what parts of womanhood can be demarcated to the social and what kinds of womanhood can be demarcated to biological. So for example my anatomy is

demarcated to the biological but the fact that I might potentially be a better nurturer than a man. I would demarcate that to the social. You might demarcate that to the biological in which case we have differing moral scales of value. I would ask why we should necessarily prioritize your moral scale of value which prioritizes things like the birth rate when in actual fact there are various other moral scales of value. And if you yourself are a free market American, why is it the case that you would not like the previous speaker noted, extend personal freedoms towards all spheres, including a private sphere?

>> This is such a phenomenal closing point. She's exposing the fundamental hypocrisy at the heart of conservative ideology. These are the people who worship at the altar of the free market, who insist that government should never interfere with personal choice, who champion individual liberty above all else, except when it comes to women's bodies and lives and gay people. And you get the point. Then suddenly they're all about top- down control and social engineering. Charlie wants the

government out of boardrooms, but into bedrooms. He wants maximal freedom for corporations, but minimum freedom for women. He defend to the death your right to exploit workers but not your right to choose when or if you have children. And notice how Tilly lands exactly where she started. The complex interplay between biological and social aspects of womanhood. She began by asking about

women's role in society. Tried to have a nuance discussion about how biology and culture interact. And despite Charlie's constant derailments about prostates and Muslims and Wendy's, she brings it full circle. That is what intellectual discipline looks like. While Charlie spent the entire debate running from topic to topic trying to score points, Tilly maintained her core thesis.

Womanhood is multifaceted, combining biological reality with social constructions. And women deserve the freedom to navigate that complexity on their own terms. No amount of bad faith argument could shake her from her foundation. >> I might be super off this. Like, is Rwanda Islamic? Like, I'm not totally

sure. I don't think it is. like is it like I don't know actually I don't it's not so again we were talking about Islam as a little bit of side note >> all right so what exactly did we just witnessed a university student in the middle of exam week absolutely dismantle a professional political commentator using one of the oldest tricks in the philosophy playbook and doing it with such wit and charm that she had the audience laughing along >> women with kids are not the ones tearing down statues right they're they're the ones that actually have obligations >> tearing down statues correspond to some kind of smiles per capita data set that I wasn't aware of. >> I mean, again, it's like it's a little bit of a oneliner. >> Despite Charlie's constant attempts to derail the prostates, the happiness survey, the suicide statistics, the Muslims, the Wendy's, >> can a woman have a prostate?

>> Tilly kept dragging the conversation back to her original question about women's role in society. In and of itself, this is a brilliant tactic that forces the conversation to stay where it should. And if the opposition forces it off, then at least it's obvious to those watching what they're doing. But Tilly didn't just stay on track. She delivered oneliners that brutally landed.

>> All religious fundamentalism is bad. And if you take that logic, we should also not allow evangelical Christians in Hold on. Hold on a second. Hold on. That's funny. Hold on.

>> This line got the audience applause because in these debates, optics matter just as much, if not more, than facts. You need to win the crowd, not just the argument. Charlie knows it, and I'd wager that Tilly knows it, too. Most crucially though, Tilly deployed one devastating technique over and over. It's called the reductio adabsurdum. I

know it sounds like something that Voldemort would angrily yell, >> but it's just Latin, and it translates to reduction to the absurd. It's a form of indirect proof where you assume a proposition is true and then show that it leads to a contradiction or absurd consequences thereby proving the proposition must be false. For instance, suppose that someone said that money always brings happiness. You might respond by that logic the richest person should be the happiest person alive but many billionaires are miserable. Or if someone claimed natural is always better, you could say, "Well, arsenic is natural and vaccines are artificial, so should we keep poisoning ourselves and skip life-saving medicine?" This

technique has been devastating debate opponents for over 2,400 years, ever since ancient Greek philosophers like Socrates used it to expose flawed thinking. And it's so effective because you're not attacking your opponent's position from the outside. You're accepting their logic and following it to a faithful and natural conclusion. When that conclusion is absurd or contradicts with their other beliefs, they're trapped. They can't claim that you've misrepresented them because you're using their exact reasoning. They

can't dismiss it as a different viewpoint because you've shown that their own logic leads somewhere they refuse to go. It's intellectual judo using your opponent's force against them. They either have to admit that their principle is flawed or accept conclusions that they find repugnant. It's brilliant. There's no escape. I

love it. It's one of my favorite techniques. And Tilly is really, really good at employing it. She executed the reductio perfectly multiple times. When Charlie claimed that female political representation proves good treatment of women, she brought up Rwanda >> female vice president, a female speaker of the house.

>> In Rwanda, female representation in government out seeds like supersedes the UK by quite a lot. Do women get treated better in Rwanda? >> By his logic, Rwanda with the world's highest female parliamentary representation. It must treat women better than America. The absurdity was obvious. When Charlie insisted that

happiness surveys justify restricting women's choices, she pointed out, >> "So, I also don't think that happiness is a very good metric, and neither do you because you think gay people shouldn't just pursue happiness by being gay. They have other moralistic considerations to be making." By his logic, he should support gay rights since gay people report being happier when living openly. But of course, he doesn't. When Charlie claimed we should use happiness data to structure society, she noted >> in Nordic countries where women have high workforce participation and also some state support, they report higher life satisfaction than in more conservative countries including America. So if your metric is happiness,

>> by his logic, we should adopt Nordic style socialist policies since these countries score highest on happiness. not quite what he had in mind. Each time she took Charlie's own reasoning and showed where it actually leads. >> Okay, good. So, we agree that we actually many things >> and we should shut off Muslim immigration to the UK, right? We totally

agree. >> I think that all religious fundamentalism is bad. And if you take that logic, we should also not allow evangelical Christians into >> Hold on. So, hold on a second. Hold on.

>> It's intellectually devastating because it forces someone to either abandon their argument or embrace conclusions they hate. But here's what made Till's performance truly masterful. She did all this while maintaining grace and humor. She explained basic methodology to someone who should know better. >> Self-reported studies is a really flawed way to do psychology. It's the week

before my university exams uh right now and I'm standing here explaining the basic basic methodology behind survey collection in sociology which you don't even think is a real subject to Charlie Kirk. >> She endured constant interruptions and topic changes >> so women can have prostates. Got it. Okay. >> She faced bad faith arguments and outright lies about statistics. all

these feminists that basically said, "You're trapped in a home. Go get a job. Freeze your eggs. Take birth control." >> And throughout all of it, she kept her composure and her wit and demonstrated that if either of them would be better off back at home making a sandwich, it's Charlie. Though, I'd bet he'd screw that

up as well. >> You guys are easy. >> This debate wasn't just about women's roles or happiness metrics or any of the dozen topics that Charlie frantically cycled through. It was about what happens when someone who actually understands logic and argumentation faces someone who's only learned to perform for cameras. Tilly came to have an intellectual exchange. Charlie came

with his talking points and in the end only one of them succeeded. >> It's a little bit of a oneliner. >> As always, thank you kindly for the view. I really do appreciate it. I read all of your comments. Please do

subscribe if you'd like to see more videos like this. Let me know what kind of things you'd like me to cover. that would be really useful as well. And if you have the ability, I know times are hard, then please consider supporting us on Patreon. We can create many more videos just like this, but we just don't have the financial backing. So, if you

can help out and you want to promote reason and logic and consistency and rationality, then uh honestly, any amount will help. Thank you.