---
video_title: "How Charlie Kirk Always \"OWNED The Libs\" (And How 1 Student EXPOSED His Entire System)"
video_id: Y_qjYK5ugFU
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y_qjYK5ugFU
video_date: 20251024
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/rationality to stay fully informed on breaking news, compare coverage and avoid media bias. Subscribe through my link for 40% off unlimited access this month.
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  When Charlie Kirk stepped up to debate biblical slavery, he came armed with every weapon in his rhetorical arsenal - pre-scouted questions, rehearsed pivots, and that trademark MAGA confidence. What he didn't expect was someone who could see through the performance in real time. 
  
  This forensic breakdown exposes the exact playbook Kirk relies on: the Gish Gallop burying opponents in unchecked claims, false distinctions between "regulation" and "endorsement," confident lies about what scripture actually says, and strategic deflections whenever the text becomes inconvenient. I'll show you how he transforms Exodus 21's explicit slave-owning permissions into imaginary prohibitions, how he smuggles modern morality into ancient texts through equivocation fallacies, and why his "who abolished slavery" redirect is textbook red herring misdirection. Most importantly, I'll do what Kirk desperately hopes his audience never does: actually open the Bible and read Leviticus 25's authorization of lifelong, hereditary, ethnicity-based slavery. 
  
  By the end, you'll recognize this exact strategy everywhere in modern political discourse - because facts are optional when confidence is king.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
---
You do believe Jesus Christ. You do believe that he was resurrected. You do believe that he died for our sins. Anything else you need that you feel is important before I get into the conversation to clarify? >> No, but I imagine you're probably going to say something like, "Oh, does the Bible like endorse slavery or something like that?"

>> That's actually exactly what I was talking about because you you didn't guess anything. You had a lady asking me what my belief was. >> There it is. The clearest example of Charlie Kirk's entire performance. The far-right activist and former face of Turning Point USA. with pres-scouted

questions and rehearsed responses was ready to demolish another college student with his trademark blend of confidence and misdirection. Except this time, something went wrong, terribly wrong. The student whose name I couldn't track down, so we'll call him, of course, Dave, called out the trick before Charlie could blow past it. >> You had a lady asking me what my belief was. >> Unfortunately, it all goes a bit wonky from there with Charlie bringing out the steamroller, but I'm getting ahead of myself. In fact, we should instead not

be asked the question of how is it that why is it that slavery existed? Instead, we should ask the question of who abolished slavery. Why? Hello, my fellow apes. I hope you are well. What we're

about to witness is a masterclass in what owning the libs really looks like. And spoiler alert, it's got nothing to do with facts, logic, or even biblical literacy. Because here's the truth. When Charlie Kirk confidently declared the Bible explicitly prohibits cattle slavery, >> cattle slavery is explicitly prohibited in the book of Exodus and that the Old Testament slavery was not lifelong or multigenerational. >> It was not lifelong or done on the basis of race or multigenerational. He wasn't

just stretching the truth. He was flatly demonstrably wrong. And we can prove it. Now, this was the last video I had in the works on Charlie before his murder. And so it's likely to be the last for a while, at least until they start releasing money with his face on it. But

it's a fitting capstone because it perfectly encapsulates the strategy that served him and MAGA so well. A strategy you will come to recognize everywhere once you see it. Over the next 40 minutes or so, we'll watch Charlie deploy every trick in the book. the gish gallop, straw man arguments, false distinctions, confident interruptions, all designed to bury his opponent in an avalanche of claims before any single one can be properly examined. We see how he transforms a straightforward question about what the Bible actually says into an interrogation where he controls every pivot, every redirect, every answer.

>> What verse? >> So, there is a lots of verses in the Bible. >> No, not correct. But most importantly, we do what Charlie desperately hoped his audience would never do. We'll actually open the Bible and read what it says.

Because when you strip away the theater, the confidence, the rhetorical slight of hand, what you're left with is simply this, a text that explicitly authorizes the buying, selling, beating, and inheriting of human beings as property. So, let's examine this beautiful disaster, shall we? I know that you do believe the the generally speaking the Bible is a good justification for morality, good guide for morality. You do believe Jesus Christ. You do believe that he was resurrected. You do believe

that he died for our sins. Anything else you need that you feel is important before I get into the conversation to clarify? They've opened strongly securing Charlie's positions before launching the attack. This is good debate craft. By laying out the groundwork on the fundamentals, you eliminate escape routes and prevent your opponent from later claiming that they were misunderstood or misrepresented.

And that part really matters. You see, even when you know your opponent's positions inside and out, you still need to anchor them in the specific conversation. Why? Because much of the audience hasn't done the homework. Because much of the audience hasn't tled his archives, his debates, his speeches, his podcasts. So, when Dave restates

these positions now, he isn't just being thorough. He's ensuring even Charlie's own fans can't cry context later. Think of it as establishing the rules before the bout begins. Once Charlie nods along with these premises, no one can pretend he never held them. >> Anything else you need that you feel is important before I get into the conversation to clarify?

>> No, but I imagine you're probably going to say something like, "Oh, does the Bible like endorse slavery or something?" >> See how quickly we've moved to dismissing the speaker. Dave hasn't even asked his question yet. Charlie is already looking for ways to put him down. It's not quite poisoning the well because he's not undermining the person with negative information before hearing him out, but it operates the same way.

Charlie's priming the audience to roll their eyes at whatever comes next. He's trying to trivialize the criticism before it exists, wrapping it in mockery and boredom, as if to say, "This is the same old argument I've heard a hundred times before." And maybe he has. But that doesn't make the criticism any less valid. It's a brilliant bit of theater.

The audience doesn't just see confidence, they feel it, and that is the trick. Once he's defined the challenge as predictable and weak, whatever comes next seems smaller, less dangerous. The argument hasn't even started and Charlie's already made sure the crowd thinks that he's winning. This isn't a fair debate or honest dialogue. It's all performative. No, but I imagine

you're probably going to say something like, "Oh, does the Bible like endorse slavery or something like that?" >> That's actually exactly what I was talking about >> because you you didn't guess anything. You had a lady asking me what my belief was. Okay, we need to stop right here because in this brief statement, Dave has stripped away the performance and exposed the mechanism underneath. It's a card trick and he's just revealed how it works. The audience is meant to think

that atheists are so predictable that Charlie can foresee their arguments. But Dave reveals the truth. Charlie's been collecting questions in advance. his opponent effectively fills out a prayer card beforehand, allowing him to pretend he possesses some mystical foresight. It's one of the [ __ ] tactics that Peter Popoff used in his healing services, having his wife give him names and ailments through an earpiece to make it appear as if God was speaking to him.

>> She was at 4267 Masterson. >> 4267 Mastersonson. I can see the angels of God all around your house. >> Different stage, same grift. So Charlie smiles thinking he's just nailed Dave to the cross. But by refusing to play along

and explicitly naming the trick, "You had a lady asking me," Dave flips the entire performance. >> You had a lady asking me what my belief was. >> In an instance, Charlie transforms from master strategist to desperate carnival psychic whose assistant just got caught passing notes. It is devastating, and honestly, it's quite pathetic. This wasn't a one-off slip, by the way. It is

a system. It's scripted. And once you know, you start seeing the seams everywhere. The premature guesses, the confident pivots, the rehearsed gotchas. Now then, Charlie needs to claw back the optics. So, let's see if he can do so.

Speaking of narratives, a story that perfectly illustrates media bias caught my attention this morning. Sha Diddy Combmes sentenced to more than four years in prison for prostitution related crimes. There shouldn't be left right spin on this, right? But there is ground news shows that this has been covered by 716 outlets and the breakdown is revealing. 30% come from left-leaning sources versus just 18% from the right.

You can follow along at ground.news/rationality. What makes ground news essential is how it reveals the spin in real time. Newser, a left-leaning outlet with high factuality, headlines, "Judge gives Sha Combmes prison to send a message, emphasizing how the sentence is meant to send a message to abusers and victims alike that exploitation and violence against women is met with real accountability." The framing centers on justice for victims. Meanwhile, The

Straight Times, a right-leaning outlet, takes a marketkedly different approach. After sentencing, Sha Diddy Combmes returns to Brooklyn jail he calls inhumane. Their focus shifts entirely to Combmes himself, highlighting that he returned to a Brooklyn jail where he spent more than a year in conditions his lawyers call violent and inhumane. Same sentencing, completely different story. One emphasizes accountability to victims. The other humanizes the

defendant's suffering. This is ground news in action every day, revealing how political bias determines which details get amplified and which get buried. In this case, with 58% of sources related as highly factual, Ground News shows me the outlets I can trust and which require more scrutiny. Right now, Ground News is offering 40% off their Vantage plan at ground.news/rationality or scan this QR code on screen. Signing

up supports the channel while giving you balanced news coverage. In a media landscape built to trap you in echo chambers, ground news breaks you free, delivering the full story so that you can think for yourself. >> Thanks. >> You didn't guess anything. You had a lady asking me what my belief was.

>> Interestingly, so >> that's not actually what I was going to ask. >> Let's focus on that. Does the Bible endorse slavery? >> Interesting, is it? Because what's actually interesting is Charlie's response, or rather his complete lack of one. His whole act depends on the

illusion of spontaneous brilliance. But the instance Dave calls out the trick, Charlie doesn't deny it. He doesn't defend it. Doesn't even acknowledge it. He just moves on. Interestingly, a

single word interesting. And then he's lunging towards new ground, desperate to bury the exposure under forward motion. Dave even tries to clarify his actual argument, but Charlie barrels through, cutting him off mid-thought and unilaterally redirecting the entire exchange. >> That's not actually what I was going to ask. >> Let's focus on that. Does the Bible

endorse slavery? >> He's racing to reach his pre-built defensive ground territory. He's already mapped out and fortified. On this note, I really want to emphasize this fact before going forward. Dave doesn't get to ask his intended question. He's been

maneuvered and will continue to be maneuvered into fighting onto Charlie's chosen battlefield. Just keep an eye out for it. To most of the audience around the two though, this won't register as desperation. To the contrary, it will look like Charlie's taking control and guiding the discussion towards substance. But really, it's panic. The

trick got called out and so he's using velocity as camouflage. And given that he knows that he can only survive on home soil, he sprints there. >> Let's focus on that. Does the Bible endorse slavery? >> Objectively, yes, it does.

>> What verse? >> Now, on the defense, Dave stakes a claim to demonstrable fact rather than debatable opinion. This isn't, I think, or many scholars agree. It's a bold declaration that what follows can be proven from the text itself. And he's right, of course. But what happens next

marks the beginning of his struggle. >> Objectively, yes, it does. >> What verse? Perhaps what Dave should have done was hit pause and insist, "Let me ask my question and finish it." This would have forced Charlie to either hear it out in full or openly dodge, exposing the manipulation. Instead, and

understandably, Dave takes the bait. He answers immediately, steps into Charlie's frame, and ends up on the back foot. He says, "Yes," which leads to the obvious follow-up. >> What verse? >> Let me be clear. Charlie's demand for

verses is sound. Of course, it is. He's right to push for specificity. Vague claims about what the Bible says are worthless in real debates. This is exactly what he should do. Force his

opponent to narrow their broad claim down to a specific attackable piece of evidence. But what's especially effective here is how Charlie delivers it. The authority, the rhythm, the hint of smirk. He projects the quiet confidence of a man who's sure his opponent can't back up their claim. Their claim. Remember, this wasn't

Dave's original claim, but that's where he's found himself. For the audience, many of whom already want to believe that biblical slavery is a myth or a misreading, the confidence alone becomes evidence. The facts haven't even entered the ring yet, and Charlie's posture has already done half the work. >> What verse? >> So, there is a lots of verses in the Bible by >> No, not correct. The Bible regulates

slavery and ancient practice. What verse does the Bible ever endorse or morally support slavery? So Dave begins to answer with scope. A lot of verses, the natural setup before citing specifics, but he doesn't get the chance. Charlie cuts him off. Before Dave can provide

any evidence, before he can clarify or substantiate, Charlie simply dismisses the claim outright. >> There is a lots of verses in the Bible. >> No, not correct. Had Dave been less polite and actually pushed forward with what he wanted to say, maybe if he had rattled off Leviticus 25:44-46 without pause, he would have appeared knowledgeable, confident, authorative. Instead, having his thoughts terminated at a lot of verses makes him look uncertain. As for Charlie, demanding a

verse is technically sound. However, interrupting before any verse can be named is theatrics. To those watching, it shines with confidence. Charlie's pressing for evidence and countering claims while Dave waffles. In reality though, Charlie's blocking the very citations that would test him. And this

is also where Charlie introduces his primary escape hatch, and we need to catch this carefully. It's the separation of regulates from endorses. This linguistic distinction is his main defense throughout. The Bible doesn't endorse slavery, you see. It merely regulated an existing practice. The

Bible regulates slavery, an ancient practice. What verse does the Bible ever endorse or morally support slavery? Notice the difference. One sounds like passive accommodation, the other like active moral approval. But it's a false distinction when someone pretends that two terms are meaningfully different, though they are essentially the same.

Picture someone being called out for lying who responds, "I didn't lie. I just, you know, left out some things." >> I didn't lie, Dollface. just omitted certain truths. >> Emitting critical facts to mislead someone, that is in effect lying.

Charlie engages this dishonesty here. When God regulates something, that regulation itself implies acceptance, doesn't it? Practices considered genuinely immoral. Murder, theft, adultery aren't carefully outlined with proper procedures. They are prohibited outright. Full stop. But slavery that

gets detailed regulation, how to acquire slaves, how long to keep them, rules for beating them, inheritance laws. Logically speaking, regulation presupposes approval. You don't create guidelines for something you find abhorrent. So, let's be clear. Dave is right and Charlie is demonstrably wrong.

The Bible explicitly endorses slavery. We'll unpack the specific passages shortly, in fact. But what matters now is this. Charlie's confidence, not his accuracy, is driving the exchange. He stacks multiple beats, demanding verses, denial, ancient context, regulation, not endorsement, demanding verses again, and uses his interruptions to keep Dave's evidence off the table completely. To

put a name to it, we're watching a Gish Gallup gain momentum when someone rapidly fires off weak claims to bury their opponent and avoid real scrutiny. The namesake of this move is Dwayne Gish, who made this technique famous. But Charlie absolutely loved it. >> Do you care to address my main contention that Christ affirmed biblical marriage in the book of Matthew? And can you tell me the difference between the celeral ceremonial the moral and the ritual law? And then finally also tell

me about Christianity the difference between the new and the old covenant. Are you an >> So there's a lot you said there. You see an absolute avalanche of claims each one requiring minutes to properly address. Yet they're fired off in seconds. No opponent could possibly untangle that mess in real time. And that is exactly

the point. It's not about being right. It's about being relentless. And Charlie, he mastered this technique thoroughly. He knew there wasn't time to address everything that he's throwing out. But he's performing certainty so

convincingly that factual correctness becomes irrelevant. The audience doesn't fact check. They just watch who looks more confident. And right now, that is definitely Charlie. >> Well, not correct. The Bible regulates

slavery and ancient practice. What verse does the Bible ever endorse or morally support slavery? What instead what the Bible did is it took a pragmatic approach to an ancient and primitive people and actually made it harder to own slaves. And now Charlie slips into historical relativism. Biblical slavery was merely a timebound concession for ancient and primitive people, not a universal moral law. But here's the

problem. If God's commands were tailored to accommodate the moral limitations of primitive societies, then the Bible immediately loses its authority as an eternal, unchanging moral guide. You can't have it both ways. Are these timeless commands that apply to everyone or just culture-bound suggestions that expire as we develop? In any case, it's a completely unsubstantiated assertion.

Charlie presents this as an established fact spoken with the confidence that suggests that only a fool would question it. But notice, zero evidence, zero support, not even a gesture towards which biblical laws supposedly accomplished this. Again, we're witnessing performance. He shifted the burden of proof. And Dave now has to scramble to disprove a claim that was never proven in the first place.

>> Instead, what the Bible did is it took a pragmatic approach to an ancient and primitive people and actually made it harder to own slaves. Let's correct this nonsense. Far from making slavery harder, the biblical laws actually entrenched and expanded it. Other ancient legal codes like Hammerabis, which Charlie's audience probably hasn't ever heard of, limited slavery more strictly, requiring freedom for debt slaves after just 3 years. The Bible, however, even the most generous provisions given only to Israelite men, required 6 years of service, and foreign slaves could be kept permanently and passed down as inheritance. Leviticus

25:46 is explicit about this. You can bequeath them to your children as inherited property and can make them slaves for life. That's not regulation making slavery harder. That is permanent cattle slavery codified in divine law. Charlie's framing of the Bible here is progressive is it's just [ __ ] wrong.

But honestly, an authentic read of the Bible has never mattered to apologists, nor to the audience that wants to believe in divine morality. That is one thing I am certain of after a decade of apologetics. Instead, what the Bible did is it took a pragmatic approach to an ancient and primitive people and actually made it harder to own slaves. Secondly, your view of child slavery which infected the world. >> That's not what I'm talking about. I'm

not talking about child slavery. Correct. Okay. There's actually quite a lot to break down here. Let's start where Charlie builds a straw man. When

someone misrepresents or oversimplifies another's argument to make it easier to attack. Think of all the creationists describing evolution as a tornado in a junkyard assembling an airplane. They strip away selection, inheritance, and time. Then declare evolution impossible because it lacks the very mechanisms they just removed. Charlie Strawman's by stripping out Dave's actual claim that the text authorizes slavery and replaces it with a weaker one. as if Dave was

specifically and solely referring to the transatlantic slave trade. But Dave, bless him, has barely begun to make an argument. So what is Charlie fighting against? The one he erected himself. >> Your view of chatt slavery which infected the >> That's not what I'm talking about.

>> Despite the straw man, this is another false distinction. Charlie tries to wall off biblical slavery from American cattle slavery as if they're morally different species. They weren't. on the features that mattered. The systems aligned. Leviticus allows foreigners to

be owned as property and bequeaf to children. Likewise, South Carolina and Virginia laws deemed enslaved people inheritable property. In Exodus, slaves are literally called the master's property. Virginia and other US codes define slaves as property liable for debts and sale. The Bible permits beatings as long as the enslaved person survives a day or two. And what do you

know? The US authorized moderate correction, whipping and beatings, and yep, killing as a result of these corrections was often not a crime. Premeditated malice cannot be presumed against one's property. Yes, I hear you typing along. Let me just get to the caveat. There is in the Bible a narrow

carve out. Israelite men could enter termlimited debt servitude, 6 years jubilee. But make no mistake, non-Israelites could be held permanently and inherited. Of course, the Atlantic trade mirrored this split. What do you know? White Europeans could be

indentured for fixed terms of 4 to 7 years. Black Africans, on the other hand, well, they were forced into hereditary lifelong cattle. Different labels, same hierarchy. An ingroup with exits and an out groupoup with chains. I am sorry, but you cannot divorce the transatlantic slave trade from the Bible from which it was molded. And even if

you could, disproving the equivalence wouldn't touch Dave's claim that the Bible itself authorizes human ownership. But recall what Dave does immediately and explicitly rejects Charlie's characterization. >> Your view of cattle slavery, which infected the >> That's not what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about child slavery. >> Correct.

>> Clean, direct, good push back. He misses understandably the opening. The stronger move would have been to press. Biblical law does include cattle slavery, especially for non-Israelites. But he's made himself clear. He's making obvious

that he hasn't had the opportunity to even present his contention. So Charlie can't keep attacking the straw man, can he? And thus, he needs a new way to reclaim the rhetorical ground that he's losing. >> That's not what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about child slavery.

>> Correct. And I want to make sure everyone makes sure that's morally clear. [laughter] Twice now Dave has said this isn't my argument. First at the very beginning and now on chat slavery. And this time Charlie's response is exactly [laughter] I mean what what do you want peeps? Like how

does anyone say that this is good honest debate? Seriously >> correct. And I want to make sure everyone makes sure that's morally clear. Charlie Feains agreement as if he was merely clarifying for the audience's benefit rather than misrepresenting Dave's argument and the Bible's position. And this achieves two things simultaneously. It masks his dishonest

framing or letting him transition into performance mode, addressing everyone to reinforce his authority. The audience doesn't see someone who just got caught misrepresenting an argument. What they see is someone who's helpfully ensuring moral clarity. It positions Charlie as a responsible educator protecting the audience from confusion when what he's actually doing is recovering from getting his straw man knocked down before he could even finish constructing it. >> Correct. And I want to make sure

everyone makes sure that's morally clear. Cattle slavery is explicitly prohibited in the book of Exodus. Slavery in the Old Testament was largely sometimes voluntary, economic, or temporary. Bold, categorical, wrong. Exodus doesn't prohibit slavery.

It codifies it. We're not talking about interpretive disagreement here. Even the Ten Commandments list slaves among the things belonging to your neighbor. You shall not cover your neighbor's house. You shall not cover your neighbor's wife or his male or female servant. Hm.

Interesting. >> Chatt slavery is explicitly prohibited in the book of Exodus. When you think about it, it's like claiming that the Constitution explicitly prohibits Congress by pointing to Article One, which establishes Congress as proof. The text says what it says, and what it says is the opposite of Charlie's claim. >> Explicitly prohibited in the book of Exodus.

>> So, it doesn't prohibit anything. But does it at least limit anything? Well, sort of. Exodus 21:2 sets a cap at six years for a Hebrew man sold into debt servitude. But what comes immediately after that? Oh, right. Detailed

instructions on how to turn that temporary servitude into permanent slavery. If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her masters and he shall go out alone. But if the servant declares, "I love my master and my wife and children and do not want to go free," then his master shall bring him to God, and he shall serve him for life. Indeed, if the man wants to stay with his wife and children, which he probably does because he's a human being, then he has to become a permanent slave himself. But that, mind you, is just the Hebrew men.

What about the women? They're mentioned literally right after. If a man sells his daughter as a servant, she is not to go free as male servants do. Oh yeah, women were already permanent slaves. And if the masters weren't pleased, they could be resold. Though not to

foreigners, because that apparently would be too far. But notice the deeper game that Charlie's playing. By narrowing slavery to mean only chatt slavery, he laers these ownership laws through euphemism, servitude, regulation, context, downplaying the severity of reality by using mild, vague, or less direct language. I mean, imagine this being used elsewhere. For instance, on my show, Low Fruit. It

isn't a fart, okay? It's if you don't like it, >> it's the expelling of gas. No, [laughter] I'm I told you it's the expelling of gas, right? What I'm doing? >> He's cleansing his bow. [laughter]

>> If if if you had only left, you wouldn't have been affected by [laughter] it. >> He's just driving out the methane. >> More seriously, you'll recognize this strategy through terms like enhanced interrogation, meaning torture, or anticipatory self-defense, meaning we started it. In Charlie's case, he's aiming to reshape biblical slavery to seem like short-term indentured servitude or even something approximating modern employment contracts. Just people working off debts, temporary arrangements, mutual agreements, not what the text describes.

We're talking about the ownership of human beings, people who were bought, sold, inherited, beaten, sexually exploited, and denied fundamental autonomy. To present this as a voluntary economic arrangement is to erase the suffering explicitly codified in the text itself. >> Slavery in the Old Testament was largely sometimes voluntary, economic or temporary. To be 100% clear, the verses in Exodus codify slaves as transferable, disposable property. They establish protections for masters, not slaves.

They allow sexual slavery. They create conditionals for both generational and lifelong enslavement. Exodus doesn't prohibit chattal slavery. It normalizes and regulates it with divine authority. And it doesn't stop there. Just a few

chapters later, still within the lawgiving section, Exodus 23 contains God's promise. If you listen carefully to what I say and do all that I say, I will be an enemy to your enemies and I will oppose those who oppose you. In other words, obedience to these very laws, including the detailed rules for owning, beating, and sexually exploiting slaves, brought God's favor and protection. This isn't a reluctant regulation of an unfortunate practice. Rather, it's divine endorsement, sanctifying slave ownership as part of God's covenantal relationship with his chosen people. So then, we are left with

two possibilities. Either Charlie was profoundly ignorant of the text he claimed he derived his moral values from or he deliberately misrepresented it. Neither option does wonders for his authority. Let's just put it that way. >> Correct. And I want to make sure

everyone makes sure that's morally clear. Chatt slavery is explicitly prohibited in the book of Exodus. Slavery in the Old Testament was largely sometimes voluntary, economic, or temporary. It was not lifelong or done on the basis of race or multigenerational. Charlie keeps making sweeping claims about what Old Testament slavery was not. Lifelong, racial,

hereditary, all delivered with the same confidence. So once again, let's turn to Leviticus 25, which truly couldn't be clearer. Your male and female slaves are to come from the nations around you. From them you may buy slaves. This thing about racial discrimination not existing in the Bible is well it it's just an incredibly frustrating and disingenuous talking point that apologists bring up all the time.

>> Morana based of race. >> Sure race as a modern category isn't in the Bible. But what we do see is an explicit basis on ethnicity, national origin, and outsider status. Hebrew men get term limits on debt servitude. While foreigners can be held permanently and inherited. Call it race, call it

ethnicity, call it nationality. The effect is the same. A group boundary with different rules. You don't need 18th century pseudocience to recognize what that is. It's the exact same logic that later justified race-based slavery.

Okay, let's keep going. You may also buy some of the temporary residents living among you and members of their clan born in your country and they will become your property. You can bequaf them to your children as inherited property and make them slaves for life. If you don't believe me, open your damn Bible. This establishes both permanent and hereditary bondage. Foreign slaves could

be kept for life and passed down as inheritance to your children who could then pass them to their children. That's multigenerational slavery explicitly permitted. This isn't debated by scholars. It's just people like Charlie apologists. They just make it up. Now,

let's step back for a moment and really appreciate what's happened so far. Look at how much Charlie has said. How many confident assertions? How many claims stacked on top of claims? All of which are factually wrong. And yet he still

hasn't allowed Dave to provide his original question. The gish gallop has taken over. Lie confidently enough over and over again and you drown your opponent in [ __ ] This is the tactic. >> It was not lifelong or done on the bas of race or multigenerational. Finally, in the scriptures, I'm sure you know about the book of Phileiman.

>> Notice carefully that phrase. I'm sure you know it's delivered with a tone that manages to both be presumptive and condescending simultaneously. It functions as both a challenge and dick, presupposing that Dave should be familiar while implying that if he's not, he's unqualified for the conversation. This creates a double bind when someone traps another between two irreconcilable choices, making each response carry severe consequences. Affirm knowledge, and you might be walking into a trap question that Charlie's already prepared. admit

ignorance and you've just lost credibility on the very text that you're critiquing. Either way, Charlie controls the outcome. He controls the discourse. >> I'm sure you know about the book of Phileiman. >> Yes. Okay. What happens in the book of

Phileiman regarding slavery? >> You see, Charlie has completely transformed this debate into an interrogation. He's the one constantly on the attack asking question after question. By framing the question as a knowledge test, what happens in the book of Phileiman? He reinforces the role of examiner with Dave as the student because while he's in that position, he never had to defend anything himself. At

no point in this conversation will we actually see Charlie defend the Bible on slavery because he controls the agenda, the pacing, the framing. What Dave ideally needed to do here is what we saw at Cambridge with Tilly and Kai. Videos linked below, namely ignore the constant pivots and directions and force Charlie back on track. But understandably Dave is being railroaded by a professional rhetoric. >> Okay. What happens in the book of

Phileiman regarding slavery? >> Uh so uh I believe his name the the mayor or not mayor cuz it's an olden city but it's the leader of the village. I don't remember his name. It's like Aarius I believe. >> This moment here is precisely why turning point goes to campuses to catch unprepared students. Remember this was

never the question Dave intended to ask. Charlie redirected the conversation, forced this specific biblical angle, and trapped Dave into defending ground he hadn't chosen. What happens in the book of Phileiman regarding slavery? >> This poor dude wanted to have a good faith discussion and instead is getting led by the nose into Charlie's traps. We're now so far away from whatever Dave's original point is that he's disoriented and unsteady. Each

hesitation marker is a small credibility wound. In live debate, especially against someone like Charlie who thrives on projecting absolute certainty, this kind of focal wobbling makes you sound out of your depth. The audience doesn't hear thoughtful consideration. They hear someone who's scrambling. >> Uh I believe his name the the mayor or not mayor cuz it's an olden city, but it's the leader of the village. I don't

remember his name. It's like Aarius. Making matters worse, Dave slips on terminology, referring to an ancient figure as a mayor, then immediately backpedaling as he notes that that's not the right term to use. But the correction itself only spotlights the initial error. It exposes a shaky understanding of the historical context, making Dave appear confused about basic categories.

>> I don't remember his name. It's like Aarius, I believe, is his name. >> Close, actually. That's actually very close. Yeah, it's on Osiris or whatever.

>> You see Charlie playing the magnanimous teacher here. He's being encouraging, gently correcting like a patient instructor helping a student who's struggling. This performance further builds his authority while highlighting Dave's mistake. Except uh [laughter] here's the hilarious part. The actual name in Philem is Onesimus. Yeah,

Charlie is confidently correcting Dave's error with another error on Cyrus or whatever. >> Both of them got it wrong. But of course, only Charlie delivered his wrong answer with absolute certainty. Dave didn't, right? He was being honest.

Charlie needed to be certain. And that certainty is what matters for debate optics. The audience doesn't fact check in real time. Most people go with what feels right, so they register confidence as correction. Charlie sounds like he knows what he's talking about.

Therefore, he must know what he's talking about. And he mastered this art. He knew that how you say something matters more than whether what you're saying is actually true. >> Oh, Cyrus or whatever Paul. So Paul writes to Phileiman encouraging him in fact commanding him as the authorative Christian writer and basically the pseudo um arbiter of how churches should form saying Phileiman you should take your slave not as a slave but as a free person because basically slavery is now in the old compact and we're in the new compact. Okay, so now we're moving on to

Paul, the apparent authorative Christian writer and arbiter of how churches should form. And to be fair, Paul is one of Christianity's most important voices. But notice how Charlie weaponizes that status by presenting Paul as the definitive arbiter. Anything Charlie attributes to Paul automatically feels conclusive. The audience hears, "Paul said it, therefore it's true." as the

authorative Christian writer and basically the pseudo um arbiter of how churches should form. This is an appeal to authority when someone claims that something is true just because an authority said it not because of actual evidence or logic. Swap this college setting for a political one for instance and you'll see the same tactic. People quoting RFK Junior on Tylenol and autism. The title health secretary does the heavy lifting. Actual evidence be

damned. Charlie's citing Paul to signal trust this whether or not the claim holds up to scrutiny. But here's the problem. Charlie invents a principle that doesn't exist in the text >> because basically slavery is now in the old compact and we're in the new compact. >> Read Phileiman yourself. You won't find

that doctrine. Check Paul's other letters. It's not there too. Charlie smuggles later theology into Paul's words and presents it as if it were explicitly stated in scripture. It's [ __ ] So what does Phileiman actually say? Perhaps the reason he was

separated from you for a little while was that you might have him back forever. No longer as a slave, but better than a slave, as a dear brother. Straightforward. Paul appeals to Phileiman to treat one specific man, Onesimus, as a brother. What he doesn't do is condemn slavery as a system. Paul

sends Anesimus back to the master implicitly affirming the legitimacy of the master slave framework while urging kinder treatment within it. This is a personal request, not a theological denunciation of the institution. In fact, in his letters to the Ephesians, Paul explicitly commands, "Slaves, obey your earthly masters with respect and fear and with sincerity of heart, just as you would obey Christ." And if the new covenant abolished slavery, why did the greatest minds in Christian history miss it for over a millennium? Were they all just what not reading it carefully enough? St. Augustine thought slavery

was inevitable, a punishment for sin issued by God. He wrote that slavery came about by the judgment of God with whom is no unrighteousness, and that it was necessary to preserve the order of nature. While he did cancel against excessive cruelty, he never questioned whether humans should own other humans at all. Nearly 800 years later, St. Thomas Aquinas reinforced this, arguing, "Men of outstanding intelligence naturally take command, while those who are less intelligent but of more robust physique seem intended by nature to act as servants." Basically, he integrated

Aristotle's concept of natural slavery into Christian theology, presenting hierarchy as servitude as part of God's design, something that stayed throughout all of the medieval times. Then there's Tatalian who condemned the Marcianites for liberating slaves. What is more unrighteous, more unjust, more dishonest than to benefit a foreign slave in such a way as to take him away from his master, claim him who is someone else's property? Now, were there church fathers that opposed slavery? Gregory of Nicer famously denounced owning humans as an assault of God's image, arguing that human nature is free by divine design. I

say famously, but actually up until very recently, basically at the Enlightenment, it was infamous because he was the exception, not the rule. His theological objection didn't translate into church discipline or widespread practice. It in fact remained a woke theological perspective until very recently. Or you can put it this way. If the New Testament clearly abolished slavery, you'd expect three things. A

consistent reading of Paul as anti-slavery, canonical discipline forbidding Christians from owning slaves, and doctrinal consensus that slaveolding is incompatible with the faith. You don't get any of that. Instead, you get accommodation. Across the medieval period, theologians distinguished spiritual equality from social hierarchy. They praised freeing a slave as meritorious, a work of mercy, while still allowing ownership. That's

not how a tradition behaves when a text lays down a red line. So, yes, understandably, a few voices sang abolitionist notes, but the choir sang something else for over a millennium. You can't sell the Christian position is anti-slavery when the people closest to the language, the culture, and the cannon formation didn't read it that way. Division among the church fathers isn't a footnote. It's evidence that scripture doesn't draw the line that Charlie insists is obvious. Now, there's

one last thing to tackle before we move on. So, let's look again at what Charlie said. Phileiman, you should take your slave not as a slave but as a free person because basically slavery is now in the old compact and we're in the new compact. Okay, so this is a nonsequittor when the conclusion of an argument doesn't logically follow from its premises. Picture someone arguing he's tall, therefore he's good at basketball.

The conclusion doesn't follow from the premise. Height might help. In fact, it does, but it isn't a rule. In Charlie's case, even if we grant that the New Covenant supersedes certain aspects of Mosaic law, and that's debatable, nothing in the text suggests it abolishes slavery as an institution. The New Testament preserves slavery with multiple passages commanding slaves obey your masters. Paul never ties the New

Covenant to abolition. Making that leap means pretending spiritual metaphors about sin and salvation somehow cancel concrete social institutions, which is nowhere stated in the text. And with this gear gallop of loosely connected claims, Charlie continues denying Dave any opportunity to address or refute what he's just said. Nope, we're just going to move on. >> And we're in the new compact. And

finally, Jesus Christ comes to liberate us from our sins. We see this in Luke 4. He says, "Bring liberty to the captives." >> You know, sometimes I I I just don't know if Charlie was biblically literate at all. You mean the church fathers translated it wrong when they were within like 50 years of this?

>> Let's check what Luke 4 actually says. The spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim freedom for the prisoners and recovery of sight for the blind to set the oppressed free to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. So Jesus is quoting Isaiah announcing his fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. The freedom and liberty here refer to spiritual liberation, freedom from sin, spiritual oppression, the consequences of separation from God. Now if your push

back is but it says set the oppressed free, consider this. The text that commands love your neighbor is the same legal code that authorizes owning foreigners as property. Those two sit side by side in biblical law without contradiction. If set the oppressed free automatically meant abolish slavery. These laws couldn't coexist. But they do

because the biblical framework sees no tension between humanitarian ethics and slave ownership. Luke 4 is about the Messiah's mission and God's favor breaking in. Not an abolition statute that overturns the slavery permissions already embedded in scripture. And you know, this gets even worse for Charlie's argument. When Jesus invokes Jubilee language, the year of the Lord's favor, he's referencing Leviticus 25. That's

the passage that only frees Hebrew [snorts] debt slaves and returns property while explicitly permitting you to buy foreigners as slaves and bequaf them to your children. Awkward, right? So, even if you take Luke 4 as Jubilee fulfillment, it doesn't erase the Bible's own slavery permissions. And beyond this single passage, Jesus never condemns slavery as an institution anywhere in the gospels. When he uses slavery in his parables, which he does frequently, by the way, he presents the master slave relationship as a normal unproatic societal reality. Take Luke

12. It will be good for that servant whom the master finds doing so when he returns. And just after that, Jesus describes a master beating his slaves. The servants who know the master's will and does not get ready and does not do what the master wants will be beaten with many blows. But the one who does not know and does things deserving punishment will be beaten with a few blows. You see, meek and mild Jesus

offers no moral condemnation of the violence. He uses it as an illustration for spiritual preparation. If slavery were the moral abomination Charlie claims the New Testament opposes, why would Jesus casually deploy it as a teaching metaphor without critique? Now, when Charlie treats captives and slaves as interchangeable, he's committing an equivocation fallacy. When someone uses a word in two different ways within the same argument to mislead, consider someone saying, "If gravity is a law, someone must have written it." Laws need

lawmakers. Charlie does the same thing here. The text speaks of freedom for the captives and release for the prisoners. But in biblical law and Hebrew society, slaves weren't classified as captives or prisoners. They were property purchased, inherited, and born into a household.

>> We see this in Luke 4. He says, "Bring liberty to the captives." >> By smuggling slaves into the category of captives, Charlie creates the illusion that Jesus was addressing slavery when the text says nothing of the sort. Beyond the equivocation, there's a nonsequittor at the core of Charlie's argument. Even if Jesus liberates people from sin, and Christians believe he does, that doesn't mean slavery as an institution is abolished. Does the text

say that slavery is a sin? No. God wouldn't command his people to own slaves if it were sinful, would he? The New Testament never connects spiritual liberation to the abolition of slavery. It's why Augustine and Aquinas and most Christians throughout most of history haven't had a problem with it. In fact,

Jesus explicitly affirms that the Old Testament law, including its slavery regulations, remain in force. Matthew 5:17-19 states, "Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them." Those laws and prophets, they contain the very slavery regulations we've been discussing. And before someone suggests that fulfill means write over or get rid of, that's abolition, which Jesus explicitly denies.

>> Christianity is based is named after Christ. It's based on Christ as a fulfillment of the Old Testament. But what does fulfillment mean? It actually means transcendence. [laughter] The full context of his speech reinforces this. For truly I tell you,

until heaven and earth disappear, not the smallest letter, not the least stroke of a pen will by any means disappear from the law until everything is accomplished. Let that sink in for a moment. Jesus is affirming, not overturning, the law that includes slavery provisions. So ultimately, Charlie isn't drawing from the biblical texts as much as he tries to invoke them. He's imposing later theological developments and modern moral intuitions onto scripture that said nothing of the kind. But watch what happens next.

>> We see this in Luke chapter 4. He says, "Bring liberty to the captives." And slavery is a practice that is ancient. It is a practice that is also very modern. We have more slaves today on the planet today than any other time in human history. Ticking off our fallacy

bingo cards, here comes what aboutism. When someone evades a charge or uncomfortable truth by pointing to someone else's similar wrongdoing, as if that cancels the original point. is often employed in accusations of hypocrisy and you see it today in political discourse constantly. Someone claims for instance right-wing extremism accounts for 75% of political violence. >> If you look at any polls according to CSIS political violence overwhelmingly comes from the right >> and the response is ah but what about the murder of Charlie Kirk?

>> My dear friend was just killed by leftwing violence. >> So what's happening here? The question at hand is whether the Bible endorses slavery. But Charlie deflects by pointing to modern slavery as if the existence of slavery today somehow excuses what scripture says about it. >> We have more slaves today on the planet today than any other time in human history.

>> But look at what this move accomplishes rhetorically. Charlie gets to portray himself as morally engaged with present-day human rights while completely sidestepping the uncomfortable fact that the Bible contains explicit permissions for slavery. It's a masterful pivot from the ethical content of scripture to the general moral failures of humanity. Instead of defending what Exodus and Leviticus actually say, he's now talking about global statistics territory where he can position himself as the good guy fighting modern injustice. Which brings us to his next move. We have more slaves

today on the planet today than any other time in human history. In fact, we should instead not be asked the question of how is it that why is it that slavery existed. instead which asked the question of who abolished slavery. >> Notice something fishy. That's because he's thrown perhaps the most obvious red herring ever, introducing an unrelated point to distract from the original issue. Think of it like discussing the

wank panza's awful crash record and safety issues, only to have a defender respond, "But it's got zero emissions. You like that, right?" It's running away from the actual argument here. Rather than wrestling with what the biblical text explicitly authorizes, Charlie shifts the audience focus to abolition movements thousands of years later, >> which asked the question of who abolished slavery, >> ironically predicated on the enlightenment. This connects directly to Charlie's earlier equivocation, smuggling slaves into the category of captives.

>> He says, "Bring liberty to the captives." >> That deception pays off here. Having falsely established that the Bible opposes slavery, he can now claim credit for abolition as a Christian achievement. But the maneuver only works if you've forgotten what the text actually says, or to be fair, never read it in the first place. The rhetorical strategy works not because it's logically coherent. It simply isn't, but

because it allows Charlie to escape the biblical problem entirely and instead take credit for abolition. That's a far more flattering story for Christianity than our holy text contains detailed instructions for buying, selling, beating, and inheriting human beings. Think about what this means. Charlie has constructed an entire apologetic edifice on equivocation, nonsequiters, whataboutism, and red herrings. Not one of these moves addresses the actual content of biblical slavery laws. Not

one explains why God gave detailed regulations for an institution that Charlie claims got opposed. The entire performance is misdirection. Effective, yeah, sure, but utterly hollow. >> You didn't guess anything. You had a lady asking me what my belief was.

>> All righty then. The conversation continues, but it's largely the same tactics. So, let's roll back and examine what we saw. Charlie started by having an assistant scout questions before he could feain clairvoyance. >> But I imagine you're probably going to say something like, "Oh, does the Bible like endorse slavery or something?"

>> A few moments later, >> you didn't guess anything. You had a lady asking me what my belief was. >> When Dave called out the trek, Charlie bulldozed forward, demanding verses while simultaneously refusing to let Dave cite any. >> What verse? >> So, there is a lots of verses in the Bible by >> No, not correct. Carly then erected a

false distinction between regulation and endorsement as if carefully codifying how to own, beat, and inherit human beings doesn't constitute approval. >> The Bible regulates slavery. >> He built a straw man out of cattle slavery, then pretended to gracefully agree when Dave rejected it. >> Your view of cattle slavery, which infected the >> That's not what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about child slavery.

>> Correct. He flatly lied about Exodus explicitly prohibiting slavery when it does the exact opposite. >> Chatt slavery is explicitly prohibited in the book of Exodus. >> He dismissed lifelong hereditary ethnic-based slavery as non-existent despite Leviticus 25 spelling it out in excruciating detail. >> It was not lifelong or done on the bas of race or multigenerational. He gish

galloped through errors about philem and Paul commanding abolition forcing in an old versus new compact framework that exists nowhere in scripture. >> So Paul writes to encouraging [laughter] him commanding him as the authoric Christian writer and basically the pseudo arbiter of true form saying finally you should take your slave not a slave as a free person because basically slavery is now compact or new compact. >> He stretched liberty to captives into a literal anti-slavery claim the text never makes. >> It says bring liberty to the captives. He deflected with modern slavery statistics. Pure whataboutism.

>> We have more slaves today on the planet today than any other time in human history. Then he threw out a red herring. Don't ask why slavery existed. Ask who abolished it. >> Which asked the question of who abolished slavery before preparing to launch into quiz format again, maintaining his role as examiner rather than defendant. None of it mattered that

he was wrong. not to his audience, not in that moment, not for the purpose he served. He was in the business of performance. Every confident assertion, every rapid pivot, every authorative interruption was designed to create the feeling of victory without requiring the substance of it. That is what owning the libs actually looks like, stripped of its mythology. It's not about superior

arguments or deeper knowledge. It's not about defending the faith or honoring scripture. It's about controlling the frame, drowning your opponent in claims they can't possibly address, and projecting such absolute certainty that the audience mistakes confidence for correctness. Facts are negotiable. Consistency is optional. What matters is

packaging confident sound bites you can clip for social media. And this is precisely why Charlie Kirk became such a valuable asset to MAGA. In that ecosystem, lying with confidence doesn't just serve you better than telling the truth. It's the entire game. It's why conservatives have been and will not stop bullying college students. So, here

we are. Charlie Kirk is gone now, but the playbook remains. The strategy of burying truth under an avalanche of very confident nonsense, of making certainty do the work that evidence should, that is not going anywhere. If anything, it is the bloody blueprint. >> You didn't guess anything. You had a

lady asking me what my belief was. >> Anyhow, as always, thank you kindly for the view and a special thank you to everyone who supports the channel, including Ground News. You can check out their Vantage plan at 40% off and support the channel, support us by clicking the link below or scanning the QR code on screen now. Thanks.