---
video_title: "The 7 Fallacies Tucker Carlson Used to Blame Hurricanes on Abortion"
video_id: 0Yi1dYikTu0
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Yi1dYikTu0
video_date: 20251123
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/rationality to stay fully informed on breaking news, compare coverage and avoid media bias. Subscribe through my link for 40% off unlimited access this month.
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  Tucker Carlson recently went on Steve Bannon's War Room and blamed hurricanes on abortion—not climate change, abortion. But this isn't just about one absurd claim. This video dissects Tucker's entire monologue as a masterclass in Red Pill epistemology, where mainstream science becomes a Matrix designed to keep you asleep. From claiming a demon scratched him in bed to declaring the atomic bomb caused American secularisation, Tucker constructs a self-sealing worldview immune to criticism. Each fallacy builds on the last—false precision, burden shifting, bandwagon appeals, false dichotomies—until disagreement itself becomes evidence of spiritual blindness.
  
  What makes this particularly dangerous is how Tucker positions his opponents. He compares Janet Yellen to biblical Canaanites, a group God commanded to be exterminated. This is where political disagreement transforms into cosmic warfare, where compromise becomes betrayal and violence becomes obedience. We trace how "I was scratched by a demon" escalates into justification for dehumanisation, mapping the descent of conspiratorial thinking from personal experience to political extremism. Once you believe you're the only one awake, everyone else becomes either sheep to be saved or wolves to be destroyed.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
---
You know, people, and I have to say, I'm I'm sure I'll be attacked for saying this, but I really believe it. People are like, "Oh, well, we had another hurricane. Must be global warming." No, it's probably abortion, actually. >> It's probably abortion, actually.

>> Just being honest. There it is. the exact moment a major political commentator abandons the last remnants of physical reality and insists that hurricanes, massive rotating storm systems powered by warm ocean water and atmospheric physics are actually God's response to women exercising basic bodily autonomy. >> Just being honest. >> But honestly, we're not just here to laugh at Tucker Carlson blaming hurricanes on abortion. [laughter]

We are here to understand why he is doing it. We need to talk about the red pill. >> It is the world that has been pulled over your eyes to blind you from the truth. >> Now, usually when people use that term, they think of pickup artists or questionable men's rights activists. But it's actually an epistemology, a way of viewing the world. It is the conviction

that mainstream science, data, and history are all just part of a matrix designed to keep you asleep. It is the disdain for the scientific method as a tool for truth. You see this rot spreading everywhere. You see it in Andrew Tate proudly declaring that street smarts supersede evidence. >> One of my habits now is ignoring all data. Street smart people don't need

data. We've just been around. >> You see it in Candace Owens who has overdosed on so many red pills that she views the very concept of science as a rival religion. What I have now realized is that science, what it is actually, if you think about it, is a pagan faith. >> It is the intoxicating belief that you have finally woken to the truth with a capital T and that everyone else is still dreaming.

>> I just know things because I've been around. >> Now, I know that Tucker Carlson isn't exactly the first face you picture when you think of this philosophy. He's not selling courses on how to escape the matrix in a Bugatti. If you even look at data nowadays, you're a dumbass. You should just know.

>> But make no mistake, Tucker is one of the most incredible embodiment of this psychology we have ever seen. You are about to witness a perfect demonstration of this specific kind of red pill thinking. This is what happens when the filter is completely dropped. Tucker will show us the endgame of a worldview that rejects reality. A world where atomic bombs cause secularism. We

dropped the atomic bomb in Nagasaki and decided that we were gods. >> Demons leave physical scars. >> I was attacked in my bed by a spiritual being and clawed. And political opponents aren't just wrong. They are literally monsters.

>> If you're making the case that abortion is an affirmative good, you are evil. Indeed, his weird claim that he was scratched by a demon becomes abortion causes hurricanes becomes my enemies are biblical villains marked for extermination. >> That's no different than the Canaanites. >> This episode is a map of that descent because once you believe that you're the only one awake, everyone else becomes either sheep to save or wolves to be destroyed. Speaking of narratives, an absolutely incredible, as in not credible, story recently grabbed my attention. Child with stage 4 cancer

deported by ICE despite being a US citizen. I came across this thanks to Ground News's blind spot feature, a brilliant tool on their homepage that reveals stories being dramatically under reportported by either the left or the right. This allows me to investigate my blind spot so I can see the complete picture of what's happening in the real world. The coverage breakdown is stunning. 46 news outlets total, but only one from the right. I mean, bro, an

American citizen, a child with cancer gets deported, and virtually the entire right-wing media ecosystem remains silent. So much for Save the Children, huh? You can follow along at ground.news/rationality. The way different outlets frame this tragedy is equally revealing. NBC

Chicago, a centrist source with very high factuality, presents it straightforwardly, emphasizing the child's US citizenship and stage four cancer diagnosis at the heart of the disturbing story. But the Christian Post, that lone right-wing outlet covering it, takes, well, an incredible angle. Their headline reads, "ICE unlawfully deported child with stage 4 kidney cancer." with unlawful placed in skeptical quotation marks, subtly questioning whether any actual wrongdoing occurred. Same tragic event, completely different narrative. This is

precisely why ground news has become so indispensable. Their blind spot feature ensures that I'm not just seeing what my usual sources want me to see. I'm discovering the stories entire segments of the media choose to ignore. In today's polarized media landscape, these tools are essential for understanding the complete picture. Get 40% off their Vantage plan at ground.news/rationality

or scan this QR code. Your subscription not only gives you balanced coverage, but also supports this channel. For anyone serious about escaping their echo chamber, ground news delivers the full story, including the parts others don't want you to see. Thanks. So, let's go back to the start. Not to the hurricane,

but to the bedroom. Because before Tucker could blame the weather on women, he had to convince himself that he was physically attacked by a demon. >> But yeah, no, I was on February 20th, uh, 2023, I was attacked in my bed by a spiritual being and clawed and left bleeding and scarred. And do I understand what happened? No, of course I don't. I don't really understand

anything, but that did happen to me. I don't care if people believe me or not. It did. >> Right. So Tucker opens with February 20th, 2023, offering a precise date for an entirely unverifiable supernatural claim. On February 20th, uh, 2023,

>> the date is real, at least. I mean, it would be silly to invent days and months for something you claim to have happened, but the event itself isn't verifiable in any way. This is an instance of the fallacy of false precision. When someone uses precise but irrelevant details to create a false aura of truth for a lie. Think of someone claiming that they were abducted by aliens. To prove it, they emphasize

that it happened at exactly 3:14 a.m. on a rainy yet warm Tuesday. The specificity implies crystal clear memory, but it offers absolutely no evidence that the spaceship actually existed. In this case, Tucker offers a calendar date for a demon attack. It

tricks the brain. Let's give it that. Well, if he remembers the exact date, his memory must be reliable. It coats a fantastical claim in the veneer of factual reporting. But all it is is a distraction from the fact that he has zero evidence for the demon itself. But

the actual claim though, well, >> I was attacked in my bed by a spiritual being and clawed and left bleeding and scarred. Incredible, extraordinary even and testable, at least in theory. Scars can be documented. They can be photographed. They can be medically examined. Yet Tucker provides none of

this. Instead, he pivots immediately to I don't care if people believe me or not. >> That did happen to me. I don't care if people believe me or not. It did. Do I

understand what happened? No, of course I don't. I don't really understand anything. >> Tucker immediately claims complete ignorance about what happened to him. This serves two strategic purposes.

First, it deflects potential criticism that he's claiming special knowledge about the supernatural. And second, the sweeping, I don't really understand anything, creates false humility that paradoxically strengthens his authority. He's not an expert, just a witness, which makes the testimony seem more honest. But he simultaneously maintains absolute certainty of the event itself. So he's both humble and unshakable, confused yet certain. A neat trick. I

don't care if people believe me or not. It did. And I think it was just a just a a momentary glimpse of something that's happening at all times, which is again this war between forces that we can't see, but that has been ongoing and has been in fact described by every culture since the beginning. Okay. Then Tucker now escalates from personal experience to some mystical universal truth.

Because of course, when a man gets scratched in bed, it's clearly a message for all mankind. His bedroom nightmare wasn't just a weird thing that happened. No, no, no. It was a momentous glimpse of something that's happening at all times. A great war between invisible forces. A momentary glimpse of something

that's happening at all times, which is again this war between forces that we can't see. >> As ridiculous as that all is, the real work happens in the final phrase >> that has been ongoing and has been in fact described by every culture since the beginning. >> This is the bandwagon fallacy. when someone claims that something must be true or right because many people believe or do it. Have you ever face palmed when someone's claimed that Christianity is the world's most popular religion and that billions of people can't be wrong? Yep, that's the fallacy

in action. Popularity doesn't make something true. After all, most people once believed that witches cause storms. Now apparently it's abortions theory reality. In this case, Tucker brings the fallacy to maximal scope. Not just many

people believe this, but every culture across all of human history, embedding his bizarre personal claim within universal human experience, transforming a bizarre, abstract, isolated incident into confirmation of ancient wisdom has been in fact described by every culture. If every culture recognizes this spiritual warfare, then Tucker scratches become evidence of a cosmic battle rather than say the result of his dog being allowed on the bed. So, let's dive into the absurdity a bit more. Does every culture actually describe this? No, they don't. The concept of a cosmic

dualistic warfare between good and evil is not universal as Tucker tries to paint. Classic Chinese philosophy, confusionism, toism lack this framework. Rather, they emphasize harmony, balance, and natural order. Buddhism, no, it doesn't center a spiritual warfare either. Its focus is on suffering, desire, and enlightenment through personal practice. And many indigenous

cultures worldwide operate within animistic and polytheistic frameworks without these clear-cut cosmic battles between good and evil. Even early Judaism focused more on a covenantal relationship with their god rather than any cosmic spiritual warfare. Satan emerged as God's adversary later influenced by Persian Zoroastrianism during the Babylonian exile. Projecting this idea onto every culture since the beginning fundamentally misrepresents the diversity of human religious and philosophical thought. It's a sweeping generalization that flattens millennia of varied human understanding into a single narrative that just so happens to validate Tucker's claim about a demon scratching him in his sleep. This war

between forces that we can't see but that has been ongoing and has been in fact described by every culture since the beginning. Every culture that we know about has described this battle and in fact it's been the basis of every religion. It's certainly the basis of Christianity which I think is true by the way. Factually speaking I think Christianity is true. But even if you don't I think you can acknowledge that we're the only culture that hasn't been really absorbed in thinking and talking about this. Notice how Tucker shifts

from declaring Christianity factually true to lamenting Western secularism as if the two ideas prove each other. It's a neat rhetorical slide. He dresses up a theological claim as a cultural observation and neva part gets supported by evidence. But then he says something really odd. We're the only culture that hasn't been really absorbed in thinking and talking about this. Not since we

dropped the atomic bomb in Nagasaki, the second one in August of 1945 and decided that we were gods and the god himself no longer existed. Since then, we have been a secular society and that's why we're now being destroyed in my view. >> Well, that escalated quickly. I mean that really got out of hand fast. >> Tucker has constructed a tidy origin story. The atomic bomb as America's

spiritual turning point. According to this narrative, the bombing of Nagazaki caused secularism of the United States, which in turn caused the current destruction, one event leading to the next in a clean causal chain. It doesn't take much to identify this particular absurdity as a post hawk erophacy, which yes, is one of those fallacies that never got a proper English name. It translates to after this, therefore because of this. And it's exactly what it sounds like, assuming that because one event happened after another, the first event must have caused the second.

Here's a clear example. Imagine someone claiming that 5G networks caused the CO 19 pandemic because 5G towers began to be installed shortly before outbreaks occurred in many countries. The timing lines up, right? 5G roll out, then COVID cases start rising. So 5G must be the cause. Except that's not how causation

works. You need to demonstrate a causal mechanism, not just point to a timeline. Otherwise, all you've got is temporal coincidence. Now, flip back to Tucker. He's doing exactly the same thing, claiming the second atomic bomb caused secularism, which led to what he considers societal decline. Since then,

we have been a secular society, and that's why we're now being destroyed in my view. terrible things obviously like women voting and black people using the same bathrooms. But he's ignoring the countless other historical, philosophical, and social factors that shaped religious change in America. The bombing happened, then secularism rised. So in Tucker's mind, one must have caused the other.

>> Not since we dropped the atomic bomb in Nagasaki, the second one in August of 1945. since 1945. [snorts] Really, America became a secular society in 1945. I just uh no, Tucker is simply living in a different reality to everyone else. The 1950s didn't see a religious decline. To the

contrary, they witnessed a massive religious boom. Galllet poll showed that post-war church attendance surged from 37% to its highest ever of 49% in 1955. New churches sprouted across America. Congress added under God to the pledge of allegiance in 1954. In God we trust became the official national motto in 1956 and religious affiliation remained above 90% through the 1970s.

Structurally, America remained secular, of course, but culturally, this was arguably the most publicly religious period in American history. So, when did substantial cultural secularization actually begin? According to Pew Research, not until the 1990s, gaining momentum after the turn of the millennium. Before 1990, only around 6% of Americans identified as religiously unaffiliated. Today, that figure sits at 29%.

That's nearly one in three people. That's a relative increase of nearly 400%. So Tucker's timeline is wildly off by a good 50 plus years. 50 years, which fundamentally undermines his entire causal narrative. The second atomic bombing didn't trigger American secularism. That is a ridiculous thing

to say. And yet, I must ask, how many American Christians believe this? It's probably higher than we think. Not since we dropped the atomic bomb in Nagasaki, the second one, in August of 1945, and decided that we were gods and the god himself no longer existed. Hang on. Who

decided that we're gods? Is he trying to tie secularism to thinking oneself all powerful? Or is he trying to suggest that America sat down in August of 1945, had a meeting, and collectively voted to reject God? Because that is not how it works. That's not how any of this works.

A decline in religiosity wasn't a decision. It was a gradual, messy, multigenerational shift involving countless factors. Philosophy, scientific advancement, religious pluralism, educational changes, economic stability, evolving social norms, church scandals, or as Christopher Hitchens put it, the church's insistence on no child's behind left. These things don't happen because a nation decides anything. But of course, Tucker needs a very simple villain narrative, one that can serve as a support for his spiritual crisis claims.

Since then, we have been a secular society, and that's why we're now being destroyed in my view. Um, but even if you don't buy any of that, you you have to acknowledge that we're living in an anomalous time. This is the only period, these 80 years, where people haven't been daily discussing the spiritual battle around them. Every other culture has, and in fact, the remote ones still do, and they're all right, and we're wrong. All right. So, Tucker continues

with a phrase that appears generous, a concession almost. >> Even if you don't buy any of that, you you have to acknowledge that we're living in an anomalous time. >> But notice what he's actually doing. He's softening his argument. It's a classic rhetorical move. After making an

outrageous claim, follow it up with something that sounds far more reasonable. Even if you don't buy that, then at least you can agree with this. >> Even if you don't buy any of that, you you have to acknowledge that we're living in an anomalous time. It's bait for the enlightened and centrist. The new claim feels like common sense only because it's standing next to something ridiculous.

>> This is the only period these 80 years where people haven't been daily discussing the spiritual battle around them. >> Okay, fine. You might not agree that the earth is flat, but surely you could admit that globes are pretty suspicious. [music] >> See, that's the problem. >> Present me the evidence of its flatness and I will amplify it. Building on this,

Tucker lays out a binary where preodern spiritual cultures are all right and modern secular culture is wrong and they're all right and we're wrong. >> This is a black and white fallacy, also known as a false dichotomy, which occurs when someone presents only two states as if they are the only possibilities when more may exist. Think of someone declaring either you support Trump or you're a communist. Eliminating the entire political spectrum between the far right of the MAGA movement and communists, the moderates, the liberals, the libertarians, the traditional conservatives, and anyone who supports some policies but not others. All crammed under a label that actually describes very few people. Tucker, for

his part, is erasing the vast diversity of human cultures, both ancient and modern, secular and theocratic. In his telling, every other culture recognizes this specific spiritual battle, as if being spiritually aware automatically makes them right. But notice which cultures he's actually talking about. Nations like Sweden and Denmark are overwhelmingly secular. Japan and Vietnam have spiritual traditions that don't revolve around cosmic good versus evil. Hell, even Britain, which

literally has a state religion, doesn't fit his narrative. Most Britons are pretty secular. And if you start proclaiming in the streets that there's an ongoing spiritual war, people will politely look at you as if you're mad. Tucker's created a fantasy binary where you're either correctly spiritually engaged like every other culture throughout history or you're a lost modern secularist. But the real world doesn't work in binaries. It never has.

And they're all right and we're wrong. And the big change in the moment that we're living in is people are awakening to this fact that we've been on this vacation from reality, a vacation from spiritual reality. And of course, it's not just a part of what we're seeing. It's definitive. So notice what the phrase people are awakening to this fact is doing. Tucker is positioning his

worldview as consciousness itself. As if people are waking from sleep, which means what exactly? That anyone who disagrees is still asleep, still unconscious, still unaware. This is the awakening narrative that we often see in populist politics with the whole red pill phenomenon being the clearest example. Basically, people divide their lives into distinct before and after periods separating their former less aware selves from their current political identity. It is very common by

the way in religious narratives. They reject basic science and the most reasonable explanations because they believe themselves to see what others can't. Street smart people don't need data. we've just been around. >> I just know things because I've been around.

>> They claim to know what's right for everyone else because their beliefs become the measure of virtue itself. Now, [snorts] awakening narratives aren't always bad. People do genuinely awaken to injustice and misinformation. But, and it's a big butt, they can be dangerous. By treating one ideology as the only reality, awakening narratives erode the possibility of common facts and rational discourse. Because

disagreement is interpreted as blindness, awakening narratives are self-sealing. The more someone challenges them, the more it proves they're asleep. This is the hallmark of conspiratorial thinking. It's the hallmark of cults off religions. And worst of all, once you see the unawwakened as blind or complicit in evil, it becomes easier to rationalize mistreating them. In their most extreme

forms, fascist or revolutionary alike, such movements frame violence as necessary to wake others up. This is why Tucker's words are actually concerning and they're going to become more concerning with what he says next. And of course, it's not just a part of what we're seeing. It's definitive. Um, and I and I'm not just saying that anyone who disagrees with me is evil. I'm not

saying that. I have been evil many times in my life and unfortunately will be again. Um, so I'm not again I I just want to be really clear that I'm not sort of holding myself up as like, you know, as a a great person or a perfect Christian or anything like that. But this this exists quite apart from me or my behavior. It's true.

>> Wait, did anyone claim that Tucker said people who disagree with him are evil? Tucker claimed them to be asleep, sure, but not evil. Nobody accused him of calling anyone evil, they couldn't because this is a monologue. So why bring it up? Because by raising it just to deny it, he's introduced the concept into your head. Now you're thinking

about the connection between disagreeing with Tucker and being evil, even though he's supposedly rejecting that connection. It's like if I said to you, "I'm not calling you a liar." The denial doesn't matter, does it? I've just planted the idea that you might be a liar. That's how this works. This isn't

humility, it's cover. Tucker denies moralizing while doing it anyway. His I'm not saying people who disagree with me are evil line works because it's a disclaimer. It lets him imply that his views are tied to the truth and to goodness while any opposition is linked to ignorance and corruption. >> And I'm not just saying that anyone who disagrees with me is evil. I'm not

saying that. I have been evil many times in my life and unfortunately will be again. >> And when he adds, I've been evil before. It sounds self-aware, but it's actually self-absorbing, a way to moralize without seeming moralistic. The result is the same. He paints dissent as moral

deficiency while pretending not to. Oh, and as for the whole I'm not a perfect Christian thing, >> I I just want to be really clear that I'm not sort of holding myself up as like, you know, as a a great person or a perfect Christian or anything like that. But this this exists quite apart from me or my behavior. This serves a calculated purpose. By admitting to personal moral failure, Tucker positions himself as humble and self-aware, someone who does not claim moral perfection. Plus, the

Christian claim resonates strongly with his audience, bolstering this perception. Yet, notice the crucial pivot. >> But this this exists quite apart from me or my behavior. It's true. The truth he's discussing, whatever moral framework he's defending, transcends his personal failings. So, Tucker gets to

simultaneously be humble about himself and absolute in his positions, having his rhetorical cake and eating it too. >> But this this exists quite apart from me or my behavior. It's true. And um and now it's sort of unmasked. And anyone who's paying any attention at all, I mean, look, if you're making the case that, you know, sometimes we need to have an abortion, okay? If you're making

the case that abortion is an affirmative good, you are evil. You're practicing child sacrifice. And that is exactly what they're doing. As every culture before us has, >> right? So Tucker just shifted from moral abstraction to concrete political application. And he's created two

categories. Abortion as a tragic necessity gets a grudging okay. If you're making the case that you know sometimes we need to have an abortion. Okay. >> But abortion as an affirmative good makes you evil.

>> If you're making the case that abortion is an affirmative good, you are evil. Notice what he's doing. This is another false dichotomy. He's collapsed the entire spectrum of pro-choice positions. Abortion as healthcare, as bodily autonomy, as personal choice, as public health necessity into just two categories. tragic necessity or evil and

only one escapes moral condemnation. But then he goes further, much further, saying that all non-necessary abortion amounts to child sacrifice. This is a moral decree, not an argument. He redraws the map so that only what he deems necessary escapes damnation and everything else becomes murder. And by defining the terms this way, he sidesteps the real debate and pre-labels descent as depravity.

>> You are evil. You're practicing child sacrifice. And that is exactly what they're doing. As every culture before us has, >> let's be real, no one advocating for abortion rights is arguing for child sacrifice. No one's worshiping entities or performing rituals. He's not engaging

with any of the actual pro-choice positions. Instead, he's inventing this cartoonish position that nobody actually holds because it is much easier to attack than the real arguments. And really think about that choice of words, child sacrifice, a term drenched in ancient religious horror, conjuring images of ritual murder and stone altars. This phrasing is loaded language when someone uses emotionally charged words to sway opinion instead of making a reasoned argument. For instance, a politician might call a tax plan a war on the rich rather than simply a tax increase. The goal isn't clarity. It's

to provoke feeling and shut down critical thought. As for Tucker, by framing abortion as an ancient barbaric practice, he's doing the same thing, using loaded language to inject moral horror rather than present an argument. It's not an analysis, it's an atmosphere. Terms like child sacrifice and ritual don't describe, they condemn. And by invoking them, he pressures the audience to accept his moral framing or risk being classed with practitioners of ritual murder. The final touch is that

every culture before us has done this. This is the third time Tucker has invoked every culture, but now it's applied specifically to child sacrifice. >> And that is exactly what they're doing, as every culture before us has. By claiming that every culture practiced this ancient evil, he's making it seem both inevitable, a universal human darkness, and barbaric, something we should have evolved beyond. So, modern abortion rights advocates become participants in timeless evil, their contemporary political positions connected directly to the darkest chapters of human history. Remember just

a sentence ago when Tucker said that he wasn't calling people who disagree with him evil? >> And I'm not just saying that anyone who disagrees with me is evil. Yeah, well, that is thoroughly out the window, isn't it? But there's something that makes this even more bizarre. Mere moments ago, he was discussing how every other culture possessed an amazing spiritual understanding that we all lacked. Yet

here, they are now being portrayed as barbaric. Pick a lane, Tucker. You're practicing child sacrifice. And that is exactly what they're doing, as every culture before us has. But to see the Treasury Secretary that dwarf Janet Yellen get up and say, you know, you can do your part to help the American economy by killing your child. That's no

different than the Canaanites actually. >> Oh, how very Christian of him calling someone he disagrees with a dwarf. >> To see the Treasury Secretary that dwarf >> before comparing them to child sacrifices. >> Janet Yellen get up and say, you know, you can do your part to help the American economy by killing your child. >> This is where Tucker crosses a critical threshold. That's no different than the

Canaanites. >> By invoking the Canaanites, he's not just comparing abortion to an ancient moral evil. He's embedding his political opponents in a biblical narrative where God himself commanded [snorts] their destruction. In the book of Deuteronomy, the Canaanites are condemned for child sacrifice, and God orders their total annihilation. Men, women, children, even livestock. That's the story that Tucker

is referencing. He's aligning his modern enemies of morality with a group that God supposedly marked for extermination. And that's what makes this moment so dangerous. It's not just demonization. It's dehumanization wrapped in scripture. Once you cast people as

Canaanites, logic and empathy no longer apply. You've reframed a political disagreement as a cosmic war between good and evil, where compromise becomes betrayal and violence becomes obedience. It's the oldest rhetorical trick in the Holy War playbook. Strip your opponents of moral legitimacy, then let divine authority do the killing. >> That's no different than the Canaanites.

Actually, >> the irony, of course, which they always seem to miss, is brutal. The biblical God condemned child sacrifice by commanding what else? The slaughter of children. Tucker invokes that story as moral clarity, but it's really moral collapse. He's equating the ending of a 3-w weekek old pregnancy with a sin so monstrous is supposedly justified the slaughter of threemonth-old babies.

>> You know, people and I have to say, I'm sure I'll be attacked for saying this, but I really believe it. People are like, "Oh, well, we had another hurricane. Must be global warming." No, it's probably abortion, actually. Just being honest.

>> I'm sorry. Can we hear that again? >> People are like, "Oh, well, we had another hurricane. Must be global warming." No, it's probably abortion, actually. Just being honest.

>> No. Uh, one more time. We'll hear that one more time, please. >> People are like, "Oh, well, we had another hurricane. Must be global warming." No, it's probably abortion.

Actually, just being honest. >> Okay. What What do you even say to that? I'd like to say that it's just a joke, but he assures us that he believes it. >> I'm sure I'll be attacked for saying this, but I really believe it.

>> All right, let's go with it. I guess Tucker just casually dismissed the entire field of meteorology by claiming that abortions cause hurricanes. >> Just being honest. A claim so staggeringly stupid that I can't believe that I just had to say it out loud. However, I suppose that I'll throw this in for those who are unfamiliar.

Hurricanes form through well understood physical processes. The warm ocean water above 26° C evaporates and rises. As it condenses, it releases heat energy that powers rotating storm systems, influenced by the corololis effect. Research indicates that increasing hurricane intensity is correlated with rising ocean temperatures. Global sea surface temperatures have risen approximately 1.5° Fahrenheit since 1900

and warmer oceans are associated with an increase in frequency of category 4 and five hurricanes. So when Tucker says that it's probably abortion, he's engaging in a particularly farical false cause fallacy. When someone assumes that a correlation between two things means that one caused the other. Think of RFK Jr. pointing to vaccination rates rising around the same time that autism diagnosis increased. Then concluding

that vaccines cause autism. >> The science is so overwhelming on the link between vaccines and autism. It needs no further research. The research is out there. >> The two events are correlated in time, but that alone doesn't prove causation.

Right? RFK Junior's reasoning completely ignores changes around autism identification, reduced stigma around diagnosis, expanded diagnostic criteria, and better screening practices, all of which better explain the increase. And yet, Tucker somehow manages to make even this sort of nonsense seem reasonable. At least batshit Bobby has a correlation to misinterpret. Vaccines and autism diagnosis both increased. Tucker doesn't

even have that. Hurricane patterns show zero correlation with abortion rates geographically or temporarily. They strike regions regardless of state abortion laws. Do I really need to say that the Row versus Wade decision in 1973 wasn't followed by increased hurricane activity? >> I don't believe that for a second.

>> I mean, for [ __ ] sake. At this rate, Tucker's one char away from blaming global warming on the decline of pirates. you are evil. You're practicing child sacrifice. That's no different than the Canaanites. And I'm not just

saying that anyone who disagrees with me is evil. I'm not saying that. So, there you have it. The incoherent nonsense continues. But let's step back and examine what we've witnessed here.

Tucker Carlson started by claiming that a demon scratched him in bed. A claim that he provided no evidence for. >> It was attacked in my bed by a spiritual being and clawed and left bleeding and scarred. He escalated to declaring this personal experience as evidence of universal spiritual warfare using the bandwagon fallacy to claim that every culture recognizes this battle while fundamentally misrepresenting the diversity of human religious thought. It has been in fact described by every culture since the beginning. Every

culture that we know about has described this battle and in fact it's been the basis of every religion. We're the only culture that hasn't been really absorbed in thinking and talking about this. He pinpointed the atomic bombing of Nagasaki as the moment America rejected God. A postto fallacy that ignores how the 1950s saw the highest church attendance in American history. We dropped the atomic bomb in Nagasaki, the second one in August of 1945 and decided that we were gods and that God himself no longer existed. Since then, we have

been a secular society and that's why we're now being destroyed. In my view, he constructed a false dichotomy where you're either spiritually aware like every other culture or a blind modern secularist, erasing the vast spectrum of belief systems worldwide. >> You have to acknowledge that we're living in an anomalous time. This is the only period these 80 years where people haven't been daily discussing the spiritual battle around them. Every other culture has, and in fact, the remote ones still do, and they're all right, and we're wrong. And finally, he

landed on hurricanes being divine punishment for abortion. A false cause so spectacularly disconnected from reality that it would be funny if he didn't actually believe it. You know what? It still is funny. >> People are like, "Oh, well, we had another hurricane. Must be global

warming." No, it's probably abortion. Actually, just being honest. >> But here's what makes this more than just a catalog of logical fallacies. Every single technique that Tucker deployed serves to insulate his worldview from criticism. And this this

is what conspiratorial thinking looks like. It's not about evidence. It's not about consistency. It's about building a self-sealing framework where any challenge becomes proof of the challenges blindness. You're either awake or asleep, either recognizing the truth or participating in evil. The

framework is unfalsifiable by design. And that's precisely the point. And this is exactly why Tucker Carlson remains such a valuable asset to the MAGA movement. In that ecosystem, confidently declaring that abortion causes hurricanes doesn't disqualify you. It demonstrates your willingness to reject mainstream expertise entirely. Facts

become negotiable. Scientific consensus becomes suspicious. Christianity becomes a weapon that you can use to promote whatever political goal you happen to have. So, here we are. Tucker wakes up with a few scratches on his body and all of a sudden what? Now divine hurricanes

are punishment for abortions and millions of people find this perfectly reasonable. The strategy works. Packaging theological anxiety is political analysis, making absolute certainty do the work that evidence should. That's not going anywhere. If anything, it's becoming the standard.

>> Just being honest. Anyhow, as always, thank you kindly for the view and an extra special thank you to everyone who supports the channel, including today's sponsor, Ground News. Without your backing on Patreon and the help of our sponsors, videos like this simply wouldn't exist. It takes a tremendous amount of time to research, write, record, and edit each one, and our team couldn't do it without you. On that note, if you're willing and able to support us, you'll find links to our Patreon and PayPal below. Every little

goes a long way. Thanks,