---
video_title: "How to BREAK a Pseudo-Scientist's \"Evidence\" With 1 Question"
video_id: 49k8BsYTrM4
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=49k8BsYTrM4
video_date: 2026-01-28T17:46:12+00:00
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/rationality to stay fully informed on breaking news, compare coverage and avoid media bias. Subscribe through my link for 40% off unlimited access this month.
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  He brought a study to prove vaccines cause autism. When asked a simple question about it, the entire debate changed.
  
  This is the simplest way to destroy a conspiracy theorist—and almost nobody uses it. In this breakdown, I reveal the exact technique Professor Dave and Dr Dan Wilson deploy to systematically dismantle two prominent anti-vaxxers. No complex rebuttals. No counter-studies. Just one type of question that makes confident ignorance collapse on contact.
  
  Watch the moment a former doctor abandons his core claim within seconds of being challenged. Watch what happens when someone finally checks the homework. And learn why you don't need a PhD to win these arguments—just the willingness to ask what nobody else does.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  @Pangburn Greatest Vaccine Debate In History | Dave Farina & Dr. Dan Wilson vs Steve Kirsch & Dr. Pierre Kory: https://youtu.be/hV3qDAzcQkA?si=kCFx8PMu0vss7kmS
  
  @ProfessorDaveExplains
  
  To see episode two - How to HUMILIATE a Fake Expert: https://youtu.be/6f_pZYL324M​
---
So let's start with I'm assuming you're talking first about the 2017 X-Leap paper right? Yes. Okay, so did you look at the numbers there in his table of Al-Lewon measurements? Uh, no. You didn't look at the numbers? There are. There are, but you didn't look at the numbers. There's a lot of stuff that I have. Steve, you've provided for this debate and you don't know anything about the data in it. Hello, darkness, my old friend. I've come to talk with you again. Antivax conspiracy theorist Steve Kersh just destroyed his own credibility. He brought a paper to a debate. He cited it as the definitive proof that backs up his worldview. And yet, the moment he was asked a simple question about the data inside it, he was forced to admit that he never actually read it. There's a lot of stuff that I haven't seen. Steve, you mentioned your source that you provided for this debate. What you were witnessing is the simplest and most effective way to dismantle pseudoscience, make them explain their own evidence. It works because it targets the weakest point in a conspiracy theorist's armor, their laziness. You see, in these debates, citations are often used as shields. The opponent throws out a study title or a complex chemical name, banking on the fact that you will be too intimidated to check the details. They rely on the appearance of evidence rather than the substance of it. And crucially, confident people rarely expect to be quizzed on basics. They're used to the citation itself ending the discussion. Naming a study is supposed to be a mic drop, not the start of an exam. Chris actually has published over 200 peer-reviewed papers. Data. Data. But there's a way to bypass the intimidation entirely. Instead of arguing against their conclusion, you simply ask, what is in the table you just cited? Or what does that chemical actually do? If they have done their work, they can answer. But if they are bluffing, if they are just parroting a headline they saw on a blog, they will collapse immediately. What is it? What does it do? It's an ingredient in the back. What does it do? You tell me. You don't know, do you? I don't care. Hope you are well. Today, we are breaking down a debate hosted by Travis Pangburn of Pangburn Philosophy. The serves as a masterclass in how to deal with confident ignorance. On the one side, we have science communicator Professor Dave and molecular biologist Dr. Dan Wilson. On the other, prominent anti-vaccine voices Steve Kirsch and discredited former doctor, Pierre Corry. Throughout this exchange, Dave and Dan systematically dismantle their opponents by relentlessly checking their homework. He didn't let a single mechanism be claimed without asking, how does that work? By the end of this video, you will see very clearly that you do not need a PhD to win these arguments. You just need to be the one person in the room willing to ask what the evidence actually says. It begins with Professor Dave forcing his opponents to define the battlefield. Are they just asking questions about Covid or are they against everything? Let's watch how he blocks the men. It's funny to me because it's always the same story. I was pro-vax and my kids are vaccinated. It's just the Covid-vax. But if it was just the Covid vaccine, why are we here talking about the entire vaccine schedule? Why are we talking about vaccines and autism? Is there a vaccine in the schedule that you think is good? How is it that we're always fixating on the Covid vaccine and then all of these people here that are supporting you are just magically against all vaccines? If you're not anti-vaxers, how did that happen exactly? Dave is doing quite a lot here, so let's take our time to understand it. By asking, is there a vaccine you think is good? He forces an expansion of the battlefield. He pushes them out of the Covid skeptic trench and into the open field of general anti-vaxer. Is there a vaccine in the schedule that you think is good? This denies them the more moderate position. The we just have questions about the mRNA defence. Literally I'm just asking questions. They corner them into either defending the much more radical claim that all vaccines are bad or conceding that most of them work. Eva Ranzer, notice, costs them something. Dave knows that if he can get them to commit to the extreme position in front of the crowd, they have to defend the indefensible for the rest of the debate. How did that happen exactly? I'll help you out. It's all of them. Keep going. It's all of them. Okay, so he admits it. Okay, so you are just against all vaccines. And Pierre accepts the expansion. He abandons the nuance of Covid-specific concerns and commits to total war against all vaccines. He thinks that this makes him look principled to the audience. No half measures, no hedging, just conviction. But strategically it's a blunder. He has just taken on the burden of disproving the efficacy of the polio vaccine, the small pox vaccine, the measles vaccine. A much harder argument to win than mRNA is new and we should be cautious. mRNA vaccines don't perform well. On the topic of framing, this one stomped me. Trump says Venezuelan airspace should be closed. Now, depending on the outlet, this story is framed in completely different ways. On the left, there's a tendency to immediately question the legitimacy of the operation. And on the right, the tendency is to simply state what Trump has done with no further context. And I couldn't find a single headline that mentioned the legality of the declaration. Don't you need to uphold the constitution of the United States as president? I don't know. So if you only read right-leaning sources, you might not realize that this move is illegal. This level of insight is only possible thanks to ground news. There are website and app designed to make reading the news easier and more data-driven. Every day they put in thousands of articles from all over the world and organize them by story, with each one, including visual breakdowns of political bias, reliability and ownership to give you a clearer sense of how the news is being framed. Returning to this story, ground news offers more than just headline comparisons. Right away you can see that it's being covered by over 700 outlets with the political balance almost perfect. 31% left, 31% right. Yet the framing is completely different. They even show, bullet by bullet, how left-leaning and right-leaning outlets are presenting the event. And above each headline, you can see the same insights for every specific outlet. That is what makes ground news essential. It doesn't just tell you what happened, it shows you the different ways that outlets try to shape your view of it. And honestly, those factuality flags alone are indispensable. Right now you can get 40% of their vantage plan at ground.news slash rationality, or by scanning the QR code on screen. Your subscription supports this channel and helps you spot the spin. Thanks. Press. I don't know. Anyhow, back to the show. The common line that a lot of people who think that vaccines cause autism say is that autism is greatly increased in the past few decades. You could you too would agree with that line of reasoning, right? Dan jumps in to set a logical trap. The structure is simple. If your theory predicts X and X doesn't happen, your theory is wrong. Legicians call this mode as totance, but you don't need the Latin, just the principle. He needs them to commit to the first premise. Autism is rising. This seems like a safe agreement for them. Autism is greatly increased in the past few decades. Of course, autism rates have gone up. Everyone knows that. But it's the first step in what becomes the prediction versus reality check. You could you too would agree with that line of reasoning, right? It's not the primary line of reasoning, but yes, it's necessary, right? That's one of the things, but that's not the primary. But if autism was not increasing over the past few decades, that would be interesting to you. Yes, absolutely. OK, so do you have any knowledge, any mechanism, any scientific reasoning as to why there is a biological reason, why autism is increasing as opposed to a diagnostic criteria reason? Yes, we do. OK, let's start. Lay it on us. Notice how Dan specifically asks for a biological reason rather than a diagnostic one. This is crucial. A biological reason, as opposed to a diagnostic criteria. The real reason autism rates have risen is that we've dramatically expanded the diagnostic criteria for what autism even is since its conception. And we've become far better at identifying it. In part, because autism no longer carries the awful stigma that it once did. Parents and doctors are more willing to seek and give diagnosis. Forcing Steve to provide a biological mechanism, Dan is ensuring that he can't later retreat to vague correlations. The anti-vaxxers have to prove that something actually is causing more autism, not just that we're catching more of what was always there under a broader definition. So vaccines have a number of adjuments. Many of them have been shown to be neurotoxic and producing neuroinflammation. Which one? It's in all of the inserts. Dan demands specificity, and he will not let Pierre or Steve weasel out of providing some. You can test whether a specific compound causes a specific effect. Vaccines have a number of adjuments. Adjuvant is too vague to be wrong. Dan forces Pierre to pick a target that can actually be hit. Which one? It's in all of the inserts. Which one? Anything with mercury thyrm, thyrmarsol aluminum, known neuroinflammation. There's no, there's no cell. So there's no mercury at all in the backseat. Yeah. So there's no mercury. There's no mercury. There's no mercury currently in child vaccines. But why do they take it out? So when they take it out. Dave counters with a timestamp. Pierre tries to imply that the removal of mercury proves it was dangerous. Why'd they take it out then? But Dave and Dan instantly dropped the date. 2001. Ah, but why'd they take it out? So when they took it out. This is the pivot point. If mercury was removed in 2001, then the data after 2001 becomes the test. If mercury causes autism, removing it, should cause autism rates to fall. Now, this is where preparation matters enormously. If Dave and Dan hadn't known this basic fact that fymyrosol was removed from childhood vaccines in 2001, they couldn't have immediately neutralize what sounds like a compelling argument to an uninformed listener. Being knowledgeable allows you to diffuse these claims in real time before they can take root in the audience's mind. All right. With the pieces in place, let's see what happens. So there's no mercury. So there's no mercury. There's no mercury currently in child vaccines. Ah, but why'd they take it out? So when they took it out, it did. Why? Why'd they take it out? Because of the public fervor. It had never been demonstrated to be harmful at all. They took it out because of public fervor. But the point is 2001. And when they took it out, did autism rates decline or did they go up? And now the trap springs. Dan drags the contradiction into the open. The syllogism is stock. Pierre claims that mercury causes autism. But it admits that mercury was removed in 2001. Since autism rates continue to rise after that date, mercury cannot be the driver. Then forces Pierre to stare directly at this logic. If mercury was the cause, its removal should have produced a decline. It didn't. The hypothesis is dead. When they took it out, did autism rates decline or did they go up? It's not just that. It's just that. Okay. So it's not that, Marisol. So it's not that, Marisol. And here we have moving the goalposts, changing the criteria for evidence to avoid admitting their wrong. As soon as the mercury argument collapses on the timeline, Stephen Pierre pivot. It's not just mercury, they say. Suddenly the thing that they named as the cause isn't actually the cause anymore. It's not just, it's not just mercury. Dave marks the retreat explicitly for the audience. Check them, Marisol. Really appreciate how confidently they were claiming that mercury causes autism just moments ago. This is how fragile these arguments are when you actually examine them. Check them, Marisol. So the time, you said, so which one? So which one? Which one? Hang on. You said in the interesting mercury that it caused neurological injuries. Which one? It is the first thing. One of them. Pierre attempts a gish gallop overwhelming an opponent with as many arguments as possible to make addressing them all impossible. Polysorbate 80, aluminum, any of them. Polysorbate 80. Which one? Hang on. So you said, the idea is to flood the conversation with targets, but Dave and Dan refuse to switch. They hold onto the mercury error. They won't let him escape into the forest of new claims. This is discipline. You said mercury. Pierre, you said mercury. Winning a debate isn't just about asking the right questions. It's refusing to chase every new claim. You'll often be tempted to follow them to the next claim in order to debunk them there. But when you're in a public debate, your priority is to crucify them on the mistake they've already made. That is exactly what Dave and Dan are doing. They're going to stay on mercury until it's dead. Pierre. You said mercury. Okay. First of all, first of all, first of all, first of all, first of all, that's not an adjuvant. What? First of all, mercury is not an adjuvant. And ingredient then has that. Dan issues a competence check. He catches Pierre. A former doctor, remember, misclassifying a basic chemical component. Mercury is a preservative, not an adjuvant. First of all, mercury is not an adjuvant. Adjuvantes stimulate immune response. Preservatives prevent contamination. These are different functions. This really undercuts Pierre's credibility. Not only has he been forced to immediately drop his mercury claim, the moment it was fact checked, but he's now revealed to the audience that he doesn't even know what category the ingredient falls into. If Pierre doesn't know what the chemical is, how can he possibly know what it does? Dan attacks Pierre's ethos, his credibility as someone who understands the science. First of all, mercury is not an adjuvant. It's an ingredient then has that. What is it? What does it do? It's an ingredient in the back. What does it do? You tell me. He wants to brush past, not knowing what it even does, and yet both Dan and Dave won't let him. Really appreciate that for a moment. I don't care. Now then, in a scientific debate, a mechanism is everything. Correlation isn't causation. You need to explain how thing A causes thing B. Otherwise, we can point to the correlation between ice cream sales and shark tax. But Pierre just announced that he doesn't care about the how. His position is ideological, not biological. He has already predetermined the vaccines are bad, damn the evidence. You don't know, do you? I don't care. So we are going to... It's a preserve video. We are now going to have to educate them on what the ingredient is. Even though it is dangerous. Dan and Dave are deliberately milking this moment and rightfully so. This is Professor Dave's signature style, by the way. Maximum humiliation for maximal effect. So first of all, this is completely idiotic. And it is brutally effective here. Is even though what is dangerous. It does. Their opponents don't know the basic definitions of the words they're using. And so Dave and Dan are making absolutely certain the audience sees just how hollow these claims are. We are now going to have to educate them on what the ingredient is. Is even though what is dangerous. It does. It's also not elemental, but it's a preserve video. No. Let's let Steve get in here. Steve, you want to add something? Yeah. It's just that he's just talking about one of the ingredients. It's not just the adjuvant. It's anything that's in the vaccine that is getting infected. Yeah, they're not an adjuvant again. Steve tries to rescue Pierre by broadening the definition to anything injected. But in doing so, he actually makes things worse. This makes the claim unfalcifiable. If anything in the vaccine causes autism, you can never prove it doesn't. It's anything that's in the vaccine. You can't test anything. You can only test specific compounds with specific mechanisms. Steve has retreated to a position that is completely immune to disprove, which means it's not signs at all. Yeah. They're not an adjuvant again. So aluminum, for example, can get into you through injecting them. Is that in my mind? Hang on. We'll get to aluminum. But let's stay on mercury. Did autism go up after 2001 when it was taken out of the childhood vaccines? Yes. So what? The syllogism snapped shut. Steve and Pierre are forced to agree. Autism did indeed go up after mercury was removed. They have admitted that the data contradicts their mercury hypothesis. The ingredient they blamed was removed. Rates didn't fall, and now they have a problem. So what would you expect autism to go down if an ingredient that causes autism got out of vaccines? Does things that cause autism isn't in there anymore? What do you expect is going to happen? It doesn't quite work that way because it's hard. How do you know? Do you know what else happened after they took your ass from the vaccine for the number of vaccines continued to explode? Not really. And what? No, not that much. How many? But also what's in them? We're still looking for the ingredient, right? You don't know what they do, but we're talking about the association between vaccines and autism. Yes. You guys are asking for mechanisms. I will tell you the associations between vaccines and autism. You want to do that? Pierre tries to shift the focus entirely. He wants to move from mechanism how it works to association, statistical correlation. He knows that he's lost the mechanism argument. He already said, I don't care about the ingredient. So now he attempts to retreat to a territory where correlation is enough. We're talking about the association between vaccines and autism. Yes. You guys are asking for mechanisms. I will tell you the associations between vaccines and autism. You want to do that? The correlation without mechanism is where bad science lives. You can correlate anything with anything. The question is always, what's the causal pathway? What's that? Global warming went up as pirate populations went down. Gee, I guess we need to bring back pirates. I will tell you the associations between vaccines and autism. But you mentioned mercury and I'm asking for a mechanism there. You're not able to do that. Dan does an excellent job of immediately bringing the frame back to where it belongs. Dan's claim that he didn't want to talk about mercury is gaslighting. Pierre introduced mercury when asked which one in the previous segment. He named it. He said it. Which one? Anything with mercury, thermosol aluminum. Dan blocks the escape by simply not letting him rewrite history. But you mentioned mercury and I'm asking for a mechanism there. You're not able to do that. Pierre wants to change his subject because he's already lost on this point. And Dan is making sure that everyone in the room knows it. There you're not able to do that. So we can move on. There's got to be a compound that does it, right? I'll give you a mechanism, aluminum. So we can explain. Are you familiar with Chris X Lee? Yes. OK. So you know he's like the world expert. He's not. He's not. He's not. Then who is? There is no single world expert in toxicology. Dan rejects the appeal to authority, accepting a claim solely because an authoritative figure endorses it without considering the evidence. So you know he's like the world expert. He's not. Steve tries to frame Chris X Lee as the world expert, implying that if X Lee says it, then it must be true. There is no single world expert in toxicology. There is no single operator whose opinion settles the matter. There's evidence. There's data. There's replication. Not profits. There is no single world expert in toxicology. OK. You like to want to paint this caricature. You like to paint this caricature of science. There is no one single expert. So how? So who has been doing it for long? He's been. He's been. He's been producing slot for 46 years. Oh, OK. So he's been doing it for 36 years. There's nobody doing it doing more research on that. And he finds kids like a 12 year old with aluminum concentration in their brain that is off the charts, never seen before, and the kid is autistic. Steve presents his evidence off the charts, never seen before. That is off the charts, never seen before. He relies on the shock value of the claim, aluminum levels unprecedented in human history. He invites them to examine the study. What he doesn't realize is that he's opening the door to what will ultimately be the most humiliating moment of the entire debate, and honestly, probably his career. He's like a 12 year old with aluminum. All right. Concentration in their brain that is off the charts, never seen before, and the kid is autistic. Great. So let's start with I'm assuming you're talking first about the 2017 X-Leap paper, right? Yes. OK. So did you look at the numbers there in his table of aluminum measurements? Dan moves to interrogate the source. He identifies the exact paper 2017 X-Leap. I'm assuming you're talking first about the 2017 X-Leap paper, right? And asks the most dangerous question you can ask in a debate. Did you look at the numbers in the table? Steve and Pierre have already demonstrated that they don't know what they're talking about. They've already lost credibility on Mercury. So did you look at the numbers there in his table of aluminum measurements? Oh, no. Oh, no. Their entire credibility implodes. It's gone. It's done. Steve Kirsch, the man who brought the paper, cited the expert, made the claim about off the charts numbers. Are the charts never seen before? Admits he never looks at the data. He's parroting. He read a headline, heard an opinion, and repeated it without ever examining the evidence himself. Oh, no. This is abysmal. This is the kind of work that embarrasses doctors, that embarrasses researchers, that embarrasses anyone who takes evidence seriously. He came to a public debate to tell parents not to vaccinate their children, and he can't even describe what's in the study he's using to justify that advice. This is the difference between research and propaganda. Oh, no. You didn't look at the numbers? I got it. You didn't look at the numbers? There are the charts, but you didn't look at the numbers. There's a lot of stuff that I have. Steve, you mentioned that. Notice how Dave presents the contradiction. He's pointing out that Steve claims the numbers are off the charts, and yet admits he hasn't looked at the numbers. It's a devastatingly effective way to emphasize how absurd Steve's position is. There are the charts, but you didn't look at the numbers. Steve tries to laugh it off, the too busy defense. There's a lot of stuff he can't read everything. There's a lot of stuff that I have. Steve, you mentioned that. He chose the paper. He submitted it as evidence. He said, go ahead and dispute that. And now it turns out that he doesn't know what's in it. The excuse crumbles under its own way. This is what happens when you treat a citation as the end of a conversation. You get caught with your pants down, and Dave and Dan are going to make damn sure that everyone in the room gets a good look. There's a lot of stuff that I have. Steve, you mentioned that. You're sure that you provided for this debate, and you don't know anything about the data in it. I'm here. I'll give you some quotes from Chris Hicksley. It's okay. Since you don't know the paper that you brought, we can teach you what's in the paper. The numbers are all fucking over the place. You'd almost feel pity for Steve if what he does wasn't so harmful. He's built a following, telling parents not to vaccinate their children, and he can't even explain the evidence he's using to justify that advice. But since Steve didn't read his own evidence, Dave and Dan take ownership of it. They explain Steve's paper to Steve. They show that the data inside doesn't actually support the conclusion on the label. This is total dominance of the source material. They know his evidence better than he does, which to be fair is actually quite easy because he never read it. We can teach you what's in the paper. The numbers are all fucking over the place. There's no clear trend. Second of all, there's absolutely no way to mechanistically and causally link that to anything. Even if the data was good, how do you rule out the idea that there's a neurological condition that just makes the brain not clear aluminum as well? There's no way to mechanistically link that to a causative agent of autism. So Chris actually has published over 200 peer-reviewed papers on aluminum. Let's get to the data. He's published over 200 peer-reviewed papers. Many of which are what he says. What he says is, I did not see such high aluminum content in the brains of Alzheimer's patient. This was extraordinary. These are some of the highest values ever measured in human brain tissue. Now go ahead and dispute that. Tell me your source for someone who has higher levels of aluminum than what he's measured. See him backpedal. Steve can't discuss the data because he didn't read it. So he falls back to quoting the author's opinion again. He hides behind X-Lis credentials instead of engaging with X-Lis numbers. Chris actually has published over 200 peer-reviewed papers on aluminum. Let's get to the data. And then he tries to shift the burden of proof, demanding that Dan disprove the claim that Steve hasn't effectively supported. Go ahead and dispute that. Tell me your source for someone who has higher levels of aluminum than what he's measured. I'll do you better. So, let's go to that table that you didn't read. So let me read off some of the measurements that he got of aluminum in a child's brain. Do you know what a technical replicate of an experiment is? Sorry. A technical replicate. Dan sets a new trap based on methodology. He asks a simple question about experimental design. Do you know what a technical replicate is? Do you know what a technical replicate of an experiment is? This is fundamental to evaluating any study. If you run an experiment multiple times on the same sample, how consistent are your results? Sorry, a technical... Steve's confusion exposes that he lacks the scientific literacy to evaluate the paper he's citing. He isn't doing science. He's playing telephone. It's amazing to watch Dan and Dave smell the blood and bite off all that they can chew. They've taken every opportunity to maximally humiliate Steve Ampere because they, like myself, believe that they are exactly the type of people who deserve them. Sorry, a technical replicate. Is this science class that he's asking for? And here Pierre intervenes to mock the question, is this science class? He recognizes that Steve is drowning and tries to delegitimize the line of questioning entirely. The appeal to ridicule presenting the opponent's argument in a way that makes it appear ridiculous without addressing the substance. Is this science class that he's asking for? If you can make careful methodology sound like nerdy nitpicking, maybe the audience won't notice that your side can't answer basic questions. The problem is, this is a debate about science. If Stephen Pierre planned to discredit decades of data and studies, they need to actually know the subject. Apparently he needs to be because you guys don't even read the studies that you've received. I'm sorry. Pierre, I think, I think, let me... Pierre has to resort to calling straightforward questions, bullshit, because he has no other move left. When you can't answer questions about your own evidence, dismissiveness is all you have. He's trying to make the audience feel that the questions themselves are unfair, that they're illegitimate, rather than admit that he and Steve simply don't know the material. Pierre, I think... Let me... Why is it this... Let me just... Let me just make a... Let me just make a fucking idea what you're talking about. Let me just make a... It's the source you brought. Complete route. They are reduced to calling straightforward questions, bullshit, because they cannot answer them. And Dave delivers the verdict that seals the exchange. It's not some obscure challenge. It's not unfair pedantry. It's the source they brought. They submitted this paper as their evidence, and they can't explain what's in it. Okay, let's recap. It's the source you brought. They have been defeated by their own ammunition. It's fucking glorious. Chris actually has published over 200 peer-reviewed papers. Data. On aluminum. Let's get to the data. So what do you take from all of this? The lesson is more universal than this specific debate. It's about forcing concrete specificity, making vague claims testable and falsifiable. When someone throws out a scary sounding ingredient or sightseer study, don't be intimidated. Ask them to explain it. Ask what the numbers actually show. Ask how the mechanism works. Stay on target. Don't let them escape into a new claim until the current one has been resolved. And above all, ask them what's actually in the paper they're citing. See, you don't need a PhD. You just need to be the one person willing to check the homework. Oh no. Anyhow, as always, thank you kindly for the view and an extra special thank you to everyone who supports the channel. Including today's sponsor, Ground News. Do check out that link in the description. Thanks.