---
video_title: "How to BREAK a Pathological Liar"
video_id: Vy_F7L3Htr4
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vy_F7L3Htr4
video_date: 2026-02-26T22:07:20+00:00
video_description: |
  Go to https://piavpn.com/RationalityRules to get 83% off from our sponsor Private Internet Access with 4 months free!
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  When Destiny squared off against Dinesh D'Souza on Trump's tariffs, he didn't just win an exchange—he conducted a surgical demonstration of how to dismantle political spin when someone will defend anything except the facts they're standing on. This forensic breakdown reveals the exact techniques Destiny deployed to trap Dinesh into admitting that Trump's tariff chart was a lie while being completely unable to justify why the American public should accept being deceived.
  
  You'll witness the specific moment Dinesh concedes "every president lies to us all the time"—rhetorically collapsing the entire MAGA premise that Trump "tells it like it is" in a single desperate admission. I'll show you how Destiny systematically closed every escape route: demanding binary answers when Dinesh appeals to abstract economics, exposing the double bind on emergency powers, and forcing confrontation with the plain fact that a chart held up on national television contained fabricated numbers presented as data.
  
  By the end, you'll understand the precise pattern of political deflection—and how persistent questioning on a single verifiable claim reveals there's nothing beneath the spin but euphemism, special pleading, and comfortable distance from what's plainly false.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  DESTINY VS D'SOUZA - BATTLE FOR THE CAPITOL | Anti-Trump vs Pro-Trump Debate: https://youtu.be/7Q_ulRcczoc
  
  @Pangburn @destiny @dineshdsouza
---
I was alive. I was alive, though. When he held up the sign, did he lie to the American public to you and me and everybody else in here in the entire world when he said, these are the tariffs that every other country has on us. That was a lie, right? Well, it was a negotiating tactic. It was an exo, it was a lie to negotiate? Negotiating tactic. Look! But it was a lie then. We can at least, it was a lie to negotiate, it was a lie, right? In a matter of seconds, negotiating tactic just became a confession. To see, Maga Champion, Dinesh D'Souza, tried to use a euphemism to soften the blow, hoping that if he used a fancy word like tactic, nobody would notice that he was admitting the numbers were false. But Santa left destiny, didn't let that word slide. He translated it back into plain English, and Dinesh was left holding the bag. What you are watching is the power of persistent questioning. It's a technique that works like a vice. You ask a binary question, yes or no. When they use a soft word, a euphemism, you translate it and repeat the question. Eventually, the target runs out of exits. They are forced to choose between an impossible denial or a humiliating admission. Dinesh chose the admission, but he didn't just admit to one lie. No, as the pressure mounted, he was forced to abandon his entire defence of Donald Trump's character. Every president lies to us. Why hello, my fellow apes, I hope you are well. Destiny, real name Steven Bernal, is a political streamer known for his relentless high-pressured debates. Are you anti-female? Half the time am I okay? Who happens to sit on the left and is one of the most polarising figures in online political discourse? Depending on who you ask, he's either a rigorous thinker or an abrasive contrarian who picks fights for content. Tristan, do you believe that God knows all things? Yes, absolutely. God is omniscient. Does God know what it feels like to take a dick in the air? Either way, though, he's someone who won't let a question go unanswered. He recently appeared on Pangburn philosophy opposite Dinesh D'Souza, the conservative filmmaker, best known for his pro-Trump documentaries and shall we say creative relationship with historical accuracy. The Democratic Party is in fact the party of slavery and segregation and Jim Crow and the Ku Klux Klan and lynching and all the horrors of American history. All of this was done by Democrats and they were opposed all along the way by Republicans. Dinesh is a veteran of political media. He knows how to spin, he knows how to pivot and he knows how to fill the air with words until the original point is forgotten. Today, however, we're going to watch Dinesh collapse as he does every time he faces actual scrutiny. We will see him move through the four stages of defeat, first deflection, then euphemism, then normalisation and finally total surrender. Every president lies to us. Along the way, we see Destiny deploy a potent reductio ad absurdum involving a Tinder profile that exposes the absurdity of Dinesh's logic so clearly that even the most committed mega supporters in the audience can't mess it. It all starts with a query that looks completely harmless. Why does Trump trying to do it the terrorists? But first, if like me, you occasionally enjoy perusing the terms and conditions on crap, purely for legal reasons, of course, you'll know that the UK government now wants you to hand over your passport first. Because nothing says online safety, like uploading a photo of your face to a site you visit in Cognito. The idea is age verification, fair enough in theory. In practice, it means trusting the same institutions that left classified data in a pub car park with a database linking your identity to your reading habits. One breach and your man finds out that you're not exactly on track for Harvard Law School. This is exactly why I use private internet access. It's a VPN that creates an encrypted tunnel for your internet connection, hiding your IP address from hackers, your internet service provider and anyone who fancies a peak. In just two clicks, your browsing privately, no password required. And PIA doesn't just talk privacy. The no log policy has been proven in actual court cases and independently audited by Deloitte. What this means is this, they can't hand over your data because they don't store it. Fork stop. You also get servers in 91 countries, all 50 US states support for person-to-person file sharing and protection across unlimited devices. Phone, laptop, tablet, the lot. One account covers everything. Right now, my viewers get 83% off. Just $2.03 a month plus 4 months extra free. All this with a 30-day money back guarantee. Go to PIA VPN.com slash rationality rules and keep your browsing where it belongs between you and your encrypted tunnel. Why does Trump trying to do with the tariffs? It's the kind of question that invites a monologue and Dinesh takes the bait, launching into explanation mode. Trump is arm wrestling. Trump is using leverage. Trump is doing what hasn't seriously been attempted before. He's building up steam, getting comfortable in the role of explainer. What is Trump trying to do with the tariffs? Trump is trying to do two things. One is he's trying to use the tariffs as a form of strong arming or arm wrestling. Basically saying, I will put tariffs on you and I will only take them off of you take off yours. Then why does he keep changing that? He's trying to use the tariffs like China. Okay, so be aware that this has actually not even been seriously attempted before. And now Destiny does something that sets the tone for everything to follow. He doesn't wait for Dinesh to finish the historical argument. He interrupts with a sure sharp sentence. This has actually not even been seriously attempted before. Because it's illegal. It's illegal. It's illegal. Oh dear. It's not been done before because it's illegal. Now, what's what happens to Dinesh? Is it illegal? What's the government's worth? It's illegal. It's not illegal. That pause, that stammer. He wasn't expecting a legal challenge while making a historical point. His, it's not illegal, isn't an argument. It's actually a reflex. He hasn't thought about whether it's legal. He's just denying the accusation because that's what happens when your goal is to defend a position at any cost. But in that moment, he's committed. He's now on the hook to defend the legality of unilateral executive tariffs. It's illegal. It's not illegal. The president can't, do you think the president of the United States is allowed to do unilateral econ policy? The president of the United States has a lot of economic levers that he can use in times of national crises. Notice what Destiny does here. He finishes Dinesh's sentence for him. But he finishes it with the legal requirement for the action. Destiny recognizes that Dinesh is caught off guard and, smelling blood, he presses the same line of questioning further. In times of national crises, exactly. Our dad is not an international crisis. If it was, Trump would be even worse for it. Well, there it is, a double bind, one of the most potent rhetorical techniques. A situation constructed so that any answer damages the respondent's position. In this case, if the debt is a national crisis, then Trump made it worse, which makes him a failure, not a savior. Our dad is not an international crisis. If it was, Trump would be even worse for it. If the debt is not a national crisis, then the emergency powers justification for unilateral tariffs collapses entirely. And Dinesh's stammer tells you everything. He sees no exit. He's cooked. That it was. Trump would be even worse for it. But, well, so we have no trade deals. I think we have no trade deals. I think that the first Trump term was a good one. He added to the debt more than he needed to, right? He added to the debt that which you'd have to put into the negative column. I mean, all presidents have added to the debt. Just look at the essentially one out of every, I think, $4. In the country today was generated starting in 2020. And here we have the normalization attempt. Dinesh tries to escape the specific critique of Trump by zooming out to all presidents. He's trying to dilute the blame by spreading it around. All presidents have added to the debt. If everyone's guilty, no one's guilty. But even if that were true, you can still compare the scale with the problem. Why not have every, I think, $4. In the country today was generated starting in 2020. Trump is continuing to add to it even more. Yes, Trump won't have a single budget surplus by the end of his president. Trump is, look, you should be happy with him for this. Trump is in fact, no, he won't have a budget surplus. Ron is a big vendor. Notice the technique. Dinesh tries to spin claiming that destiny should be happy with Trump. You should be happy with him for this, but destiny ignores it completely. He repeats the binary question. He's not interested in Dinesh's frame. No, he won't have a budget surplus. Ron is a big vendor. This refusal to engage with an opponent's framing when it's used to avoid the point I issue is one of the reasons the destiny is so effective in debates. He never lets someone else reframe the terms of the conversation. In this case, he's hunting for a no. No, he won't have a budget surplus. Ron is a big vendor. Yeah. I'm still spending money. He's more like a Democrat in that regard. No, because Republicans have been to big spenders, right? Isn't a Democrat the last one with a budget surplus, Clinton? We will. Can we add a grant basic factor? The question is question. Can we not agree on basic facts? Reestablishes his frame for the entire exchange. He's not debating ideology. He's not, at least at the beginning, arguing about what policies are best. He's asking a simpler question. Can we at least agree on the facts before we move on to interpreting them? This is the claim he actually opened the full debate with. The mega conservatives live in a totally different reality to everyone else. One of the most kind of troubling things that I've seen developers. We are totally and completely separated in terms of factual reality. And he's right. In the last 50 years, the only president with a budget surplus was Bill Clinton. Public debt surged under the Reagan tax cuts. And what a surprise. It did under Trump's cuts too. Can we add a grant basic facts? The Clinton was, right? Come on. Wasn't Bush the Republican, the one that started all of the foreign wars? The Clinton surplus was 100% the result of a peace dividend created by the collapse of the Soviet Union. And his where Da Nash makes a critical error. He introduces a rule to explain away Clinton surplus. Ending major conflicts creates economic windfalls, the peace dividend. He's using this to discredit Clinton to say that the surplus doesn't count because of external factors. Created by the collapse of the Soviet Union. The surplus is a surplus. The surplus is a surplus. The surplus is a surplus. But I don't know. You said collapses. I mean, doesn't Donald Trump have like nine country wars that he's ended? So we should have tons of surplus then, right? Do you agree you acknowledge it by the end of Trump's four years? We will not be at a budget surplus. The counter punch lands immediately. And his where the special pleading becomes clear. Destiny takes Da Nash's own peace dividend rule and applies it to Trump. Doesn't Donald Trump have like nine country wars that he's ended? So we should have tons of surplus then, right? Look, let's just appreciate what Da Nash just argued. Clinton's surplus doesn't count because it came from ending the Cold War. Fine. The Clinton's surplus was 100% the result of a peace dividend created by the collapse of the Soviet Union. But if that's the standard, then Trump, the self-proclaimed dealmaker who supposedly ended conflicts left and right, should be swimming in surplus. Eight months, I stopped eight wars. I stopped the war month. Think of that. That's pretty good. So where's the dividend? Where's the money? Well, the answer, of course, is that there isn't any. Trump's budgets are deep in deficit, which means either the peace dividend rule was nonsense designed to discredit Clinton or Trump isn't actually the peacemaker his supporters claim. I can't think of anybody in history that you get the Nobel Prize more than me and I don't want to be bragging. Da Nash's logic just indicted his own side. He built the weapon and handed it over. Do you agree you acknowledge it by the end of Trump's four years? We will not be at a budget surplus, right? I agree. So then the debt on Biden is missing the argument I made. He just said he might solve the $30 trillion of debt and I think it's not going to take away from the budget deficit. Well, you weren't listening to me. What I was saying was one way to solve the debt is to start paying it off. That's a very painful way when you consider that not only the vast majority of our budget is currently in entitlements, but those entitlements are scheduled to increase dramatically. So this is a painful way to do it. You can see why our congressman and senators and both parties don't want to do that. But the person who heard paying it off the most was Trump with the tax cuts and they did it this year when they solidified the tax cuts. Isn't it? The very best way to pay off the debt is to enlarge the economic pie. Digest the pivot. Asked about tax cuts hurting debt repayment, Da Nash answers with abstract growth theory. The very best way to pay off the debt is to enlarge the economic pie. The specific question goes completely unanswered. This is a red herring introducing irrelevant information to distract from the argument at hand. They also are tell when someone abandons the battlefield they're losing on, they're admitting defeat without saying so. Da Nash cannot defend the math of the tax cuts because the math doesn't work. It's fake news. I don't care about fake news. The Trump tax cuts added roughly to trillion to the deficit. That's not an opinion. That is the Congressional Budget Office. So what does Da Nash do? He pivots to philosophy, to theory. He's trying to escape the world of receipts and spreadsheets where destiny has him cornered for the world of vibes and hypotheticals where he can monologue without being pinned down. It's the rhetorical equivalent of flipping the board when you're losing a chest. The very best way to pay off the debt is to enlarge the economic pie, which he's shrinking more than he should be. It should be growing faster, but the terrorists have put in a plan. Why did they solidify that? I was saying that the combined effect in my opinion of energy unleashing AI and robotics. The United States has been growing at a rate of somewhere around 1 to 2% for now decades. It was growing at 3 to 4% in the middle of the last century. If we can create growth rates of 5, 6, 9%, which are entirely in the realm of possibility. Da Nash is doing exactly what destiny originally accused him of, living in an alternative almost magical reality. We are totally and completely separated in terms of factual reality. He's retreating from actual policy into hypothetical future growth. Energy unleashing AI and robotics. AI robots, 9% growth rates. None of this has anything to do with the tariff question that destiny asked. He's trying to run out the clock with optimism about technology rather than defend the numbers on the table. 5, 6, 9%, which are entirely in the realm of possibility. When you heard your trade relationship with every other country on the planet like we've done with the tariffs, you acknowledge, for instance, when Trump held up the tariff sign that all those numbers were alike, right? None of those tariffs were accurate for any of the country, right? Here is the critical moment. Destiny shreds Da Nash's fantasy of future growth by pointing to the reality of Trump's actual policy on trade. And it simultaneously opens a new front, not policy, not philosophy, character. He targets a specific physical object, the tariff sign, the chart that Trump held up on national television showing the tariffs that every country supposedly charges the United States. They rip us off. It's so sad to see. It's so pathetic. This is a masterstroke of rhetorical positioning. You can wiggle out with abstract claims about economic growth. You can muddy the waters of deficit projections, but a piece of cardboard with numbers on it, either those numbers were true or they weren't. All those numbers were alike, right? None of those tariffs were accurate for any of the country, right? Do you look in your unique signal? I think the basic fact that all the numbers on that chart were alike. They used to map formula. What is not alike? What is not alike? What was that, though? The first deployment of the question, simple, direct, binary, was it alike? What is not alike? What was that, though? What is not alike? What is not alike? What is not alike? Da Nash attempts to redirect with what is not alike rather than answer whether this was alike. He's trying to change the question. Destiny doesn't allow it. What is not alike? What is not alike? What is not alike, though? When he held up the sign, did he lie to the American public to you and me and everybody else in here in the entire world when he said, these are the tariffs that every other country has on us. That was a lie, right? Destiny expands the stakes, listing you, me, everyone else in here the entire world. The scope makes dodging feel smaller. He's making Da Nash's evasion feel personal to every person watching. These are the tariffs that every other country has on us. That was a lie, right? Well, it was a negotiating tactic. This is the crack negotiating tactic. Consider what that phrase actually admits. You don't need tactics if the numbers are true. Do you? If the chart was accurate, you just call it information. You call it data. You call it the facts. Calling it a tactic only makes sense if there was something tactical about presenting false numbers as real ones. Da Nash thinks that he's found a clever exit, a sophisticated sounding label that acknowledges the falsehood without calling it a lie. But he's done something far worse than admit that it's a lie. He's admitted to the strategy of lying. And amazingly, this admission backs up Destiny's original claim the MAGA operates in a different reality. And even people in positions like Euros have contributed really heavily towards that deliberate muddying of the record. So what Da Nash makes clear here is that the people shaping that reality know that it's bullshit. It's a massive tell for anyone paying attention. And he doesn't even realize that he's done it. It was a negotiating tactic. It was a lie to negotiate. Negotiate. Negotiate tactic. Look, but it was a lie then. We can at least it was a lie to negotiate. It was a lie, right? Destiny strips the euphemism clean off. Tactic becomes lie. The reframe is complete. He's not arguing about the word tactic. He's showing that tactic and lie aren't mutually exclusive. Negotiating can be both tactical and false. In fact, deception is usually tactical. We can at least it was a lie to negotiate. It was a lie, right? Trump? Trump? We ain't negotiating with the Fox News ratings? No. His YouTube views. And the negotiating tactic defense collapses under its own weight. If Trump was negotiating, who was the counterparty? A press conference isn't a negotiation room. The audience was the American voter, not the Chinese government. Dinesh freezes because he has no prepared answer for this distraction. His logic has run into a wall. We ain't negotiating with the Fox News ratings? No. His YouTube views. It was a lie. Are you saying that if I'm saying it was a lie, I'm saying that's not worth a lie. I'm saying it's a lie. If I'm negotiating with you, and you lied to me, I wouldn't negotiate with you. I'm not lying. I'm not lying. I'm not lying. I'm not lying. Every reframe gets refused. Dinesh tries hyper-feticals, abstractions, analogies, and each time Destiny returns to the same simple question, the technique is pure persistence. Those numbers were a lie, right? If I'm negotiating with you, and an NPR reporter comes to me and asks me something, and I say, this is going to be the result. I'm actually speaking to you, but if I want to tell the NPR, oh, guess what? Let me give you my actual negotiating position, okay? Because you can then put it on NPR, and the Chinese will figure it out by tomorrow morning. Dinesh constructs an elaborate hypothetical to justify lying to journalists. The defense has shifted. Now it's he lied to you so he could negotiate with them. Let me give you my actual negotiating position, okay? Because you can then put it on NPR. This is the 4D chess argument that claimed that the lie was necessary to protect a secret strategy. He's appealing to the idea that the audience should be happy to be deceived if it helps the country. But let's pause and appreciate just how absurd what Dinesh wants you to believe actually is. The claim is that Donald Trump got up and lied about tariffs because it was supposedly the only way to fool the Chinese government. But that entails the Chinese government seeing it, recognizing that it doesn't reflect reality, and then somehow responding with, wow, incredible tactics, we're totally fooled. I guess that we're going to pay more. Of all the things in the world that have never happened, that has never happened the most. Ridiculous. It insults the American public twice, first by lying to them, and then again by assuming that they're so stupid that they can't see through such transparently bad reasoning. That said, to Dinesh's credit, it does seem to work on a lot of mega-supportance. Because you can then put it on NPR and the Chinese will figure it out by tomorrow morning. This is, I think I would probably use the massive governmental apparatus I have to negotiate to do that because that seems like a more important, massive governmental apparatus. It has proven to be completely and utterly incontinent. So then everything that comes from the Trump administration, I should interpret as being potentially flescious. It could all be a lie because he's trying to negotiate with other people than I go try to try to say. And here's the logical extension. Destiny takes to Ness' defense and follows it to its conclusion. This is a reductio ad absurdum, taking an argument to its logical conclusion to show that it leads to an absurd result. Destiny shows that if lying as a tactic is acceptable whenever you're negotiating, and Trump is always negotiating with someone, then nothing Trump says can be trusted ever. Then everything that comes from the Trump administration, I should interpret as being potentially flescious. It could all be a lie. Dinesh has defended dishonesty so broadly the credibility itself is impossible. Exactly the problem that destiny flagged at the very start. It could all be a lie because he's trying to negotiate with other people than I go try to say to him. I'm saying negotiation is a moving ball. I'm saying that Trump is very capable of putting on a tariff and saying I'm going to put on this tariff on January 7th and then he doesn't do it. Is he lying? No, he's not lying. No, no, that's not what I meant. Destiny cuts off the hypothetical pivot. The chart existed. The numbers were false. This isn't about threats that didn't materialize. It's about claims presented as facts. And then he doesn't do it. Is he lying? No, he's not lying. No, no, that's not what I meant. He needs to do it. Well, he did do it number one. The big chart was a lie. Why can't we just admit that? This is what I'm talking about. The very beginning to have a state of reality. Destiny returns to the core. Every deflection, every hypothetical, every abstraction, and he's still asking the same question he started with. This is what I'm talking about. The very beginning to have a state of reality. The reality is it is a lie saying that these bombastic claims were lies. In the course of the code, it doesn't even matter because the real issue is what are you getting in the deal? Another redirect. Bombastic claims minimizes the accusation. Bombastic claims. What are you getting in the deal? Tries to shift to outcomes. The question of whether it was a lie remains unanswered. Another red herring flopping on the deck. The real issue is what are you getting in the deal? If I don't know if you saw me walk up on stage, but if I put in my Tinder profile that I'm six two and I show up at my date with really good posture, does that count as just being bombastic or would that be all right? The Tinder analogy. Notice what it does. The niche has been defending false claims as bombastic. Bombastic claims. As if there's a category of acceptable exaggeration reserved for important people doing important things. Destiny takes that intellectual defense and drags it somewhere everyone understands. A dating profile. If you say that you're six foot two and you show up at five foot nine, that's not bombastic. That's a lie. Your date is not going to nod thoroughly and say, huh? Not an incredible negotiating tactic. They're going to leave, not because of your height, but because you're a liar. Does that count as just being bombastic or would that be all right? So why should a char on national television get a pass? If lying about your height is lying, then lying about tariffs is lying. The logic is identical. The stakes are different, but the dishonesty isn't. The nesha special pleading is exposed. He wants one rule for Trump and another for everyone else. If I put in my tender profile that I'm six to and I show up at my date with really good posture, does that count as just being bombastic or would that be all right? Let me give you an example for why. Well, let's have an example. How about when the president held up a board with a bunch of two-star numbers and they were all lies. Wouldn't that be a lie? Can we just say there was a lie? I'm saying that presidents, I'm in the course of foreign policy and trade negotiations every president lies to us all the time. And there it is, total surrender. Follow the journey that Dinesh has taken. Denial, euphemism, justification, deflection. And now, with nowhere else to run, every president lies to us all the time. Every president lies to us all the time. Quite the journey, huh? Dinesh started this exchange defending Trump as a strategic genius playing for D-Chess. He ends it arguing that lying to the public is just what presidents do. He's gone from Trump is really special, don't you know? To Trump is normal and everyone's terrible so who cares. Be aware that this has actually not even been seriously attempted before. It's a white flag wrapped in cynicism and the irony is devastating. The entire mega brand rests on the idea that Trump tells it like it is that he's the one honest man in a swamp of lies. Dinesh just killed that myth, not destiny. Dinesh, the man came to defend Trump's honour and left having buried him. We ain't negotiating with the facts news ratings? No. Is YouTube views? What you just watched is the simplest technique in the world, not that I'm saying that it's easy to execute, it's not. Asking the same question until you get an answer. Persistent questioning works because most people don't expect you to doggedly attack a single point. They expect you to let the euphemism slide. Dinesh expected all of that and when it didn't happen he had nothing left. I said it's not an initial crisis, if it was Trump would be even worse for it. But anyhow, as always thank you kindly for the view and Dinesh just special thank you to everyone who supports the channel, including today's sponsor Private Internet Access.