---
video_title: "The WORST Interview in TV History"
video_id: uLMOvV0Qi5E
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uLMOvV0Qi5E
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Support the channel and grab one of the most beautiful science/history books you'll ever see: https://mdsh.io/9xjjuo89gd 
  Use code RATIONALITY10 for 10% off. Thank you! 
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  --
  
  Cathy Newman was handed this interview at the end of a long day covering Syria and Brexit, with no time to prepare. So she walked into the Channel 4 studio in January 2018 certain of who Jordan Peterson was, and with nothing to prove it.
  
  Half an hour later she had made him a household name.
  
  Here is what almost nobody mentions: there was a real case against him that night. His account of the Canadian law at the centre of the row was wildly out of proportion, and the case against it was there to be made — by anyone given the hours to make it.
  
  She has none. So she never lays a finger on it.
  
  Steve breaks down what she does instead. Why every accusation arrives before the commitment that would justify it. Why an attack on television has to be self-contained or an audience simply won't accept it. And the moments where Peterson hands her the win for free, in his own words, seconds after saying the opposite.
  
  By the end you'll know exactly what went wrong in that studio, and why the interview meant to expose him launched him instead.
  
  --
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  Source | Jordan Peterson debate on the gender pay gap, campus protests and postmodernism (Channel 4 News): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aMcjxSThD54
  
  Channel 4 News' channel: https://www.youtube.com/@Channel4News
  
  Referenced in this episode | Pat Buchanan interviews the leader of the KKK: How to Platform a Racist: https://youtu.be/VyLb20Qo1lU
---
Why should your right to freedom of speech trump a trans person's right not to be offended? >> Because in order to be able to think, you have to risk being offensive. I mean, look at the conversation we're having right now. You know, like you're certainly willing to risk offending me in the pursuit of truth. Why should you have the right to do that? It's been rather uncomfortable.

>> So, you haven't sat there and I'm just trying I'm just trying to work that out. I mean >> Ha, got you. >> You have got me. You have got me. >> That is a challenge about the right to give offense, met with the observation that the challenger herself has been giving offense relentlessly and in great abundance. And then we get the pause, a

silence that traveled around the world. It may in fact be the most replayed dead air in the history of television interviews. But here's the thing, there's a detail about it that almost nobody mentions. Nobody gave her what a good interview needs. By her own account, she was handed this one at the end of a long day of Syria and Brexit coverage without the research to build her case. So, she went in with a sense

of who this man is and nothing in her hand to prove it. So, what do you do when you're sat under the lights with a case that you haven't brought? Well, not this. >> So, if you want domination to dominate >> I'm not saying anything. >> Why hello my fellow apes. I hope you are

well. This particular interview took place on the British television program Channel 4 News. And it takes us back nearly a decade to the beginning of 2018 and the meteoric rise of a towering Canadian conservative figure. The guest was at the time a psychology professor whose lectures were sweeping across the internet and whose book, 12 Rules for Life, had landed in British shops that very morning. So, what the British public were watching at the time was largely an introduction to the man. This

is a detail with profound consequence. And we're going to get to why. Now, Channel 4 has a rich history. It belongs to this country's proud adversarial tradition, the one where the interviewer sits down with a single question running underneath every other. Why is this lying bastard lying to me? Its

presenters are bred to prosecute. It's what they do, and typically, they are very good at it. And yet, the most watched video this program has ever uploaded, 50 million views and counting, with nothing else even close, is the one in which the prosecution fell apart. It is a hugely influential interview, one whose influence flowed one way. It propelled the guest into the stratosphere. Talking of that guest, we

have Jordan Peterson, a man who no longer needs an introduction, but he's going to get one anyway. At this point, he was 15 months deep into the Bill C-16 firestorm. >> NOW, HERE'S WHAT'S HAPPENED WITH BILL C-16 AND THE surrounding legislation. >> He had three Joe Rogan appearances behind him and roughly 600,000 YouTube subscribers. He was at the top of his game, sharp, prepared, and as this interviewer was about to find out, frequently underestimated. Now, as

things go on this channel, Jordan is the man being taken apart. I've criticized him since the era of this very interview, in fact, back when doing so was deeply unpopular. And these days, most people can see through his But in this episode, he is the man to study because whatever else is true of him, when he sat down in that chair, he did something that very few guests manage. He played it perfectly. And he did so while being thoroughly misleading about the very thing at the center of the interview. That's what

makes this worth an entire episode. He understood the optics. He was well aware that Cathy couldn't just accuse him. He comprehended that before she could run any attack, her job was to get him to commit on camera to the views that she wanted to pin him down on. On top of this, he understood the audience. Hardly

anyone in Britain, or you know, those watching, had seen his more controversial claims, the ones buried in the longer lectures. So, in this studio, on this stage, he got to introduce himself. In the prosecutor's chair, we have Cathy Newman. And let's be fair to her from the start, because the wild caricatures that spawned from this interview do her no favors. She was and is a genuinely accomplished investigative journalist. The

Westminster harassment stories, the Lord Rennard exposures, those are hers. Oh, and then there's the Church of England abuse investigation that ultimately led to the first resignation of an Archbishop of Canterbury in history. That is hers, too. She was named both journalist of the year and interviewer of the year for it. In this case, however, she walked in ready to fight a man who well, simply didn't turn up.

And that lands us at our lesson. The segments we're going to cover teach us twice over, once where she has nothing to bring and once where she has plenty and still doesn't bring it. It's a lesson in how to conduct a good interview through the prism of a terrible one, because there is a reason this go so wrong for Cathy and it was never a lack of aggression. She underestimates her opponent again and again and in doing so, fails again and again to keep her attacks self-contained. Worse still, beneath it all, she isn't listening and it becomes painfully obvious.

>> Do you rely on >> women have some sort of duty to sort of help fix the crisis of masculinity? >> Were you aware of how often you use the phrase "So, you're saying?" >> Of course not. >> So, we begin fashionably at the beginning. The question that Cathy chose to open with.

>> Jordan Peterson, you've said that men need to quote "grow the hell up." Tell me why. >> Now, you've experienced this, probably several times this week alone. It's late, you're half asleep and you're still doom scrolling, learning nothing because the algorithm is designed to keep the feed moving and your thumb obeying. But it doesn't have to be that way. You can learn absolutely awesome

things, which is why I want to show off this beast of a book. Turn off your phone and open the ultimate guide to rebuilding civilization, a thick, gorgeous hardcover cataloging 180 topics across 400 pages. We're talking agriculture, medicine, sanitation, engineering, you know, the tested knowledge that actually built the modern world. It is the library of human discovery, hand-illustrated by 50 plus artists, scientists, and designers, and it shows. Every spread reads like an engineering manual had a baby with a Renaissance manuscript. It is gorgeous.

You'll glance at a page for 5 seconds and resurface 20 minutes later knowing how a printing press works. For me, it was especially the building section that captured me. I'm a history nerd. I'll detour for any castle within 100 miles, and it walks you through mortar, arches, roofing, water and sewage, the stuff that's usually crucial, yet invisible until it fails. And the longer that you sit with the book, the more that it rewards your attention. You see, there

are symbols tucked into the margins, patterns to discover on a second look. Hungry Minds call it a book of hidden riddles, a magic artifact, and that's fair. It is the only thing on my desk that's ever made me put down my phone voluntarily. So, if you hunger for knowledge that actually sticks, scan the QR code on screen or use rationality10 for 10% off at checkout. Thanks. With

that, back to the show. >> Jordan Peterson, you've said that men need to, quote, grow the hell up. Tell me why. >> Well, because there's nothing uglier than an old infant. There's nothing good about it. It People

who don't grow up don't find the sort of meaning in their life that sustains them through difficult times, and they are certain to encounter difficult times. And they're left bitter and resentful and without purpose and adrift, and hostile, and resentful, and vengeful, and arrogant, and deceitful, and and of no use to themselves, and of no use to anyone else, and no partner for a woman, and there's nothing in it that's good. >> This is quite the opening scene, an immediate challenge to his own words, and an invitation to defend them. >> You've said that men need to quote grow the hell up. Tell me why.

>> And how does he deal with it? With class, that's how. He's calm, relaxed, speaking in a low tone, compassionately telling young men that they're wasting their lives, and that he would rather that they didn't. >> There's nothing uglier than an old infant. >> Again, this is a first impression on a national scale. All of the controversial

things that Jordan had said or heavily implied were not yet known to this audience. What they were judging, then, is what they see, and what they see here is an immediately enduring figure. He's parental, he's worried, and his opening criticism of men here serves him greatly. His fairly harsh words fall on them. >> They're left bitter, and resentful, and without purpose, and adrift, and hostile, and resentful, and vengeful, and arrogant, and deceitful, and and of no use to themselves, >> This, bear in mind, is his audience. He

has opened by insulting his own base from love, and played it as compassion. It is a phenomenal opening. >> and of no use to anyone else, and no partner for a woman, and there's nothing in it that's good. >> So, you say there's I mean, that sounds pretty bad. You're saying there's a crisis of masculinity. I mean, what do

you do about it? >> The first question is strong. The first answer lands. And then, what does she do with that opening? She compresses it.

She takes his answer, folds it into a headline, a crisis of masculinity, and offers it back to him for confirmation. This, right here, is the now greatly infamous so you're saying move, the one that became a meme and a decade of jokes at her expense. And in this case, it worked exactly as designed. As you will see in a moment, Jordan accepts him, answering as though the summary were his own. So, we have question, reformulation, agreement, an interview functioning. Consider this exchange our

control case because the same move is about to start seriously malfunctioning. >> You're saying there's a crisis of masculinity. I mean, what do you do about it? >> You tell you help people understand why it's necessary and important for them to grow up and adopt responsibility. Why that isn't a shake your finger and get your act together sort of thing. Why

it's more like what why it's more like uh a delineation of the kind of destiny that makes life worth living. I've been telling young men and but it's not I wasn't specifically aiming this message at young men to begin with. It just kind of turned out that way. >> Again, his follow-up lands beautifully. He's saying that if young men are in a mess, you don't fix that by sneering at them. You meet them where they are at.

You give them something solid to aim at and you explain why responsibility is worth having. Expanding further, he then expresses that this was never meant as a message just for young men, but for adults generally. It's simply that men, more than women, have been showing up to hear it. >> But it's not I wasn't specifically aiming this message at young men to begin with. >> He's still calm and in the context of the exchange, he's making a perfectly fair case. It's the most palatable

version of what he has to say. But she doesn't recognize it. Instead, she pounces on the gender split as though it's a confession in a tone implying that simply being listened to by men is already a mark against him. >> But it's not I wasn't specifically aiming this message at young men to begin with. It just kind of turned out that way.

>> And it's mostly you admit it's mostly men listening. I mean, 80% of your audience is a man, >> Well, it's about 80% on in on YouTube, which is a YouTube is a male domain primarily. So, it's hard to tell how much of it is because YouTube is male and how how much of it is because of what I'm saying. >> Notice the hedging in Jordan's language here, and more importantly, what it achieves. He's coming across as a scientist, measured and weighing alternative explanations before anyone else can raise them. But, here's the

thing. When Pew surveyed Americans days before this interview aired, it found that YouTube reached men and women in roughly equal measure. Sure, men spent more time watching and made up a larger share of viewers in most categories. So, I think it's fair to describe the platform at the time as broadly male-skewed. But, that is a long way away from the 80/20 split on Jordan's own channel.

>> But, um You you What I've been telling young men is that there's an actual reason why they need to grow up, which is that they have something to offer, you know, that that that people have within them this capacity to set the world straight, and that's necessary to manifest in the world. And that also doing so is where you find the meaning that sustains you in life. >> So, what's gone wrong then? >> Jordan keeps going, and he makes his core claim as plain as day. These beaten-up young men aren't just a problem to be managed. They have

something valuable to offer. And, critically, offering it is where meaning comes from. Kathy gives it no acknowledgement at all. >> So, what's gone wrong then? >> Oh god, all sorts of things have gone wrong. I I think that

I don't think that young men are pure words of encouragement. Some some of them never in their entire lives, as far as I can tell. That's what they tell me. And the fact that the words that I've been that I've been speaking, the YouTube lectures that I've done and put online, for example, have had such a dramatic impact is an indication that young men are starving for this sort of message because, like, why in the world would they have to derive it from a lecture on YouTube? Now, they're not being taught that they that it's important to develop yourself.

>> In stark contrast to Caffi's aggression, Jordan is compassionate. And, as I covered in my recent manosphere video, he's also building on something that simply is true. For a decade or two now, a lot of men have been struggling. The manosphere insists that it's feminism is doing. But, look at where these men are actually raised. Environments in which

self-reflection, kindness, and encouragement are treated as weakness. Where a boy, or indeed a man, can go years without hearing a single compliment or a word of genuine approval. >> Young men are starving for this sort of message. >> What society has largely forgotten is that they are human beings. Of course, then, they're starving for someone to recognize what they have to offer. And

Jordan leans straight into that hunger, humbling himself in the process. The fact that young men are having to get this message from a YouTube lecture is, as he says, the problem embodied. >> Why in the world would they have to derive it from a lecture on YouTube? >> We have hardly been shy about what we think of the direction Jordan eventually took all of this. But, as an opening pitch to a country that had largely never encountered him before, this is extraordinarily difficult to argue with.

>> They're not being taught that they that it's important to develop yourself. >> But, does it does it bother you that your audience is predominantly male? Does that isn't isn't that a bit divisive? >> What kind of follow-up is that? He's just given her his account of it. The

message wasn't aimed at men. Men simply turned up. Yeah, she keeps loading the same implication into the question. That a predominantly male audience is, in itself, a stain on him. And with each pass, the tone starts doing more damage than the content. To the audience, she

is starting to prove his point. >> Isn't that a bit divisive? >> No, I don't think so. I mean, it's no more divisive than the fact that YouTube is primarily male and Tumblr is primarily female. >> isn't it?

>> Tumblr is primarily female. >> Let's think about her line of attack for a moment. Audience split by gender all the time. Pew found that among American podcast listeners, women were almost twice as likely as men to listen regularly to true crime. Sport skews heavily the other way. That's just what

the data shows, and nobody thinks a true crime podcast owes the world an explanation. But Cathy is treating a male-leaning audience like a problem that needs accounting for. And the trap is that there's no answer available here. Anything that explains why his audience is mostly men is going to come back as a charge. >> Tumblr is primarily female.

>> Right, you're just saying that's the way it is. >> Well, it's I'm not saying anything. It's just an observation that that's the way it is. >> We're going to want to remember this moment because it's the shape of things to come. Jordan has just told you what he's doing. He's simply reporting what's

there, not making an argument. But Cathy hears a claim anyway, and she goes after it as though he has just argued for it. >> I'm not saying anything. It's just an observation that that's the way it is. Um there's plenty of women that are watching my lectures and coming to my talks and buying my books. It's just

that the majority of them happen to be men. Uh it's >> What's in it for the women, though? >> Whoa, there is an edge to Cathy's question there. >> What's in it for the women, though? >> Huh?

>> She's reframed the issue as though men improving themselves has to be justified through the lens of what women get out of it. It's bizarre, and he barely has to reach. >> What's in it for the women, though? >> Well, what sort of partner do you want? You want an overgrown child?

Or do you want someone to contend with that's going to help you and that you can rely on? >> "What is his message here?" That struggling men should work on themselves and grow into reliable adults. And who else wants that outcome? Their partners, most of whom are women. They want a

partner who is mature, who can learn, who is actually there when she needs him. That is not a niche demand. So Cathy's edge has nowhere to land because nothing he has said in this studio gives it anything to bite on. >> Or do you want someone to contend with that's going to help you and that you can rely on? >> women have some sort of duty to sort of help fix the crisis of masculinity.

>> What? Really, Cathy? Did he really say that? Are you sure? >> What I've been telling young men is that there's an actual reason why they need to grow up, which is that they have something to offer.

>> What's in it for the women, though? >> Well, what sort of partner do you want? You want an overgrown child? Or do you want someone to contend with that's going to help you and that you can rely on? >> women have some sort of duty to sort of help fix the crisis of masculinity.

>> Where did that come from? In anything you've heard so far, where has he said that women have a duty to fix men? He didn't. He hasn't said anything close. She's attacking a crude a substitute for the argument her opponent is actually making in front of her because that version is easier to dismiss. It's a

laughable straw man. Now, maybe she's read something. Maybe there's a lecture, a passage, or an interview somewhere that she thinks supports the charge. Or maybe there isn't and this is simply the shape her expectations have taken. Crucially, it doesn't matter which. From

where the audience is sitting, these two possibilities look identical. She hasn't shown us the basis for it or put it to him. She's simply announced it. And the rule she's broken here is one of the big ones. A televised attack has to be self-contained.

The commitment, the challenge, the verdict all have to happen where the audience can see them. The audience doesn't want homework. If they can't trace the accusation, then as far as they're concerned, the accusation has been invented. >> Women have some sort of duty to sort of help fix the crisis of masculinity. >> Well, it depends on what they want.

No, I mean it's it's it's exactly exactly how I laid it out. Like, women want deeply want men who are competent and powerful. And and I don't mean power in in the in the in the in that they can exert tyrannical control over others. That's not power. That's just corruption.

Power is competence. And why in the world would you not want a competent partner? Well, I I know why actually. You can't dominate a competent power partner. So, if you want domination >> Is that what you're saying?

>> She's done it again. She's round up the ugliest available headline. Women as a class want to dominate. He said nothing of the kind. He even disparaged that type of tyrannical power.

>> And I don't mean power in in the in the in the in that they can exert tyrannical control over others. >> The only point he's conceding is an edge case. There are partners who avoid competent significant others because control is the point. >> You can't dominate a competent power partner. >> And he doesn't even get to finish the sentence.

>> So, if you want domination >> That's a conditional if. Some women, not women as a class, but Cathy cuts in before the clause has even landed converting the edge case into a headline about all women. >> So, if you want domination >> Is that what you're saying? >> And if Jordan had given her that version on camera, she'd be on strong footing. But he didn't. So, watch what he gets to

do instead. >> Is that what you're saying? >> No, I'd say women who have had their relationships impaired with impaired their relationships with men impaired and who are afraid of such relationships will settle for a weak partner because they can dominate them. But it's a sub-optimal solution. >> Do you think that's what a lot of women are doing?

>> [clears throat] >> I think there's a substantial minority of women who do that. And I think it's very bad for them. They're very unhappy. It's very bad for their partners. Although their partners get the advantage of not having to take any responsibility.

>> He's correcting her by narrowing the claim. He's talking specifically about women who have had bad relationships or who are afraid of having them. In this account, that pattern harms both these women and their partners. >> I I think it's very bad for them. >> That correction separates harm from blame. Jordan is claiming that this

pattern harms women. He is not attacking them, and he is not saying that the harm is their fault. But his wording also introduces an empirical claim of its own. >> I think there's a substantial minority of women who do that. >> A substantial minority is a claim about prevalence. Minority only tells us that

falls below half. What substantial implies is that it's large enough to take seriously. Yet no study sample or number has been offered to establish where this group actually sits. The phrase sounds quantitative, but the quantity is missing. Cathy has already spent her challenge on a position that Jordan never held. So, he gets to reject

the accusation, while the prevalence claim embedded in his correction goes untested. That is the cost of her straw man. Scrutiny moves away from the empirical claims that she could have tested and onto a moral charge that he can easily deny. >> Although the partners get the advantage of not having to take any responsibility. >> But what gives you the right to say that? I mean, maybe that's how women

want their relationships, those women. I mean, you're making these vast generalizations. >> I'm a clinical psychologist. >> [laughter] >> She asks him what gives him the right, a credentials question, and as any research would have informed her, he holds the precise type of credentials you want for making this kind of claim. And he don't even decorate it.

>> I'm a clinical psychologist. >> The available question was not whether he's entitled to speak, but whether the numbers are there. How is he identifying domination in a relationship? How does he distinguish it from an ordinary imbalance in confidence, income, temperament, or decision-making? How does he know that these women choose weaker partners deliberately? How does

any of that get you to substantial minority? >> I actually don't know the answer to that. I I I have no idea and I don't think anybody else does either. I do know that there are studies with regards to Facebook. >> Those are the questions. And notice,

they don't require a single clip, a single quotation, or a shred of preparation. Only that she listened to the sentence he actually said. >> Right, so you've you're saying you've done your research and women are unhappy dominating men. >> I didn't say they were unhappy dominating men. I said it was a bad long-term solution.

>> Um hang on a minute. >> I think there's a substantial minority of women who do that. And I think it's very bad for them. They're very unhappy. They're very unhappy.

>> So he did say that. More precisely, Jordan has linked domination and unhappiness without establishing the causal direction. Is the attempt to dominate making these women unhappy, or is some underlying situation producing both the unhappiness and the urge to dominate? Those are different causal claims and he hasn't established either one. At this point, though, he isn't being made to.

>> I didn't say they were unhappy dominating men. I said it was a bad long-term solution. >> Okay, you said it was making them miserable. >> Yes, it is. And it depends on the time frame. I mean, there can be There's

intense pleasure in momentary domination. That's why people do it all the time. But it's no formula for a long-term successful long-term relationship that's reciprocal, right? Any long-term relationship is reciprocal virtually by definition. >> So Jordan denies that it's making women unhappy, but accepts that it's making them miserable.

Okay. Sure thing, Jordan. >> Good guess, but actually no. >> And what's the definition of miserable again? Oh, yes, it's uh very unhappy. Look,

Cathy has a real opportunity here. She can lock him down, repeat, so it is making them unhappy, and let the contradiction do the work. But instead, she allows him to launch into a discussion about time frames and how relationships are defined. And so this subject closes with Jordan on the safest ground available to any human being alive. Lasting relationships require reciprocity.

>> Why would you say something so controversial yet so brave? >> How can anyone disagree with that? They can't. It's true virtually by definition. And look at the journey. He

began with a claim about how many women do a specific thing, an actual checkable proposition. >> I think there's a substantial minority of women who do that. >> ended on a truism. The substantial minority is gone. The contradiction is gone.

>> Any long-term relationship is reciprocal, virtually by definition. >> Each time Cathy has inflated his claim, Jordan has corrected her by stepping down to something smaller and safer. And each correction has moved the conversation one notch further away from anything that can be tested. That is what happens when you're not listening. She stopped hearing him somewhere around the second question and started arguing with the man she expected. And when the

real man contradicted himself right in front of her, in his own words, she let it go. And so, perhaps sensing that she isn't going to extract the confrontation she wants from the subject, she moves on to another. And then the same process unfolds again. We could sit here and go through that one, and then the next one, and then the next one. But I think the point has been made clear. That said, we will visit the best

one, the one that went mega viral, the one where she reached for the controversy that made Jordan famous. >> Let me move on to another debate that's been very controversial for you. And this is you got in trouble for refusing to call trans men and women by their preferred personal pronouns. No. >> A straight no, an immediate refusal to accept the premise. Let's do the job

that Cathy didn't and put the actual record on the table. In September of 2016, Jordan posted a video titled Professor against political correctness. Six days later, the University of Toronto sent him two letters. Then, another month on, he put his position plainly at a debate on his own campus. And once C-16 was law, the CBC went back and asked him directly whether he'd use gender-neutral pronouns in his classroom now that he was legally required to. So,

seven months before this interview, the refusal is flatly on the record. Its scope, however, is narrower than Caffi has claimed. As of this interview, Jordan's concrete refusals concern gender-neutral pronouns, you know, neo-pronouns such as ze and zir, along with the singular they. >> I can envision a student or a colleague insisting that I can't call them using gender-neutral pronouns. Ze, z h e or z h e for you Americans. Ze or zir, I

think it is. I'm not doing that. I'm not doing that. >> They did not concern calling a trans woman she, at least not explicitly. Across 16 months of controversy, he never committed himself to refusing that request. Caffi's accusation covers

preferred pronouns generally, but for a trans woman asking to be called she, she has no refusal to put in front of him. That is the concrete case that his record never reaches. >> You got in trouble for refusing to call trans men and women by their preferred personal pronouns. >> No. >> So, no is not evasion. It's accurate,

mostly. Because what happens when you look at the principles sitting underneath those refusals? >> You have said that you don't recognize another person's right to determine what pronouns you use to address them. >> Yeah, that's right. I don't recognize that.

I don't recognize another person's right to decide what words I'm going to use. >> That is not a rule about newly coined words, neologisms. That is a rule about everything. And in the same breath, we get a qualifier. >> Especially when the words they want me to use, um, first of all, are non-standard elements of the of the English language.

>> Especially when, not only when, he's identifying neologisms as the worst case, not the only case covered by the principle. So, Jordan has stated a principle broad enough to reach any pronoun another person asks him to use, while putting only gender-neutral pronouns on the record as concrete refusals. That leaves conventional pronouns unsolved, and for 16 months through the letters, the debates, the protests, the national coverage, and the rise of an entire career built around this controversy, the obvious question remained unanswered. Would he refuse a student who asked to be called she? He never commits either way, and that ambiguity gives his no room to land.

Caffi has accused him of refusing preferred pronouns generally, while his record establishes a narrower refusal. She needs to say, "You've said that you won't use singular they, and you told the CBC that you certainly won't now that you consider it compelled by law. So, what happens to a student who asks you to use they?" But, that isn't the question that Caffi has put in front of him. >> No, that's not actually true. I got in

trouble because I said I would not follow the compelled speech dictates of the federal and provincial government. I actually never got in trouble for not calling anyone anything. >> Right. >> That didn't happen. >> And notice what he's done there. Jordan

has now drawn a bright line between two different propositions, refusing an individual person's request and opposing government-compelled language. Caffi alleged the first, he says his position was the second. >> I actually never got in trouble for not calling anyone anything. >> And because she has not shown the audience an incident in which he refused to address a student appropriately, the original accusation simply dissolves. >> That didn't happen.

>> You wouldn't follow the change of law which was designed to help >> it was law. No. No. >> Once it was law >> what they said it was designed to do. >> All right, there. That is the

disagreement. Caffi describes the measure as an anti-discriminatory law, while Jordan calls the same measure a compelled speech dictate. These positions are not merely different moral opinions, they are competing factual descriptions of what the law does. So, establish it, quote the relevant language, explain what conduct it covers, ask him which words he believes the government would force him to say, and what happens to the person who refuses. But, this is where the preparation was needed. Kaffy has just

enough information to raise the scenario, yet no near enough to referee. So, she leaves the central factual dispute untouched and races straight for the moral verdict. As for us, however, let's do the due diligence that she didn't. And, fair warning, this is going to take a minute or two. Was Bill C-16 designed to outlaw discrimination? Yes,

literally. Its stated purpose was to add gender identity or expression to the prohibited grounds of discrimination under the Canadian Human Rights Act, and to add the same characteristics to the criminal code provisions on hate propaganda and sentencing. That gives Kaffy the bill's stated purpose, one Jordan has already acknowledged. But, Jordan's phrasing is careful. That's what they said leaves open the question of what the bill would do in practice.

So, does Bill C-16 actually force Canadians to use particular pronouns? Well, if you're asking about the text, no. The bill did not mention pronouns. It did not provide a list of mandatory words, and it did not create a criminal offense for calling somebody by the wrong pronoun. Canada's Justice Minister, in fact, told the Senate explicitly that there is nothing within Bill C-16 that would compel somebody to have to call somebody by the pronoun he or she or otherwise. And, when the

lawyer appearing alongside Jordan was confronted with that statement, even he conceded. >> I I'd agree with that. There is nothing in in the bill >> Though, hold on to his very next words, because that's where the entire story is heading. He says, >> But, the The is that in the the government of Canada Department of Justice website they in their questions and answers section of that website which was pulled down in December it's at top five of my brief. It it makes very clear that the definitions of the terms gender identity and gender expression have already been given by the Ontario Human Rights Commission.

The Commission has provided helpful discussion and examples that can offer good practical guidance. The Canadian Human Rights Commission will provide similar guidance on the meaning of these terms in the Canadian Human Rights Act. Now I take that to be a statement of legislative [clears throat] intent. And I'll agree with you that the that the bill itself on its face does not seem to imply any manner of compelled speech, but when we're tying it so deliberately and with this expectation, that's where I think you get into into some trouble. >> You see, and this is the part almost every retelling of this story skips, nothing in the bill was never actually the fight. Nobody on Jordan's side was

claiming the bill's text contained the word pronoun. Their argument lived one step downstream in how the bill would be enforced, and it had more going for it than his critics tend to admit. Ontario had already added these same protections to its own human rights code back in 2012, and Ontario's Human Rights Commission had already published guidance on what they meant in practice. Refusing to refer to a person by their self-identified name and personal pronoun could amount to gender-based harassment in workplaces, in housing, and in services such as education. Deliberate misgendering could therefore be treated as discriminatory conduct, a civil matter heard by a tribunal with the power to order damages and remedies.

None of that was rumor. It was the Commission's published official position. And here's why that bears on the federal bill. C-16 left gender identity and gender expression undefined. Deliberately, the government said, to keep the law inclusive. And the

government's own explainer told everyone where the meanings would come from. The Department of Justice's published Q&A on the bill stated that definitions of the terms have already been given to the Ontario Human Rights Commission, and the Canada's federal Human Rights Commission would provide similar guidance. So, let's sit with that because it settles the question of whether Jordan was inventing a connection. When he tied this federal bill to that provisional guidance, he wasn't welding anything. He was reading the government's own paperwork, which brings us to the strongest version of his argument. Under

this regime, deliberate misgendering inside legally regulated relationships could ground a discrimination complaint. Tribunals can issue binding orders, and refusing abiding order can eventually land you in contempt of court. Every link in that chain is fair. On this much, Jordan was not making it up. But, now look at what he sold. Not a tribunal

might one day treat deliberate persistent misgendering in a workplace as harassment, but that the government is dictating the words Canadians are required to speak. >> I think the most egregious elements of the policies are that it requires compelled speech. >> Criminal compulsion. Jail for a pronoun. >> It's a real problem as a consequence that you make failure to make their use something that that could carry a criminal penalty.

>> A chain of remote compounding maybes, complain, then finding, then order, then refusal, then contempt, marked as a present tense certainty aimed at every citizen in the country. The kernel was real, the forecast was a cartoon. And, you know, forecasts can be tested because it has now been nearly a decade. So, what happened? Nobody in Canada has been criminally prosecuted for a pronoun. No

professor has been fired for misgendering a student, and nobody has been jailed under Bill C-16 or under any human rights law at all. Now, the jailing that skeptics sometimes cite involves a father held in contempt of defying family court orders in a case concerning his own child's medical treatment. That was contempt of a judge's order, a mechanism older than Canada itself, and had nothing to do with this bill. And as for the pronoun case law that did arise, it is the boring kind the Ontario guidance described all along. An employee in a regulated workplace deliberately and persistently misgendered after asking otherwise, winning a civil claim against the employer. In other words, the modest

version of the argument predicted the future correctly, and the cartoon did not. So, was there a legitimate question inside of this controversy? Yes, a real one about how far anti-discriminatory law should reach into speech within regulated relationships. That debate was available to anyone prepared to have it, and Jordan's inflation offer is what deserved the challenge. But Caffi, here, armed with none of what you've just heard, cannot tell the colonel from the cartoon. She has him. The overstatement

is sitting right there, just a few words away. >> I said I would not follow the compelled speech dictates of the federal and provincial government. >> was that she never established what she was confronting. She walked in certain of what this man believed, and that certainty did the work that evidence should have done. Every accusation arrived already finished, because in her head, it had been finished before she sat down.

>> Well, well, that's what they said it was designed to do. >> Okay. You cited freedom of speech in that. Why should your right to freedom of speech trump a trans person's right not to be offended? >> Oh boy, what a question.

Notice what's happened to the issue. We began with discrimination, we have now arrived at offense. Caffi has taken what could have been a serious argument about equality, harassment, and a professor's responsibility towards students, and compressed it into the weakest possible formulation. Why should you be allowed to offend somebody? Well, because people are allowed to be offensive. That is, in

fact, a key principle of free speech. Cathy herself is professionally required to risk it. It is so easy to rebut. Jordan barely has to move. >> Why should your right to freedom of speech trump a trans person's right not to be offended?

>> Because in order to be able to think, you have to risk being offensive. I mean, look at the conversation we're having right now. You know, like you're certainly willing to risk offending me in the pursuit of truth. Why should you have the right to do that? It's been rather uncomfortable.

>> And there it is, the counterattack. He takes the principle she has offered that one person's freedom of speech must be weighed against another person's desire not to be offended and applies it to her interview style presently taking place. Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. >> You're certainly willing to risk offending me in the pursuit of truth.

>> Cathy has challenged him aggressively throughout. She has implied that his audience is divisive, that he places responsibility for men's failures onto women, that he makes vast generalizations, and that he mistreats transgender people. She has done so because she believes that testing him is more important than protecting him from discomfort. And she's right. But that means that she has already accepted Jordan's central premise. Worthwhile

speech sometimes carries the risk of offense. >> In order to be able to think, you have to risk being offensive. >> Now, this does not settle the underlying debate about compelled speech. It does not establish that Jordan's interpretation of the law is correct. It does not tell us whether a professor repeatedly refusing to recognize a student's identity should be treated in precisely the same way as a journalist challenging a public figure. But it is

an excellent answer to the question that Cathy actually asked. That distinction is everything. Jordan does not have to defeat the strongest possible argument against him. He only has to defeat the argument placed in front of him, and Caffi has placed a very weak one indeed. >> It's been rather uncomfortable.

Well, I'm I'm very glad I put you on the spot. Well, you get my point. Well, BUT YOU GET MY POINT. >> OOPS. Without realizing, she has just conceded the very principle Jordan was standing on.

>> You get my point. It's like you're you're doing what you should do, which is digging a bit to see what the hell's going on. And that is what you should do. >> Jordan pushes further, emphasizing that she should challenge him. She should dig. She should risk making him

uncomfortable in the pursuit of truth. He's praising her for offending him. >> You're doing what you should do. >> He couldn't care less to be protected from her harsh words. He is granting her the freedom she has just questioned his right to possess.

>> And that is what you should do. But you're exercising your freedom of speech to certainly risk offending me, and that's fine. I think you more power to you as far as I'm concerned. >> So, you haven't sat there and >> And then, nothing. >> So, you haven't sat there and I'm just trying I'm just trying to work that out. I mean,

>> Ha, got you. >> The pause, the famous pause. And what makes it so punishing is not so much that Caffi has suddenly realized that Jordan is right. It's that she can't conceal how transparently her question has crumbled. She is searching for the distinction. She can sense that there is

one, and here's one that she can find a moment too late. Jordan voluntarily entered the television studio. A transgender student, however, may simply be trying to attend class. Jordan is a powerful public figure being questioned by a journalist. He has consented. A

student is dependent upon the professor assessing their work. One situation is a consented adversarial interview. The other is an ongoing institutional relationship. Those are meaningful differences, but Caffi didn't put any of them into her original question. >> I'm just trying I'm just trying to work that out. I mean

>> The studio falls silent because, unfortunately, this is the first time in this interview that Cathy is actually processing his answer before delivering the next accusation. And Jordan, who has remained remarkably restrained up to this point, and you've got to give him credit for it, it's important. It's very important for the optics. At this point, he allows himself victory lap. >> Ha, got you.

>> It's smug, undeniably, but he has earned the rhetorical point. >> You have got me. You have got me. I'm trying to work that through in my head. Yeah, yeah, it took a while. Took a

while. >> It did, yeah. >> Took a while. >> It's uncomfortable to watch, sure, but Cathy deserves some credit here. She doesn't bluff, and nor does she pretend that she hasn't been caught. She

acknowledges the point and tries to reconstruct her argument from first principles. And when she does, she lands on the aforementioned distinction. >> It did, yeah. >> Took a while. You have voluntary You have voluntarily come into the studio and agreed to be questioned.

>> Mhm. >> A trans person in your class has come to your class and said they want to be called >> That's never happened. [clears throat] >> There, that is already a substantially better question. It contains a person, an actual request, and a defined relationship. Cathy is no longer talking abstractly about someone's right not to be offended. She is asking what Jordan

would do if a student directly requested that he address her as she. This is a concrete case that should establish what his position actually means. And Jordan answers it. >> A trans person in your class has come to your class and said they want to be called >> That's never happened. And I would call them she.

>> Just like that, there goes the premise. >> And I would call them she. >> The man introduced minutes ago as someone who refused to call transgender people by their preferred pronouns has just said that in the situation Cathy describes, he would do precisely that. And if you've been paying attention, you'll know why this was always going to happen. Every concrete refusal concern gender-neutral pronouns, she was never among them. Caffey has finally built a

precise concrete question, probably the strongest question of the entire interview, and aimed it at the one case he has never contested. She is one pronoun away from pinning him down. They, rather than she. Ask about a non-binary student who requests the singular they, and his recorded I certainly won't come straight back into play. But that student never enters the hypothetical.

>> I don't recognize another person's right to determine what pronouns I use to address them. I won't do it. >> More importantly, Caffey has collapsed two separate questions. Whether he would extend a basic courtesy to one student and whether the law should compel him to do it. Jordan has spent the exchange insisting upon that distinction. So,

rather than testing where the boundary actually sits, she accuses him of changing his position. >> And I would call them she. >> So, you would. So, you've kind of changed your tune on that. >> No. Another No.

>> And this one lands even harder, because Caffey has just heard him explain that this was his position from the beginning. >> So, you've kind of changed your tune on that. >> No. No, no. I said that right from the beginning. What I said at the beginning

was that I was not going to cede the linguistic territory to radical leftists, regardless of whether or not it was put in law. That's what I said. >> Regardless of whether or not it was put in law. Now, this is where a sharper interviewer, or perhaps Caffey on a better day, could begin doing real damage. For this entire interview, for 16 months of public life, the respectable version of his position has been, I never refused anybody anything.

I oppose government compulsion. >> Would you use alternate pronouns? And why not? >> I because I don't believe that that people have the right to determine what language I use, especially when it's backed by punitive legislation. >> That's the version that survived Cathy's opening accusation. That's the version

his Senate testimony was built on. And yet, he has just said that the law was never the boundary. The objection is the words themselves to seeding linguistic territory with or without a statute behind them. So, what does this mean in practice? How does calling an individual student she differ from accepting the political theory he associates with the word? When does an ordinary act of

courtesy become ideological submission? Which pronouns would he refuse and on what grounds? If his objection extends beyond the law, why has he spent the interview framing the dispute primarily as one of government compulsion? >> Get off my back, Dad, and leave me alone. >> Those questions would force him to explain the boundary he is drawing. The

commitment she spent the whole interview trying to extract by force, he has just handed over for free. And yet, it slips straight through her fingers. >> I was not going to seed the linguistic territory to radical leftists, regardless of whether or not it was put in law. That's what I said. And then the people who came after me said, "Well, you must be transphobic, and you mistreated a student in your class."

It's like, I never mistreated a student in my class. I'm not transphobic, and that isn't what I said. >> And so, Jordan is allowed to close this exchange by presenting himself as the victim of precisely the process we have just watched. A controversial statement is inflated into a more vicious one. The vicious one is attributed to him, and his denial is then treated as evasion.

Whether or not that is a fair description of the wider controversy, it's not. Cathy made it an extraordinarily fair description of this interview. Now, the interview doesn't actually end there. There's plenty more of it, and it doesn't get any more comfortable. But, this is where we can stop, because you've now seen everything that this lesson requires. The pattern

laid out from the very first question, the pattern running unbroken, and the pattern, at last, called out and paid for in a very infamous pause. So, let's wrap this up. Again and again, the problem was not that Caffy was too confrontational, the problem was that she never established what she was confronting. She walked in certain of what this man believed, and that certainty did the work that evidence should have done. Every accusation arrived already finished because, in her head, it had been finished before she sat down. When he spoke about men

becoming competent, she told him that he was placing a duty upon women to fix them. He would rely on. Women have some sort of duty to sort of help fix the crisis of masculinity. When he described only a minority of women choosing partners they could control, she told him that he was saying that all women wanted to dominate men. >> So, if you want domination to dominate, is that what you're saying?

>> When she reached for his most famous controversy, she accused him of refusing to address transgender people by their preferred pronouns, a refusal he had never quite stated, and then tested the accusation with a pronoun he'd never opposed. >> You got in trouble for refusing to call trans men and women by their preferred personal pronouns. >> Again and again, she announced the verdict before establishing the offense. Now, look, taking on Jordan required something her newsroom didn't give her: time, documents, and preparation. Without them, she kept reaching for accusations she couldn't establish, often because Jordan had never made the claim that she was attacking. But the

strange, lopsided tragedy is that the smaller victories required none of that. They were available in his answers, and she missed them because she wasn't listening. When he tried to separate unhappy from miserable, his own words from seconds earlier gave Caffy what she needed to pin the contradiction down. When he said that he would call a student she, asking about they would have tested the refusal already on the record. And when he volunteered that his objection held regardless of the law, the commitment she had chased throughout the interview was finally explicit. She

let each of them pass. All it required was listening to the man in front of her in that chair, and that is where she kept failing. She came to fight a caricature of Jordan. His actual positions never received a proper cross-examination. >> To be clear, none of this makes Jordan honest. As we saw with Bill C-16, his

own description of the controversy was wildly out of proportion. >> a complicated interaction between federal legislation and existing human rights rules and sold it as the government dictating Canadians' pronouns. Cafferty had a legitimate factual case against him. She simply failed to prosecute it. That is one of two central lessons in this interview, and we'll get to the second one within a few weeks. So, please subscribe. If we

strip away the memes and the noise, what is the lesson? It's this. A good interviewer does not cross-examine the person they expected to meet. They listen to the person who actually arrived. They establish the commitment, present the evidence, close the exits, and only then deliver the charge.

>> You said, quote, "There's no vaccine that is, you know, safe and effective." Do you still believe that? >> I never said that. >> So, stop me. We have the clip. Please

play the clip. >> There's no vaccine that is, you know, safe and effective. >> So, you did say it. Do you still believe it? >> It is, as we emphasized so many times on this channel and as I do before any debate, it's about preparation. And if

you want to see what that looks like when it's done phenomenally well, well, watch our episode on Pat Buchanan interviewing the leader of the KKK. Buchanan arrived with the documents. He had the quotations. He had the dates. Whenever his subject attempted to retreat, Buchanan placed his words directly in front of him. Cafferty

arrived with conclusions. Buchanan arrived with receipts. And that is why one controversial interview dismantled its subject while the other launched its subject into the stratosphere. >> I'm the guy. >> Stop saying you're the guy. We all know

that you're not the guy. >> Anyhow, as always, thank you kindly for the view. And an extra special thank you to everyone who supports the channel, including today's sponsor, Hungry Minds.