---
video_title: "How to DESTROY a \"They Do It Too\" Argument"
video_id: RlfGtAsqdH4
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RlfGtAsqdH4
video_date: 2026-04-07T15:44:45+00:00
video_description: |
  MyHeritage is offering you their DNA kit + 30 day Complete free trial for only $19 with my coupon RULES https://bit.ly/RationalityRules_MH This is the lowest price they have ever offered in their history!
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  Last time, a Trump supporter came armed with certainty and no names. One question dismantled everything. This time, Adam Mockler faces a different opponent — and a different problem entirely. Unlike the last opponent, Sarah has a weapon, and she knows exactly how to use it. As long as it holds, nothing the right has ever done needs to be answered for.
  
  This breakdown reveals how the weapon works, why it demands escalation, and what it's actually concealing. Watch what happens when "the left" gets pushed for a name. Watch her strongest piece of evidence collapse the moment it's scrutinised. Watch the argument stretch so far it becomes absurd — and what that reveals about the strategy underneath.
  Most people sense something's off when they hear this kind of argument. They just can't name it. After this, you will.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  The  @jubilee  debate: https://youtu.be/gWHxRuD57ig
  
   @adammockler 's channel: https://www.youtube.com/@UC8DA4o0SyaGfyVaBLbF5EXg 
  
  My first episode: https://youtu.be/bpbCqgJs3bQ
---
I want to ask you a thing, is did one Democratic politician support what Luigi did? Can you name any actual Democratic politician? Uh, no, but it doesn't matter. I want you to remember what she just said. It doesn't matter because Sarah, a Gen Z conservative, has just admitted that she can't name a single Democratic politician who supported an act of violence. And her response isn't to rethink her position. It's to dismiss the question entirely. It doesn't matter. No, but it doesn't matter. Okay, why? Because Sarah isn't here to defend the right. She's here to make the left look just as bad. And if both sides are equally terrible, then nobody has to answer for anything. What do you think is radicalising where people Nick Fentaz are MSNBC? Probably MSNBC? What? What the fuck? It's called false equivalence, and it's one of the most effective rhetorical shields in politics. Today, we're going to watch Adam Mochler take it apart piece by piece, and we're going to learn how you can do it too. Don Lemon just told people to chew ice agents. Why hello, my fellow apes. I hope you are well. We're back with Adam Mochler on Jubilee Surrounded. Adam Mochler versus 20 MAGA Conservatives. And the prompt for the group is... My first claim is, Trump is causing a rise of fascism in our generation. In the last episode, we watched a young woman named Sadie crumble the moment Adam asked her to name a single leftist politician who called Trump Hitler. She couldn't do it. I... it's every single... it's like... Her certainty was built on atmosphere, not attribution, and the whole thing fell apart. But today, we're facing Sarah, a fundamentally different opponent with a fundamentally different strategy. Where Sadie froze when asked about evidence, Sarah doesn't care about evidence. She has a shield, and that shield is to claim that the other side is just as guilty. It doesn't matter what the right does if the left does it too. And you have less swaying media like MSNBC cheering backstage from Charlie Kirk was more... Wait, all right. So on this channel, we've spent years defending evolution, breaking down the science if who we are and where we come from. So, when my heritage reached out, let's just say that I was a little excited. Because your DNA is literally the story of human migration and evolution written into yourselves. And now, you can actually read it. The test itself is dead simple, a cheek swab that takes about two minutes from a cap that's just 19 dollars, which is significantly cheaper than any competitor. You send it off, and within a few weeks, you get your results, and it is damn fascinating. Stephen, are you ready to explore your ethnicity? I am. I am indeed. Let's do this. What are we up? Stephen, you are... 40% vote just short of 40% Scottish and Welsh. I thought that would be higher. Okay, right, okay. That makes sense. I'm very, very English. More Scottish and Welsh. Ha! And Danish. Okay, I'm just straight up exactly what I thought I was. I'm just so European. Wow, okay. Now, this is interesting. We've got DNA matches. Where we can see how many people? Okay, 11,550 DNA matches. I won't show him, because, you know, privacy in all, but the top one is my parents' first cousin never met them, didn't really exist. 10% of their DNA is exactly the same as mine. Well, shared DNA is 10%, that is fascinating. I could go on, but you get the point. It is fascinating. Right now, you can get your MyHeritage DNA kit for just 19 dollars by using the coupon code rules, or by scanning the QR code on screen. And for those of you who care about data privacy, as you should, know that MyHeritage has committed to never selling or licensing your genetic data. And you have less swing media like MSNBC cheering backstage from Charlie Kirk was more aware. And as long as she can keep pointing across the aisle, she never has to answer for her own. We're about to learn how to test that comparison, because when someone says both sides do it, the question you need to ask is, do they, though? Yeah, banners, powerful and useful, too. Is he, though? It begins with jokes. Let's get into it. Woo. Hello. Hi, nice to meet you. Hi, I'm Sarah. So I'm a lot more concerned about the rise of violent left-wing rhetoric among Gen Z, than so-called fascism, because I'm sorry if you think like that chat was any sort like that meant that fascism is on the rise. It's like you've never been at column duty lobby. Like it's called making edgy jokes. Right from the jump, Sarah reveals her strategy. She's not going to engage with Adam's claim about fascism. Rather, she's going to redirect the entire conversation towards left-wing violence. But before we get to that, we need to catch up on what she's referring to. That chat is the Young Republicans Telegram leak, a story broken by Politico in October of 2025 that exposed nearly 3,000 pages of private messages between leaders of young Republican chapters across several US states. These were not anonymous trolls. Oh no, they were party officials, government staffers and people actively climbing the ranks of Republican politics. And the messages contained racial slurs, Holocaust jokes, discussions about sending political opponents to gas chambers, open admiration of Hitler and jokes about rape. One member even wrote, if we ever had a leak of this chat, we would be cooked for real. He was right. Eight of 12 participants lost their jobs. A sitting state senator resigned and the New York chapter was disbanded. But, and this is crucial, what did Vice President JD Vance have to say in response? Well, he complained that the person who revealed these messages was a scumbag. You know, not the people laughing about political violence. And then said of the 24 to 35 year olds in the chat, kids do stupid things, especially young boys. They tell edgy offensive jokes. Sound familiar? Because that is almost word for word what Sarah is arguing. Like it's called making edgy jokes. Wait a minute. But let's roll back to appreciate her framing. She is a lot more concerned about the left. I'm a lot more concerned about the rise of violent left wing rhetoric among Gen Z than so-called fascism. This isn't denial that the problem exists on the right. It's a hierarchy. And she's placed left wing rhetoric at the top, which conveniently means we never have to talk about what Trump is actually doing. The call of duty lobby comparison is doing heavy lifting here too. It's like you've never been at Call of Duty lobby. She, like Vance, is normalizing the content of a group of official Republicans chat that contained fascist rhetoric, racist slurs, and fantasies about political violence by comparing it to random edgy teens talking shit on an online game. It's just a joke, bro. It doesn't mean anything. Everyone does it. Like it's called making edgy jokes. Wait a minute. You make those types of jokes? I don't personally, but like that's like every young man ever has like made a joke. Raise your hand if you make those types of jokes. Okay, so no one will actually admit it because it's kind of weird to make those types of jokes. Adam challenges the normalization immediately, and he does it by calling her bluff. He asks the room who actually makes these jokes. Raise your hand. Raise your hand if you make those types of jokes. I'm not real. Okay, so no one will actually admit it. Nobody does. And Adam knew they wouldn't. That's the point. Sarah needs this behavior to be universal, something so common and so harmless that it doesn't even warrant discussion. But when Adam puts it to the room, not a single person backs her up. Her normalization argument requires allies and she has none. Whatever these 20 conservatives do in private, not one of them is willing to stand behind it in public. And if your defense, if a group chat is everyone does it, but everyone in the room says not me, then that defense is dead. It's kind of weird to make those types of jokes. Everyone makes those types in that way too. Like male friends if you'd like never been a room where people are. My male friends say the N word as a joke. Like it's like my male friends. Everyone does that and you know it's true. It's like, no, you're probably not about like homosexuals. And there it is. Sarah's defense of edgy jokes has led her to argue that saying that N word is normal male behavior. People are male friends say the N word as a joke. And if your male friends don't do it, they're probably gay. No, not everyone does that. Homosexuals. Yeah, let's just let that land for a moment. She's just used homophobia to normalize racism in the service of defending fascistic, quote, unquote, jokes. And she's done it so casually, so instinctively that she doesn't seem to realize that she's just illustrated Adams point for him. He said that Trump is causing a rise of fascism in their generation. She responded by demonstrating exactly what that rise looks like. It's the normalization of rhetoric and actions previously considered unacceptable. You don't say we don't say in the different gas chamber. The difference is that young leftists genuinely worshiped the murder of Charlie Kirk and Luigi Mangio who are people committing genuine acts of violence and they genuinely condone that. So that's the big difference because I mean, I saw literally graffiti on college campuses saying kill all Charlie Kirk's. They are inciting violence and that is a totally like normalized thing to say to like celebrate the fact. And that serious and the political group chat was a joke and you know that. So here's Sarah's core argument laid out plainly. The right makes jokes. The left commits actual violence and celebrates it. Therefore, left-wing rhetoric is more dangerous than right-wing fascism. This is the comparison she wants Adam to accept. And if you're ignorant of the data, it probably sounds compelling. Luigi Mangio really was celebrated by some people online. Charlie Kirk really was assassinated. These are real events, but notice what she's done with them. She's attributed the celebration to young leftists as a collective as if it were a coordinated sanctioned position rather than the reactions of scattered individuals online. Young leftists genuinely worshiped the murder of Charlie Kirk and Luigi Mangio. She cited graffiti on college campuses as evidence of a movement. I mean, I saw literally graffiti on college campuses saying kill all Charlie Kirk's. And she's drawn a line from individual acts of violence to the entire left. And the political group chat was a joke. And you know that. Okay, so your concession is that, you know, people talk like fascists and private some time. It's but you're worried that leftists are using increasingly violent rhetoric, like the people that you were talking about. Luigi Mangio is serious and one thing is a joke. Okay, I want to ask you a thing. Adam highlights what she's just admitted that the right talks like fascists in private. People talk like fascists and private some time. But Sarah won't sit on that for even a moment. She snaps back to her binary that left is serious. The right is just joking. And then insists that Adam knows this. Because one thing is serious and one thing is a joke. Okay, I want to ask you what she's not going to defend the position. She's declaring it settled. But Adam isn't done. He goes where she doesn't want him to go specifics. Because one thing is serious and one thing is a joke. Okay, I want to ask you a thing. Is did one democratic politician support what Luigi did? Can you name any actual democratic politician? No, but it doesn't matter. Okay, so on the other side, you're talking about the rise in the generation. You're not talking about politicians. They're not. I am talking about politicians as well. Now, if you watched the last episode, this might look familiar. Adam asks for a name. Sarah can't provide one. But here's where this exchanged diverges from Sadie. And it's crucial. Sadie froze. She stammered. Her worldview cracked on contact with the question. I, it's every single, it's like. Sarah says no. And doesn't even blink. Where Sadie froze. Sarah dismisses. Uh, no, but it doesn't matter. She's not embarrassed by the gap in her evidence. She's arguing evidence is irrelevant. But Adam isn't having it. He clarifies that he is talking about politicians. So you're trying to point to young leftists on the left. But on the right, there are politicians in power. People like Stephen Miller, who says the democratic party is a domestic extremist organization. Caroline levied just the other day, as I said, said that the entire base is Hamas terrorists in criminals. So when you have people in power on the right, wait, wait, wait, they're using this rhetoric and normalizing it that goes downstream. Yeah, and you have less swaying media like MSNBC cheering backstage from Charlie Kirk was more. Wait, here, the false equivalence becomes unmissable. As a quick reminder, a false equivalence occurs when someone presents two sides as equally valid, when they're actually quite different. For instance, my mate got food poisoning from a cabab once. So restaurants are just as dangerous as drinking bleach. Both involve ingesting something harmful, but the comparison is absurd. Or to give another example, saying a cyclist ran a red light, so cyclists are just as dangerous as drunk drivers. Both break traffic laws, sure. But the scale of the consequences isn't even close. That's what Sarah is doing here. She's placing two things side by side and treating them as equal. But are they? Adam just provided names. Stephen Miller, Caroline Leve, these are officials in power, a senior White House advisor and the White House press secretary using government platforms to call the opposition party domestic extremists and terrorists. And what Sarah's counter? MSNBC cheering backstage. And you have less swaying media like MSNBC cheering backstage from Charlie Kirk was more. Wait, so not a name, not a quote, not even a person, just a vague accusation about unnamed staff off a television network, reacting off camera to an event she wasn't present for. This is the asymmetry that makes the equivalence false. Adam is pointing to institutional power, people who set policy, who command federal agencies, who speak from podiums with the seal of the president behind them. Sarah is pointing to anonymous reactions from people whose name she doesn't even know. It's not that both sides don't have problems. Of course they do. It's that random people being assholes online and government officials dehumanizing the opposition from positions of state power are not the same category of problem. They're not even in the same postcode. When you have less swaying media like MSNBC cheering backstage from Charlie Kirk was more. Wait, you think people are being murdered because of MSNBC? You think MSNBC is radical? Yes, I do. You think MSNBC is radical? Absolutely. Adam can't quite believe what he's hearing, but he's sharp enough to see the opportunity. If she's willing to call MSNBC radical, he can test just how far she has stretched the equivalence. You think MSNBC is radical? Absolutely. What do you think is radicalizing more people? Nick Fuentes or MSNBC? Probably MSNBC? Really? More so than Nick Fuentes? Okay, let that breathe for a moment. Adam has just asked whether a center-left cable news network is more radicalizing the Nick Fuentes, an actual self-described white nationalist. I'm basically a white nationalist. In the sense that I think America's a white nation, I think it should remain a white nation. Who attended a dinner with the president of the United States and has called for a Catholic Taliban state. And basically, we're having something like Taliban rule in America, in a good way. We're having something like a Catholic Taliban rule in America. You know, when I say things about like, we should be more like the Taliban, you know, it's partly joking, but there's also partly truth. And Sarah said, yes, MSNBC is worse. Probably MSNBC? Really? More so than Nick Fuentes. I hear someone laughing behind me, and that's kind of... He doesn't even need to explain it. Someone in the room laughs, and Adam just acknowledges it. The absurdity speaks for itself. I hear someone laughing behind me now. And this is a moment worth understanding, because it reveals something important about how false equivalence works as a psychological mechanism. Sarah hasn't arrived at MSNBC is worse than Nick Fuentes through analysis. She arrived there through a process of escalation that her own argument demands. Once you've committed to the position that the left is more dangerous than the right, you have to keep inflating the left wing threat to maintain the comparison. The further Adam pushes, name calling a white nationalist, actual government officials, the higher Sarah has to stack her side to keep the scales balanced. Eventually, you end up arguing that a cable news channel is more dangerous than a neo-nazi sharing dinner with the president. Why is Hitler cool? I'll tell you why very simply. And maybe she even believes it, because the equivalence requires it. What do you think is radicalizing where people Nick Fuentes are at MSNBC? Probably MSNBC. Now pointing this out to a room of 20 Gen Z conservatives who volunteered to defend MAGA on a platform with millions of viewers was never going to change their minds. Adam knows that, but he's not performing for the room. He's performing for you. The person watching at home who's heard this both sides argument before and felt that something was off but couldn't quite name it. As I hear someone laughing behind me, that's kind of, mmm. But also, there is a fundamental difference between people in power using rhetoric in random leftists. Listen, I'm a young liberal. And any... You know, Don Lemon just told people to chew ice agents. Just as Adam starts to articulate the core asymmetry, people in power versus random individuals Sarah deploys her strongest card. Don Lemon, a real name, a specific claim and actual allegation often sighted to violence. Don Lemon just told people to chew ice agents. This is the moment she's been building towards. After rounds of vague gestures at MSNBC and unnamed leftists, she finally produces something concrete. And if the claim is true, it's powerful. Sure, it's not the equivalent of the White House press secretary, but it's a recognizable media figure directly inciting violence against federal agents. Don Lemon just told people to chew ice agents. They told... They told... Don Lemon just told illegal, brown people to grab guns so they can chew ice agents when they show up at their door. Is Don Lemon not someone in a position of power? As a young liberal, kind of. Do you... Wait, do you condone that? Do you condone... Do you condone she think... Yeah, do you condone that? No, you should not chew ice agents. He said that you should have a weapon in your house. Don't you support the second amendment? She said that Lemon told illegal brown people to grab guns so they can shoot ice agents. That is a significant misrepresentation of what actually happened. Don Lemon just told people to... Chew ice agents. And whether she's doing it deliberately or not, it's a straw man. She's taken what Lemon actually said, inflated it into something far more extreme, and then popped the inflated version. It's much easier to condemn telling people to shoot federal agents than defending citizens' rights to bear arms in their own homes. A position that conservatives, you know, tend to champion. The straw man lets her skip the hypocrisy entirely. If you believe in the second amendment, if you believe in the Constitution, Black people, brown people of all stripes, whether you're an Indian American or a Mexican American, or whoever you are, go out in your plate where you live and get a gun legally, get a license to carry legally. Because when you have people knocking on your door and taking you away without due process as a citizen, and to even reveal some mechanism at work that when you don't have a real equivalence, you manufacture it through distortion, or to be fair to Sarah, it reveals that she's getting her information from sources that have already built the straw man for her. Either way, though, the result is the same. She's repeating a radicalized version of events as though it were fact. Darling and just told illegal. As a thinnest thing. Adam handles this perfectly, despite not having the full-clipper hand. He condemns the extreme version that Sarah is pushing. You should not shoot ice agents. No, you should not shoot ice agents. Or making clear that lemon was not telling people to go and shoot federal agents, but telling them that they have the right to bear weapons in their own homes. He said that you should have a weapon in your house. And then, Adam does something clever. He appeals directly to a conservative value. Don't you support the Second Amendment? It's a sharp move. He's using her own side's principles to defend the person that she's attacking. He said that you should have a weapon in your house. Don't you support the Second Amendment? And I'm for illegal immigrants, because they're not allowed to legally own firearms. Can I clarify something? Can I clarify? He was talking about citizens, because he said they're arresting and detaining citizens. So if you watch that clip, he was saying citizens. I hope there's one of those fact checks on screen, because he was saying they're detaining citizens. Here, Adam makes the critical correction. And you believe, backs him up on screen with a fact check. Don Lemon was talking about American citizens being detained by ice and their right to defend themselves in their own homes. When you have people knocking on your door and taking you away without due process as a citizen, that is a world away from telling illegal immigrants to shoot federal agents. Shoot ice agents. So here's what's just happened. Sarah produced her strongest piece of evidence, a specific name, a specific claim, a specific allegation of left-wing incitement. And it turned out to be a misrepresentation. The one concrete example that she offered to support her equivalence required distortion to function. This is the pattern that makes false equivalence so dangerous and so important to identify. It doesn't just lack evidence. When it finds evidence, it has to warp it beyond recognition to make it fit in the narrative. The equivalence isn't discovered, it's constructed. I hope there's one of those fact checks on screen, because he was saying they're detaining citizens. So really quickly, citizens wouldn't need to be like shooting ice agents. I don't think anyone should shoot ice agents, but he was... Number one, I'm not... Adam is done with the tangent. He's corrected the misrepresentation. He's condemned what needed condemning. And now he wants to get back to the point, because he knows that Sarah has just spent valuable time doing exactly what false equivalence is designed to do, pulling the conversation as far from the original claim as possible. Adam came to talk about Trump and fascism, but he's been talking about Don Lemon and Ice Agents. Time to get back on track. I'm not Don Lemon. That's a... No, we're saying... Can I just clarify? We're saying, life-tuing people openly in sight, but I'm just... Can I just clarify? Very quickly. I'm a young liberal, and I completely wholeheartedly condemn anyone on my side, who is number one, talking poorly about Charlie Kirk, number two, saying insane stuff about... Sure, yeah, condemn half your party, do it. Condem half your party. Notice the inflation. Adam condemns extremists on his side, and Sarah immediately frames that as half your party. She needs the left wing problem to be enormous, not a fringe, not a handful of idiots online, but half an entire political party. The equivalence demands it. The bigger she can make the left wing threat, the less anyone has to reckon with what's actually happening on the right. Sure, yeah, condemn half your party, do it. Oh, you think, okay, can you name one Democratic person in precision power who said something about Charlie Kirk? Yeah, I just said like half of the people on MSNBC, we saw the video. Can you name someone? The second he died. I don't know, because they're off-camber. We heard the cheers the second he died. Adam asks for a name again, and again, Sarah cannot provide one. She gestures at MSNBC staff, but cannot name a single one. They're off-camber. We heard the cheers the second he died. They were off-camera. She heard cheering. That's it. That's the evidentiary foundation of her entire argument, unnamed people unseen, reacting to something she can't verify. But Adam doesn't just expose the gap. He fills it from the other side. They're off-camber. We heard the cheers the second he died. On your side, I can name Mike Lee, who made fun of Melissa Hortman after she died. I can name Donald Trump in Don Jr., who made fun of Nancy Pelosi. Mike Lee, Donald Trump, Don Jr., names, officials, people, empower. Adam doesn't deal in vibes. He deals in attribution. And this is the move that completes the dismantling of the equivalents. So let's lay it out. On Sarah's side of the ledger, we have unnamed MSNBC staff. She can't identify. And you have less-swing media like MSNBC cheering backstage from Charlie Kirk was more. Off-camber a cheer, she can't verify. We heard the cheers the second he died. A Don Lemon clip she misrepresented. Don Lemon just told illegal, brown people to grab guns so they can shoot ice agents when they show up at their door. As a citizen. Graffiti on college campuses. They're like graffiti on college campuses saying, kill all Charlie Kirk's. And videos I see all the time. Clarify. Clarifying people openly in sight, bounce against ice. Clarify very quickly. On Adam's side, we have Stephen Miller, senior White House advisor, calling the Democratic Party a domestic extremist organization. Caroline Levy, the White House press secretary, calling the Democratic base Hamas terrorists. Donald Trump and Don Jr. mocking Nancy Pelosi after her husband was attacked with a hammer. And we'll stand up to crazy Nancy Pelosi who ruined San Francisco. How's your husband doing, by the way, anybody now? And Mike Lee, a sitting US senator and committee chair who, when Minnesota House Speaker Melissa Hortman and her husband were assassinated in their own home by a gunman with a hit list of Democratic officials, went on social media and posted, Marxism is a deadly mental illness. When you lay the two columns side by side, the equivalence doesn't just weaken, does it? It utterly evaporates. One side has anonymous noise. The other side has the government. I can name Donald Trump and Don Jr. who made fun of Nancy Pelosi. So just a backup. There is a normalization of this type of ideology happening in our politics. And it's due to people like Donald Trump. Adam lands the point. The normalization is coming from the very top, from the president and the officials around him. Yep, Sarah's interjection is merely reflexive at this point. There is a normalization of this type of ideology happening in our politics. And it's due to people like Donald Trump. Okay, we saw it. Lujie Mangio has a sex level. Pause. Time out. We're done with this claim. So we need to move on to the next thing. And the timer runs out as Sarah retreats to Luigi Mangio-Ni one final time. Lujie Mangio has a sex level. She ends where she began pointing at the left, refusing to look on her right. What do you think is radicalizing where people Nick Fentaz are MSNBC? Probably MSNBC. So what do we take away from all of this? Sarah's strategy was, in one sense, effective. She never had to defend a single thing the right has done. Not one executive action, not one dehumanizing statement from a government official, not one policy. She spent the entire exchange on offense, pointing at the left. And that meant that Adam had to divide his time between making his case and responding to hers. So if you're scoring on energy and aggression, she did pretty well. But if you're scoring on evidence, and we should, she was empty. Every claim she made about the left was either vague, unattributed, or in the case of Don Lemon actively misleading. Don Lemon just told people to chew ice agents. And every time that Adam asked for a real name, a specific official, a concrete example, she couldn't deliver. Yeah, I just said like half of the people on MSNBC, we saw the video. Can you name someone? Can you name someone? I don't know, because they're off camera. But we heard the cheers the second time. Meanwhile, Adam rattled off names without breaking a sweat. And that's the lesson. False equivalence works by volume, not by precision. The person deploying it doesn't need their examples to be accurate. They don't even need them to be real. What they need is enough of them expressed with enough confidence that the audience starts to feel like both sides really are the same. It's persuasion by atmosphere, the same technique that built Sadie's world view in the first place, now weaponized as a debating strategy. They're calling turning point target practice USA. That's messed up. Posting photos of us with red X's on our face with dots on our neck. So how are you to say? Who's day though, like random unhinged people? So how do you beat it? You do what Adam did. You test the comparison. First, ask for specifics, not the left, but who on the left? Not MSNBC, but which person at MSNBC? Can you name someone? In the second he died. I don't know, because they're off camera. Not everyone celebrates it, but which elected official celebrated it? Did one democratic politician support what Luigi did? Can you name any actual democratic politician? No, but it doesn't matter. OK, force them to move from collective nouns to individual names, because false equivalences are almost always built on collectives. The moment you demand an individual, the structure of wobbles. Second, check the scale. Are we comparing citizens to officials anonymous accounts to the White House press secretary who are feeding on a wall to an executive order? If the examples aren't operating at the same level of power and consequence, the equivalence is cosmetic. It looks balanced from a distance, but up close, it's a skyscraper next to a sand castle. Third, verify the examples. When they do produce something concrete, and with enough pressure, they will eventually check it. Sarah Strongest card was Don Lemon, and it fell apart under the slightest scrutiny. If the best evidence for the equivalence requires misrepresentation to work, the equivalence was never real. False equivalence is comfortable. It lets everyone off the hook. If both sides are equally bad, nobody needs to change. Nobody needs to answer. And nobody needs to look too closely at what their side is actually doing. But comfort isn't truth. And when you lay the evidence side by side, names against vibes, officials against anonymity, policy against graffiti, the comfort disappears. He was talking about citizens, because he said they're arresting and detaining citizens. So if you watch that, if you watch... As a citizen. Anyhow, as always, thank you kindly for the view. And an extra special thank you to everyone who supports the channel. Oh, and one last thing. If your curiosity is anything like mine, then don't forget about my heritage. You're not going to want to sit this one out. The link is in the description. The QR code is on screen right now. And with code rules, your pay just $19. Get free shipping and unlock a 30-day free trial of the full research platform. So go find out where you actually come from.