---
video_title: "How to OWN an Insult with Class"
video_id: imB08TUJ6rE
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=imB08TUJ6rE
video_date: 2026-06-27T21:20:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/rationality to stay fully informed on breaking news, compare coverage and avoid media bias. Subscribe through my link for 40% off unlimited access this month.
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  In 2007, Sean Hannity sat Christopher Hitchens down in "the hot seat" to put 'God Is Not Great' on trial. By the end, it was Hannity in the dock.
  
  Hannity's case is a barrage of bad arguments - a faith equivocation, a Big Bang he's plainly never read about, an appeal to incredulity, a quiet shift of the burden of proof. Basically, a Gish Gallop dense enough that we end up calling fallacy bingo. And it earns him one of the most famous Hitchslaps ever recorded: "You give me the awful impression of someone who hasn't read any of the arguments against your position ever."
  
  Every compilation plays that line as a put-down. It isn't an insult — it's a claim, a specific and checkable claim, and the moment Hitchens says it, the whole interview becomes a test of whether it's true.
  
  Hannity fails it immediately. Asked, in effect, to show his working, he self-certifies without offering a single example. From there, he retreats: to mystery, to "you seem angry with God," to "religion does good things," and finally to restating "there is a God" as though saying it louder makes it land.
  
  What makes it worth a full breakdown is the method. Most of us would start refuting each other's claims and end up looking like two people equally certain about opposite things. Hitchens goes one level up and tests the posture: have you actually read the case against your own view? Make him show his working, and when he can't, the confidence becomes the tell. Confidence was never evidence of competence.
  
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  Our previous Hitchslap episode | How to Make Your Opponent Prove Your Point FOR You: https://youtu.be/BFkYUV3t8N8
  
  The Jordan Peterson episode we reference | 7 Common Argument Tactics That Actually DESTROY Your Credibility: https://youtu.be/a9_jv5Nc9iM
---
To be an atheist, you have to believe when you look at the majesty and sophistication and the intricacy of the universe that we do know and comprehend. You have to believe that somehow that this energy could have existed on its own and I do not believe that is, that to me is a leap of faith. You give me the awful impression that I hate to have to say of someone who hasn't read any of the arguments against your position ever. It's God's data! Save it! A confident host, mid-recitation of a memorized apologetic, being quietly informed by his guest that he's outmatched. Pallitely, almost apologetically, quintessentially British. I hate to have to say of someone who hasn't read any of the arguments against your position ever. It's a hit-slap and a famous one at that, one that's well worth analysing, because it leaves the host scrambling to scoop up his dignity or having to deflect every follow-up, hoping to regain the ground through repetition. Here is a God. Oh, I guess that settles it then, huh? Yet, at every step, Christopher is one move ahead. Carmus can be significantly more prepared than the host, and never taking the bait. You seem to be angry with religion, angry with God. Am I wrong in my perception? Not with God, obviously, that would be absurd. Why hello, my fellow apes, I hope you are well. Today, we're revisiting an old classic that's still making the rounds. It's so old, in fact, that it seems to have been recorded on a potato. In one corner, we have Christopher Hitchens, British American journalist, author, and one of the so-called forehorsement of New Atheism, and, no doubt, the sharpest tongue of the lot. He built part of his reputation on a very particular move. The calm, surgical, artily devastating verbal take-down that the internet lovingly christened the hit-slap. Now, I've already covered another instance of Christopher delivering this move to Harold Kushnum, a rabbi. It was epic, and if you haven't seen it, be sure to open it up in another tab for later. Religion makes morally normal people say and do disgusting and wicked things, and you've just proved my point for you. Shame on you for saying what you just said. Shame on you for saying it about your own son, my God. But in this case, in the other corner, we have Sean Hannity, Fox News host conservative broadcaster, and a man who has spent the better part of two decades treating I'm just asking questions as a personality. He's apparently mad that we keep asking questions. In recent years, he's also been a fervent Trump sicker fan. President Trump, how would you rate his first year? Phenomenal. The year is 2007. Hitchens is doing the rounds, promoting his newly published book, God Is Not Great, and finds himself on Hannity's America, in what the host has branded the hot seat. And what emerges is a polite, unhurry demolition of a confident broadcaster who walks in expecting to host an interview, score a few points with his audience, and call it a day, but walks out having become a case study. Bigots in America trying to have pseudo science taught in our schools. So it's a battle of wits, and Sean, as you'd expect, from a Fox News host, comes in unarmed. Well, that's a strong intellectual snobbyness, perhaps, on your part. But let me just say this. But we're leading it also. Yeah, that could well be right. Let's get to it. And welcome back to Hannity's America author and journalist, Christopher Hitchens. There's no stranger to controversy. In this week's hot seat, I go head to head with him over his brand new book, God is not great. You describe yourself as a devout, anti-theist, and you're an atheist. Explain. Right from the start, look at how this segment is set up. It's called the hot seat. And that's, well, that's not nothing. It's a piece of branding that casts the guest as the one under pressure, the one who has to account for themselves. Christopher is the curious specimen wielding, for examination. Now, a host asking questions is just what a host does. But the combination of the hot seat plus that one word prompt. Explain. Explain yourself. Said a particular tone where Sean gets to decide whether today's oddity has accounted for itself adequately. That's the arena Sean wants. And critically, it's the one he's used to. Christopher, however, won't let it stand. Explain. Okay, well, a atheist is someone who doesn't believe them. There is a God, or at least. He says that there's no evidence to believe that there is. But such a person might very well say he wished it was true. In fact, I know some atheists who do say, well, I wish I could believe it. I just can't. There's not enough evidence for all the evidence. The other way, I see that. I say I'm an anti-theist because I think it would be rather awful if it was true. Sottu, deft, and unmistakably Christopher Hitchens, he uses the question to seize control of the definitions for the rest of the conversation. Atheism, he says, is the evidential claim. Anti-theism is the moral one. And by drawing that distinction up front, he gets to choose the more provocative label deliberately on his own terms, on terrain that plays to his strengths, rather than putting him on the defensive. There's also a subtle inoculation happening here. You see, the standard caricature of the anti-feast, the one that many and Sean's audience have been trained to expect, is someone who wants to take away the ability for religious people to practice their faith. But notice that Christopher's phrasing immediately takes that off the table. He's saying he wouldn't want it to be true, which is a long way from saying that religion shouldn't be allowed. It's a different claim entirely, and it's one that's much harder to demonize. While Christopher needs to do now, however, is explain his view before Sean does it for him. I say I'm an anti-theist because I think it would be rather awful if it was true. If there was a permanent total around the club, divine supervision and invigilation of everything you did, you would never have a waiting or sleeping moment where you weren't being watched and controlled and supervised by some celestial entity from the moment of conception till, well, not even till death, because it's only after death that the real fun begins, isn't it? It would be like living in North Korea. The Greedist agree, Christopher's objection is now present. Simply put, his concern is for human liberty. He's turning theology into a political question about surveillance and submission, and he's doing it effectively in the language that Sean's own conservative audience have been primed for decades to recognise as the language of tyranny. Consider the analogy that Christopher reaches for. He skips Stalin, Mao, Hitler, and any abstract or wellian dystopia, landing instead on a regime that was then and still is actively oppressing its people. It would be like living in North Korea. Here's a story where you would expect the facts to just speak for themselves. Trump threatens to cut off all US trade with Spain over refusal to use military bases in Iran war. You see, Spain declined US military use of its bases for strikes on Iran. Trump threatened a full trade embargo, So we're going to cut off all trade with Spain. We don't want anything to do with Spain. And so Prime Minister Shanz has responded with three words, no, to war. Simple, right? And yet, ground news shows 442 sources covering this story. 61 left, 62 right, and 109 centrist. With framing so different, you'd be forgiven for thinking they were reporting from separate planets. This level of insight is only possible thanks to ground news. A website and app designed to make reading the news easier and more data-driven. Every day, they gather thousands of news articles from all across the world and organise them by story. With each coming, with visual breakdowns of reporting bias, reliability and ownership, to give you a cleaner sense of how the news is being framed. Let's return to our story, and you can follow along at ground.news-rationality. The Hamilton spectator, leaning left with high factuality, leads with Sanchez as the protagonist. Spain's Shanz has stands firm on opposition to war in Iran despite Trump's trade threat, warning the conflict risks playing Russian roulette with millions. One courageous leader holding the line against Washington. Then there's WLT report far right with low factuality. Breaking, President Trump cuts off all trade with Spain. Trump is tired of being treated unfairly, and Spain's PM is of course dismissed as their leftist PM. No geopolitics, no alliance considerations, no nuance, just a victory lap. And Euro news, centrist, with very high factuality, simply reports no to war. Sanchez reaffirms Spain's stance on Trump's Iran campaign. No heroes, no villains, just what happened. Same event, three completely different stories. And without ground news, most people would only ever see one of them. If you want to start seeing the full picture for yourself, right now you can get 40% off ground news's vantage plan at ground.news-rationality. Or scan the QR code on screen now. You'll be supporting independent media and, indeed, this channel at the same time. Thanks. Would be like living in North Korea. Yeah, the surveillance and tyranny of North Korea strikes us all with the most cartoonishly authoritarian regime on earth. One, that viewers will immediately recognise. So in barely no time at all, Christopher has done three things. He's taken the definitions away from the host. He's chosen the more aggressive label deliberately, and he's had it shone an analogy that any rebuttal has to first dig itself out from under it, which makes Sean's next move all the more revealing. He has three potential threads to pull on, the surveillance critique, the North Korea comparison, or the distinction between atheism and anti-theism. Let's see which one he picks. Would be like living in North Korea. To be an atheist, you have to believe that it is possible, which I think is a far greater leap of faith, that's something that can be created out of nothing. Oh, or not, I guess. Sean didn't listen to a single word. Did he? He picks up unprocisely none of the available threads, opting instead for a series of red herrings, introducing a relevant material to distract from the argument that had. To be sure, when a host deflects that hard, that fast, it usually means one thing, that they didn't have anything to push back against on what was just set. But you know what? Why not? Let's deal with what Sean just gave us, because it's such a common claim still thrown around today. The truth is, it takes more faith to be an atheist than it does to believe in God. You've really got to ignore the fact. I don't have enough faith to be an atheist. I don't have enough faith to be an atheist. It's a sentence that's wrong in roughly as many ways as it has clauses. First, the word faith. Which I think is a far greater leap of faith. What he's doing is subtle. It's the old apologetic shuffle with collapsing two different meanings of a word or term into one, an equivocation velocity. There's faith as in reasonable trust. The kind you have when you sit on a chair without first auditing its structural integrity. And then there's faith in the religious sense, which the Bible itself defines as the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. That is to say, faith is something used in place of evidence for something you want to be true. Those are, well, quite different, aren't they? One is provisional trust in evidence, the kind that is predicated on evidence and updates the moment better evidence comes in. The other, by its own scripture, doesn't require evidence at all. Pretending that they are the same thing is how you smuggle belief without evidence into a conversation about science and have it sound like humility. Second, the cosmology. That's something that can be created out of nothing. This is one of my pet peeves. And when someone says it, I immediately know that they haven't even looked up the Wikipedia page on the Big Bang theory, much less considered the topic seriously. The Big Bang does not say that the universe was created out of nothing, it describes the expansion of an extremely hot, dense, early state. What came before, or whether before, is even a coherent question, is a heavily debated area of physics. We don't know, as theoretical physicist Brian Greenputzer. The very question may not make as much sense as the words seem to suggest. We now had to parse that sense. We know what it means to talk about the moment before the Big Bang, because we know how to talk about the moment before your birth, or the moment before the Civil War, or the moment before any event that happened in the world. We fully understand the meaning of that kind of sense. But it could be that when it comes to the Big Bang, the sentence actually doesn't mean anything. In fact, for what it's worth, in a recent survey conducted by the American Physical Society of over 1,600 respondents, they found that 68% understood the Big Bang as the evolution of the universe from a hot, dense state. Not as proof that the universe had an absolute beginning. So yeah, it's a far cry from a settled doctrine that atheists have to swallow, meaning that Sean is confidently mischaracterizing a position he clearly doesn't understand. A straw man. Third, atheism. Atheism does not commit you to the view that something came from nothing. I mean, seriously, where does this mangled logic come from? One's view of the cosmos is not dependent on whether they're convinced of a God's existence. So we've got three mistakes in a single sentence, which means it's already a great illustration of a gishgallop. And yet, he still isn't done. That's something that can be created out of nothing. When you look at the majesty and sophistication and the intricacy of the universe that we do know and comprehend, you have to believe that somehow that this energy could have existed on its own, and I do not believe that is, that to me is a leap of faith. Yeah, Sean sure is doing us a solid by helping us display all of our beautiful cards. It's Fallissibingo night. If you spend any time near religious apologetic circles, and especially the creationist ones, you'll have heard this monologue a hundred times. Look at the majesty, look at the intricacy, the birder flies, the trees. You really think that this just happened. Behold, the atheist's nightmare, God has placed a tab at the top. When you pull the tab, the contents don't squirt on your face. What do you mean by that? Just the right shape of the human mouth. At its core, it's an appeal to incredulity. Sean can't imagine how a universe like ours could exist without a designer, and mistakes that failure of imagination for evidence or for designer. And notice that the reason that Sean finds the idea incredible isn't that he's engaged with the evidence and found it wanting. It's because he isn't interested in engaging with the evidence in the first place. Remember, even in 2007, the world's largest Christian denominations already accepted evolution by natural selection. It was a mainstream position. We already understood, fully, how intricate and sophisticated organisms emerge without a designer. So underneath the incredulity sits an appeal to ignorance. The reasoning is essentially, if a theist can't currently explain every aspect of Cosmos origins, then God must be the answer. What this all culminates in is a quiet shift of the burden of proof. Rather than demonstrating that a creator exists, Sean assumes one from the outset and demands that everyone else explain reality without it. The creator he created gets a free pass while every competing explanation is expected to provide a complete account of the universe before it's even allowed in the conversation. The same structure of reasoning has been used repeatedly throughout history. We didn't know how species arose, therefore God. We didn't know what caused lightning, therefore God. We didn't know why planets move the way that they did. Therefore God, every time we followed that logic, we've learned something about the limits of human knowledge. We've learned about betting on that wrong horse. This is a lesson that Sean simply will not and still hasn't processed. So the density of mistakes, the gyrsh gallup, that he's packed into a single breath, is almost impressive, I'm sure you'll agree. Equification on faith, a misstatement of cosmology, a misstatement of atheism, an appeal to incredulity and appeal to ignorance, and an implicit shifting of the burden of proof. Most debaters would grab one thread and start pulling. Christopher does something else entirely. You have to believe that somehow that this energy could have existed on its own, and I do not believe that is, that to me is a leap of faith. You give me the awful impression, I hate to have to say, of someone who hasn't read any of the arguments against your position ever. Yep, that is the hitch-slap. Rather than picking a thread, he goes one level up and attacks the posture. It's a targeted claim about the argument as preparation, and could directly, to the argument he just made, with none of the crudeness of a slur or a dismissal. And the brilliance of it is that the evidence for the charge is everything that Sean just said. I hate to have to say it. And listen to that delivery, it's quiet, unsnearing, the mild-mannered guest, reluctantly informing the host that the host has just embarrassed himself. The regret is what makes it lethal. A hostile attack, you can swap away his rudeness, right? But a polite, almost apologetic diagnosis from a man who clearly does not enjoy delivering it. That sticks. That's the one you replay in your head at three in the morning. This leaves Sean in quite the predicament, since every response and argument he makes from this point forward has to climb out from under that slab. In just a few words, the question is no longer, is the argument right? It's the man making the argument even equipped to make it. You give me the awful impression that I hate to have to say of someone who hasn't read any of the arguments against your position ever. I've read all the argument, I just... Oh boy! That is perhaps the worst possible answer he could have given. He reflexively self-certifies. He gives a flat assertion that he's done the reading all of it, every argument, every counter-ocumen. I'm too smart to read. I think I said there goes smart people read now. Yeah, he won't go on to provide an exhibit, an example, or even a well, his that standard reply to the distelological argument and his why I find it wanting. I've read all the argument, I've actually never read. Which means that Christopher's diagnosis is completely intact. In fact, the denial reinforces it. Because anyone watching who knows even a little bit about the topics that Sean just stomped through cosmology, atheism, Christian theology, basic logic, can see the problem immediately. His confidence is the thing making the ignorance louder. And there's a broader lesson here. Confidence is not evidence of competence. In fact, when confidence and error travel together, they tend to amplify one another. The more certain that Sean sounds, the harder it becomes to ignore the mistakes that he's just made. Now, this has a name that you've probably heard before, the Dunning Kruger effect. But let's be careful, because the mean version of Dunning Kruger gets it subtly wrong. The finding isn't stupid people think their geniuses. It's something more interesting. The skills you need to be good at something are the very same skills that you need to judge how good you are at it. Miss the first, and you necessarily lack the second. The novice isn't lying about their ability. They genuinely cannot see the gap. Now, in fairness to the psychologist, Dunning Kruger describes a pattern across populations. You can't diagnose one man from one sound bite. And for all we know, Sean is simply bluffing. I've read all the argument, I just... But whether he's a genuine case or merely indistinguishable from one, his answer is a perfect illustration of the mechanism. He doesn't know enough about cosmology to know that his cosmology is mangled. He doesn't know enough about theology to know that his theology is thin. So when challenged, no flicker of dowel is even available to him, because the ignorance that produced the errors is the same ignorance that conceals them. I've read all the argument, I just said how you can be saying this. Let's pause on this for a second, because it's easy to miss what Christopher is choosing not to do. He could absolutely call bullshit here. He could say that there's no chance that you've read the responses to your own argument, because if you had, you wouldn't have made four undergraduate level mistakes in a single breath. That option is fully on the table. And rest assured, if there's anyone who could deliver it, it's Christopher Hitchens. Recall from our previous hit-slap video, we've already seen exactly what this version of him sounds like. Shame on you for saying what you just said. Shame on you for saying it about your own son, my god. Yet here he doesn't take it. He stays polite. And that's a deliberate choice that will pay off shortly. I just said how you can be saying this when you look. You want to take your god to take responsibility for the huge number of collapsing stars and imploding galaxies and destroyed universities and failed solar systems that have left us in this tiny corner on the one planet in this petty solar system that can support life some of the time on some of its surface. And you want to create a whose filled this earth with species since life began 99% of which are now extinct already. And this is some design, isn't it? Now comes the substance. Having established that Sean hasn't read the arguments against his own Christopher proceeds to give him one and not an obscure one at all. The distilio logical argument. In English, the argument from poor design. David Hume put a version of it in print nearly two and a half centuries ago. An argument so dangerous, in fact, that he only dared publish it from beyond the grave. Asking why an omnipotent designer would produce a world so full of, in his words, vice and misery and disorder. It's been foundational to philosophy of religion ever since. If you've spent any time at all reading the responses to the design argument that Sean just leaned on, this is one of the very first things that you would encounter. Digest the rhetorical construction too. Christopher isn't reciting Hume. Rather, he's painting a picture, taking the abstraction and consecrating it into things that you can actually picture. Collapsing stars imploding galaxies, a petty solar system, life clinging to some of the surface on one planet some of the time. 99.9% of all species that have ever lived extinct. And what's intriguing, at least for me, is the scale that he perks. He could have gone smaller and crawler, a child dying of a disease that evolution never bothered to fix, in the arms of a mother whose prayers change nothing. That version is potent and it's devastating, but it invites the standard theodices, you know, mysterious ways, free will, soul building. By staying cosmic, Christopher makes a charge that there's no him for. A dead child makes the designer look cruel, and cruelty the apologists have, let's say, very poor arguments for. A wasted universe, however, makes the design look incompetent and incompetence they don't. And then the characteristically British dry punchline. And this is some design, isn't it? Yeah, it's a designer who, if he turned in his blueprint at an architecture firm, would be fired on the spot. And this is some design, isn't it? But you didn't say that. You said you were a believer. You didn't say you were a theorist. Now, this is an important distinction that Christopher often insisted on emphasising. Believer and theist are not interchangeable labels you can swap in and out without doing any work. Believer in what exactly? Because the gap between deism, some impersonal first cause, the wound of watch, and walked away, and theism, a personal god who hears prayers, judges souls, and cares about your sex life, is enormous. And the arguments that Sean has been making about cosmic design and first causes gets you at best to the deist god. It does not get you within a thousand miles of the god of the Bible. So Christopher is forcing a choice. And look at the price of each. If Sean settles for deism, his first cause arguments merely buy him a god that nobody worships, no prayers heard, no book written, no opinions about Sean Hannity. If he claims the full personal god, he now owes a separate set of arguments and the cosmic hand waving he's offered so far, doesn't come close. Now, is that the choice that Sean wants to face? Well, we don't have to speculate, because Christopher is about to put the personal god on the table explicitly and offer it to him. You said you were a believer, you didn't say you were a seeous. I believe in a creator. Right, yeah, that's where it stops, so you think this creator cares about you too. No, in this concept that I will concede this point, is that human beings I don't think fully comprehend or understand the majesty of God, because it's not meant for us to know. There it is, offered his personal god, Sean won't take it. How interesting. And recall, just a moment ago, Christopher laid out a clean, distelialogical argument, collapsing stars, imploding galaxies, 99.9% of species extinct. So far, though, no answer from Sean, the man who has assured us that he's read the arguments, all of them. All the argument measures? And now, we're not getting an answer to the counter that Christopher just made at all. Instead, we get a rhetorical move that we've sadly grown accustomed to on this channel. A clear-cut deflection. No answer provided. It's not meant for us to know. This sounds humble, doesn't it? But functionally, it's a concession. It not only constitutes an appeal to mystery, treating ignorance as if it were a valid explanation, but also an unfaulifiable claim, a claim that cannot be proven false, thus making it immune to scrutiny. Like, seriously, what if Christopher just said, well, Mr. Hannity, the Christian God is actually a cosmic deception? And when asked for evidence, he went, well, it's not meant for us to know. Here's what's actually going on. Sean is conceding comprehension, admitting that he can't actually engage with the substance, while trying to keep the conviction intact. He wants to retreat from the field of evidence without surrendering the prize. Human beings, I don't think fully comprehend or understand the majesty of God, because it's not meant for us to know, but putting that aside here. From your position. Quick pause, I know that we barely let him finish a sentence, but bear with me. That from your position is doing a lot of work. Let's not forget that Sean has just been asked a direct question about his position. Does the creator care about you? And rather than answer it, he flips the table. Suddenly, we're not talking about what Sean believes anymore. We're talking about what Christopher has to account for. Also, wouldn't a man who's actually done the reading be itching to deploy some of it right now? I'm starting to believe that was bullshit. This is BS. But putting that aside here, from your position, when you really think about it, you are believing that there is a possibility without a creator that somehow energy has created itself or that energy predates or any concept of time. And energy that, for example, something that can come out of nothing, because fundamentally there has to be that starting point or you're saying or confirming that. Or you're confirming your beliefs. That is what our minds, that is what our minds demand. We look for patterns. So after the confession that he can't comprehend his God, Sean dusts off the first cause argument and runs it again. Something cannot come from nothing. There has to be a starting point. Therefore, creator. Same script as before, the same appeal to incredulity that we identified earlier. Sean's inability to picture how the universe could begin without a creator becomes in his mind evidence that there must be one, which still isn't an argument. That's still just the limit of one man's imagination being mistaken for a feature of the cosmos. And Christopher beautifully doesn't fight him on the cosmology, nor does he get drawn into a debate about quantum vacuums and plank time. He moves the argument up one level. That is what our minds demand. We look for patterns. The hunger for a starting point is a discovery about us, rather than a discovery about the universe. Human brains are pattern-finding machines. It's what we evolved for. The clustering illusion baked into our cognition, seeing patterns in random data where none exists. We see faces in clouds, agency and weather, intention in randomness. The, there must be a first cause intuition is evidence of how our cognition is wired. Christopher has just turned Sean's argument from a claim about reality into a claim about psychology. And in doing so, he's drained it of all of its theological force in a single brilliant observation. But surely, the man who has read all the arguments has a response prepared for this one. Surely. That is what our minds demand. We look for patterns. You seem to be angry with religion, angry with God. Am I wrong in my perception? For fuck's sake, this is so predictable. I swear, Sean has abandoned the first cause pursue entirely. And, unironically, perhaps that was the only play for him, since engaging on the substance would have ended worse. And so we get another deflection, this time to something that he thinks is safer. A question about his opponent's temperament. A very common move when the substance isn't going your way. It's very, very popular, in fact, among apologists. Don't engage the argument. Engage the man. And it's known as bolderism, dismissing an argument by attacking the opponent's motive, psychology or background. Make it about why he's saying it, rather than what he's saying. If you can convince the audience that your opponent is just angry, then his argument stop being arguments and start being symptoms. And we've seen this kind of psychoanalysis being done before, by no less than Jordan Peterson. My experience with atheists is too full, is that they have a very reductive notion of what constitutes God, and let's say, in Judeo-Christian tradition. And they've often been hurt by someone who was religious or by the religious enterprise, or perhaps by God himself, so to speak, and that's less than with an animus. It's worth noting why this typically works for someone like Sean. In his usual environment, this gambit virtually always lands. The guest gets defensive, sputters a bit, insists they're not angry, and in insisting, they end up sounding pretty angry. But his where Christopher's calibration from earlier in the conversation pays off, he's been quiet, calm, almost gentle. He hasn't raised his voice once. So when Sean accuses him of being angry at religion, there's nothing to back it up. The accusation has no surface to stick on. Christopher has already inoculated himself simply by being measured. You seem to be angry with religion, angry with God. Am I wrong in my perception? Not with God, obviously, that would be absurd. That's a God-a-her! A quick category correction. Anger at God requires belief in God. One presupposes the other. What Sean has just done has a name in logic. It's called an exponable statement. A question that smuggles in a hidden claim. Answer it directly, and you've already conceded the promise. Here's a fun example from Joe Foley in an interview with Alex O'Connor. Teenage boys are like absolute masters coming up with exponable states. I think that the classic one, when I was a teenager, was, does your mum know your gay? And so in a single clause, Christopher has refused Sean's premise. Not with God, obviously, that would be absurd. But yes, I mean, my book expresses, I would rather say contempt and hostility to this constant religious intimidation and clerical bullying, to which we're being subjected. My book is part of an attempt to arrange and organize a pushback against this, whether it's the parties of God destroying a rocky civil society or bigots in America trying to have pseudo-science taught in our schools, or a pope who says that AIDS may be bad, but a limbo, by the way, may have been a mistake, but let's talk about hell in any way, AIDS isn't as bad as condoms. We have enough of people who think like you, that they know what God wants and that they've got God on this. Oh boy, the precision of his target is admirable. He skips past the believers, the neighbors, the people praying in their homes, none of them are relevant. His anger is aimed at institutions, at coercion and public harm. At the ideologies trying to smoke all creationism into science classrooms, a fight still being waged in US state legislatures almost two decades after this interview. And at the Vatican that, by 2007, had spent years telling a continent dying of AIDS that condoms made the problem worse. Good thing that we have a woke pope now. I can't get over the idea of this Marxist who calls himself the head of your church being a representation of Christ our Lord. And there's a neat little jab at Sean that is easy to miss. Christopher has just spent the last several minutes listening to Sean insist that the universe demands a creator because his intuition can't picture an alternative. Sean has demonstrated precisely the scientific illiteracy that Christopher is describing. So when he says, Bigots in America trying to have pseudo science taught in our schools. The gesture lands directly. Sean is the example. He's been quietly demoted from interviewer to exhibit A. He is the problem the book was written about. We had enough of people who think like you that they know what God wants and that they've got God on this. I hope you're not comparing it to us to do it. They can tell us what to do or what to think in this way. I don't get it. Yes, I am very, I am very, very, very, very talented here. This, this is why you've got to love Christopher Hitchens. Only when you analyze him bit by bit can you truly appreciate the mastery of his craft. That's why he's the goat. Sean tried to use hostility as a way to discredit him rather than address his arguments. You seem to be angry with religion, angry with God. And what does Christopher do? He picks up the word examines it and owns it. I am very, there's still to hear. The label only works as an insult if the person being labeled flinches. Christopher astutely affirms it. And in affirming, he reframes the entire premise. Hostility towards clerical bullying, towards forced ignorance, towards institutions that lie to the dying is the appropriate moral response rather than a character flaw to apologize for. The only people who aren't hostile to those things are the ones who haven't thought about them carefully enough. Yes, I am very, I am very, I am very, there is hostility here, but I will tell you this. You are right. And I agree with actually, many of the observations you made about how religion has been perverted and how it is being used for destruction and how it is, note the shift in Sean's voice here. The bravado is gone. The pressure is gone. He's conceding. You are right. I agree with many of your observations. He's de-escalating. The metaphysical battleground has not been kind to him and he's quietly looking for somewhere safer to stand. Yet what is he actually conceding to? He's agreeing that religion has been perverted, that it is being used for destruction and that passive voice is intentional. Somewhere out there, over religions, over believers, over Christians are guilty if the things that Christopher is describing. His religion, or whatever he considers to be the right way to practice it, is not in question. It's an inconspicuous, no-true Scotsman, redefining criteria to exclude counter examples that challenge the argument, smuggled in under the cover of agreement. And I agree with actually, many of the observations you made about how religion has been perverted and how it is being used for destruction and how it is ineffective. It is innately irrational. Well, I disagree with that. Christopher isn't going to let him get away with that carve-out. He goes beyond the concession and rejects the premise outright. It is innately irrational. He's saying it's irrational at the root by its own nature in every form, perversion by bad actors and corruption by bad theology of a separate issue. The exception Sean is trying to negotiate isn't on offer. It is innately irrational. Well, I disagree with that. That's a sort of intellectual snobby-ness, perhaps, on your part. But let me just say this. But religion also. Yeah, that could well be right. Unable to answer the point directly, Sean calls into question Christopher's disposition, a circumstantial ad hominin, an attempt to explain away the argument through Christopher's supposed temperament. You see, unlike Christopher's earlier jab, which was an observation grounded in the argument itself, Sean is attempting to convert intellectual advantage into a personality defect and Christopher's response is just beautiful. Yeah, that could well be right. He simply concedes with perfect deadpan and zero defensiveness that yes, it's entirely possible he's looking down at Sean intellectually and given everything that we've just witnessed, who could blame him. It's an instance of the quiet humiliation that we've all come to love from Christopher. The only way that snobbery can work as an attack is if it's true and the target the nicer. By accepting it, just like he did with hostile accusations earlier, Christopher leaves the word hanging in the air with all of his implications intact. Yes, I do know more than you. Yes, that gap is real. What offer? That could well be right. Religion also has provided food and water and medicine and supplies and housing and there has been in the name of religion much good that has been done both in this country and around the world. Yet another retreat, a fallback from truth to mere utility and it's also this episode's final fallacy and appeal to consequences arguing that a statement must be true or false based on the desirability of his consequences. When someone stops arguing that something is true and starts arguing that it's merely useful, they've abandoned the original claim. There has been in the name of religion much good that has been done both in this country and around the world. But if you reduce religion, social work, if you reduce the religion to social work with so does USAID, you'll do all that actually in the second organisation actually rather more convincingly. Most of the great philanthropists of the United States have been atheists. It doesn't prove that atheism is correct. Christopher closes the door shut. If the case for religion now rests on its charitable output, then any secular organisation that does the same work and does it better without the doctrinal baggage defeats the argument entirely. USAID feeds, treats and educates people or did before the Trump administration basically shut it down last year. Secular philanthropists have built hospitals, libraries and universities. The good works are not unique to religion and in many cases they're done more effectively without it. And let's listen again to Christopher's second move. Most of the great philanthropists of the United States have been atheists. It doesn't prove that atheism is correct. He refuses to use his own counter-example as evidence for his own position. Why? Well, because he's keeping the evidentiary standard symmetrical. If philanthropy doesn't prove atheism, it doesn't prove theism either. He's holding the line that you cannot argue from utility to truth in either direction. Christopher is operating at a level with intellectual honesty that Sean simply has an echoed out. It doesn't prove that atheism is correct. Here is a God. Oh, and there's the white flag. There is a God, delivered as a concluding fact. That's a strong intellectual snobbyness, perhaps, on your part. But let me just say this. But religion also. Yeah, that could well be right. Emotional dammit. All right, so what do we actually take from this dismantling? Most of us, faced with someone confidently reeling off a dozen bad arguments in a single breath, do the instinctive thing. We start refuting. We grab, in this case, the faith equivocation, then the something from nothing, then the appeal to incredulity, and set about correcting each one in turn. It feels rigorous. It feels like the honest response. But typically, you can't quite address the whole gallop. There's always another claim. And while you're untangling the first, the confident man is already preparing for his next lab. And to everyone watching, you just look like two people equally sure of opposite things. Worse, by arguing the points at all, you're quietly granting him the one thing he never earned. That he actually thought about them. Christopher shows us the move, go up a level, or down, and test the posture. Has he read the case against his own position? Make him show his work, make him reference the literature. And if he fails, expose him as a con man, as someone who's all confidence and no substance. Here is a god. Anyhow, as always, thank you kindly for the view. And an extra special thank you to everyone who supports the channel, including today's sponsor, Ground News. Be sure to check them out for 40% off their vantage plan. Thanks.