---
video_title: "How to CRUSH an Argument That Can't Be Proven Wrong"
video_id: 6gt35hpsDnk
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6gt35hpsDnk
video_date: 2026-07-03T17:00:26+00:00
video_description: |
  Go to https://piavpn.com/RationalityRules to get 83% off from our sponsor Private Internet Access with 4 months free!
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  --
  
  On Justin Brierley's Uncommon Ground, Alex O'Connor sits across from Anglican minister Glen Scrivener to debate whether Christianity gave us Western values. Glen's whole thesis rests on one very specific, very checkable claim: that slavery could only have ended because of Christianity. It's the argument of his book The Air We Breathe — and for most of this exchange, he does everything except actually defend it.
  
  When he finally reaches for his best evidence, it's the Slave Bible: a redacted scripture given to enslaved people, offered as proof that slaveholders were terrified of what the real text said. Alex takes it apart and turns it into evidence for the opposite conclusion.
  
  Steve breaks down the whole exchange — the meta-ethics trap Glen opens with, the 1794 abolition he can't quite own, the medieval history that never happened, and the moment the entire debate comes down to two words: which verse?
  
  It's a clean demonstration of what to do when a sweeping, unfalsifiable claim floats above every counterexample you throw at it: stop arguing up there, and force it down onto a page you can actually check.
  
  --
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  Source debate | Alex O'Connor & Glen Scrivener DEBATE morality, freedom, slavery & the Bible (Uncommon Ground): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-ZnVNM8lkGw&t=6143s
  
  Steve's previous debate vs Glen Scrivener | Does Religion Poison Everything?: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8J-WOwrq6bE&t=3619s
  
  More debate breakdowns | How to TRAP a Coward: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=88dUL_wpNlQ&t=2633s
  
  More debate breakdowns | How Charlie Kirk Always "OWNED The Libs": https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y_qjYK5ugFU&t=205s
  
  More Exodus analysis | Cliff Knechtle Says Exodus Ended Slavery—Here’s Why It Didn’t ‪@givemeananswer‬: https://youtu.be/JkUAUz_eKJ4
  
  Justin Brierley's channel: https://www.youtube.com/@justinbrierley
  
  Glen Scrivener's channel: https://www.youtube.com/@SpeakLifeMedia
  
  Alex O'Connor's channel: https://www.youtube.com/@CosmicSkeptic
---
In France, you know, when does abolition happen? In France it was reversed by Napoleon. That's right. Before it was reinstated by Napoleon, why was it abolished? Because of both Christian-ish reasons in terms of rights and because of some utilitarian arguments, such as David Jum's kind of arguments. But this is it, isn't it? Within not that long a period of time, we go from the French abolishing it and reinstating it. And when they abolished it, that was probably due to Christian influence. But when they reinstated it, no, no, no, that was nothing to it, Christian. Yeah, that is peculiar, isn't it? France said no more slavery, then a few years later brought it back. Yet somehow one side of the ledger, the one that we value gets to be Christian. The other side, the one that we don't value doesn't get to be Christian. Well, isn't that special? Same nation, same church, same population, a few years apart. Two opposite outcomes, and only one of them is banked as Christian. I've granted that, you know, an emancipator's slave could quote that part of Exodus, the liberation from Egypt. What part of Exodus could a slave earn, a quote? Excellent. 21, which says. Why hello, my fellow apes. I hope you are well. The man doing the banking is Glen Skryvna, Anglican minister, apologist, author of the Airwee brief. And one of the more polished evangelists of the now fashionable Tom Holland line that everything decent about the modern world is a Christian inheritance that we're squandering by degrees. It's so clear that the anti-slavery movement is an evangelical one. And I think that's a modern person with ethics. We feel so much superior to our ancestors and we look down upon them. But we have no idea that we've been carried by Christianity. It's Paul's teachings that give birth to the ideal of romantic love. It's a thesis with, well, many problems, some of which I've issued to Glen himself on stage in London. When it loses power, that is when Christians start going, maybe this slavery thing isn't right, but look at what they do. They do what Glen has done. And that is they appeal to vague verses and the motif of Jesus because they don't have the receipts. They have to remove the doctrines, remove the dogma, remove the revelations. Okay, in order to become palatable. Now, one such issue is that Christianity institutionalized slavery for the better part of 2000 years. So the apologist job is to bank will be forced as a Christian achievement, while somehow quietly handing the previous 18 centuries of slaveholding popes, bishops, and plantation owning monasteries off to the culture or the times or some other unchristian residue. Glen runs that move with great fluency. As for the venue, today we're watching uncommon ground, hosted by the ever-friendly Justin Brieley, where the topic of the hour is did Christianity give us Western values? And in this part, Glen argues that the end of slavery could only have happened through Christianity, which means he has to do something rather acrobatic with the slightly awkward fact that for most of Christian history, the Bible sat on the shelves of men who saw no contradiction between love, thy neighbor and your male and female slaves are to come from the nations around you. Facing him is Alex O'Connor, philosopher, podcaster, agnostic, and one of the very few interlocutors in this space who have actually read the source material meticulously. He knows where Exodus 20 ends and where Exodus 21 begins. He knows what Leviticus 25 says about buying slaves from the nations around you. And he knows, crucially, how to keep a factual proposition present when the man across the room would much rather be having a different conversation. The lesson is how sweeping thesis like Glen's actually fails and how to make it fail on the spot, how to take an opponent's strongest single artifact, in this case, the slave Bible, and flip it into evidence for the opposite of what he wants it to prove. And how to force a sweeping claim about the grand narrative of Scripture back down onto the page where you can ask very politely, of course, which verse. We join the exchange as Glen delivers a potent question, one engineered to put Alex on the back for. Is it better that evolution has happened? As an emotivist, I can say yes, but I think I'm expressing an emotion there. Speaking of expressing emotions, here's something that'll provoke one. So get this. In 2017, the US Congress voted to let internet service providers sell their customers browsing history to advertisers. No hacking required. Just legislation passed with a majority on the grounds that the existing privacy rules were harmful to economic growth. Sure, someone's economic growth. Anyway, the UK, for what it's worth, isn't much better. Under the Investigatory Powers Act, your service provider is required to store up to a year of your metadata. That is, who you've been contacting, when and from where accessible on request to 48 different authorities, including somehow local councils, which is why I use private internet access. It's a VPN that completely hides your IP address and encrypts your entire internet connection through a secure tunnel. So your government gets nothing usable. Your traffic becomes unreadable before it even reaches them. Now, every VPN will tell you that they don't log your data. But PIA have actually had to prove it, in court multiple times, with investigators expecting records and finding nothing. Their No Logs policy has also been independently verified by Deloitte. There is simply nothing stored to hand over. On top of that, they have servers across 91 countries and all 50 US states, peer-to-peer support and unlimited device protection, all under one account. Right now, my viewers get 83% off, just $2.3 a month, with four extra months free and a 30-day money-back guarantee, risk-free. With over 30 million downloads and 24-7 customer support, the question at this point, isn't whether you need a VPN, it's why you haven't got one yet. So go to piavpn.com, slash rationality rules to get 83% off, private internet access with four months free. Thanks. Is it better that evolution has happened? As an emotivist, I can say yes, but I think I'm expressing an emotion there. Okay. And as an emotivist, what would you have said in 1800, if you were in the House of Commons and you were called upon, will be forces sick, Alex O'Connor needs to address the abolitionist cause? What would you say from your? I'm not sure what I would have said. So I'm not sure if I would have been an emotivist in the 1800s, I don't think the position have been invented yet. So I might have believed in some kind of objective moral principle that I might have appealed to. I might well have been a Christian and appealed to those principles too, but I might not have been. I might have been like Lincoln and man who privately was reported to have no belief in Jesus as personal or even savior, but just had a conviction that something about this was wrong. I don't know what I would have said at the time. But whether or not I could have rightfully condemned slavery then or done so now, I think is a separate question as to whether Christianity is the historical force that caused that abolitionist movement. This is a really well judged answer. Elieves Glen with, well, nothing. It's subtle, but it's brilliant. He cleanly separates two questions, whether Alex personally can condemn slavery and whether Christianity is the historical force that ended it. Those are two completely different questions and the answer itself shows real humility. He refuses to pretend to know what he'd have believed in 1800. He points out that his own view didn't even exist as a named position back then and that his ethical convictions today rest on knowledge, historical, scientific, philosophical that simply wasn't available in Willberforce's House of Commons. He might have been a Christian, he might have been a Lincoln. He doesn't know and that's the honest answer. I think is a separate question as to whether Christianity is the historical force that caused that abolitionist movement. Oh, do you doubt that it was Christianity that... All right, so Alex has just handed the claim back to him. The moment Alex separates the two questions, Glen immediately tries to put Alex on the back foot again. Do you doubt that it was Christianity? The framing is everything and it's an incredibly strong debate tactic. Every moment you're on the attack is one way you don't have to defend. Do you doubt that it was Christianity that caused... In the UK, Willberforce is, of course, deeply convicted of his religious beliefs and the man who convinced him to bring it to Parliament who had written an essay in Latin for Cambridge University about his tutored, he had just set him as sort of like, is it okay to own other human beings and he wrote this essay in Latin and was like, hold on a moment. And he reports sort of being on a long journey and feeling like God had spoken to him and he had this mission, yeah, no doubt. That's the English tradition in America, I'm not so sure. Certainly not in Haiti, in France, when does abolition happen? Well, after the French Revolution, which is a profoundly secularizing influence in France. So it depends on where you look. In other words, yes, maybe I would be happy to grant it in the UK, there is a profoundly crispy element to abolitionism, but to say that it had to be Christian is to ignore what happened in France and to ignore what happened in Haiti and I think to ignore what happened in America. This is, frankly, an exceptional response. It is so clean, so well structured and so well targeted that I would bet that Alex had rehearsed some version of it before sitting down. Let's look at what it does. First, he goes straight to Gelen's strongest ground and concedes it. Wilberforce, the English tradition, he gives the full story rather than trying to wriggle out of it or downplay it. He names Thomas Clarkson by implication the Latin essay at Cambridge. The question he set Wilberforce, the long journey, the feeling of divine calling, he's showing his work, he's signaling to the audience, I know exactly why you think this. I'll grant you the UK. Yes. Yes, maybe I would be happy to grant it in the UK. There is a profoundly crispy element to abolitionism. And this is what good debating looks like. If called for, you take your opponent's best example and you hand it to them on a plate with both hands because once you've granted it, it can't be used as ammunition anymore. The Wilberforce card is now spent. But crucially, it doesn't get Gelen what he needs because the thesis was never Christianity contributed to abolitionism in 19th century Britain. Nobody would argue with that, at least nobody who's done the research. The thesis is the Christianity of bullish slavery as a civilizational force. So Alex starts walking through the rest of the map, America, not so clear, Haiti, certainly not. France, abolition actually happens during the revolution, which is, as he politely puts it, a profoundly secularizing influence. Profoundly secularizing influence on France. And you know, that is an understatement of some magnitude given what the French revolutionaries were doing to priests at the time. If anything, Alex undersells it. He says after the revolution, when it was the revolution itself doing the abolishing, so the point lands even harder for it. But to say that it had to be Christian is to ignore what happened in France and to ignore what happened in Haiti and I think to ignore what happened in America. He has also just, again, reminded the audience and Gelen what the actual proposition on the table is. The claim isn't the Christianity was involved in some abolitionist movements. Nor is it that some abolitionists were Christians. The claim is that it had to be Christian. That without Christianity, this doesn't happen. That is the Tom Holland thesis, that is the Glenn Schriftnathesis. And it's a very large, very specific, very falsifiable claim. It's so clear that the anti-slavery movement is an evangelical one. It's had to be Christian is a real proposition about history. The kind of thing that France and Haiti could sink, which means there's a clean way to settle it. Take the counter example seriously and see whether the thesis survives them. So watch what Glenn does with the three that Alex has just said before him because what Alex has really said under all of the politeness is defend it then. But to say that it had to be Christian is to ignore what happened in France and to ignore what happened in Haiti and I think to ignore what happened in America. So, I mean, in France, it was reversed by Napoleon. That's right. I think because there are some profoundly utilitarian arguments being used alongside a whole bunch of rights language where they get the rights language from, whether they get some of their campaigns from and it was the abolition society in the UK. But why was it abolished? Before it was reinstated by Napoleon, why was it abolished? Alex's intervention here is vital. He does so calmly, gently refusing to let the question drift. Glenn has reached for the easiest move available. Well, Napoleon reversed it using the reversal to way France off the board and Alex just steers him back to the one question that matters. Why was it abolished in the first place? Why was it abolished? Why was it abolished for a... Because of both Christian-ish reasons in terms of rights and because of some utilitarian arguments such as David Jum's kind of arguments that you don't get ingenuity and you don't get industry. Christian-ish. That is... well, it's a hedge. Glenn knows that he's sitting across from someone who's actually read the source material. So he can't quite say Christian with a straight face. But secular enlightenment is also off the table. So we get this curious little suffix. Christian-ish. Christian-adjacent. Christian-flavoured. We are all of us in a sense, goldfish swimming in Christian waters. Christianity, but with an asterisk we can define later if pressed. What he's avoiding here is the context of the French abolition, the enlightenment, the revolution, the declaration of the rights of man, a self-consciously political secularizing movement that was at that moment dismantling the church's power. In fact, the declaration says rights come from nature, men born free and equal, not from scripture. The only God it names is a vague supreme being. You know, the dearest one. Never the church is God and never once Christ. The narrative, Glenn, is working within, is so totalizing that the enlightenment doesn't get any air time. Not so much because he's hiding it, but because under that rubric it barely registers as a thing distinct from Christian-ish. Everything good is Christian-ish. Everything gets vaguely washed away. Everything that's not bad. And because of some utilitarian arguments, such as David Jume's kind of arguments that you don't get ingenuity and you don't get industry. But this is it, isn't it? Within not that long a period of time, we go from the French abolishing it and then reinstating it. And when they abolished it, that was probably due to Christian influence. But when they reinstated it, no, no, no, that was nothing to do with Christian. And here Alex names the trick. When France abolishes slavery, Glenn finds Christianity in there somehow. Only Christian-ish, yes, but Christian enough to credit it. Because of both Christian-ish reasons in terms of rights. Never mind that France abolished it in 1794 with the revolutionary state at its most ferociously anti-clérical. And never mind that when France re-instates slavery a few years later, it did so just a year after Napoleon's concorde had put the church back. Yeah, Clint Credit runs exactly opposite to the church's standing. Christianity is credited for the abolition at the moment the state is trying to stamp out Christianity and yet led off the hook for the reinstatement at the moment Christianity was restored. This is the structural problem with the entire Tom Holland thesis. Remember how this claim started? Seemingly falsifiable. It had to be Christian, a clean, historical proposition that France or Haiti could have sunk. But what has become of it? It has been reshaped. Counter example, by counter example, until nothing could count against it. Now it's unfalsifiable. It's tales I win, heads you lose. Every good thing ever happened in Christendom is downstream of Christianity. Every bad thing that ever happened in Christendom is somehow mysteriously not. Abolition? Yeah, that's Christian. Slavery itself for the previous 1800 years of Christian history? Yeah, that's not really Christian. That was just the culture. It was corruption. Will be force. Yeah, deeply Christian. The bishops who owned plantations, not the real Christianity, definitely not. And what makes all of that possible? It's simple. Christianity is never actually defined. It's the one word the Hothesis rests on. And it's left to mean whatever each case needs. Deeply Christian here and not the real thing there. Decided after the outcomes already in. Decided based on our current, ironically, very secularized, very woke values. Those who think that science teaches us liberal values, all that they're doing is grappling around for some way, some prop, some way, in which they can justify clinging onto Christian morality without Christian belief. Pinnit down and it collapses either way. On one side, define Christianity by who actually held the faith and it ran the slave trade for centuries. On the other hand, define it as pure essence that only does good and you're not doing history anymore. It's so clear that the anti-slavery movement is an evangelical one. But to say that it had to be Christian is to ignore what happened in France and to ignore what happened in Haiti. And I think to ignore what happened in America. So, Glenn's Christian-ish hedge, that wasn't a verbal tick. That was the intellectual facade slipping. Take women's rights as the parallel. When women finally get the vote in the 20th century, mind you, get property rights, get to exist as legal persons, Christian inheritance says the Apologist. What about women? What about slaves? They didn't have the vote. And that's because our assumption of the justification for democracy is essentially a Christian one. But when women were denied all of those things for the entire prior history of Christian civilization based on the book, based on all of their leaders, well, that was just the times. Some other force was responsible. Certainly not Christianity, just people corrupting Christianity. You can run this move on literally anything. It's Paul's teachings that give birth to the ideal of romantic love. And once you notice it, you cannot unnotice it. There is no possible historical outcome that this framework would accept as evidence against it. None. The Holland thesis is Christian astrology. When they abolished it, that was probably due to Christian influence. But when they reinstated it, no, no, no, that was nothing to do with Christianity. I'm just telling you a history of what has happened. And it was reversed. And by the way, France actually abolished slavery in 1900. And I mean, the long slow burn of abolitionism happened in medieval Europe 700 years earlier. So I would say the Christianity abolished slavery twice. One was a long slow burn of a kind of a sacramental approach and the second was very much a preacher-led abolitionism. That's rather revealing. Glen assures us he's just sharing with us a history of what's happened. I'm just telling you a history of what has happened. It's just the way it is. I'm not, I'm just a messenger. It sounds modest, just the record. But a record has dates, actors, documents. What Glen hands over is a verdict with all of that stripped out. And notice which way he travels to deliver it. Pressed on 1794, a specific, dateable abolition that happened while the revolutionary state was dismantling the church, Glen doesn't defend it. Does he? He backs away. And by the way, France actually abolished slavery in 1900, right? Then further still to medieval Europe and then to a long slow burn. One was a long slow burn of a kind of a sacramental approach. And 1400 feels like safe ground. Old enough, vague enough, the kind of day that nobody stops to check. So let's check it because he's betting you won't. He's betting the I won. And it hands him the opposite of what he wants. There was no abolition in 1400. Slavery in medieval Europe didn't disappear. It turned into Serfdom, bondage by another name. What did fate, faded only for Christians in slave non-Christians stayed entirely permissible. And get this, roughly 50 years later, the same church was signing the Atlantic trade into being. Pope Nicholas V, garanted Portugal, the right to consign pagans to perpetual servitude. I would say the Christianity abolished slavery twice. Twice, he says. One sacramentally and once preach a lot. But here were the word twice, quietly berries. The four centuries between his two abolition when the same Christianity ran the largest slave trade in history. That is awkward. Or, it bloody well should be. And that's the tale with Glen. It shows up the moment the floor is his rather than Alex's. When he's the one asking, he wants everything itemized. Is it better that abolition happened? What would you have said in 1800? Do you doubt it was Christianity? Do you doubt that it was Christianity? But when he's the one answering, he reaches for the old, the sweeping, the unsourced, the abstractions and trusts that nobody will look. High resolution for his questions. Low resolution. A blur for his answers. One was a long slow burn of a sacramental approach. And the second was a very much a preacher-led abolitionism. But if you want to own the Christian element of the abolitionist movement, you have to also own the Christian element of the anti-abolitionist movement, which was just as strong. Sure. In America, the issue was settled with physical violence. Yeah. And if the other side did one, you'd have a justice Christian nation appealing to exactly the same God and the same Bible and the same Christian tradition to say they were right. Linn nods to Alex through the early steps. Yes, the anti-abolitionists had a Christian element. Yes, America settled it by force. Then comes the step that he cannot not add. If you bank the abolitionists because they were Christian, the same logic hands you the men they were fighting. Same book, same God, same poor pits, same hymns. The Confederacy didn't reach for enlightenment reason to defend the plantation. It reached for scripture. Noah's curse on ham, Paul telling slaves to obey their masters. Abraham rewarded by God with slaves of his own, which is why Glenn can't let us stand. Consider and the thesis is gone. So he reaches for the thing he's kept in his back pocket or conversation. And if the other side did one, you'd have a justice Christian nation appealing to exactly the same God and the same Bible and the same Christian tradition to say they were right. Actually not the same Bible. They actually did what, what, Maasian proposed and they did what I hear you wanting to do. They're talking about a slave Bible. A slave Bible to get rid of 90% of the Old Testament and 50%. 90%? Yeah. And then 50% of the New Testament. The, those slave owners were terrified of the Bible. They've terrified of the whole Bible. And I would say that the Bible was in the hands of abolitionist preachers and Frederick Douglass said that the image of God on page one of the Bible was a hammer in the hands of the abolitionists. And I think it was a profoundly spiritual, religious, Christian, evangelical and quaker, led movement. This is a strong move from Glenn and it's worth seeing exactly how it works before it comes apart. The slave Bible is a peculiar thing indeed. An early 19th century edition for enslaved people in the British West Indies with most of the Old Testament and big stretches of the new cut out. And the implication that Glenn wants is huge. If the slavers had to carve the Bible up to keep the slave's docile, the full Bible must be inherently anti-slavery, right? The slaveholders have become his witnesses. They knew what was in there and they were terrified of it. They've terrified of the whole Bible. Which lets him answer the symmetry problem a second ago. Those pro-slavery Christians weren't using the same book at all. They had a mutilated half Bible. The real one was in the hands of Douglass and the Quakers. And notice something else this move quietly does. It shrinks the whole question down to a single edited volume because as long as we're arguing about one specific, relented book, the 1807 slave Bible, Glenn is on his strongest possible ground. He doesn't have to talk about a queerness. He doesn't have to talk about a gust in writing that slavery is just a consequence of sin. He doesn't have to talk about Lufa or about the people balls authorizing the Atlantic trade or about the fact that for the better part of two millennia, the unredacted full fat Bible sat on the shelves of theologians who saw no contradiction whatsoever between its contents and the owning of human beings. And that is where the second sleight of hand is a work. By saying, both slave owners were terrified of the Bible. If terrified of the whole Bible, Glenn makes reduction sound like standard practice. It wasn't. The slave Bible is a lone outlier. One publisher, one corner of the British Empire, the overwhelming norm was the slave holder who kept the complete text and never felt the need to cut a single word. Actually, they were right. Actually, not the same Bible. If Alex lets this stand, if the resolution of the question becomes, well, the bad Christians had a fake Bible and the good Christians had the real one, Glenn wins the exchange on points. Make no doubt about that. The thesis will survive. The heads you lose tails I win structure will hold. So Alex's job right now is to refuse that resolution. And I think it was a profoundly spiritual, religious, Christian, evangelical, and quaker led movement. In the United Kingdom, I think so, yes. But which then through international law gets rolled out. Maybe, but I don't think it's as simple as that. I mean, well, the slave Bible, I think was designed for British colonies. And of course, the slave Bible is not so much. I think people think about this wrong. I think when people look at the slave Bible, they think of it as an edited Bible. Like you say, 90% of the Old Testament is gone. This is not an edited Bible. This is a sort of compilation of biblical quotes. It's a bit like if I had a book that said, like, here is a book of selected Psalms for help in overcoming grief, right? And you gave that to me. I wouldn't say you've taken a Bible and you've edited it and you've censored it to get, no, it's a collection. That's quite the counter. Glenn's whole framing depends on the slave Bible being understood a particular way. As a normal Bible that's been carved up, redacted, censored, a mutilated thing. Because again, if it's a mutilated thing, then by implication, the real Bible, the one that hasn't been carved up, is the abolitionist's Bible. The slavers had to deface scripture to make their case. The abolitionists simply had to read it. No, it's a collection. Alex pulls that framing apart at the seams. The slave Bible isn't an edited Bible at all. It's a compilation, a greatest hits for keeping enslaved people compliant. And the moment you recognize this, the entire rhetorical force of the object flips upside down. I mean, put it this way, to deface a text is to concede the original was against you. But the compilers of the slave Bible didn't have to forge a verse or twist a word. They gathered the passages that already served them, the obedience codes and the slaves obey your master's material. The usable content was sitting right there in the text ready to be emphasized, just as it had been for 1800 years, by Aquinas, by Augustine, you get the point. So Alex has taken Glenn's strongest evidence. The one piece of physical, holdable proof of a real Christianity against a corrupted one and turned it into proof off the opposite. The slave Bible is a receipt for the pro-slavery reader, not an embarrassment for them. And he's done it, by the way, in a single breath on the fly. I wouldn't say you've taken a Bible and you've edited it and you've censored it. No, it's a collection. Now, what do they take out? Things like the Exodus story. Why? Because people might read the Exodus story and be filled with these delusions of grandeur about the belt, which is what the black church was and that was the Negro spirituals that they sang. A second trap is now being baited and set. Now, if you've followed Alex's work for any length of time, you'll know that Exodus is one of his favorite weapons because he knows what apologists are going to do with it in the moment that it's mentioned. Slaves for hundreds of years have taken consolation in the Exodus. I mean, go down Moses, way down to Egypt, land, and tell a little Pharaoh, let my people go. To you, this is God will be good because guess what the Israelites did next. And then what did they do next? What did they do next? Well, they cannot help themselves. The story of Moses leading the Israelites out of bondage in Egypt is the single most rhetorically useful passage and apologist has when slavery comes up. It's clean, it's dramatic, it has a clear moral arc and it lets you say the things that apologists love to say that scripture itself is fundamentally anti-slavery as a text. So Alex names it, he drops it in the conversation in a context that frames the story as empowering and slave people and Glenn, exactly on cue, bites the black church, the spirituals go down Moses. Yes, that's the real Christianity. That is the real reading of Exodus. That is the through line from scripture to abolition. Well, Glenn doesn't know yet, though he's about to find out, is that he has just taken ownership off a text that Alex has read very carefully. And the very next chapter of that text is the one that Glenn would rather not be defending. Which is what the black church was and that was the Negro spirituals that they sang. But the question is, who was actually misreading the story of the Exodus? Is it the Appalachus? It's not the black church of the... The black church got it right. Glenn sees where this is going and tries to pin Alex on the consequence. You're not going to tell me that the black church got the Bible wrong. Oh, you. It's not the black church of the... The implication being teed up is that if Alex denies the abolitionist reading, he's citing against the people who suffered under slavery. It's the kind of move that, in a less prepared opponent, lands. It's a moral trap pretending to be a literary question. You either concede that the Bible is anti-slavery as a book or you appear to be telling enslaved Christians that they misread their own deliverance story. Except Alex has already done the work to neutralise this exact line of attack. He's arguing something much narrower and much sharper than the black church was wrong to want to be free. He's arguing that wanting to be free and the Bible telling you that you're entitled to be free are not the same thing. The black church took the Exodus as their own deliverance song and the slavers of the West Indies cut the Exodus out precisely because they feared the enslaved would do exactly that. So Glenn's right that the black church did draw hope from it. But that's a claim about what the story does in the hands of those who are oppressed. Not what it says. Who was actually misreading the story of the Exodus? Is it the abolition? It's not the black church, is it? The black church got it right. I don't think that they did. OK. I don't think that they did. Because what happened in the Exodus? The Jews were enslaved and Egypt. God makes a promise to Abraham. He fulfills that promise, which starts with the emancipation of the Jews from Egypt. And what is the first thing that the Jews immediately start doing? They start taking slaves of their own from the nations around them. The reason why the Jews were freed from slavery in Egypt is not because God is anti-slavery. It's because the Jews were his chosen people to the extent that as soon as they were emancipated from the Egyptians, God gave them permission to take slaves from the nations around them. If God was anti-slavery, he would have put an end to it, they'll stop there and then. But he wasn't. And so what does this mean? It means that the actual like a thorough reading of the Bible, the Old Testament will tell you that this Exodus story with these stories of, you know, let my people go, was a profoundly Israelite specific motivation that as soon as they left Egypt, they started taking slaves of their own. Alex doesn't just refuse the framing. He opens the book and reads what's actually on the page. Because this is the part of the Exodus story that apologists like Glenn rely on you not knowing. The triumphant beat, the let my people go, the parting of the sea, the deliverance, gets told and retold. The bit immediately afterwards, immediately afterwards, when the freshly liberated Israelites are handed a divinely sanctioned rulebook for acquiring slaves of their own doesn't get the same air time, does it? Funny that. How convenient is that? Wow, how convenient is fucking dead? If the God of Exodus were anti-slavery as a principle, the moment to demonstrate that principle had just arrived. He had a freshly emancipated people on an open page, total control. What he commanded was regulations, rather than, and slavery shall be no more. Terms and conditions, how long you can keep them, what you can do with them, what happens if you knock out their teeth? Why a man beaten, dying after a day or two, is not a crime. That is the legislation of someone administering the institution, not opposing it. So the Exodus is a story about the wrongness of these particular people being enslaved by those particular people. Rather than the wrongness of slavery as such, it's tribal, it's human, it's specific. The message is, these people are my chosen servants and belong only to me. Rather, then no one should be owned by anyone. And the proof is in what those chosen ones immediately go on to do, the second the chains are off. This is the move that exposes how Glenn and apologists like him handled the text. The more of the story is sitting right there in the text, it's in the next chapter, but it's not the moral that they want you to hear. The Exodus, red end to end, is one of the most awkward texts in the Bible for anti-slavery arguments, because it shows you, in sequence, a people being freed and then immediately becoming slaveholders with explicit divine authorization. There's a knee irony in all of this. Christian apologetics depends structurally on the audience not reading the Bible. Just let the shepherds read it. You as sheep are not allowed to read it, or at least you're not allowed to read it meticulously. And that is a safe bet. Most people, including most Christians, have not sat down and read Exodus 21 immediately after Exodus 20. Glenn's misfortune here is that he's run in front of someone you clearly has. Was a profoundly Israelite specific motivation that as soon as they left Egypt, they started taking slaves of their own. Now, I have no doubt that if I were a slave owner who was trying to convince my slaves not to want to rise up against me, that if I gave them the Exodus, they might read that and go, hey, we can do what the Israelites did. And that might still be enough reason for me to take it out of the Bible and not let them read it. But to say that that's the message of the Old Testament, I think it's profoundly mistaken. And with that, the slave Bible, Glenn's strongest weapon is turned back on him. Those slave owners were terrified of the Bible, if they're terrified of the whole Bible. Glenn wanted to prove that the Bible is so obviously a liberation text that slave owners had to physically remove the dangerous bits to keep their slaves do so. The reduction, he reasons, is the tell. You don't cut a passage out unless it threatens you. So the parts they removed must have been anti-slavery ones. Alex's reading is more precise and far more damaging. The Exodus wasn't excise because it was teaching that slavery is wrong. It doesn't teach that. It was excised because it contains a narrative blueprint that an enslaved population could use. A chosen people, a cruel master, a divinely packed uprising, a deliverance. That if I gave them the Exodus, they might read them, go, hey, we can do what the Israelites did. The text does not need to be philosophically anti-slavery per se to be operationally dangerous. It just needs to give the wrong people the wrong ideas about themselves. And once you notice that, the slave Bible stops being an apologetic asset and starts being an apologetic problem. I mean, look at what the editors did leave in. The verses that actually endorse the arrangement, slaves obey your masters. The household codes, the regulations, they stay untouched. The blade only comes out for the material that might give the enslaved ideas about themselves. And that dissolves the inference that Glenn was making. Removing a text because it might inspire an uprising is not evidence that slavery is wrong was ever a message in the Old Testament. The reduction only tells you what a story could do in the hands of the enslaved. To say that that's the message of the Old Testament, I think it's profoundly mistaken. Well, I think you're calling those enslaved people and their discovery of faith in Scripture. You're saying that they've got that wrong. And I don't think it's Stockholm syndrome. I think this is a profound sense of feeling understood as an oppressed people in a therns of affliction. And the Negro spirituals were very profoundly Old Testament focused, actually. Like, like, let's, I don't like to hear shade thrown at the Old Testament. I think the doctrine of the Amago Day, the idea in Genesis one and two of the humanity are made to have dominion rather than to be slaves. A lot of Aquiano kind of makes that huge point that if God did not make man's slave, how dare man make man's slave, right? You've got the idea of the Exodus, the idea of people in suffering, Harriet Tubman, was the great Moses in the Black Church in America, the Underground Railway bringing people up. It was a profoundly spiritual movement, biblical movement, Old Testament movement. And this is the way that Christians have been reading the Bible, right? Absolutely, there are others like Slave owners who will preach other verses. They'll preach the kind of verses that, from the same book. You've raised up from the same book. But that's such a... The question at hand is, what does the text actually say and who is reading it correctly? Glenn's response is a sweeping tour of everything except that. The Amago Day, Genesis one and two, Equiano, Exodus, Harriet Tubman, the Underground Railroad. It's a lovely montage of Christian anti-slavery imagery, and not one part of it is a response to Alex's point. Because Alex hasn't disputed any of that. He's granted the enslaved people found meaning in the Exodus story. He's granted the abolitionist drew on scripture, where he's pressing is on the other half, the half that Glenn's thesis needs to disappear. The slaveholders had verses to drawn from the exact same book verses that are much, much more explicit. Alex pounces the moment Glenn mentions these other verses. From the same book. You've raised up from the same book. But that's such a... It's a small intervention, an instance of force specificity and a devastating one. Because the moment Glenn has to actually name a verse, the whole Old Testament is anti-slavery case has to survive contact with the text. From the same book. You've raised up from the same book. But that's such a... That's because it's a story, such as what? Right. Such as what? Like what would they quote? What the... I've granted an emancipator's slave could quote that part of Exodus, the liberation from Egypt. What part of Exodus could a slave earn a quote? It's the 21, which says... This is the moment. It's what Alex has been steering towards. And you can see the rhetorical shape of the exchange contract down to a single demand. Say it out loud. Ah, Exodus 21, which says... Finally, Glenn names it. Exodus 21. And Alex, with that follow-up, closes the door on every escape route. What does Exodus 21 say? Because naming the chapter as if it's a footnote is one thing. Reading it is another. And Glenn knows what Exodus 21 says. Everyone in this conversation knows where Exodus 21 says. It's the chapter where God, having just liberated the Israelites from slavery in Egypt, turns around in the very next breath and starts legislating how they should own slaves off their own. This is the chapter, Glenn has just been forced to volunteer. This is what the slaveholder's quoted. And it isn't some fringe misreading or a perverse extraction. It is God giving direct legal instruction on the practice of slavery in the same book the abolitionists love to cite. Exodus 21, which says... It starts out by saying if the slave owner kills the slave, then it's the death penalty for him. If he doesn't, then he is not to be avenged. Why? That way. And the why is the entire point, which is exactly what Alex's question goes after. Why? Why does the owner walk free if the slave survives a day or two? Glenn has only given the what? Why? Why? Why? What is that saying? Because the slave is his property. The slave is his silver or whatever. It's silver, which means property. Right. Because if you are in a case, I mean, it's all case law, isn't it, in Exodus? So no, let me, let me, let me say. If you are to a judge a case where you are not certain, why this, why this slave died? If you were to a judge that case, the judge in that circumstance is to think, well, is he really going to destroy his property in that sense? That would be foolish for him to do. It was about the justice, it was about the application of that justice to that particular instance. And then the next thing it says, if he so much as knocks out a tooth of that slave, the slave goes free, right? Okay. Now, we all read this with a profound sense of discomfort. But I think what's going on is, is like when Jesus says in Matthew chapter 19, about divorce, God hates divorce. He says that very clearly in the Old Testament, my divorce friends feel very understood by that verse because they hate it and yet have experienced it as a cruel necessity. God hates divorce and yet there are all sorts of divorce laws, right, in the Old Testament. There we go. Alex Pins glend down. The slave isn't a venguish because he's property. The only injury the law counts is the owners because the slave is his property. A beaten slave isn't a victim. He's a damaged asset and a man who harms his own asset has wronged no one for himself. And Glenn agrees the slave is his silver or whatever, which means property, right? But then he reaches straight for the defense. It's really about judicial caution. The law assuming no man would destroy his own property. But that doesn't soften the property logic. Does it? It runs on it. Glenn has confirmed Alex's point and dressed it as a defense. And then comes the next part of the standard apologetic reach, the divorce analogy. God hates divorce and yet there are all sorts of divorce laws, right, in the Old Testament. The implied parallel is that the Bible regulating a thing doesn't amount to the Bible endorsing a thing and that just as divorce is regulated reluctantly, so is slavery. It's a clever move on the surface, but it rests on two things that it can't carry. Start with where Glenn gets his God hates divorce. He pins it on Jesus in Matthew 19 and on the Old Testament in his next sentence, reading the new back into the old as though the whole Bible speaks with one voice. But you know what? The sake of argument we're granted that. The deeper problem is what he does with it. He takes the disapproval of the text states outright for divorce and lends it to slavery, which is given no such disapproval anywhere. Divorce is regulated and marked as hated. Slavery is regulated and marked as nothing at all. The reluctant regulation reading isn't something that slavery earns. It's borrowed from divorce and Glenn is hoping that you won't notice. God hates divorce and yet there are all sorts of divorce laws, right, in the Old Testament. There's one divorce law there. There's one, there's one instance. It's like two to two, is it two to five or something or 20 verses one to five? That's it. So Alex is mistaken here and it's worth saying so plainly. There isn't just one divorce law. The main one is Deuteronomy 24, but it isn't alone. There's a couple of other passages that forbid a man from divorcing at all in certain cases. But this is me being pedantic because the count doesn't change anything. And if anything, a close look, cuts the wrong way for Glenn again. Because divorce comes labelled, the text says outright that God disfavours it and Jesus calls the divorce permission a concession to human hardness, something that was not this way from the beginning. Slavery, however, arrives with no such label, no divine disfavor, no sense that it was ever a departure from the ideal. That's what Glenn's analogy needs. And it's the one thing it simply doesn't have. 20 verses one to five, that's it. And it just says that if a man like, you know, find something dishonorable and his wife and issue sort of divorce papers and that she goes and marry someone else, and then he divorces her, that he can't marry her again. That's it. But this is an end, it's about second wives and that kind of like, like even in the 21st. That's what it is. So God is regulating things that he hates, right? God is regulating things that are profoundly not ideal. And so the Matthew 19 thing is, there was a patent in creation in Genesis 1 and 2. We have fallen down into a very unfortunate situation very non-ideal, hardness of heart, God regulates that totally non-ideal situation, which crisis then come to redeeming the future. Already a renegotiation of the divorce stuff. I mean, in markets, you can't divorce someone for any reason. In Matthew it becomes you can divorce them, you can't divorce them for any reason, except for adultery. As a constant renegotiation going on in the Bible. Glenn reaches for the apologists, all purpose lubricant. God is regulating things he hates. It lets you keep every uncomfortable verse in the Bible while denying that any of them reflect what God actually wants. Slavery? Yeah, it's regulated. It's not endorsed. The Bible regulates slavery. I will first. And ancient practice. What verse does the Bible ever endorse or morally support slavery? Regulation is not the same as condoning. Divorce? It's regulated, not endorsed. You were permitted to divorce. It was regulating a bad thing. The permission of the law of Moses to divorce doesn't imply the rightness of divorce genocide. It's a fallen world, a temporary concession awaiting redemption. Anything God commands that we now find horrifying gets really classified as a reluctant concession to a fallen humanity. Anything that God commands that we now find admirable is the real divine standard shining through. There's slavery that's recorded. There's polygamy that's recorded. There's rape that's recorded. There's murder that's recorded. Never is the Bible saying these are good. This is the idea of progressive revelation. And it allows Christians to claim that any moral progress is theirs, no matter what the text actually says. Those laws in the Old Testament are instructions, not approval, regulations, not endorsement. And Alex catches the critical assumption underneath it. The regulating what he hates narrative requires there to be a fixed divine standard sitting behind the messy regulations. Gradually being revealed. But the text itself doesn't behave like that. Mark says no divorce will stop. Matthew adds an exception for adultery. That's a moving standard being renegotiated inside the canon. Not a fixed standard being reluctantly accommodated to human weakness. If the Bible itself can't settle on the rule across two gospels written within decades of each other, the idea of a stable, eternal divine ideal that's merely being accommodated in Exodus is claiming far more than the evidence allows. There's a constant renegotiation going on in the Bible. Like, surely you would agree that the reading of the Exodus story, sorry Justin, I know. But I know you're also, we're kind of running out of time. I don't know if that's a limit of the show or a limit of us, but I'd be happy to go on for a good time. We can go a bit longer. This is really important, right? Because like the Exodus story is constantly referred to as a sort of anti-slavery essence. What is the cost of the referred to within the Hebrew Bible? Quite yet for the Israelites. For the Israelites, quite clearly this is the Israelite freedom from Egypt because of the covenant that God made with them. It says that God remembered the covenant he made, the covenant he made with Abraham. And so this happened. And so the Exodus occurs because of the covenant he made with Israel. As soon as Israel have escaped the Egyptians, they start taking slaves. And it's not just, it's not just like, oh, if you poke out a, especially where did they get the slave from. Secondly, it's not just these kind of regulations. It's instructions on how to go and get them. Because the laws that you're talking about there in Exodus 21 are about Israelite Hebrew bond servants, right? It's quite clearly a distinction between Hebrew bond servants and slaves taking from nations around you. Leviticus is quite clear. Your male and female slaves may come from the nations around you. From then you may buy and sell slaves. You may also purchase some of the temporary residents living among you, members of their clan, and they will become your property for life. You can bequeath them to your children as inheritable property. But you must not rule over your fellow Israelites ruthlessly. The jujunt of the station. This is the moment the apologetic edifice comes apart. And it falls because Alex finally drags the conversation onto the actual text. For the bulk of this conversation, Glenn has been operating in the abstract trajectories, redemption arcs, the Christian air we breathe, particularly Christianized air we breathe. Alex now does the one thing apologetic struggles to survive. He opens the book and reads it out loud. As said, the Exodus is the great anti-slavery narrative. God liberates the oppressed, God hears the cry of the slave. The whole moral arc of Israel begins with deliverance from bondage. You've heard it a thousand times. It's the backbone of every sermon connecting the Bible to abolitionism. The second greatest miracle of the Old Testament was what? The Exodus. What's happening in the Exodus? God is delivering the Hebrew slaves from slavery in Egypt. Alex doesn't dispute the Exodus is about liberation. Rather, he asks who it's about liberation for. And the answer, plainly, in the text is the Israelites. Not human beings broadly, the Israelites, because of the covenant God made with Abraham. The Exodus is a tribal deliverance grounded in a specific, ethnic covenant, rather than the universal anti-slavery manifesto. And we know that because of what happens next. You can bequeath them to your children as inheritable property, but you must not rule over your fellow Israelites. Right. Ruthless slave. Then Alex recalls Leviticus 25, and there's simply no wiggle room here. The text doesn't say if a slave should happen to fall into opposition, here are some humane regulations. It gives instructions on procurement, where to source slaves, the surrounding nations, what you can do with them, by bequeath. How long you own them for life? What their status is, property inheritable, possible down to your children. This is proactive policy on chattel slavery, with the slaves explicitly defined as foreigners, rather than a regulation of an inherited evil. And then the sting, the one protection in the passage, is reserved for fellow Israelites. Then you mustn't rule over ruthlessly. The implication being entirely transparent about everyone else. And Glenn acknowledges this. He knows it's there, and he can label it on site. The due gentle distinctions. But that is the problem. That's Alex's entire point. The text is far from anti-slavery. It's merely somewhat anti-slavery for Israelites. Contrary to Glenn's insistence, the moral category being protected isn't human beings or the oppressed. It's members of the in-group. Everyone else can be made property. Glenn has just stated the thesis Alex was trying to establish. The due gentle distinction, yes, exactly. That is the distinction the Bible draws, a two-tier system. Kinsman released, foreigners held for life. And that distinction is incompatible with the claim that this text is the moral seed bed for universal abolition. You must not rule over your fellow Israelites ruthlessly. The due gentle distinctions. Exactly. So what I'm saying is that I'm reading this text, right? And I'm seeing God not just regulating something that He hates, but proactively giving permission to go and do something. It's not just, I know you've got slaves that are hangover from some condition that you're in. What I'm going to say is, is regulated in this way or that way. It's like, you may go and get slaves from the foreign lands. Don't do it to your fellow Israelites, but you may go and get them from the nations around you. And quite clearly, when you read this as a totality, you've got, Israel has gods chosen people. So they shall not be slaves because they are gods chosen people. But once they're free from slavery, they get to take slaves in themselves. And so when you ask who's misreading this story, if somebody is reading that story of the Exodus from Egypt and saying, that's about universal abolition and just neglecting to mention that fact. No one says it. Then I think that they are the ones who are misreading that. At long last, Alex Ans is for Glen, the question he posed earlier in the exchange, who is actually misreading the Exodus. He spent the intervening stretch building the answer brick by brick, the very next chapter, the foreign is for light distinction, the proactive permission, rather than reluctant regulation. And now he steps back. The people misreading the text are the ones treating it as a universal abolition story. How many diapers get he possibly used? God is regulating things that he hates, right? Oh, that's not so much. Never is the Bible saying these are good. So it was regulating a bad thing. Regulation is not the same as condoning. Regulations not endorsement. There was a practice that was legislated but not celebrated. I had no idea. Alrighty. So what is the takeaway? When someone runs a sweeping civilizational claim at you, Christianity gave us this or the enlightenment gave us that, the instinct is to fire counter facts straight back. The church only slaves for 18 centuries, a pope licensed the Atlantic trade by name. The Confederacy quoted chapter and verse. And it doesn't land. Not because the facts are wrong, but because the claim is still airborne. It's still abstract. And from up there, it renames anything that you throw at it. That was the culture, not the real Christianity. Every fact that you send up comes down with a different label on it. So the answer isn't more facts. It's refusing to argue at altitude at all. You make the claim land, force the proponent to trade one sweeping assertion for one specific checkable proposition, which verse, which year, which mechanism? On the ground, there's nothing left to rename. The text says what it says. The date is the date. But, and this is crucial, getting it down only wins if you can fight once you're there. And notice where Alex chooses to fight. He funnels Glenn onto the ground. He's red cold. Glenn reaches for the slave Bible, the slave Bible, to get rid of 90% of the Old Testament. Alex turns it into a confession. What part of Exodus could a slave earn, a quote? Exodus 21, which says, Alex names the Exodus himself, knowing the next chapter, sinks it, makes Glenn say Exodus 21 out loud, then reads it. What is it saying? Because the slave is his property. The slave is his silver or whatever. Which means property. Right. Glenn reaches for the divorce laws. Alex shows the text, dams divorce by name, and says nothing of the kind against slavery. Every time Glenn drifts back up to the grand narrative of scripture, Alex puts a finger back on the page, he knows better than Glendars. The descent is the move. The reading lands the blow. And there's all sorts of Old Testament developers, all sorts of stuff that we take great issue with and take great find very, very difficult. And it works anywhere the claim turns up. A boardroom, a family dinner, an argument about your country's history. When something floats free of anything that could pin it down, put it on the page, which verse, which year, which mechanism, then and only then, undercut or refute. Anyhow, as always, thank you kindly for the view and an extra special thank you to everyone who supports the channel, including today's sponsor, Private Internet Access.