---
video_title: "How 1 Question SHATTERED a Worldview"
video_id: NHWuCtZqh54
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NHWuCtZqh54
video_date: 2026-03-11T00:38:55+00:00
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/rationality to stay fully informed on breaking news, compare coverage and avoid media bias. Subscribe through my link for 40% off unlimited access this month.
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  In this tactical breakdown, I dissect the Piers Morgan Uncensored clash between Piers Morgan and white nationalist Nick Fuentes — and how Piers systematically dismantled the rhetorical infrastructure of racial prejudice. This isn't just a debate about crime statistics; it's a masterclass in how prejudice immunises itself from evidence, and what happens when someone methodically strips away every layer of defence. We'll unpack how Nick substituted vibes for data, shifted the burden of proof, cherry-picked his examples, and then, when confronted with a counter-example he couldn't dismiss, performed one of the most absurd No True Scotsman fallacies I've ever seen. If you want to understand how bigotry survives contact with reality, this is the blueprint.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
---
Blacks in America have become narcissistic. Just to be clear, you don't like black people who play the victim and are rude. Is that your position? I don't like that pattern of being... I know a narcissist. I see where this is going. Yeah, you're gonna turn this around on me. You're gonna hit me on me, because when I said... What black friends have you got, you say? I'm a kind of black guy. Your choice of black friend is yay. He's one of the very few black people you want to be associated with. But he's the epitome of what you just said, you are poor about narcissistic black people. Usually, when someone walks into a rhetorical trap, they do it blindly. Nancy Nick Fuentes walked into this one with his eyes wide open, because he had no choice. I see where this is going. What you're watching is a racist's infrastructure collapsing under the weight of a single friendship. Nick has just told us the traits he attributes to and despises in black Americans. Narcissism, victimhood, rudeness. But his one black friend, the person he chooses to associate with, is Kanye West, a man who's declared himself a genius. You know, I'm a creative genius and it's no other way to word it. Built an entire persona around being persecuted by the media. And I'm tired of the left media trying to pick on me. And you're picked on me enough. And blamed everyone from record labels to fashion houses for holding him back. All the assholes that fucked you over in the music industry, fuck artists over in the music industry are individuals. They're not Jews. Can you say it? They are Jewish. Oh, and just in case you're wondering how exactly a white nationalist became friends with Kanye West, well, he went on Alex Jones' show and praised Hitler. That'll do it. Every human being has something of value that they brought to the table. Especially Hitler. He is, whether Nick wants to admit it or not, the supreme embodiment of everything on Nick's list. When someone comes up and says something like, I am a god, everybody says who does he think he is. I just told you who I thought I was. A god. I just told you. That's who I think I am. So now Nick has to face an impossible choice. condemn his friend or admit the rules were never real. And just you wait until you see the defense he tries to mount. Wait, he would tell me all the time. He doesn't even feel black. Why hello my fellow apes. I hope you are well. Piz Morgan brought Nick for winters. Why nationalist streamer who's dined with Trump onto his show to debate crime statistics and race? What could possibly go wrong? Nothing can possibly go wrong. Possibly go wrong. Now, these encounters usually dissolve into noise. But this time Piz operated with impressive precision, systematically exposing the contradictions at the core of Nick's prejudice. I just suspect you have no idea how many white people have committed similar crimes, do you? Talking of which, this is what I want you to watch out for. Prejudice doesn't just ignore evidence. It has an immune system and you're about to watch it fight for its life. Nick's routine is simple. Site violent crime statistics pin them on black Americans and treat the numbers as proof that the problem is racial. It's a well-worn playbook, but Piz finds cracks in it almost immediately. How many deranged white men have committed atrocious acts of murder in the last 10 years in America? proportionally far fewer. Piz opens with a simple demand. Show me the numbers. If Nick wants to make sweeping claims about racial patterns, he needs the data to back them up. And Nick obliges, sort of. proportionally far fewer, he says, which sounds statistical. It implies that he's done the math, weighed the populations derived a ratio. But proportionally is a weasel word. It sounds precise while committing to nothing. And Piz isn't going to let that slide. proportionally far fewer. How many? How many? Do you know how many? You have a research team you pull out. Oh boy. As frequent viewers of this channel will have immediately clocked. In any honest debate, the person making the claim has to back it up. That is where the burden of proof sits with the claimant. In this case, it's Nick who has made the claim that black Americans commit proportionately more violent crime. And yet with the smallest amount of pressure, he's flipped the burden, insisting that Piz's staff do the homework. You have a research team you pull out. And it's worth noting, it really is quite peculiar that people like Nick are always this confident, always this certain, even when they have absolutely no data to back it up. Personally, I don't know where they get this power from. But as someone who tends to triple check everything, I am at least occasionally jealous. You have a research team you pull out. You're very big. You're obviously extremely exercised by that one story, which was horrific for the record. Absolutely horrific. And should never have happened. The person who perpetrated that evil act had a string of previous offenses and should have been picked up more. And it should have been amplified more. I completely concur with all of that. But I don't suspect you have no idea how many white people have committed similar crimes, do you? Pears plays this subtly and smartly. He grants the validity of the specific tragedy that Nick is focusing on. A violent crime case that was by any measure horrific. This disarms any attempt from Nick's audience to insist that Piz doesn't care about the victims. But it's also strategic. Absolutely horrific. And should never have happened. The person who perpetrated that evil act had a string of previous offenses. By conceding these crimes, Piz frees himself to attack the broader claim. And that is precisely what he does. He circles right back, emphasizing that Nick does not have the numbers. I just suspect you have no idea how many white people have committed similar crimes, do you? No, because I know it's far fewer from experience. Okay. Because it's like you said. Well, and hang on, and I would add to that, you know, I read as Arunzka wasn't the first one. That was also after Austin Metcalf was killed in Texas. Sure. After a couple of times he's been perpetrated. From experience, he says, indeed his massive statistical claim isn't based on statistics at all. It's based on vibes. I know it's far fewer from experience. Okay. Piz asked for facts. Nick gave him feelings. It's the anecdotal fallacy in action. He remembers the cases that make him angry, the ones that come up on his social media feed, and ignores the ones that don't, mistaking his own memory and indeed algorithm for demographic reality. I read as Arunzka wasn't the first one. That was also after Austin Metcalf was killed in Texas. Sure. After a couple of times he was the victim of the night. This is the immune system's first line of defense. Replace the data with a feeling, and then defend that feeling as if it were data. Now, talking of stories that didn't make it into your feed, here's one I wouldn't have seen if it weren't for the sponsor of this video, Graham News. Trump says Venezuelan airspace should be closed. Now, depending on the outlet, this story is framed in completely different ways. On the left, there's a tendency to immediately question the legitimacy of the operation. And on the right, the tendency is to simply state what Trump has done with no further context. And I couldn't find a single headline that mentioned the legality of the declaration. Don't you need to uphold the constitution of the United States as president? I don't know. So if you only read right-leaning sources, you might not realize that this move is illegal. This level of insight is only possible thanks to ground news. There are website and app designed to make reading the news easier and more data driven. Every day they pull in thousands of articles from all over the world and organize them by story, with each one, including visual breakdowns of political bias, reliability, and ownership to give you a clearer sense of how the news is being framed. Returning to this story, ground news offers more than just headline comparisons. Right away you can see that it's being covered by over 700 outlets, with the political balance almost perfect. 31% left, 31% right. Yet the framing is completely different. They even show, bullet by bullet, how left-leaning and right-leaning outlets are presenting the event. And above each headline you can see the same insights for every specific outlet. That is what makes ground news essential. It doesn't just tell you what happened, it shows you the different ways the outlets try to shape your view author. And honestly, those factuality flags alone are indispensable. Right now you can get 40% of their vantage plan at ground.news slash rationality. Or by scanning the QR code on screen. Your subscription supports this channel and helps you spot the spin. Thanks. I read as Arutzko wasn't the first one. That was also after Austin Metcalf was killed in Texas. Sure. After a couple of times he was a bit perpetrated by white people. Well hang on, let me finish my point. But you're in the final white people don't do this. Am I point to you? Then for renters. Of course, of course. I've never said white people going to do it. Of course, to range white people commit heinous acts. But you don't either know. No, it's agreement. You either know nor care. Or maybe both. Maybe you do know that don't care. You only seem to be focused on black people who commit crimes. And again, if you hadn't prefaced the whole debate about racism by openly conceding, you are a racist. I could read other connotations into what you've been saying. But once you said, I'm a racist and then you only talk about black crime. I think people can watch this and they can say, yeah, he is. He's a racist. And everything that he says about crime is driven through the prism of being a racist who judges people according to their skin color. Having conceded this specific case, Pears pins him down on the bigger picture. Nick hasn't just failed to provide data. He's only ever looked in one direction. You neither know nor care. Or maybe both. Maybe you do know that don't care. You only seem to be focused on black people who commit crimes. He isn't analyzing crime. He's cherry picking it. The pattern that he sees is one that he built himself by choosing where to look and where not to. And now Nick has a problem. The numbers aren't there. The burden of proof has been flipped back onto him. So he does what Prejudice always does when the data runs out. He moves to territory where data can't follow. A cultural diagnosis. People can watch this and they can say, yeah, he is. He is a racist and everything that he says about crime is driven through the prism of being a racist who judges people according to their skin color. Well, it's funny because it's quite on the contrary. And I said this in a similar monologue. You know, the problem is not that I wake up and I walk down the street and I see someone that doesn't look like me and it makes me angry. The problem is there's a pattern of behavior, which we've all seen. Blacks in America have become narcissistic and they become narcissistic because they've been told their victims of racism, their victims of slavery. They've been told, really, there's no accountability. If they're rude, if they're inconsiderate, if they're criminal, they are told that they have no agency for their actions. They're being told, if you act in this way, it's because the white man made you that way. It's because the systems rigged against you. And so we have been telling black people this for a generation. And now there's no rules. Now they go. And what we hate to see as as decent people, not even as white people, but decent people, even black people too. What we hate to see is rudeness, obnoxiousness, inconsideration, criminality, violence. And that's that pattern of behavior that we see all over social media. Nick is laying out the criteria with absolute certainty and he doesn't realize that he's digging his own grave. Listen to the language, pattern of behavior. The problem is there's a pattern of behavior. No accountability. They've been told, really, there's no accountability. What we hate to see as decent people. What we hate to see as as decent people, not even as white people, but decent people. Even black people too. This is loaded language, every one of them. Strip away the social packaging and what you're left with is a manitributing a list of negative traits to an entire race and calling it an observation. And that's that pattern of behavior that we see all over social media on the line. So just to be clear, you don't like black people who play the victim and are rude. Is that your position? I don't like that pattern of behavior. I don't know what narcissists. Pears isn't arguing yet. He's locking the door. He needs Nick to confirm those criteria explicitly on the record. I don't like that pattern of behavior. I don't know what the trap is set and Nick is well aware. I don't like that pattern of behavior. I don't know what narcissists. I see where this is going. Yeah, you had to turn this around on me. He knows exactly where his logic leads and he knows that it's a dead end. I see where this is going, but he can't escape it. The contradiction isn't something that Pears invented. It was always there baked into Nick's world view. The only way out is to stop being a racist. I see where this is going. Yeah, you had to turn this around on me. You had to warn me because when I said, what black friends have you got, you said, I'm a kind of black. No, not that. I'm just saying, your choice of black friend is yay, who is arguably the number one black victimhood narcissist in America. Do you understand the problem? No, no. He's one of the very few black people you want to be associated with, but he's the epitome of what you just said you were poor about narcissistic black people. There it is, the collision. Pears points out that every trait that Nick just committed to is instantiated in the one black person Nick claims as a friend. How many of your friends are black? Many of them, like at least a dozen. Wow. Yay, yay being one. And you know. And it is a brilliant example because ye isn't just a counter example. He is the perfect counter example. If you were building a perfect example of a narcissistic victim from scratch, you'd build ye west. It's funny, atheists love the term narcissist when you believe in yourself. I just told you who I thought I was. I got. He fits Nick's own description better than the group that Nick is attacking. But he's the epitome of what you just said you were poor about narcissistic black people. I disagree, I disagree with you and I'll tell you why. Because ye, if you've ever met him in real life. I have. Yeah. Okay, well then you know he's nothing but polite, considerate. Oh boy, Nick is getting desperate and you can see why. By the public record, by what everyone understands if ye, he knows that pears is correct. Ye fits the criteria that Nick just laid out to the letter. I am the number one most impactful artist of our generation. I am Shakespeare in the flesh Walt Disney, Nike, Google. Now who's going to be the Medici family and stand up and let me create more? So to save his position, Nick has to make a special exception for his friend. I've always known as special pleading. The rules apply to the group but not to the people I like. And look at how he tries to get away with it. If you've ever met him in real life. I have. Yeah. Okay, well then you know he's nothing but polite, considerate. Well, when I talk to him personally, he's really polite and considerate. As if private politeness somehow undoes a public record of narcissism, victimhood and blame shifting. Which was misdiagnose by a, I'm not going to say what race, what people, uh, doctor and what hospital and what media went to. We know I can't say that. It was a Jewish doctor. But here's the thing, even if that defense held, even if ye really is a lovely person behind closed doors, it doesn't dissolve the great gaping problem that pierces just thrown on next lamp. Because yay, if you've ever met him in real life. I have. Yeah. Okay, well then you know he's nothing but polite, considerate. Seems very rude to me the last two times I interviewed him. He's a supreme, he's a supreme narcissist. And he's also, you keep interrupting me. You're very rude, aren't you? Are you black? I'm giving you a hard time, but I do want to finish my point. I do want to finish my point about yay. He is a guy who, when I was with him, wanted to make sure that everybody was heard. Everybody felt included. He's actually a very soft spoken guy, very polite. And by the way, not violent. When you look at all the rappers that are in the music game, many of them, especially from Chicago drill rap, they're talking about killing people, shooting people, they gang bang, he notably, if you know about him, he got to start because he was a nerd. He wore a backpack and a polo and he wasn't a gang banger. He wrapped about his feelings and girls and his dreams and his ambitions. So no, and by the way, he would tell me all the time he doesn't even feel black. They make him feel not black because he doesn't do those things because he's soft spoken because he's artistic, because he's a bit of a nerd or likes fashion. So I would disagree. He's actually not like that at all. All right. There is a lot to chew on here. Let's break it down. First, the deflection. He jokingly asks peers if he is black because he's interrupting. Well, you've been interrupting me. You're very rude. Are you black? I'm not a nice, I'm a polite guy now. I'm giving you a hard time. This is Nick trying to laugh it off, playing up to his base, but he's cornered. Then he stacks up defenses for ye. He's soft spoken. He's artistic. He's a nerd. Unlike apparently every other black American. He's soft spoken because he's artistic because he's a bit of a nerd or likes fashion. And then he delivers the line that gives the whole game away. He would tell me all the time he doesn't even feel black. What the hell does that even mean? I mean, really? This is the immune system doing exactly what it does. Pears has given Nick an example of precisely what he claims is true of all black Americans. Not artistic, playing the victim, rude, and it's his own friend. Nick can't just say, yeah, great example because it's someone he likes. So instead of updating the belief, he has to find a way to make ye somehow not black. This is one of the most absurd examples of a no-true Scotsman I have ever seen. I mean, what even is this? A no-true black man. They make him feel not black. What is the syllogism here? Black people are rude and violent. Ye is polite and artistic. Therefore, ye doesn't even feel black. Give me a break. They're all survives. The friend gets removed from the category because that's how prejudice works. It never updates. It just reclassifies. I would disagree. He's actually not like that at all. He's also a Hitler-loving anti-Semite. With that, Piers lands the final blow, reminding us exactly who Nick considers a polite, considerate friend. It's like he had a really cool outfit and stuff and he was a really good architect. So you're in love with the look of it? And he didn't kill six million Jews. That's just like factually incorrect. Jewish people forgive Hitler today. I respect him with Hitler who was doing it, when he was getting out, but he ain't got it like how, yay got it. And what I'm going to do for you is y'all teeing in this lifetime of shit. The rhetorical work was already done. Nick proved Piers' point better than Piers ever could. I see where this is going. Yeah, you're going to turn this around on me. So what do we just watch? We witnessed prejudice defend itself twice. First, from data, Nick made sweeping statistical claims and when asked for evidence, he didn't have any. proportionally far fewer. How many? How many? Do you know how many? You have a research team. You pull up. You're very big. However, he didn't abandon the claims. He substituted vibes for numbers. He curated his examples and shifted the burden of proof onto everyone else. Then, from a person, Piers forced Nick to confront a friend who embodies every trait that he's just condemned. Your choice of black friend is yay, who is arguably the number one black victimhood narcissist in America. And instead of reconsidering his framework, Nick re-classified the friend out of the category. He would tell me all the time he doesn't even feel black. What? No, what are you talking about now? It's ridiculous. But that is the immune system. That is how prejudice survives contact with reality. You may even have experienced it with family members or maybe even distant friends. Prejudice doesn't engage with counter-example. It doesn't update. It neutralizes the threat and moves on. They make him feel not black. And that is worth remembering, because it's easy to think that you're playing the same game. That you're both doing factual analysis and that you just happen to disagree. But that is not the case when it comes to bigotry. The game is rigged from the start. So the next time someone tells you that they're just recognising patterns, ask them what happens when someone they like breaks the pattern. If the answer is, well, they're not really one of them. You're not talking to someone interested in the truth. You're talking to someone whose beliefs have learned to protect themselves. What we hate to see as decent people, not even as white people, but decent people. Even white people too. Anyhow, as always, thank you Kylie for the view. And an extra special thank you to everyone who supports the channel. Which, in this case, has been Groundews. Please do check them out. Thanks.