---
video_title: "Indian Americans React to Trump Winning!"
video_id: Rr3NQVI2jXU
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rr3NQVI2jXU
video_date: 2024-11-14
video_description: |
  Go to https://expressvpn.com/Friedman and find out how you can get 3 months of ExpressVPN free!
  
  X: https://x.com/NateFriedman97
  
  0:00 Interviews
  6:48 ExpressVPN
  8:16 Interviews
---
We have come back to India Square. This is the largest enclave of Indian-American people in the United States. One of our most viral videos was here, where we asked people who they were voting for. So, we're back to ask Indian-Americans what issues matter most to them, how they feel about Trump winning, and what they'd like to see him do in the first 100 days. What did you think of Trump winning?

It's good he's coming, yeah. Okay, tell me why it's good. Because he supports Indians, and we have a lot of expectations from him as a student, and we want more employment, that's why. Yeah, that's what I Um, what has he done for US-India relations? Uh, he has always promoted India. He has

been to India, and he has promoted the employment and saved over us, and we don't feel like we are outside of our home country. Okay, totally. And you mentioned support for students. What has he done for students, or what's the expectation? Yeah, he has generated employment. He's

giving us more and more scholarships. He increased the visa, and he's giving more H-1Bs. So, we are also expecting the green cards if we can. So, the expectation that this student was referring to was this promise from Trump right here. What I want to do, and what I will do, is you graduate from a college, I think you should get automatically, as part of your diploma, a green card.

What did you think of Trump winning? Neutral feeling. Neutral? Okay, how how do you mean neutral? What I feel it's good for the economy. At

least he's a business guy. He won't let the economy go down. So, it's neutral feeling for us. So, but that but that's positive. So, what's the negative that balances that out?

I don't want to talk about that. Okay, okay, sure. What Let's just Okay, positive. What would you like to see him do in the first 100 days? A lot of things.

Okay. I think the war. Okay. Stopping the war, the first first thing Okay. we would love to see.

Something on the climate change. Okay. Enforcing some strict rules. Making New York, New Jersey transits smoother. I don't know if that's on his plate or not.

Yeah, yeah. But we go to New York all the time. Sure. I mean, there are there's a whole laundry list of things like I he wants to redo Penn Station, you know. and I saw some work happening, so maybe.

Okay. Okay. So, this is real. Trump almost immediately after winning the presidency got on the phone with the governor of New York to say that he totally wants to revamp Penn Station and other subways in New York. The funny thing is that that same governor he got on the phone with 2 years ago said, "If you're in New York and support Trump, you're not a New Yorker and should move to Florida."

I want to ask you what you guys thought about Trump winning. I I I don't have any answer. Oh, yeah? But, it's good. God is great. I don't know. I'm not

giving you negative and positive, also. It is good because it's good for America, also. I'm sorry about that. Come through this. Why is Trump good for America?

Uh it's good for American economy. That's it. Unlike last time, we've come to India Square in the middle of a weekday and thus there were very few people outside. So, we decided to walk into every business and ask the owners what they thought winning. Most didn't want to talk, especially the jewelry store owners because they feared that if they were political, that they would be robbed because just recently a gang came into India Square and stole $500,000 from a jewelry store at gunpoint. What

do you think of Trump winning? Trump, it's very good for the business. Okay. Because last time he is winning, then business is very boosting and we have a good kind of business running over here. Yeah.

So, it's very nice. I feel very positive about if Trump's winning, so we will have a good business. Were you in this business when Trump was president? Yeah, I was in the business. Did you notice a big difference in Of course, yeah. Because

from last a few years we are getting a 22 to 30% low compared to the last time Trump was the president. So, let's see and hope for the best. He's been a president from January 20, right? Yeah, so let's see all right, like 2025 if we get a good business. What would you like to see him do in the first 100 days?

Of course, if he reduce that about like custom duty from India, like if we import from India, right? So, we have a wholesale business right now. So, we imported containers from India. So, if he reduce the custom duty from India, then we would have a good business. So, reduce the amount that you have to pay on imports from India.

Yeah. Okay. Did he do that when he was president? Uh he made a 2% over there. 2%?

Yeah. And then it increased when when Yes. Oh, okay. So, you sell So, in this shop, you're selling things that are imported from India, is that Yes, yes. Okay. So, your cost went down when Trump

was president. Yes. Okay. And you're expecting those same cuts. Yeah, so if you cost come down, like we can sell a cheaper price than right now, so people can buy easily like okay, oh this is this like $5 product, so now is a $10 product. So, we can sell it very

easily, you know? So, it's interesting. The consensus for a lot of Americans is that Trump raises He puts the tariffs and then the cost of goods go up. But you're kind of describing the opposite. You're saying that Biden charged more for you to import.

Of course, because right now container price was went up up to $6,000 from India, right? But when Trump was there, it's a $2,000. Wow. Yeah. Three times as much.

Yes. So, you're paying three times as much. Right now. Wow. The guys who robbed that store, did they get caught?

I have no idea about that. Yeah. But on that day Yeah. they run away. They Yeah, they got away.

Yeah. Wow. Okay, did you guys have to increase security at all or something like that? Like after that, they they put the policeman. We already request that they put the policeman and all that. So, suddenly

there's nothing after that. So, hope for the best that nothing will happen on the future also. And what about US-India relations sort of diplomatically? Is there something that you'd like to see Trump do? Always, you know, Indian Prime Minister is Modi and Trump is very good friend of them. And I also believe that

they're going to increase the trades, business, and everything with India also. And I don't know about the other country, but I'm very sure about that India will have a good friend of US. Yeah. Thank you, sir. Depending on who the president is, it can drastically affect your life, just like this guy's business. Many like to stay out of

politics. What did you think of Trump winning? Um actually, no much comments on that. Yeah, I don't want to talk about that. But who the president is does matter.

It's reality. You know what else is reality? That your internet service provider, your employer, or your school could be tracking your internet usage. Just Google your internet provider and you'll see that it's true. I just did mine. But

guess what? They can't track you if you have a VPN. And because ExpressVPN makes it super easy to set up, I partnered with them to offer you 3 months free on your membership. I mean, does it really make sense that data brokers get to collect your online data and then just sell it off to other companies? It's like this, using the internet without ExpressVPN is kind of like using your phone without a case. Most of the time,

yeah, you'll probably be fine, but it just takes one accidental drop and then no more phone. Thankfully, with ExpressVPN running in the background, all of your online activity is encrypted and rerouted through their secure servers, which keeps your personal information private, not only from your internet service provider, but also out of the hands of data brokers or would-be hackers. It's really not just about internet tracking. Say you want to watch a movie on a streaming site, but it's not available in the United States. You can actually go and VPN to the country that it is available in and boom, you're the hero of movie night. That's

personally what I use it for the most. For example, The Office is not available in the US, but it is in the UK. So, I just take a quick flight to the UK in the form of this button and there's Michael Scott. Find out how you can get 3 months free by scanning the QR code on your screen or by going to expressvpn.com/friedman and that link is also at the top of the description. And now, back to the

interviews. What did you think of Trump winning? I don't mind. It's good for our US. Okay. Why is it good for US?

It's good for the economy. Interest rate should come down. Under his jurisdiction, it was less. Did his like rhetoric toward races bother you at all? Did you feel like he's a racist or no?

Not really. Okay. Yeah. I don't think so, but Yeah. I don't know.

Fair enough. We're working on a video and we're asking people in India Square if they are happy that Trump won. Yeah. Okay. Why are you happy that Trump won?

Because I like You like him? Why do you like him? Because his policy is good. And could you name a few specific policies that you like of his? Because his national security is in non-immigrant.

His national security is good, yeah. Did you feel like there was a migrant crisis here and that he's going to help out with that? Yeah, it's everywhere. Yeah, yeah. Including in India Square?

Yeah. Okay. Is there something you'd like to see him do with US-India relations? At all? Like something, you know, trade or security, anything like that?

Yeah, trade is like now it will be open more. It'll be a more open? Yeah. It's not like like China, like he's imposed will duties and all. He will be liberal for the India.

Yeah, I saw that Trump restricted like 900 million dollars worth of aid to Pakistan. Do you like that cuz he said that they weren't handling it. That I don't care as much. I'm just concerned about the Trump presidency. About the economy. Yeah, fair enough.

Thank you, man. Appreciate it. What did you think of Trump winning? Yeah, it was good for the economy because him being a businessman actually economic thrives when the war stops. So, it's better that he stops the war and the economy comes back. So, it is good

for everyone. How would he stop the wars, you think? Uh so, that is my question to him as well because he has never answered that question till now, but I hope he does he figures out a way. Do you feel like you believe him that he could? Uh yeah, so so whatever options we have right now looking at the Biden administration, I feel like Trump is the only option that we have.

Hoping for the best, let's see. What would you like to see him do in the first 100 days like domestically and foreign policy? Um domestically I feel right now the way economy and the inflation is, I think he needs to focus on it first and once everything gets back on track, he can focus on the international affairs eventually, but first let's get the domestic things sorted out. You seem like a really knowledgeable guy. Like what would you How would you like to see him combat inflation, for example?

Just like we have a reserve a reserve bank in India, we have the the feds. Yeah, the the feds. Maybe he can figure it out with along with them because the recently the the rate cut cut has actually helped the inflation maybe moving forward because it seems like the economy hasn't yet recovered from the COVID depression. So, maybe he can figure out a way. What would you like to see him do with US-India relations?

Oh, that's a little complicated one because of the recent Canada altercations that we had, but I think US and India relations are always on the high and the way Trump and Modi they work together, I think it would be on a high once again. I know he did the Howdy Modi event in 2019. Did you like that to see that? It was good because it was good for to boost up the Indian diaspora over here. So, of course it was a great boost for all of us who are living over here.

Just that although he is against illegal immigration, that is for sure, but then again, looking at the way H1B's and the green cards, there's a huge delay. Maybe if he works a little bit on that, that will help everyone out. So, you mentioned illegal immigration. So, do you feel like Indian Americans feel that his stance is too hard on illegal immigration? I think stance on illegal immigration, if it is illegal, of course, every country should object to that, but if it is legal Legal, yeah.

Of course, then they should be ease up on the legal ones and Yeah, hard on the And do you feel that Trump is going to make it easier to come into the country legally? Legally, yes, if he stops the legal one, there'll be more options for the illegal ones. If once he stops the illegal ones, there'll be more options for the legal people to come in over here. So, I guess that will that will help everyone. I want to ask you about this, too. So,

he restricted like 900 million dollars worth of aid to Pakistan because he was saying, pressuring them, saying, "You're not dealing with your problem." Do Do you like that he's putting pressure on Pakistan like that? Right now, as an Indian, we suffer terror from Pakistan a lot. So, obviously, putting pressure on them actually helps us a lot in in the entire sector because their entire politics revolves around Kashmir and and and those regions. So, yeah, that will definitely help us and I think it is justified because right now uh So, that Afghanistan withdrawal entirely, that's a different chapter all altogether, though, but yeah, it it was kind of a failure, but now Pakistan has moved out, so I I don't think I don't see any point in providing them military aid anymore.

What do you do for work, man? So, I I'm a student over here. I study at Stevens Institute of Technology. I'm a I study masters in data science. Okay, cool. Is there something last

thing, is there something that you like Trump, you envision him doing in your industry? Something specific to you? Honestly, his proposal of once you graduate, you'll you'll get your green card immediately was a I think it is way too promising, but if he implements that, it will be game changer for the students coming in over here. Yeah. So, let's see how he how he works that out, but I'm hopeful.

Okay. Okay, thank you, man. Thank you so much. I'm Nate. What's your name, man?

Rohit Rohit Tiwari. Rohit? Yeah. Nice to meet you. Thank you so much. I

appreciate it. Bye-bye. He's the only man in the world who beat that twice in boom two moment. Mhm. Got it.

That's Is there Is there anything else that you like about Trump besides that? He's a good personality. Okay. He shoot for the that sheet. Mhm.

Not the Kamala. What would you guys like to see him do in the first 100 days? I don't know. I can't tell. He's unpredictable.

Okay, he's unpredictable, sure, but like is there something What about US-India relations? Is there something that you'd like to see him do with that? to be That's not up to him. That's all the way in the Pentagon how they decide it. He can't do nothing about that.

Mhm. The policy maker is sitting somewhere else. What makes you think that the Pentagon would decide that? He's always I've seen that last last whole my life. Okay. Can you give an example of how the

Pentagon dictated policy? That's a secret. That's a secret. What did you think of Trump winning? Trump winning is good for our economy.

That's very good. Yeah. American economy grew up. Yeah, yeah. So, economy is good under Trump and then it got worse after Trump.

Yeah. Because you know, before Trump there is a tax less sales tax less and our come have a good economy, but nowadays after this Biden is too much inflammation and is you know, the employment unemployment too much. Yeah. So, it's better to Trump coming. Let's see what happen.

Okay. What is there something that you'd like to see Trump do in the first 100 days? Anything specific? I for first 100 day I will have to say if he do the like control the inflammations, like gas price, all these one, you know, in food, everything is in is too high, went up. Okay.

So, he control the first 100 day, if he control that one, he stopped the all the wars. Then automatic they control all the inflammations. So, for me, common man, we need to stop the war as well as we need to control the war inflammations and automatically inflammation control and people love the So, inflation control and wars. Wars, yeah. Is there And then what about US-India relations? Is there something that you'd

like to see him do with India? good. Yeah, when Trump coming, so maybe the Indian relation is very good. Before it's good, but now it's better. Yeah. What What makes you feel like

India relations will get better under Trump? What gives you that idea? That's very good idea, like Narendra Modi, our Prime Minister of India, and uh that guy, you know, the our Donald Trump. Yeah. They're talking, they are very close friend.

Okay. So, they talk to each other with phone and everything. Yeah. So, they look out what the country like in India as well as America as a grow up very fast. Yeah.

How do you want to see him handle the migrant crisis? Migrant crisis is very tough tough. Actually, he has to stop the border to cross it. You know, non-immigration, illegal people, that's the big problem. If there is a come with the some visa status, they come with the some status of they stay here like citizen.

Even the migrant people over here from there, they have paid to tax. Because we we are we have we all pay tax everywhere and if they pay contribute to pay the tax, so we don't mind about the migrant and immigrant, but they have to pay the tax because of their illegal status, they don't pay the tax. So, all the burdens going to the our common man who pay the tax. Right. So, question, if someone would come over the border illegally, but then they do pay tax, would you be okay with that? Or

would you Yeah, they they get the like tax ID and they pay the tax. It's okay. They earn the money and they pay the tax to the government. It's not a problem. Not a problem.

Okay. Cuz some people say that they have you know people got to come in legally. They don't want people coming here illegally. So Illegally, yeah. Don't want to people come here illegally. Come here

illegally. Okay, so that's what I'm asking you. Someone sneaks across the border, but then they end but then they do pay tax. The government notices them and says, "Okay, you came here illegally, but we're going to make you legal." Not like bunch of people like that. Like

it's like coming like 25,000, 30,000 each day is no good. Okay. So if they're coming like this bunch of them, then we have to say here like our citizen people didn't get the job. You just want them to come legally, is that right? Okay.

what. Come legally, don't mind. What did you think of Trump winning? Trump? Yeah.

Yeah, he's a good man. He's good? Why is he a good man? Tell me that. Yeah, because his administrative is very good.

Can you give us some specifics? Uh specific is uh office hours, it's a good time. Yeah, he attend every time. He attend? What do you mean by that?

In office every time he When I want to meet him, so you can go straight way. You met Trump? No. Just I heard about from someone. That he meets Trump a lot.

Yes. Oh, it's easy to meet with him. Exactly. Oh, so you you connected with someone who has met with Trump multiple times. Yeah, so my friend told me.

Uh-huh. That's why I'm asking you. Okay, I got it. Is there something that you'd like to see Trump do in the first 100 days? So actually I don't know, but I hope he will be make very good.

Okay. What did you think of Trump winning? I don't know. Good for America. Why is Is good for America?

I I don't understand English. I respect him. I like him. I like the other guy, too, Mr. Biden.

I like Kamala, too. You like You like a lot of people. I like all of them. Yeah. Oh, yeah.

But, the better the better person wins. wins. Mhm. He may not be an angel, but of the choice Yeah. I think it's good. I I don't know what would

have happened if he didn't win. Mhm. There might have been lots of problems. I think he's a He's someone with a development real estate. You know.

He We always believe in hard working people. We don't believe that anybody should get free lunch. I personally I don't think there's any free lunch. You got to work hard. This country you work harder than any part of the world.

People are poor because of their own I would say laziness. Mhm. I can understand sick people. And we come here. America's a great country.

America is good. America is welcoming. People dream from all over the world to come here. Mhm. And when they come, if they become lazy it's not a good thing.

Mhm. If they become, you know, like danger to society they should not be here. Yeah. So, what do you think what's the solution from Trump? What would you like to see him do?

Develop the country. That's all. Okay, but how? Do you want to see him He's talking about mass deportations, for example. He wants to deport illegal immigrants. Do you support that?

I would always think that uh it's good to to keep the border and let people go through the normal channel. Go to the embassy. If the embassy approves you, Yeah. you know, you come properly. Right.

I believe in that. If it's a matter of say people opening the border for the sake of other reasons, that's no good. On our way home, I saw a familiar face that was at his shop. In our last episode here, this business owner talked about how he went from earning $25,000 a month under Trump to $5,000 under Biden. That was due to the rising costs and crime being on the rise. Let's see what

he wants Trump to do in his first 100 days. So, we're back. Um we So, what do you mean? So, people have come here after the video? Yes. So, many people come in and telling

me, "Oh, you speak very nice and you are telling the right right thing to the right people." Like That's awesome. Yeah. Did you get more business after that? Uh yes, definitely.

That's great. That's why thank you very much for you. Thank you. Thank you. So, tell me, man. So, he won. Trump won.

What do you want to see him do in the first 100 days? Stop the war. Because if they stop war, then Yeah. inflation is going down. What about US-India relations? Is there

something that you'd want to see? Basically, like Trump like the Narendra Modi. Yeah. And they are best friend for now, before as well. If they together, then might be they can make a history.

Here's what I was thinking about while leaving India Square. The students here want Trump badly because of his promise to give green cards upon graduation. The businessmen simply look at their costs and their revenue and then see that Trump was better for them. The relationship between India and the US is optimistic here due to the great relationship that they see with Modi and Trump. The rally that Trump did in 2019 was clearly a huge deal and they trust that those two will get done whatever they set their minds to. If you want to

see how migrants reacted to Trump's win, just check out this episode on your screen and I'll see you there.