---
video_title: "I Exposed Tesla \"Protestors\""
video_id: jtm1SLx0Imk
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jtm1SLx0Imk
video_date: 2025-04-07
video_description: |
  Set the tone for better sleep this year with up to 35% off Dream by Beam when you click https://shopbeam.com/NateFriedman and enter code FRIEDMAN.
  
  X: https://x.com/NateFriedman97
---
I believe that this is the most important video I've made. Why? Because I'll be exposing who these protesters really are. On my way to try to find my first interview, this woman comes along and advises the people not to do an interview with me. Then she proceeds to take photos of me with her phone and then grabs a sign that says troll on it.

She then, and I kid you not, followed me around the protest for the entire time I was there. The people she's guarding from an interview are folks calling for violence, holding a sign saying, "Burn a Tesla, save democracy." And so obviously, no one can be that dumb for free. So who is this woman? This is her protesting JP Morgan, funded by a campaign called 350 PDX's defund and divest team. This is her on Capitol Hill

blocking senators. So she travels for her job as a professional protester. And this is her participating in an if not now a progressive Jewish organization supporting Ilhan Omar. Yet this is her on a website for a Lutheran church. Could it be that she's pretending to be Jewish? Yes, just like the people who

occupied Trump Tower pretended to be Jewish. These people are being paid and I'm going to continue to expose that throughout the video. Welcome back to the Nate Friedman show. I'm just asking a question about like what people are doing out here. Right. Huh? Consider him

my rightwing. Like anti- everything we're doing here. Oh, I just want to interview you. You're anti- everything. No, I'm asking a question about what you guys are doing here. What are we doing

here? Yeah. So, she has her script and not a very creative one at that either with quote, "He's anti- everything we're doing." But they all have a script. Look at the person leading this protest literally reading the lines that were typed up for her. It's not just this

Tesla protest either, but every other one has someone reading from a script. Now, I promise you that whoever is feeding these lines is shorting Tesla stock. Now, the guy I was interviewing said that he was here for his civic duty and then said this. Will it directly affect policy? Yeah, probably not. Okay.

It's it's a sort of, you know, it's a soft indirect sort of thing. So, you're hoping that it it pressures them to doing it something? No, no, no, no. Oh yeah. All throughout the protest, I'd have fans like this come up to me and say hello. They are supposedly the loyal

members of the Democrat party. Yet, this is written directly from the Democrat party platform. Quote, "As Democrats, we respect differences of perspective and belief." Yes, I feel very respected. It's simply to make a statement if not for the United States, for the for the globe, that there are people here who don't approve of what's going on. You

wouldn't want to be lumped in. And why don't and why don't you approve what's going on? Why don't I approve of what's going on? Is it really? Yeah. I don't I

don't have time to really go into that. I mean, one one or two things. Sorry. All right. How about somebody who should not have been uh permitted to run for office is now sitting in the White House. If you're

wondering who the guy is signaling for help and talking very negatively about my channel in the background, he's another professional protester. Here's him freaking out at Grand Central Station. Here's him calling to vaccinate the world. And here's him supporting I don't even know what. You know the worst part about this guy? He could be

teaching your child. That's right. He's a professor of health sciences at Turo University in New York. I mean, are we no longer does the idea that this country was based on no longer matter? Does no one want to keep that alive? Is

our Constitution actually dead? I mean, what part of the Constitution does this man have to defecate on before somebody does something about it? The 14th Amendment says that he shouldn't have even been allowed to run because he was materially involved in an attempt to overthrow our form of government. All right, this is still a talking point, so let's talk about it. They did try to take Trump off the ballot. Maine,

Illinois, Colorado, all tried to remove him. It didn't work because Trump wasn't convicted of insurrection under the 14th Amendment. And the Supreme Court unanimously ruled that states do not have the authority to remove Trump off the ballot. It wasn't just those worldclass lawyers that knew that day wasn't an insurrection. It was also most of the country because they knew that insurrections don't involve their leader asking everyone to go home midway through. Insurrections also have

militaryra equipment. January 6 did not. If these people want to know what an actual insurrection looks like, the civil war would be a good place to start. So, you see this more about Trump than about Elon cuz I know it's like it's right outside the Tesla show. No, it's about both of them. The entire

administration. Tell me about here cuz they're pretty loud. Okay. Who Who is he? I mean, why why does he have any He was not elected to anything. Yeah, we have to I I was under

the impression that we we elected people to represent us. Yeah. So, let me bring you one concern that I hear, which is that when Trump was campaigning, um he said, "If elected, I'm going to bring Elon and have him help cut government waste." So, in a word, you know, when we voted for Trump, we voted for Elon. He voted for him to cut government waste.

Uh did we did people really get that message? Did people really understand what he was going to be doing? I don't know. Let's see if people got the message. We will create the new Department of Government efficiency headed by a gentleman named Elon Musk.

I'm going to get Elon and he's great at this. He's going to be our cost cutter. He said it a lot. He said it many many times that Elon is going to be a part of the government. Not forever but so that we can cut out government waste. Okay.

So, uh Oh, that's I'm just saying what the other side thinks about. You mentioned that we were bringing in people who we didn't vote for. Fouchi, we didn't vote for Fouchi and he had much more power. Okay, I'm confused here because you nobody had to create a new department to to put Fouchi in charge of it. They created a new department that doesn't really have any no one knows what their agenda really is. Our our goal is to

reduce the deficit by a trillion dollars. We feel confident that a 15% reduction can uh can be done without affecting any of of the critical government services. The Department of Government Efficiency is the most transparent agency that we have. They state on their website every cut they make in their path to remove $1 trillion of waste, fraud, and abuse from our government. You can also see court filings that show Elon Musk as an adviser to the president and Trump clearly stating that Elon can't do anything without his approval. Elon

can't do and won't do anything without our approval. I mean, is there something that they've cut that you don't like that they've cut? Uh, specifically, what about USA ID? I mean, that's kind of important. They don't think it is. Um,

they don't really seem to understand how government works. All right. So, he says USAD is important. Let's go over some of their past work. $10 million to voluntary male circumcision in Mosambique and $1.5 million to advance

diversity, equity, and inclusion in Serbia's workplaces. You know, taxpayer money to advance DEI in America is already insane. To help with DEI in another country, that's just putting money in a furnace. You'll also see USAD boxes among Hezbollah weapon caches in Lebanon. millions of dollars worth of USA ID was being stolen. He also

mentions that Elon and Trump don't know how the government works. I'm pretty sure the former president and now current president has a pretty good understanding of how the government works. You can criticize how he's doing it, but not knowing how it works is I don't know about that. And Elon is sending rockets into space and landing them back down. I'm going to go ahead and assume that the DMV is a little less complicated than that. I would like

someone to come in and cut government waste in an intelligent way. Well, what is what is he doing that's unintelligent? Slashing and burning. He doesn't seem to concern himself with the impacts of the cuts that he's making. It's it's break it and then fix it when you realize that it's broken too badly. And that's not an

approach that's really effective. Look, we're $36 trillion in debt. Doge has to act quickly. They are pointing out inefficiencies where some were probably easier to find than others. like the Pentagon was paying $280 million over budget on their HR software. $280

million over budget. Another recent one was $380,000 a month was going to minor website modifications at Veterans Affairs. That job is now being done by someone working 10 hours a week. He also said DOA's approach isn't effective. Well, they've already saved $140 billion. I'd say that's not bad for 3

months of work. You know, do you want do you want billions of dollars going overseas towards transgender awareness? Do you want that? It's not that that's not happening. USAD and John's Hopkins University celebrate the success of India's first transgender clinic. They

weren't even hiding that. This was on the embassy's website in 2021. Then $2 million allocated to Guatemala for sex changes and LGBT activism. $7 million to Sri Lanka to teach their journalists to state pronouns and avoid gender binary language. No one who's worked for USAD has disputed any of this. Saying it's

not happening is just plain wrong. Oh, I have another sign. Let me see that. Yes, I know. I know he's a right-wing troll.

No, no, it's fine. But it's fine. Well, he cuts off the cut. He's He's loving you're feeding him. Can you tell me an issue that you have with my content? You

seem like you've watched my content. So tell me what your issue is. I'm not talking. You've watched it, man. So tell me what the issue is. So this

woman with an arrow was the one he signaled for help. And why? Because they're teammates. Here is her standing right in front of the college professor at a completely different protest. Here's her at another protest. And

another. Trump and Elon have a vicious paid opposition in this country. Over 200 Tesla takedown protests have already happened. That's not natural. And it's not just words either. It's assault.

These people are going after Tesla owners. Look, it it's really going to come home to roost when grandma and grandpa when they can't get their social security, when there when there's a break in in government uh payouts that people receive every month to keep them alive. That's when people are going to really react. That's when they're going to realize that they're being fleeced. Doge will make sure you get your social security. Doge will make sure you get

your Medicaid. There will be no cuts to legitimate payments whatsoever. Elon has said countless times he won't cut Medicaid or social security. And not only that, he's actively cutting fraudulent social security. Elon showed DoA's data of millions of illegal immigrants getting social security numbers. People like AOC, who is now the

most influential Democrat, is saying that Elon is currently stealing your social security. these folks, Elon Musk and whatever group of corrupt people he's got coming in here looting social security. The man is worth $350 billion. He's not trying to steal your social security. This is the same guy who founded and sold PayPal for $ 1.5

billion, then put all of his money into Tesla and SpaceX. Does that sound like someone who's just in it for the money? It's just a swindle. All you right-wingers are being taken by conmen who us New Yorkers, we're out in the street cuz we know this guy. We watched his whole career. He's a con man and

he's a failure. I don't know if this woman gets a raise for every camera that she blocks, but it is truly pathetic of her to do that. Now, I keep hearing that the country is getting swindled. Yet, before Trump won, he said he would shut the border down. Encounters at the border have gone down to a 25-year low.

He said he would end DEI in the government. He did. He said he would bring back two genders. He did. And Elon didn't want any of this in the first place. He was a Democrat before this.

However, he was being targeted by the left for so long that he felt he had no choice. Biden held an EV summit and didn't invite Tesla. That's like having a birthday party for someone and then not inviting the person whose birthday it is. You also had the Biden administration launch a massive multi-year lawsuit against SpaceX for not hiring asylum seekers. Yet SpaceX is legally barred from hiring non-permanent residents. So it was illegal for Elon to

do either thing. It was lawfare and the man clearly had no choice but to do what he did. So you don't have a problem with them stepping in and telling Columbia University what they can and cannot teach. Talk about nanny stain. They're going to they're going to tell a university what? Well, they're giving

them, you know, $400 million. So they have just because you're giving an organization money doesn't mean that you get to dictate to them what they can and cannot teach. Well, you can say you can say either do something or I'm taking away the money. That's their prerogative. No, they can simply take away the money. They can't go and

coersse you. They can't twist your arm. Okay. Think of it like this. If a father gives a child $100 as an allowance, but then the child spends it on cocaine, the father has every right to take that money away until he promises not to spend it on that. In this case, the

child being Columbia University has an endowment of $15 billion already. So, if they want that $400 million from us, they have to implement a mass ban so that we can see who these students really are. These kids were breaking into dorms, libraries, and saying things like, "We have a Zionist at the entrance of our encampment." My check. My Repeat after me. We have We have

Zionists. We have Zionists who have entered the camp. Who have entered the camp. We are going to create a human chain. We are going to create a human where I am standing. Colombia shouldn't

be given another dollar while their students are allowed to act like this. That's why Columbia University did cave to Trump's demands just like the country of Colombia did when they initially refused to take in Trump's deportation flights. Dude, you know what? Let me let me tell you something, dude. It's really simple. Stop beinging narrow-minded and

tribal, okay? I'm not a Democrat. I'm not a liberal. I refuse to be labeled. Okay? I'm a lover of humans and

humankind. And I refuse to treat other people like And I refuse to being pigeonholed by somebody who's a tribalist who can't because of his tribalism see when is hitting the fan and do something about it. People like to blame tribalism when in reality Trump would have never won if millions of Americans that voted for Obama would then vote for Trump. This isn't about tribalism. It's about common sense. I spoke to hundreds of voters on

the street before the election. And just about every time someone was voting for Trump, they mentioned his policies. And every time someone was voting for Kamla, they mentioned how much they hate Trump. If anything, tribalism comes from the side that's paying for protesters. So, I had to ask him this question. So, can

you say something about these signs that they're carrying around me? Like, do you think that this is an effective thing to do? Like, do you think that this is a good thing to do? No, I don't. No. And

you know what I think is really stupid? Use of the term Nazi. I mean, come on. Talk about talk about stupid messaging. Let's use the term Nazi. Like, that's

not specific. Of course, it'sing specific. It's so easy to cut that down. I you know, look, I see a lot of this and I'm like, man, you people don't know the point you're trying to make or you're trying to make a point and you're you're reallying it up. You're really failing yourself and you're failing your point. I I my I met my friend here. I

walked up and I was like, really? A sign that says Nazi over and over and over again. That right there is the look of a 21% approval rating for Democrats. Even the people showing up to their protests don't approve of the messaging. Elon isn't a Nazi to anyone who has an internet connection. Here's Elon

visiting Israel after October 7th. Weird thing for a Nazi to do. Here's him wearing a hostage chain saying, "Bring them home." However, when you see companies like the Indivisible Project, paying people $200 to protest, you start to see that the only way you can be dumb enough to call Elon a Nazi is if you're being paid to. This is why this is why the left messaging is such They don't know how to make a point. They

really don't know how to make the point. America is a nation that can be defined in a single word. I was going to put him foot remember this woman who blocked the camera with her sign. I guess she's on break now. Looking for my next interview though, I decided to wait just outside the barriers thinking that these people wouldn't follow me outside the protest.

I was wrong. So, while she walks me out, I want to tell you about the sponsor of this video, which is Beam. Over 2 million people have tried Beam. But here's why I drink it. I've loved hot chocolate since I was a kid. And when I

heard that there was a way where I could drink hot chocolate that could also help me sleep, I was obviously very interested. I've heard from my dad and seen the studies myself that a lack of sleep is linked to much higher risk of developing Alzheimer's. The interviews I do often play in my head a lot before bed, and Beam helps me wind down to get restful sleep. So, if you want to drink delicious hot chocolate that also helps you sleep, you have to try Beam. And guess what? If you use code freeriedman

at checkout, you'll get a whopping 35% off. Plus, it's a great way to support the channel. So, save this for after the video and let me know if you tried Beam. Now, back to the streets of New York. I feel like we're never actually going to come to like an understanding or like actually defeat the problem if we don't talk to each other. I know. I I don't

mind. We're We're outside the protest. Nice conversation. I know. I know. She's nice. She wants to

talk. Why don't you let her talk? I I just Why don't you want to let her talk? I just Listen, it's fine. It's really fine. You Why don't you want to let her

talk? I have. Listen, I have gone viral on Twitter before on their side. It's fine. It's really fine. Have fun.

Go on. It's going to be a respectful conversation. Yeah. So, yes, she followed me as well in her tax the rich uniform. Despite her attempts to stop this person from doing an interview with me, she failed. The interview starts

with me asking about her sign that says trans people are being erased. Can you tell me like um how you feel like you're being erased by the current administration? Uh so um one the number one thing of there only being two sexes or two genders. Um which isn't true because of course we also have non-binary folks. Um I get what he means but it's it's just not entirely true.

And then that's also just like a weird thing. Um but also just trying to deny that we exist at all. Calling us a you know epidemic. Um saying that we have an agenda and that we're trying to um like indoctrinate kids which they've been saying. Um but that's just not true. So

there is no evidence of Trump saying trans people are an epidemic. There is evidence, however, of indoctrination, like the Lafayette Elementary School flying a trans flag or Casis Elementary having Pride Week. This is quite literally indoctrination. This video of an elementary school having an express yourself parade is one of the best ads for homeschooling that I have ever seen. This is deadly. Literally, trans people

are twice as likely to unal alive themselves as non-trans people. Trump is now defunding the schools that participated in this indoctrination. She then mentions another way that she believes Trump is erasing trans people. And if you're wondering what that sound is in the background, some protesters just bang their signs like a drum when you try to interview someone. It's totally normal behavior. the cuts to

trans healthcare and then also I know that he's giving it back to the states which I can understand and I can appreciate but that's also allowing for a lot of just cuts to trans healthcare. Totally. Totally. Okay. And about the indoctrination. So let me tell you um

something that concerns me personally. Okay. So when I'm seen in classrooms, second graders, first graders, and I see the trans slag, what worries me is that's a phase of children's lives where they are confused, they're everyone's confused at that age, and I don't think it's fair to them to push an ideology that can make them do something that they will really regret. Yeah. So, can you talk about that? Oh, no. I I

completely agree. I understand where the fear comes from of like kids thinking that they're trans and then going to like medically transition and everything like that and then end up being like actually I'm not. I understand that and I agree with that. That clip right there is why Tim Walls is not the vice president. It is such an extraordinarily unpopular position to have and why the Democrat party is more split than ever.

The base has shifted so far left that even the person I'm interviewing thinks that transgender surgeries for minors is too far. I don't think that like somebody under 18 should be able to get testosterone or estrogen because that is irreversible stuff. However, I do think that puberty blockers should be allowed because puberty blockers aren't definite and there are no permanent changes. All that they do is just delay puberty and once you come off of it, you just go back like you just So that's 100% not true. Puberty blockers increase the risk of osteoporosis and fractures. They

affect brain development like memory and decision-making. It also delays growth spurts affecting the final adult height. Instead of putting your child through something so experimental like puberty blockers, maybe help them find a hobby instead. You could be saving their life. So tell me about the positioning here which is outside of the Tesla showroom.

So why is it happening here? Why did you decide to come to this one which is what I thought was a Tesla protest? Uh yeah. So okay. So there were two protests that were going on today. So it is the 30th

anniversary of ACTUP. Really quick for those that don't know, ACTUP stands for AIDS coalition to unleash power. It's an international grassroots political group working to combat the AIDS crisis. So they put together a protest to um that is in um correlation with the Musk cuts because it has to do with what they've been about because a lot of the cuts um to again trans healthcare and then also healthcare in general like government healthcare is causing a lot of deaths to people. um trans folks aside, just like older people, people in poverty. Um and

so that is why we ended up marching here and kind of blending together with the Tesla takedown people. So, and do you guys do you know them well? Like do you have some friends on the Yeah, I have a couple friends. Um but I I'm not like affiliated with anything. I just I go where I think there's quite a bit of overlap cuz I did see a lot of Yeah.

Yeah, there is. Yeah, cuz like I said, we like um just kind of came and they knew that we were headed this way. I see the Palestine stuff is included in there as well. Yeah. Um, a lot of people come to protest and they like bring like Palestine stuff or Ukraine stuff. Just

calling attention to other problems that are still going on. Here's a diagram that I think showcases her point quite well. Actually, I've heard that a lot of you guys think that we're protesting the car. We're not. We're protesting Elon. There's a

huge sign that says to burn Teslas. Yes. Because that is where a lot of his um fun like a lot of his money is coming in from. And so I've said this before, if he like just completely left the company, like washed himself completely clean from it and didn't get any more money, we wouldn't be here cuz it's not about Tesla. It's about Elon. You hear

that, Elon? Literally, all you have to do is leave the company you've built for 20 years. I like how she says, "I've said this before as if it's like a halfway reasonable request to make. He slept on the factory floor for months. I don't think he's leaving anytime soon."

What can change about the Democrat party? Cuz I mean, I know the approval is at like 26%. It's not doing hot right now. So, if you were to tell them something, what would you say? What's your advice to the Democratic Party?

Get your head out of your ass. Listen to us and what we actually want. Stop bowing down like like cuz there's a lot of like what we call like performatism, like corporate performatism, and where they pretend to care about us if that's like popular at the time. And I think that's also a very big problem because it's like we don't know what you actually stand for. Like you don't grow a backbone, you know? Like I I don't

agree with the Republicans at all, but at least they have backbone. Like at least I know clearly what they stand for. Like the left I have no idea. I have no idea because whatever is going to be like whatever they think will win them the votes, they'll be like, "Yeah, we'll do this. We'll do this." And then they're elected and then

they don't do anything. They don't do anything that they said that they would do. They don't do anything that we wanted. So, oh, sorry. So, you see, the protesters I did speak with were respectful and really cool to do an interview with me despite the paid protesters trying to stop them. To be

honest, I did not think that the protesters would have such a distrust in their own party. Then again, it does give a lot of context as to why the Republicans have the House, the Senate, and of course, the presidency. And when you see Democrat politicians scream and protest about Doge, investigating them would be a good start because those same politicians were pro- Doge just years ago. We've got to look at cuts for sure. Waste, fraud, abuse, duplication, obsolescence, you name it. There is no

question that there is an enormous amount of waste and fraud and abuse in this government. We want to cut the bad stuff and keep the good stuff. Everyone knows that getting rid of the deficit will require some tough decisions and that includes cutting back on billions of dollars in programs that a lot of people care about. We're witnessing an implosion on the left and things will have to rubber band closer to the center. We're already seeing that with Newsome starting a podcast and having people on the right come on. The

question is, will people trust that shift from the Democrats or not? Thank you so much for watching this special episode of the Nate Freeman Show. The three most liked comments from the last episode are on your screen and so is the video that those comments are from. I'll see you there.