---
video_title: "I Exposed Who Got Rich From The Migrant Crisis"
video_id: pXDo3TLDc68
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pXDo3TLDc68
video_date: 2025-04-21
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/friedman for a better way to stay informed on US Politics. Subscribe for 40% off unlimited access to the Vantage Plan through my link.
  
  X: https://x.com/NateFriedman97
  
  0:00 Investigating
  11:33 Ground News
  12:50 Investigating
  
  Boston Revere Chelsea Massachusetts
---
This is my biggest exposed video yet. A Dominican national was caught with an AR-15 and 400 g of fentinol inside a migrant shelter in Boston. So, I went to that hotel and I saw the worst abuse of your tax dollars that I've ever witnessed. And this was not an isolated incident. Just last month, ICE arrested 370 illegal immigrants in a Boston raid.

205 had serious criminal convictions, including a Chilean national with four counts of assault and battery on a child under 14. ICE knew exactly where to find these criminals. So, why were they allowed to stay? The answer lies in who is profiting. After hundreds of hours of digging and getting the police called on me by the people making the money, I'll be exposing who got rich off the migrant crisis in Boston. Welcome back to the

Nate Friedman Show. First things first, we need to see if after the incident if this hotel is still a migrant shelter or if they closed it down right as I walked toward the hotel security came out. Got a quick question for you. Um I'm a YouTuber that goes around and I review hotels. Um is it possible to stay the night here? No, it's a shelter. Oh, it's

a shelter. Um how long has it been a shelter? Cuz I I when I tried to book a night, it said it like I couldn't. Like how long? You can't. Okay. How long has

it been a shelter for? I have no idea. How long you've been working here? It's a lot of questions. I know, but I'm ass I really don't want to answer. Okay. Is

there somebody Is there somebody in there that would want to talk? No. It's a shelter. I know, but as a as a taxpaying American, you know, I want to know. Yeah, but you don't have to know. I

don't have a right to know. You don't come in with the cameras and you I can. And it's my right. But they have a right not to talk. Yeah.

So I'm They have a right not to talk. Absolutely. So Absolutely. So I'm just going to go in there and see if someone wants to talk. There's nobody there.

Well, who's who's uh taking care of the migrants then? Excuse me. Who's taking care of the migrants then? I'll tell you what. When I'm done with my cigarette, then you can go in there.

But he he there's nothing he'll say. How's that sound? It's worth a shot. Before walking in, I have to say maybe if they put this sign up before, we could have avoided all this crime. No weapons and no drugs allowed inside. I

can't believe someone didn't think of that before. You'll also see signs translating very simple phrases in Spanish and Haitian Creole. You can see this kid walking out with his mother while holding car keys. Now, we were told that migrants were really struggling while living in these shelters. Well, then how do they have a car? We will get to that.

All right. Okay. Yeah. So, um I just kind What? Okay.

Okay. Stop recording. Sure. Stop recording. Stop recording. Yeah.

Stop recording. I'm nice to meet you. Um, just a YouTuber, YouTube journalist. Oh, hi. Um, do you mind if I ask you a few questions about this? Uh, no. I'm sorry.

I can't answer any questions. Who um do you do you have instructions from someone to not answer questions or just I'd rather not answer questions. Yeah. Okay. And then if you guys could just leave, I appreciate it. Okay. Thank you.

Um, so do you want to say if anyone gave instructions to say nothing or it's your decision? No. Yeah, it's my decision. Okay. You weren't instructed or anything? Yeah. I just I really just

don't want to talk. Okay. All right. Thanks, man.

There's a migrant sitting in the lounge area of a hotel on a Friday morning, paid for by you. What if I told you he's also getting three meals a day that's costing you $42 per meal? This is where the fraud comes in. The government did a contract with this hotel managed by a nonprofit named Elliot Community Human Services. In the contract, it states that Elliot is paid $128 per day per person for the contracted three meals.

That's a little over $42 per meal. This is a picture of one of the meals. That doesn't look like a Michelin star meal. It looks a lot more like serious fraud that Doge and the DOJ should look into. The contract states that $12.5 million

was given to provide $90,000 meals to migrants in just one year. So, who is doing the stealing? Could it be Melinda Matthews? She's earning $417,000 a year managing the nonprofit Elliot Community Human Services. Just because something is called a nonprofit doesn't mean that someone isn't getting rich. Matthews also became a donor of

Mora Healey, the governor of Massachusetts. Massachusetts is expected to spend more than $1 billion on the migrant crisis this fiscal year. The reason why security and everybody is being so cy is because people are profiting off that $1 billion and they don't want to lose their jobs. Now, normally when you're the CEO of a nonprofit, you want your work talked about. Yet, this is Melinda's LinkedIn.

No photo, no posts. If you try and find this woman, it's pretty much impossible. On their website, there's no photos of the leadership team. Odd. Look at their tax filings. They spend $143 million on

compensation alone. Of their 219 million in total revenue, $156 million came from the government. For other professional fees, they put $6.5 million. Now, that amount of money should 100% be broken down, especially as a taxfunded nonprofit. And nowhere on

their 990 form do they list anything about migrant shelter spending. We know that they were paid at least $34 million to run three shelters, but we practically know nothing about the spending. But after that $157 million in government funding in just one year, this migrant shelter running nonprofit has over $132 employees making over $100,000. It seems like they're working there not just for their love of humanity. In fact, you've had staffers inside Elliot Community Services blow the whistle on the crime that's taking place inside their shelters. Like for

instance, when a father who arred and impregnated his own 14-year-old daughter, then the state gave the father a taxfed ride to another shelter. Why wasn't this monster reported to the police right away? Why did it take 8 months later for him to get arrested? All of this, everything is being kept so secretive from you. And quite poetically even, they just tear down the signs of these hotels so you don't look twice at what's going on. I discovered that same

strategy in New York. Now, this specific quality in had been closed for years because they weren't good enough. Then the government comes along and bails them out and keeps their empty hotel at maximum occupancy for years. Now, the contracts with the hotels and the NOS's are not disclosed. Instead, the only thing a taxpayer can see is the contract that the NGO got with the government, but never exactly how much the actual hotel is getting. Even further, I looked

at all of Choice Hotel's tax documents, the parent company, Equality Inn, and there's no mention of anything related to migrant shelters, emergency shelters, migrants, asylum seekers, refugees, government housing programs, nonprofit organizations. I'm running out of fingers. You get the idea. No mention of any of this happening. As I walked outside the hotel, I saw a woman with a clipboard walking toward the front entrance. Hi. Um, do you mind if I just

ask you a quick question about this place? Is that okay? Uh, not really cuz I'm here on a professional matter. And I'm not authorized to speak to anyone from the press. I'm sorry. Are you with

the government? I can't I can't say anything. I'm sorry. I'm just not authorized to. Okay. Thank you. Then

this car just pulls up right to me. How you doing? You can smile. It's okay. Hey, it's Ola. Bye.

Was that looking for something? Yes, we are actually. Um, are you are you working with the shelter at all? Yes, but I need to know who are you guys looking for? Oh, yes. Um, I'm Cuz we do

not allow cameras here. I am the site director here. Oh, you're the site director? Yes. Okay, that's amazing. I

would love to talk. No, I What? Well, what does a site director do? Can you explain? Do you want to say what a site director does? No. Okay,

bye-bye. Just another person being paid to keep this place quiet. Shortly after my conversation with the site director, security came out and asked me to leave the parking lot. Now, why is he being so pushy about kicking an American citizen out of a parking lot? Maybe it's because his job is cushier than you might think.

Like at another Massachusetts migrant shelter in Taton, where the budget for the security is $100,000 a month. As I was about to leave the shelter to our next location, I noticed migrants getting in and out of cars all the time. Sometimes they would drive and other times they would just get in the back seat. I did see many of the cars have lift or Uber on it. And that's because migrants get free Ubers and lifts to schools, grocery stores, doctor's appointments, hospitals, and job interviews. However, that doesn't

explain how they're getting into their own cars. Upon my research, it seems like they're able to afford their cars on their own. I didn't see any deal about loaning cars to migrants. If nonprofits are doing that, they're covering their tracks extraordinarily well. Since July of 2023, illegals can actually get a driving license in Boston and in New York. Now, not every car that

pulled up was an Uber or Lift. And this could easily be a deal similar to the $6.8 million deal a Cape Cod cab company got to provide free transportation for migrants. The craziest part about that deal is that it was a no bid contract. They slid this so fast under the rug that most people didn't even see it.

Now, like you, I of course wanted to know who owns that company. He actually owns several other transportation companies and his name is Raphael Richter. It's a shocker that he is a board member of the Community Development Partnership, an NGO that supports affordable housing. He also made political contributions to Massachusetts State Senator Julian Sir in 2022 and 2024. The migrant crisis in Boston is covered in these no bid deals, just like another one where a restaurant in East Boston named Spanellis got $10 million to deliver food for 8 months to 30 different migrant shelters. The

restaurant owner was an active political donor and had given Governor Healey and Governor Kim Driscoll $7,500 since 2019. Roberto, the owner, declines to speak with any journalists. I cannot imagine why. State officials justify these no bid contracts by saying there's an urgent need to supply meals to shelters lacking kitchen facilities. Right? So, the solution is to give $10

million to your political donors. There's nothing else that could be done. It's all under the guise of it's an emergency. Our next stop is a veteran shelter in Chelsea where they've converted a huge part of it into a migrant shelter. But before we walk in, I want to tell you something important.

The migrant crisis isn't just hitting America. In fact, it's a lot worse in Europe. I want to go there to follow the money and investigate how US taxpayer dollars are being used overseas to facilitate their migrant crisis. And one of the ways I prepare for that kind of reporting is with Ground News. It's an app and website that compiles over 50,000 sources from around the world into one place. And it shows me how

different stories are being covered or ignored by the left and the right. For example, when the Trump administration sold a,000 gold card visas in a single day, raking in $5 billion, it got just 13% coverage on the left. The New Indian Express frames the gold card as a scheme, while Fox News emphasized how it can be a remarkable gamecher. that tells me some of the narratives I might be walking into before confronting protesters. Ground News is essential for my research and I think you'll really enjoy using it for yourself. So, to

subscribe, go to ground.news/friedman in the description box below or scan the QR code to get started with a 40% off discount to the Vantage plan, the same one that I use. Ground News is rated 4.7 on the app store with over 27,000 reviews. And now back to the shelter. You want to go to

the shelter. This is the veterans home. Okay, that's the veterans home. Got it. Okay, I'll show you where the shelter.

Yes, please. Thank you so much, ma'am. I appreciate that. The migrant shelter we're on the way to now was a veterans facility that was set to be demolished. Instead, they kept it from being demolished and changed it to a migrant shelter. The state did build a new

veterans facility adjacent to the migrant shelter, but a lot of people were left wondering and concerned why migrants could stay for free and veterans had to pay $30 per day. Oh, hi. How you doing? Um, I got a quick question for you. Um, so I'm an independent journalist and I'm just doing some reporting in the area and I was wondering if I could speak to somebody about the shelter here.

Is that okay? Just a couple. No, no, no. Okay, sure. Take your time.

Hi, good morning. Hi. Unfortunately, um, we can't talk about what's going on, but you can go to our 63 if you have any questions. Okay. There's something so creepy about how she said we can't talk about what's going on. Which which

building is it? Um you can go to our main location which is at uh survival center. So it's uh 636th Street in Chelsea. 636th Street. Okay. Um when you say you can't

answer any questions, were you instructed to not answer any questions? Thank you. Okay. Enjoy my money. Wow, that's pretty neat.

Oh, hello. Hello.

Hi guys. How are you doing? Um, got a quick question. Um, I'm working on an issue with this. Um, could I speak to you guys for a moment? No. Okay. Hey,

sir. Got a quick question for you. Um, so do you um do you drive migrants to this shelter often? I can't answer no questions. I Sorry. Oh, do do you work

for Look over here. Look over to Oh, tell me about this company. Huh? Tell me about this company. This is my No, he speaks English. They can't answer the

questions there. They they can't answer the questions. A lot of people can't answer questions, which means I'm getting to the good stuff. But let me just let me let me let me just say, listen. Um, this is a Mercedes. It's a

nice car. I'm a taxpaying American. I just want to know one thing that's going on. Can you tell me one thing? I can't.

You can't? It seems like everyone here is told not to talk about La Calabarativa. So, I went to their main headquarters in the hopes that someone would chat with me. And then the craziest thing happened. The CEO just happened to be doing a press interview right outside. I translated that

interview and at no point does she mention the migrant shelter that she's running just a mile down the road. Yes, I see her doing press. I'm also press. I heard about something going on here. This is okay. So, we do um we're doing a

training on domestic violence and um the impact of of domestic um violence in vulnerable communities. That's what we're doing. Amazing. Thank you. And you guys are from um Oh, I'm originally from Boston. Yeah. Yeah. Um so I was

wondering um um so what does the company do exactly? I It's a food pantry, right? So no, over there is our food pantry. We do different things. We have a food pantry and here we have wraparound services for every person including citizens of United States documented undocumented families that come. Um this is a project

that we serve everyone in the community uh regardless where you come from. Sure. And that that includes the migrant shelters that are in the area. The migrant shelters. Yes. Yeah. Okay. So

how does it work? So did like the you worked been with the company for a couple of years? 36 years. 36. Oh amazing. So how does it work? Does the

the government approach different contractors to see who can house the migrants? How does that you know when it comes to immigration and the shelter, I'm not allowed to speak to it because the governor has their own media person. So if this is about interviewing me about im you know the shelter it's something like that. It's something like that. So when you said the governor so the governor's office has a communication office that deals with everything related to the shelter system. Okay. I I cannot speak to you if

you want to know about the shelter. So, the CEO of the nonprofit that is managing the migrant shelters is not allowed to talk about it. Clearly, there's a lot to hide. Maybe starting with her cushy salary of $225,000 a year. She also has a daughter, a niece, and an employee on the city council. I bet that comes in

handy. In 2023, the government gave $374,000 in American Rescue Plan funding through the Community Food Project's competitive grant program to La Calabarativa. They got another grant for workforce training programs that was $400,000 split between two different nonprofits. Now, guess who was on the advisory board of the American Rescue Plan Act? Gladis Vega, the CEO of La Calabraativa. Seems like a minor

conflict of interest. Now, the government also issued $9 million in government grants to La Cal Laborativa in 2023, which is 58% of their revenue. This idea of our money going toward an NGO that spends a large portion of their time collecting more money from the government is really quite odd. You take this image for example. We effectively paid for this photo op with a congresswoman giving La Calabarativa $300,000. So, they get $9 million and

what do they spend it on? Look at these elaborate award shows they have. Do you recognize who's on stage? Now, it could easily cost at least $10,000 to shoot any one of these commercials that you see covering their website. And what about paid activism? This is the CEO

demanding justice for public housing tenants. This is the CEO campaigning for a state rep. And her director of emergency assistance, who is also on the Chelsea City Council, is seen here at a protest. Now, were government funds allocated for her to block the road and shout in that megaphone? Here she is again outside the state house advocating for more rent control. That's not

authentic protesting because a big part of La Calabraativa is providing eviction assistance for their residents. But if you walked by the state house, you might think, "Oh, wow. These people are just really passionate about rent control." So, here I am about to interview someone who was just walking by and the CEO rushes out to stop the interview. You can also go over there in the little corner over there because there's more people. I got a quick question for you.

Yes, my love. Yes. My love. Yes. So, this woman right here has nothing to do with your organization and I just me I just talked to her on the sidewalk and you came out to No, no, no. So, I I just

don't know who you are. You grab me over there. If you introduce yourself and you tell me I'm a student, I'm doing a story. Then I really appreciate it. I just you have to understand that I have had people come to La Collaborativa and to services at La Collaborative and the people that come from the food pantry. I

have had situations and you can read about it in the newspaper where our community members have been chased or have been harassed and because you didn't introduce yourself and I don't know who you are a PE student who wants to do journalism or who's doing I can line up. So, she went on for a while and told me that she can line up people to speak to me and that the only reason she stopped the interview was because I didn't introduce myself. My name is Nate Freeman. Could you bring somebody out that could talk about the migrant hotels that you guys are facilitating? Okay. On

So, once again, on the hotel on the hotel is not a conversation that I can have just because So, how do you feel after 36 years that they don't let you talk about something? He's jumping. You've been there for 36 years and they're not letting you talk. They they basically part of the conversation is part I mean part of the what we've been told is that they have a me a communication and that we are there to serve. I we were not hired to talk to the media. We were basically assigned to

help the families and let me tell you it's no longer a migrant shelter. So that is no longer the case. The shelter is no longer a migrant. It's a shelter for the residents of the Commonwealth including citizens. if you were to see the the um residents of the Commonwealth. So, I just went up I just

went up the block. So, you're telling me that all the people that are in that shelter are citizens? Not all of them. A combination. That's a big So, so it is a migrant shelter. No, it's not a migrant

shelter. It's not just the migrant shelter. Sure. So, no, it's not just part of it though. There's there's people that were newcomers. There's

other migrants that became um unhoused and then they sick but they go through their selector selection process. But but for your information if you were to ask me that probably 9 months ago if it's totally a migrant back then it would have been completely a majority immigrant shelter new and many of them were newcomers. Right now we have citizen we have a combination of many different families that are there. And how long is that shelter going to be open for? We have no idea yet. The CEO

says, "I need to speak to the governor's office. She has no idea when the migrant shelter she runs will be closed." Then why did state officials say that the shelter, La Casita, would only be open for 6 to 12 months, yet the shelter opened in April of 2024? I feel like the CEO would know if the shelter is going to be closing within the next 2 weeks. She told me that the food pantry was for everyone. So, I went over there to see

if I could get some answers. Within about 30 seconds, someone wearing a La Calabracea jacket demands I stop recording. This is private property. You need to get out. We'll call the police.

Thank you. And I don't need to have a conversation. You need to go outside. Okay. Let me tell you something. This is

private property. Let me ask you one question. Okay. I just spoke to the person who's worked here for 36 years. She worked. Hold on. Can I Can I finish

my question? Oh, I can't finish my question. No, you need to go on. So, this is the executive vice president. Does this look like behavior of someone with nothing to hide? She earns

$222,000 per year. And I guess part of her job description is to kick out independent journalists who are just filming the area. I also at this point hadn't actually asked anyone a question at the food pantry. You guys need to go over there. This is private property.

She said that anyone can come here and get food. Yes. Documented harassing all members by Who did IRS? The people that come here need to be reserved in talking to you. The people that come here needs to be served in an indignified way, not being videotaped. You need to go over there.

It's my property. Go outside. Thank you. No, we don't own it. We lease it. So,

thank you so much. Outside. Who was chasing? Should we lease it? Oh, you lease it. You don't need to know that.

You can. It's a private. Okay. So, you're not the owner. So you release it once again. Once

again, this is you're harassing me now. No, just I'm harvesting in the property. So go outside. Thank you so much. So here I am waiting for the cops to show up after filming a food pantry for 30 seconds. Officer, these two people

trespass. Officer, these two people trespass or food pantry. Just make sure that they need to understand this is private property. Thank you. He cannot be in here. Harassing all members

getting Okay. I wasn't harassing. What What harassment was I doing? I I did want to ask what's the harassment? Huh?

What What was the harass? He was He was videotaping inside the our private property. So, yes, he cannot do that. He can do that in outside as I share. So, he's an independent journalist. Okay. Um

he wanted to come inside, ask a couple questions, ask people things. She's saying he was harassing. She's saying that he was harassing them and that they're trespassing. They're trespassing for the Republican police property. He has every right to report. No, this is

private property. This is who owns it. Do we have a lease? You have a lease. Okay. I didn't know who owns this stuff,

but he has a right. You might not too close to me if you don't mind. Thank you. Has a lease. Okay. So, yeah. Well,

actually, if it's private property, but he can fill he can fill from out here. And if anybody wants to answer this question in the field, is that is that good with you? Okay, we are going to get some answers of how La Calabraiva has private property under a bridge. Now, that is extremely rare in the United States because bridges are almost all owned by the government. So, they actually did get this area under the bridge as private property. On a

technicality, they got it as private parking. Although, with the exception of this Mercedes, I don't see too many other cars here. The lease for La Calabraativa is 28 pages long. Now, one section of one page refers to the parking lot. The lease exempts La Calabraativa from standard procurement laws. They didn't have to go through

public bidding or any standard competitive process usually required for state property leases. There also is no mention of how much La Calabarativa is paying to lease this space. The lease also only refers to them owning a portion of the parking lot. So, is it right for taxpayer money to be given to a nonprofit in this secretive of a manner? Given this shady lease, it's pretty convenient that the president of the board at La Calaborativa is a detective at the Chelsea Police Department. There's obviously a lot

being hidden from us, and I think we're still at the tip of the iceberg. The biggest grant to La Calaborativa was $5 million from Atrius Health Equity Foundation, which is a subsidiary of a for-profit company called Optum. And who owns Optum? United Healthcare, the biggest health insurance company in the United States. Why would a health insurance conglomerate pump money into a nonprofit that houses illegal immigrants? Now, could it be to gain

access to a database of millions of people who are here illegally? There's clearly very big companies that are wrapped up in this, and my investigation into these NOS's will continue. If you'd like to help me, please email me at natefriedmanshow.com. Now, I'd like to leave you with a few things that have been on my mind consistently while working on this video. Every city

council member in Boston, every congressman, the governor, and the senators of Massachusetts are all Democrat. There's nobody to push back on any of this. Boston says they want diversity, just not diversity in ideas. Look, every person we spoke to dodged basic questions. Why does everything need to be so hidden from the people that are paying to facilitate it? You or

I can't look up any of the forms of how much money is specifically going to migrants within these NOS. There are very few exceptions. There are practically no line items in the contracts that detail where our money is going. I also think that no bid contracts should not be a thing. That builds very little trust with the American people. Overall, there is a

huge lack of transparency as to where our tax money actually goes that gets funneled into these NOS's. So, a question I have for you is, should government funded NOS's exist? Thank you for watching this special episode of the Nate Freeman Show. Definitely guys, check out ground news. Not only is it a great way to stay informed, but it truly supports the channel tremendously. An

episode where I went to interview elite IDs soldiers on what they've seen in Gaza and Lebanon is on your screen right now and I'll see you there.