---
video_title: "Ex-Migrant Shelter Director Blows Whistle on Fraud"
video_id: foRnrZsAW4I
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=foRnrZsAW4I
video_date: 2025-06-04
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/friedman for a better way to stay informed on US Politics. Subscribe for 40% off unlimited access to the Vantage Plan through my link.
  
  X: https://x.com/NateFriedman97
  
  0:00 Investigation
  9:35 Ground News
  11:04 Investigation
  
  
  Boston, Migrant Shelter, Nate Friedman Show
---
Just wanted to ask a few question and I'm going to have to ask that you either stop recording or leave. Can I know who it belongs to? Yeah. You going to call 911 already? Yeah.

Hey sir, how you doing? We're doing a story on the area. Can I ask you a question? No. Oh, so this is clothes for migrants.

My name is John Featherson. I'm a former migrant shelter director in Massachusetts. I helped out in a couple different sites. A year ago, I would have 10 empty rooms, but the state would still get build $180 a night for those 10 empty rooms. It was the biggest mistake of my life. The biggest mistake

of my life. If the physical violence that I took, the mental torture that I took, the rapes that I saw that never got prosecuted, little girls being raped, and I would personally drive them to the police station, and the state would just cover them up. You hear some very horrific stories that you know either you let me pretend to be your husband or your boyfriend or your your cousin or something or I'll your kid. You bought this car. He lives here. Every day I would order

tens of thousands of dollars worth of product from Hamilton every single day, 7 days a week. The state doesn't own the building as far as I'm aware. It's Oh, the state doesn't own it. No, I think they rent it out. The amount of money that we would spend on Ubers and lifts uh was well in excess of $100,000 a month. Money. I literally called the

governor myself. I called the district attorney myself. You believe Mara Healey should be prosecuted? I believe Mora Healey should go to jail for the rest of her life for the crimes that she's committed. Yes.

[Music] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm in Boston, Massachusetts, and this is my biggest exposed video yet. Our investigation started by driving 30 minutes outside Boston to a suburb called Malboro. Even before arriving at the shelter, you can tell that this shelter is being deliberately hidden from the public. We see the same white tarp covering the hotel sign that we've exposed across Boston and New York. When you try to book a stay for any date at this Holiday Inn, you can't. Immediately upon walking

toward the shelter, I saw what appeared to be a migrant driving a brand new car. We found out that he lives there and bought the car himself, but with what money? With what did you do? What do you do for work? Well, it's it's it's mindboggling, isn't it? uh this gentleman who I do not know

or do not recognize. If he lives in the shelter in Marboro, what he does is he gets free housing every day. He gets free meals every day, but he's also signed up for EBT card benefits, uh Wick card benefits, uh probably got a cell phone and a uh iPad computer through the Obama uh phone program. So, he basically lives for free. uh all of his human uh necessary items are for free and if he receives EBT card and has a family because one of the the stipulations to live in the shelter is you have to be uh part of a family. So

he probably has two or two kids. Let's just assume. So he's probably taking in about $300 $3,800 a month in EBT card benefits. He's probably get his wife's or his spouse or his the woman that he's living with is probably be making about another $400 a month in uh wick cards, women in crisis cards. Uh the shelter when I was there provided free diapers, free formula, which I found that they actually were ended up because they were getting benefits, they were actually selling the uh diapers and formula on the black market or selling one of one or more of their EBT cards on the black market. So essentially, people were had

all of their bills paid for and were bringing in in excess of $50,000 a year. So, as you saw yourself, a lot of these residents, they have brand new cars. They have nicer cars than probably you and I have. And uh but you know, if I didn't have any bills and had $50,000 coming in, I'd be rich. You know, I then had to ask John, why are the politicians in Massachusetts doing this? Why are

people who are here illegally able to receive thousands of dollars in benefits enough to buy a car and then also give them free housing on top of that? Now, take a listen because it's even crazier than I ever thought. You know, 40 other 49 other states across the United States don't do this. Massachusetts is the only state that is doing this. And that's what I will tell you, the governor is misinterpreting the right to shelter law in Massachusetts. The right to shelter

law came in. It was an honorable law when it was first drafted by then Governor Dakus back in the 80s. and it was to give a pregnant woman who was in an abusive relationship a place to live in in a safe secure environment. What Governor Healey did was actively recruit to at the southern border and worked with the Biden administration to send migrants to Massachusetts. Now, it's only an educated guess on my part, but Healey did this because she had ulterior motives. She wanted a job inside the

Harris administration or what she thought was going to be the Biden administration. She has bigger things. She never wanted to be the governor. She's always had bigger aspirations and she did it under the guise that oh, we have to help these people. So, she has enabled this to go on. I've heard some

reports it's three billion. I will tell you it's closer to 4 billion that she has just done this under the guise of she's helping people and uh she's not helping people. The migrants are set up for failure with this program, believe it or not, even though they have all of their bills paid for and they have, you know, housing, they have food. None of the requirements required them to ever learn to speak English. And anytime that I had uh group meetings with people and said, "Hey, listen. It'd be in your best

interest to learn English." We actually bring in uh English as second language teachers and you know, we encourage you to do People would come up to me and say, "You're a racist. you can't tell us what language we can and cannot speak. And I would try to explain like, hey, I'm not judging you. I'm just telling you that in this country, you're gonna make more money in your job if you know how to speak English. That So the

migrants would tell you that you're racist for asking them to learn to speak English. All the time. All the time. I would get that. Any type of rule policy that we ever put in place, the the race card was always pulled. And I don't know

this gentleman. As I said earlier, I and I'm just assuming he's probably working under the table because a lot of these people living in the shelter would work under the table. I actually would very commonly uh shoe away landscapers, carpenters, day labor people. They would come and just, you know, come and sweep through the parking lot at 7:30, 8:00 in the morning and try to pick people up because a lot of the migrants learned like, "Wait, wait a minute. my EP card benefits get cut if I have a job in Marboro. Uh there is a big food

processing plant uh real close to this migrant shelter, Kens, and they and they do a lot of good work. They they tried to work with the migrant community and try and actually offered them jobs and stuff and then they got kind of got burned because once people were there about a month and then they realized they were losing their EBT card benefits, they all just started working under the table. Not all, but most. You're probably wondering when Jon felt like he couldn't be a part of this anymore. Now, towards the end, he reveals the exact moment where he had enough, but you can already see the process beginning. Migrants are working

under the table while simultaneously receiving thousands of dollars a month in benefits as well as free housing. Except that is only just the beginning. While at the shelter, I noticed cars with lift stickers on the back. This family, for example, I saw them getting out of their own car and then just a short while later in the back of this lift. You can also see the same family here in the lobby again. So, migrants

are wealthy enough to purchase their own cars, but they're also getting taxfunded lift rides. Well, to answer your question, who's paying for it? You got a mirror. Take a look inside the mirror. You are. You are. I am. The taxpayers

are. It's all part of uh Elliot uh has a contract with both Uber and Lyft and they just pay them directly. Well, you know, you saw it in even some of your video shows that everybody has a nice car or not or mo most of them have nice cars, but when they have a doctor's appointment in Boston or they have a uh immigration hearing in New Hampshire, you know, which is an hour and a half away, you think they use their own car? Nope. They say, "Oh, I need an Uber. I

need, you know, I need a lift." Yeah. And so even though they have their own nice car, they still make the taxpayer pay it. How much is given for rides for Uber and Lift? The amount of money that we would spend on Ubers and Lift uh was well in excess of $100,000 a month. A

month. A month. Yeah. So you're you were over one I would say you're a good estimate was about $1.2 million a year just for Ubers and Lifts. Yep. Before we

dive into the cover-ups of major crime and millions of dollars more in benefits and getting the police called on me by the people getting rich off this crisis, I want to discuss how the migrant crisis isn't just hitting America and it's actually even worse in Europe. Soon I'll be going there to follow the money and investigate how United States taxpayer dollars are being used overseas. However, in America, last Friday, the Supreme Court allowed the Trump administration to end temporary legal protections for more than 500,000 immigrants from Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua, and Venezuela. The left from CBC News says the American dream is over, while people on the right from the blaze emphasize how it's a big win to remove over 500,000 unvetted foreign nationals that came in during the Biden administration. This is a prime example of how biased the media can be, and it's exactly why I rely on ground news for my reporting. It's an app and website that

pulls together over 50,000 news sources across the political spectrum, all in one place. It doesn't just show you the stories that are getting attention. It actually reveals what's not being talked about by the lefts and the rights. So, if you're sick and tired of the mainstream media's one-sided spin and want to take back control of your news, subscribe to get 40% off their Vantage plan for unlimited access at ground.news/freedman. The link is right

there in the description below or just scan the QR code. By subscribing, you're directly supporting this channel and our boots on the ground reporting so we can keep these investigations going strong. And now, back to the shelter. As I walked up the hill to the actual entrance of the shelter, I stopped this white car driving down and asked to speak to him. What he revealed to me shows immeasurable waste happening inside migrant shelters. All right. Do

you live here? No. No. Are you an Uber? No. Don't speak Spanish. No. Uber Eat

Uber Eats. Oh, Uber Eats. A nonprofit that's already charging the taxpayer $42 per migrant meal is also ordering Uber Eats to the shelter. Now, we exposed Elliot Community Services, the company running this shelter, in the first episode of this series. They have a CEO named Melinda Matthews, who is being paid over $400,000 a year to run these migrant shelters and just so happens to be a donor of Governor Healey. Not only is

she a donor, but John tells me that they are also known friends. If you go to Elliot's Facebook page, not a mention is made about the fact that they run these migrant shelters. And if you go to their website, all the images of their team members are wiped off the site. Now, as I continued my way around the shelter, I noticed this school bus that is free daycare provided to the uh shelter. Wow.

Okay. So, every day they take the kids to another to a daycare center. No, they come there and provide daycare right on site there. Oh, right on site. The right to shelter law is actually only for women, for only for females. The right

to shelter law as it's written in Massachusetts is any of the migrants that are placed there are women who also have children. Now a lot of times people will say that you know that this is my husband, this is my spouse, which is not really true. It's just somebody that they met on the way to the border and you hear some very horrific stories that you know you know either you let me pretend to be your husband or your boyfriend or your your cousin or something or I'll kill your kids. So a lot of times like the women are under distress and they're not, you know, married, you know, but you know, a traditional marriage that you would see here in the United States. So everybody in the shelter has to have children. Either you either have to be

pregnant or you have to have children. Now you're starting to see that these shelters in Massachusetts are not just a place to live. In fact, they offer wraparound services for people who are here illegally. They're receiving treatment that no American could get without paying thousands of dollars out of pocket. Next up, I saw this woman on the phone who looked like she worked at the shelter. Now, while I waited for her

to get off the phone, I took this video of the back of the hotel to showcase just how large this facility is. Now, the hotel was not doing well during CO. And instead of having to just close down their business, the Holiday Inn saw an opportunity to make a fortune off the migrant crisis, charging the taxpayer close to $200 per room per night. Now, before I could ask this woman a question, she actually asked me one. Hola. Oh, yes, I do. I have a question.

Um, I'm doing a story on holiday ends in Massachusetts, and I was wondering if I could talk to you about this one. Do you work here? Yes, I work here, but you need to go at the front desk. You cannot just do it like that. You need to go to the desk because you're talking just behind the building. I I had no idea

that I couldn't. I'm sorry. Do you mind if I just ask you one question while we're here? No. Are you sure you don't want to answer? Are you curious about

it? No, I don't want to. Uh you you don't want to know what I want to ask? Uh yeah. Hold on. I don't have my radio

on. Your radio? How long has this been a migrant shelter for? I'm not responding on anything. You want to respond? I'm so sorry. Is there a

reason why you don't want to respond? Can I ask you what you're worried about? Someone in charge. There's a person in charge. Who's in charge? I will take you

to the person in charge. Thanks for We're going to the person in charge right now, guys, of this migrant shelter is uh nice lady behind me doesn't want to talk about it. So, we're going to talk to someone who also doesn't want to talk about it, but might have to. So, let's see. She's actually the housekeeping manager for the shelter.

Most of her staff is Brazilian staff and housekeeping staff there. You know, uh Moruro, Framingham, Massachusetts is a very strong uh uh Brazilian type neighborhoods. And you know, and kudos to them. You know, they came, they worked two, three jobs, they built nice communities, they built like a lot of businesses there. And the Brazilian staff there said gets very angry like, "Hey, when I came to America, I didn't get free housing. I didn't get free

food. I didn't get I didn't get EBT card benefits. So, she's had to walk the line of uh you know balancing her staff. Her staff would often get into fights with a lot of the migrants. And she has been told by her bosses and by the state. You

don't talk to the media. You don't talk to the press. You don't talk to anybody. Everything is, you know, hush hush here in the shelters. Now, imagine for a moment being a housekeeper at a hotel and being told that your work is so secretive that you can't talk to the press. Now, obviously, the Massachusetts

government is trying very hard to hide this from the taxpayer, which means we're getting to the good stuff. And I was not backing down. No, no. I I just was walking in my brain. Yeah.

Oh, the hotel is closed. Yeah. Oh, why is it closed? I don't know. That's weird. It's in Spanish, too.

That's odd. Oh, wow. This is a nice facility. Hi. Can I help you? Yes. Um, I am doing

a shelter. Wow. This is a nice facility. Um, I am doing a story on holiday ends in the area and I just wanted to ask a few question. And I'm going to have to ask that you either stop recording or leave. Um, okay. Oh, it's by Elliot

Human Services. Yeah, this one, this company I know, they charge $42 per meal from the taxpayer. Um, who are you calling? Is it someone we can talk to? Can I get on the phone with them?

Hi. Can I have your ID, please? My ID? Yeah. Yeah, I can show you my press ID.

We are getting my press ID.

Okay. Um, can I just ask some questions about this area? Private property. Yes. Um, what do you do for work here? It's

private property. You're trespassing. Okay. Will you keep saying that you're trespassing? Soon as they say you're trespassing, you have to leave or be arrested. Okay. Well, we'll leave in a

second. Please leave. Not right now. Okay. Can you stop that? You're trespassing.

What's your name? You're trespassing. Do you want to talk where it's not private property? The whole thing is private property. whole thing. You guys got the

whole thing. So, who does it belong to? Trespassing. Can I know who it belongs to? You going to call 911 already?

Trespassing. Please leave. But let me just say, you want to call? I was here for one minute. Who are you? Oh, my name

is Nate Freiedman. Okay, Nate, could you please leave? Yes. But where's your car? Don't you think that was quick to call 911? Is this This is an emergency, too.

You're trespassing. You're trespassing. It's a You're trespassing. He came in to call it. You're trespassing. So you work

for Okay, you're I heard it. But what is it trespassing of? Why is it property? You asked who who owns it? Who owns it?

Property that belongs to arguing with us here. Who owns it? So he's pleading the fifth on this. Hey sir, how you doing? We're doing a story on the area. Can I ask you a question? I

no. Oh, so this is clothes for migrants. I'm answering any questions you want to I know. I heard you. I mentioned it the first hund times I heard it. Oh, so this

is nice. So, we're paying for all this. I was definitely curious as to what was going on with the clothes here since these guys vocabulary was restricted to just three words. You are trespassing. I asked John about the clothes. This hotel

has a two washers and dryers because as I said it was originally set up as a corporate like hotel you know did it's right on 495 you know so it's a very busy you know businessman corridor and there is a huge New England hockey facility down the road down there so they do a lot of they used to do a lot of business on the weekends you know with tourism and so forth. So there was always like small laundry facilities, but as you as the hotel got overtaken by, you know, migrant families, there was not enough capacity and there were fights breaking out over washers and dryers. So the state contracted this company to come in five days a week and do everybody's laundry. You put your laundry out by 7 o'clock, it's back by 5:00 and it all comes back folded in the in these nice bags and it's free or the taxpayers of Massachusetts pay for it. You literally have no bills, don't have to do laundry, don't have to clean your room, don't have to cook your family dinner. The taxpayers of Massachusetts

do it all for you. Clothing allowance. I once literally had my uh boss tell me I was like, "Well, you know, how much do you want me to spend on new coats for, you know, the uh migrants because we gave we gave out everybody got all the children got new coats, hats, gloves, and everything." I said, "What's the budget on?" Well, don't worry about what the budget is. Just buy what you need.

So, you know, they all got very nice coats. They got all got very nice hats. They all got very nice, you know, gloves. uh anytime, you know, like you had a baby, you would get free diapers, you'd get free, you know, formula, free baby wipes, free crib, free stroller, free car seat. Everything is free. I cannot

stress the word. Everything is free. And there was no budget. Just buy it. Amaz, you know, as good as Lyft and Uber had it, Amazon had it 10 times better. And

how's that? How did Amazon work into this? Every day I would order tens of thousands of dollars worth of product from Amazon. Every single day, seven days a week, I'd need one day I would do a huge diaper delivery and the next day I would do a formula delivery, the next day I would buy, you know, toothbrushes and hair dryers and combs and strollers and uh anything that they needed, they got. Anything they needed, they got.

Now, after hearing that, I'm seriously considering becoming an illegal immigrant in Massachusetts. So, as of right now, the security and the director of the shelter are literally following me all the way down the hill. You guys were quick, by the way. My last You can get Do you want You can take a photo of me. I can I smile in it cuz I want to look good for the photo. Just your

license plate. Oh, my license plate. Oh, we can't give you that. That's a pretty vicious thing. No. You

want my license plate? Oh, we're not going to go to our car. How about that? What do you guys worry about? Like what what are you so afraid of? People

trespassing. Well, we've already done that apparently. So, okay. Interesting. What would you do with my license plate?

What would you do with it?

We are walking out of the Holiday Inn right now. These two nice gentlemen passed multiple times. Yeah, I don't see a car here. It's like they just walked up. Yeah. No, I'm

actually right in front of them. Do you want to smile? No. Okay. While we walked down the hill, I remember noticing something in the lobby. There's not a whole lot of

diversity. Everyone I spoke to said that they were from Haiti. I asked John why that's the case. The lady sitting in the green shirt that you're showing there, she's lived in the shelter since the summer of 2023. So the predominantly when I was at the migrant shelter it was I would tell you that it was 90% Haitian and there's an intake center in Quincy Mass that would do most of the intakes and I I think it just originally started out was like you know they the there was a big flux of of people from Haiti that would come from the intake shelter in uh Quinsey and they would then come to Marorrow. But it was part

of all of Joe Biden's, you know, one app, you know, where everybody would just come to the country. I would often talk to people like, why are you why, you know, you're from Haiti? Uh, why are you here? And, you know, the media wants to make it sound like most of the residents are escaping, you know, the horrors of Haiti. It's it's fair to say Haiti is probably not a very nice place to live. Even the residents here will

tell you that, you know, Haiti is not a good place to live. But they go, "Well, you know, I was in Chile for 10 years after the uh you know, the earthquake in Haiti." And you're like, "What? So, you didn't leave Haiti like this year?" No, I left 10 years ago and I went to Chile and then they made us work. So, then we

went to Brazil and we were content in Brazil. And you find that most of the kids speak Spanish. They don't speak Haitian Creole. Uh, excuse me, Portuguese. Uh, because, you know, they grew up in an environment where, uh, you know, they didn't speak Asian creole.

spoke Portuguese. And I'm like, "Well, why'd you come to America?" "Well, I came we came to America because Joe Biden told us everything was free." And when we got to the border, the border patrol people and the intake people at the border told us, "Well, the best place to go is Massachusetts because it's the only right to shelter place in the country. Go to Massachusetts." So there was just

a huge influx of people coming from Chile, uh, Brazil, some people from Haiti, and it just became, and you know how it works in the world today with everybody having a computer and a cell phone. They call all their friends and go, "Hey, come to Massachusetts. Come to Massachusetts." Cuz they're the only ones dumb enough to give away everything for free. That context explains why every Haitian I spoke to preferred to speak in Spanish. Now, the line directly

from migrants saying, "We came here because Joe Biden told us everything was free," is something that we've heard on the streets before, but a variation, never that bluntly. So, it's clear millions of dollars were given to migrants. However, I became very curious about the millions of dollars that did not go to migrants. The guy that you see calling 911 on me instantly is the current director of the shelter, and on his LinkedIn, it says that he's in charge of 500 residents and also says that he's open to work. So, I guess he's assuming that this grift will be over very soon. And he was also a professor

at many universities before getting this position. It's all very odd. But to the point of him being in charge of 500 residents, I didn't see close to that amount at the shelter. So, if he's charging the taxpayer for rooms not being used, that's fraud cut and dry. So, wait until you hear this. At its

capacity, see, you you've you've touched a good one here. at its capacity. I will tell you there were 550 people there. You know, 150 rooms, four people to a room. There were 150 people. Even a year

ago when I left there, we had probably 10 vacant rooms and I was always calling the state going, "Hey, I've got, you know, rooms like why aren't you sending me families?" to hear more healing now saying, "Hey, the demand is way off and we're not uh you know, we the need isn't, you know, for the shelters and we're going to eventually start closing the shelters." Back a year ago, I would have 10 empty rooms, but the state would still get build $180 a night for those 10 empty rooms. They would still get build for the meals in those room, too. So, there is a tremendous amount of waste and or fraud. So, I don't know if

you saw the auditor's recent audit on the shelters and I spoke to the auditor and said, "Hey, listen. As good as your audit was, there's a lot of meat on the bones there. Taxpayers are being charged for stuff that services that they're not getting." And I can tell you just right now from the video that you showed me and the cars in the parking lot, there's not 500 people there anymore. I don't know what the exact number is, but it's not 500. Yeah, it didn't look like it. I

think people are paying themselves very well here because this woman works at the shelter and is driving a Mercedes. Is this a migrant shelter? Yes, it is. Um, do you guys stay in the shelter? No. No. Oh, do you work for the shelter?

Yes. Oh, okay. What do you guys do for the shelter? Can I ask? Uh, no.

Actually, we do not answer that. You can't answer that. Is did somebody tell you that you can't answer? No. If you want, you can go uh um you can go inside. Oh, I can go out. Is there

somebody that I can talk to up there? Oh, what's their name? Um, just go up. Just go inside and you guys security. Now it's the migrants turn to pull off an incredibly fraudulent scheme. Ronald Joseph got an EBT card.

And if you've delivered one EBT card, you know it's an EBT card by the envelope. The next day, Joseph Ronald got an EBT card in the same room. People were double dipping, triple dipping, getting benefits that they weren't supposed to be getting. And I would bring it to my bosses and say, "Hey, what are we doing about this?" And my bosses would be like, "It's not our problem. It's a state problem. What are

you talking about? We live in the we live in the Commonwealth." You know, that is one of the best sentences to explain the nonprofit grift. So, the government gives a nonprofit a contract so that they can say, "It's not our problem, it's the state's problem." and then the state can say it's not our problem, it's Elliot's problem. Now,

John brings up the audit. We looked at that audit extensively in the last video, but here's a quick recap. $10 million went to a restaurant named Spanelli's to feed migrants for 8 months. The owner of that restaurant refuses to speak to any journalist and is a donor to none other than Governor Mora Healey. And the Mercedes cab company got paid $6.8 8 million to drive

around migrants for only 2 years. Both of those deals were no bid contracts, meaning no other business had a chance. Elliot got paid over $34 million in taxpayer money to run just three shelters. If you look at Elliot's total revenue as well, which is basically just tax money because they're a nonprofit, it went from $135 million in 2021 to $220 million in 2024. They stood to gain tremendously from the migrant crisis.

Now, John says that Elliot was completely unqualified to house these migrants, which is how he ended up as a supervisor at one of the shelters to try and steer them in the right direction. He says the only reason that Elliot got the contract is because Mora Healey and the CEO of Elliot are friends. That's it. So, the fraud runs very deep. And Caroline, if you're watching this, this is the type of thing that I would love to ask about if I were in the briefing room. Now, what's perhaps even worse

than the fraud is the cover up of the horrific crime that took place in this shelter. This is when John realized he couldn't be a part of this any longer. I offered to help because uh like I said, because of my ties to, you know, elected office and the governor's office and, you know, I've always ventured myself as I'm I'm not a elect, you know, elected official. I'm not a politician. I'm a public servant. And you know I'm a

president of a Rotary club and have been for many years and been associated with you know other charitable organizations over the years and I always believe you know that you know you you you know give a hand hand up not a hand out and you try to help people. So I was I was intrigued by you know like hey this would be an opportunity to really do some good in the world and get people jobs get kids in school you know make a difference in the world. It was the biggest mistake of my life. The biggest mistake of my life. the physical violence that I took, the mental torture that I took, the rapes that I saw that never got prosecuted, little girls being raped, and I would personally drive them to the police station and the state would just cover them up. You know, the

the the story that made national headlines, like I said earlier, is the man who impregnated his teenage daughter. You know, that man still has not been held accountable to this day, and it's been over a year. The Marbor police are very good and they hate having this shelter in their community because they're there seven days a week, five ten times a day. Uh they see the insanity going on, but their job is to keep law and order and that's what they do and they do a very good job of, you know, playing the middle and Okay. And when you're saying that the police was there often for for what what was the police getting called to the shelter for? Police? Well, keep in mind it was

more of paramedics and fire departments, but you know, teaching the migrants that you don't call 911 because you have a sore throat. You don't call 911 because your baby is sneezing. You don't call 911 because you have a headache. Uh, you know, you don't call 911 because you have a paper cut. You know, you would get a lot of that. But there is, you

know, and keep in mind, you know, with with trauma and and living in a small, you know, you know, people say, oh, you know, living in a hotel must be great. No, you're living in a small room with like probably two kids and all of your belongings into a small room. So, there is a mental health crisis inside the shelter here. So, there's a lot of domestic violence inside these shelters. Uh, it's c it's a cultural thing. A lot

of Haitian men don't have a lot of respect for women, it seems like. So there's often a lot of physical violence. There's a lot of uh women on women violence in these shelters. So you have fights, you have arguments, you have fights with staff. The the lady that you met out front there, she would call 911 because people would refuse to get out of their room because Massachusetts losses in in these types of environments, you have to clean the room at least twice a week. And they

would be like, "No, come back." And they wouldn't leave the room. And then a fight would break out and physical, you know, people would get punched and spit on and food thrown on them. So the police would come all the time. When I had to actually evict the a couple families because of domestic violence in the shelters, they refused to leave and trash trash the hotel and the lobby and their rooms. The police would come and

help me, you know, get them out. You know, when I had reports of like sex trafficking, you know, they would come, you know, drug dealing, they would come. a lot of prostitution in that parking lot. So, they were there all the time. I would talk to police officers and, you know, state troopers would often come into that shelter there because it's right off 495 and they would use the restrooms and I'd be like, "Hey, I know this car is not registered. I know it's

not insured. What are you going to do about it?" Well, if it was you, I'd arrest you. If it's them, I just let it go. Why? Well, the governor wants this

and the governor has come down and given us a mandate that, you know, we don't give the migrants a hard time and we don't, you know, arrest them because they don't have driver's licenses. We just give them stern talking to. And I'm like, how do you go to work every day doing that? I'm like, we hate it. We all hate it. Even, you know, the Marbor

Police, as good as they are, they, you know, they're under orders. Keep the peace there. Keep the peace. Keep it out of the press. So, so that that's I just got to the point where I just I couldn't do it anymore. I didn't I didn't want to

be part of it anymore. You know, I've always found a solution when times are tough, you know, do something. But this is just crazy. I literally called the governor myself. I called the district attorney myself. Don't not friends with

either one of them, but but have professional relationships with both of them and said, "Hey, listen. You got serial rapists in these shelters. What are you going to do about it?" Well, then when the phone don't ring, it was both of them. They didn't do anything about it. And you know, where do you see

the legacy media exposing this in Boston? You don't see these stories by the local media. You only see them by the national media and guys like you, you know, doing the real journalism. You believe Mora Hilly should be prosecuted? I believe Mora Hilly should go to jail for the rest of her life for the crimes that she's committed. Yes. Okay. The

governor's first priority is to protect the people. And the governor's first priority with that is to protect the vulnerable. And you and I can maybe disagree like if are the migrants supposed to be in Massachusetts. I would tell you that, you know, get rid of the right to shelter law, make it a residency type thing, so probably shouldn't provide services. But once they came to Massachusetts, because she invited them, she was responsible for them. She's

covered up rapes, she's covered up crime, she's covered up sex trafficking, she's covered up drug dealing. that we're not even talking about the financial piece where she's, you know, she's raped the taxpayers on all of this as well too. You know, John even shared the police reports with me and it's clear that these cases have been covered up. Gladi for example raped two minors in the shelter and John himself delivered them to another shelter in Worcester. Now Jon's sources inside the system say that Roodin never served any time or was deported. It begs the

question, when we hear Massachusetts politicians like Mayor Woo or Healey say that crime is down, is that because crime is just being covered up? The fact that ICE was able to find so many illegal immigrants with past criminal convictions is almost evidence that this was clearly a massive cover up. They just arrested 1,400 illegals in Massachusetts under the code name Patriot, one of the largest operations in ICE history. And 790 of the 1400 illegals had prior criminal convictions. Now, I spent a lot of time in downtown Boston. I also grew up in downtown

Boston. One of the things I noticed was that in this main area of downtown crossing, almost every shop there is out of business. Money is being spent on migrants and then pocketed and very little of it is actually going to the actual taxpaying Americans in Massachusetts. You can see firsthand that businesses don't want to invest in Boston. Now, back at the shelter, I saw an unmarked car drive up and let's see what happens. I'm an independent

journalist and I cover um necklace. What's up? Oh, thank you. Yeah, it's a serious necklace. Um so, yeah. So, I

cover migrant shelters um in the area and these guys just instantly called the police. Um and I asked why. I said, "You're trespassing." So, I didn't know it was private property. Oh, yeah. It

is. So, it's Do you do you know who owns it? Whoever I don't whoever owns the building because it's it's it's the holiday and it's closed. It's for migrants, but the state doesn't own the building as far as I'm aware. It's Oh, the state doesn't own it. No, I think

they rent it out. They rent it out? As far as I'm aware. Do you know to who? Because it would be nice to know who because they instantly said we were trespassing these nice private property.

Okay. But we just wanted to learn more from the policeman who comes. I'm not sure who the owner is. So, I later found out that Intercontinental Hotels Group, a British hospitality company, is the brand owner. Now, each Holiday Inn is owned by a different company. The

Holiday Inn in Marlboro, the one that we're outside right now, is owned by AW Partners, which is a New York-based real estate investment firm. Now, you'll notice something very interesting here. AWH in their portfolio say that Spire Hospitality owns and runs it. Now, Spy Hospitality is a hotel management company that's responsible for the day-to-day operations for many of their hotels, especially this one in Holiday in Marbor. Now, there's no mention of Elliot Community Human Services and this becoming a migrant shelter anywhere near their website. So, now John reveals some

insight on the shelter being quote unquote private property. You'll see that it was not just the crime and the money they were trying to cover up. They were trying to cover up everything. Now, it's very likely that without this video, you wouldn't even know about this place existing, and that's just the way they wanted it. Governor Healey has done a really good job of making these places like almost ex um the public doesn't know they exist because they don't allow the media. They don't allow the general

public in them. But this is government subsidized housing. There's no other way to describe it. Your taxpayers, the taxpayers are paying for everything that goes inside these four walls. So it's not private property. It's not, you

know, you know, open, you know, it should not be not open to the public because the public's paying for it. That would almost be like you going to your local town hall and saying you can't be in here because we don't want you to know what goes on inside these four walls. It's the exact same thing. It would be almost as as ludicrous as saying you can't go to your kid's school and see what goes inside your kid's school because, you know, it's uh that's paid by with government taxpayer dollars. your town hall's paid for with government taxpayer dollars. It's crazy.

Healy knows that this is wrong. She knows it's corrupt and that's why she doesn't want people to know about it. Healey wants this place a secret. That much is clear. But I got curious, how did this place even become a migrant shelter without, you know, people wondering what's going on here? Now, one

of the things I first noticed when I walked in was just how nice the facility was. So, was it remodeled for migrants? How did it even become a shelter? Take a listen. when it first became a migrant shelter. Now, keep in mind in the summer

of 2023, this became a migrant shelter where you where we probably place 15 families. The hotel has I want to say 150 rooms. So, originally it was like 15 families. So, like 10% of the hotel was housing migrants. Uh but as you saw, so many people came that eventually they stopped taking the general public and it all became 100% a migrant shelter. And

to your point back in the summer of 2023, it was a very nice facility. It had been recently remodeled and, you know, it was a nice, you know, family motel. You know, it wasn't, you know, the Park Plaza or anything, but it was a very nice hotel. The damage that's been sustained to this building though, like in the rooms and in the if you go down that hallway, that's where the lunchroom is and everything there, that that's all going to either have to be destroyed or or replaced. So unlike New York, they actually made it a very gradual process so as to not alarm the taxpayers at all.

When I was the migrant shelter director, you know, we were, as you see the signs, the hotel posts the signs outside. You know, the hotel closed to the public. The hotel is closed to the public. Nobody can come in. Uh, you know, I would talk to people in the lobby right there. I wouldn't let them go, of

course, to a room or anything like that, but I I would engage conversation and civility and try to tell people, hey, listen, you know, this people live here. you know, I can't let you, you know, go into their rooms and stuff, but, you know, if you want to have a conversation in the front lobby, I would do that. The fact that they're this defensive, uh, a year after this has become like a national story because a man, you know, impregnated his own daughter in the in these in the shelter. Uh, it's quite obviously they got something to hide. I can't tell you, Nate, how many times I had homeless veterans, senior citizen grandmothers or older ladies going, I know this is a migrant shelter, but I just need a place to sleep for tonight. What can I do?

Sorry, we can't go. You know, we can't house you here. You know, we've lost our way. We've lost our way. We're not taking care of veterans. We're not

taking care of low-income seniors, but we're giving everything free to migrants. Once again, I don't I don't blame the migrants. I blame, you know, Governor Healey for all of it, but we've really lost our core value here in the United States when we do stuff like that. Our job has always been to take care of our own first, and we don't do that anymore. I asked John, what would be the most important thing for him to share with you, and he said this, my call to action to anybody watching this is you need to call your local police, your local boards of selectmen, your city councils, your mayors, and go, what is going on here? How is this impacting

my tax dollars? How is this impacting my public safety? How is this impacting my child's education? Because all of those are being impacted because, you know, you're putting, you know, people who don't speak English into your kid's third grade class, your kid might not be getting the attention. Like, I struggled in school.

You know, wasn't that smart. I needed a little bit of extra attention. But if I was in a classroom that had five migrants dropped into it, would I have gotten that extra attention then? Because the teacher, you know, teachers do great work, but they don't. They're not miracle workers. They can't do it

all. That police officer coming to ask you to leave the property yesterday. What if there was a break-in right down the street and he couldn't respond to that because he's there? He's at the migrant shelter again. You know, is that police officer on overtime because, you know, because, you know, uh there's so many calls to the shelter that, you know, that they have to schedule overtime. There are residual impacts if

your community has a migrant shelter in it. There are huge impacts that are going to be felt in your next year's budget and the budgets going forward because there's going to be cuts to cuts to be made because of these migrant shelters. People need to know what's going on. And if you live in Massachusetts, you don't know what's going on because the legacy media is quite obviously afraid of the governor. The governor has told them, "Don't report on this." I've I've had

international news companies call me. I've had major news companies, you know, and it's not all right-wing companies either, reach out to me and say, "Hey, what's going on in Massachusetts?" Never once has a Boston TV station called me and said, "What's going on there?" Not even for a statement. Not I'm not even talking about a a full length story. I'm

just talking about a statement. So, the public doesn't know what's going on in their own backyard. And it's all being controlled by the government. Your kid only gets one shot in an education. Yeah. Your property value uh can be uh

destroyed by, you know, having a migrant shelter in your community. And the bigger crisis, Nate, that I think a lot of people don't understand, and they're probably going, but John's may be overthinking this, but I'm not. I've been a housing commissioner in Massachusetts for 15 years. The biggest crisis in Massachusetts the last 10 years has been the housing crisis. There was no housing available before this happened. Now that this has happened and

you've brought, and I mean no disrespect, an unskilled workforce who doesn't who's not interested in learning the language at best is going to be making minimum wage or a little bit more going forward. Massachusetts is probably the second most expensive state to live in. When Homebase runs out, when the subsidies run out, the free stuff runs out, how are these people going to be able to pay their their rents, they won't be able to pay their rents. You're going to have a huge eviction problem two, three years down the line when all the free stuff runs out. Then what's going to happen? John, thank thank you

so much for coming on. This is this means a lot to us. Thank you. Well, you know, Nate, I think, you know, I've got to compliment you because if you there weren't people like you and the good work that you do, people wouldn't know what's going on. So, keep up the good work and, you know, we appreciate it.

Now, there is no doubting the waste, fraud, and abuse that has taken place here in Massachusetts. $100,000 a month for free lifts for illegal immigrants in just one shelter. Shelters charging the taxpayer for rooms they aren't using, coverups of major horrific crime, and so much more. They say they'll close all the migrant shelters by the summertime. So, where will they go next? Subscribe and turn on

notifications to find that out. And I will continue digging into the waste, fraud, and abuse, not just in Massachusetts and New York, but across the entire country. If you've personally seen waste, fraud, or abuse where you live, send me an email or DM me on Instagram. I will seriously consider going there. Now, on the left is a video that is part one of this series of who got rich during the migrant crisis. And

on the right is a video we did exposing who got rich off the homeless crisis in New York City. Whichever episode you choose, I'll see you there. And thank you so much for watching.