---
video_title: "NYC Spends 80K per Homeless Person, This is why..."
video_id: 5HMe5nPz-G4
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5HMe5nPz-G4
video_date: 2025-05-10
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/friedman for a better way to stay informed on US Politics. Subscribe for 40% off unlimited access to the Vantage Plan through my link.
  
  X: https://x.com/NateFriedman97
  
  0:00 Investigation
  10:56 Ground News
  12:12 Investigation
  
  New York City, Homelessness, Nate Friedman Show
---
This video exposes one of the largest homeless shelter empires in America. On April 21st, I received a message from a viewer. I live in an NGO run shelter in New York City. I will provide you all the details and pictures. Urban Pathways, 54 West, 105th Street, New York, New York 100025. The people that

run these places are bad people. Urban Pathways has been getting filthy rich off your tax dollars. They got $35 million in government grants just last year. Now, even though they're a nonprofit, $10 million of their organization is owned by outside investors. After this investigation, they won't be able to siphon off your tax money in the shadows. They'll have

to do it in broad daylight. Bro, everything you're saying is kind of like you know somebody that was in here before you spoke to me. And you're correct. My source and the other residents of the shelter asked to keep their identities hidden as they feared that Urban Pathways would go after them. So, my source, who we'll call Jake, began to tell me about all the fraud and abuse that he's seen in the shelter.

What you're about to hear is just the beginning. It only scratches the surface of the corruption you will witness in this video. So, this place that I'm at, Urban Pathways, in the bathrooms, I think I sent this to you, they have signs next to the soap dispensers, says, "Wash your hands." You know, prevent the spread of hepatitis. And then it's just every single soap dispenser has been empty. How long has it been empty for?

The entire time, like 9 months. So, you've told them that there's no soap. Yes. Um, uh, Mr. And it is not our responsibility to provide soap for you to wash your hands. We don't do that.

They say it's not their responsibility. Then why do they list health and wellness as part of what they offer on their website? Look at the state of these bathrooms. This is a picture of one of the showers. I'd ask Urban Pathways, is this the clean environment that you promise? Urban Pathways says

that they teach personal hygiene to their residents, but no amount of taxfunded hygiene training is going to put soap in the dispensers. They've already pulled in $35 million from your tax dollars just last year alone in government grants. And yet, this is the condition of their shelters. Is $35 million not enough? Is the CEO, Frederick Shack, being paid $286,000 a year not enough? Robert

McFillips, the CFO, makes $218,000. Together, those two have a higher taxfunded salary than the president of the United States. Mark Herurwitz, the COO, and Lisa Lombardi, the director, also make nearly $200,000 each. Where are those salaries really coming from? Well, the CDC spent $1.3 billion toward organizations like

Urban Pathways to prevent the spread of hepatitis. Now, seeing as how that's what the showers look like, and there being no soap in the dispensers, it would seem like preventing the spread of hepatitis is not the only place that $1.3 billion is going. And it gets much worse. The entire building is basically roachinfested, like from top to bottom.

Like I had to buy my own um roach poison to like kill theing roaches on my floor. What about the conditions in this shelter? Are there roaches in Yes, there is. There's roach. Yes, it is. It's

roach infested. Roach infested. Roach infested. Okay. So, do they tell you that they're going to fix that? No,

that's not. And you know, if you ask for it, they'll start investigating you. If you look like you're a person that knows somebody or some bigger people outside, they kick you out. Okay. And you know who operates this shelter? What company?

Urban Pathways. Urban Pathways. Okay. Um, go ahead. I I have a question. There

was a guy, the maintenance guy was coming in and he in charge of getting these cockroaches out. That's the dude you saw walk with the keys. the keys. That dude that walked past. All I know is chemicals. Okay. Cleaning supplies.

He doesn't do nothing. So there is are things molding in there. Everything is. You know that, bro. Everything you're saying is kind of like you know somebody that was in here before you spoke to me. And you're

correct. It is. It's roaches. It's infested. It's roach infested. This is

not just perceived corruption. This is breaking the law. Title 18 of the New York Codes, rules, and regulations states that all areas of a shelter facility shall be free of vermin, rodents, and trash. Yet, residents say it's been roachinfested. And these are pictures given to me from shelter residents showing that there's roaches.

There's also clearly trash in common areas like here under the sink. It's really quite disgusting how if you were to donate money to Urban Pathways, they say it will be directly helping individuals with homelessness. Yet, as you just heard, the shelter they're living in is roachinfested. Now, all while residents are living under those conditions, Urban Pathways just hosted their annual gala across town where some people paid $50,000 for a plate to listen to Sunonny Hosten from the view. So, instead of clearing the shelter of the mold and roaches, it went to the pocket of a host from the view. Now, Sunny has said

things like this. I've been putting away money since my kids were born to pay for their college education. I just lost 20% of that and I have kids in college. These are hitting everyday Americans. Sunny, you are worth $6 million. You are

not an everyday American. You are, however, collecting taxfed checks to speak at a gala that's celebrating their outstanding work with homelessness as the homeless population continues to grow exponentially. So, with Urban Pathways getting 80% of their $46 million in revenue from government grants, it's safe to say that Gala was heavily paid for by you. Now, just think about this one more time. $50 million was spent on operating expenses in just one year at Urban Pathways. And yet,

this shelter they own is roachinfested. That is some of the worst corruption I've ever seen. $50 million. and they couldn't find the money to get rid of the mold and roaches in their shelter. Now, while they continue to drink their champagne, the shelter residents tell me another way our tax money is blatantly being robbed. Um, anything with personal

hygiene? Any issues? Well, me they they supply everything. Uh, no. I bring all my supplies. Okay. Where do you get your

supplies? Well, I buy them. You buy them? They They promise you hygiene. Personal hygiene, though. Yeah, but they

don't put supplies. Oh, they don't give it to you. Mhm. This is mindblowing. Again, under the same title 18, section 491, it states that shelters must provide hygiene supplies. Yet, their

residents are buying their own. Why is it that American citizens are buying their own hygiene supplies in the shelters, but illegal immigrants are getting all basic items that four-star hotels normally provide? Hear it for yourself.

You're even paying for migrants to get things you could never even imagine like this. So, while you are paying for child care for millions of migrants, what if I told you that migrants are also living in taxfunded homeless shelters? Not migrant shelters, homeless shelters. Take a listen. So, I'm there and it's basically a room on the second floor and it's like maybe five or 10 dudes. Half

of them are like migrants and they've got like uh slim gyms, uh like lip balm, like basically anything you find in like a convenience store. And they're just selling that they like they're just like, "Yeah, we we stole this from the mall. Yeah, I went into 7-Eleven and just grabbed the shirt." Like the whole thing. like they're just selling it like, "Oh, this was $4. We'll sell it to

you for two and they're just like counting money out and they're like it it was basically just like this room in the corner that people were just like, "Yeah, you want to buy IP or what is it? Uh earbuds?" Yeah. And he's like, "Yeah, me and my me and my homeboy went to the Target in the mall and we just like stole a bunch of them. The one guy has like he's like, "You want to buy meth?"

And he's got like a bag of meth that has like crystals, you know what I mean? Like giant crystals. I'm like, "No, I don't want to buy any meth." So, migrant gangs set up shop inside tax-f funed homeless shelters selling stolen goods. That brings a whole new perspective to headlines like this. Target says it will

close nine stores in major cities across four states because of theft and organized crime. Now, it isn't just theft that is being carefully organized in these shelters. It's pure violence. I think it was an African guy and I want to say a Guatemalan. They're fighting. I

think it was over drugs and they're in the hallway and like I think the one guy slammed the other guy's head into like a door and he's like got blood pouring down his head and then like the cops show up and they drag them out. This took place at Cooper Avenue Rapid Rehousing operated by another nonprofit named West Hab. Jake being just a college student that fell on hard times had to leave that shelter because of all the crime. That shelter alone got $2,251 911 calls. West Hab got $60 million to operate that shelter. West

Hab's vice president is Valerie Smith, who just so happens to be the sister of New York City homeless services administrator Joselyn Carter. And West Hab has gotten 28 contracts and renewals totaling more than $2.5 billion since Smith joined West Hab in 2017. Now, I went to that shelter operated by West Hab, and what I witnessed was so egregious that I decided to make an entirely different episode dedicated to exposing them. I found out your name.

What are you going to do if you find out my name? I can give it to you if you want. So, today is Urban Pathways Day, but West Hab, you have the honor of having your very own episode, so be sure to subscribe and turn notifications on. Now, before we talk about the migrant situation inside the Urban Pathways Shelter, I want to talk about public housing, which is also a sector that Urban Pathways is heavily involved in. They don't just run shelters, but they control a lot of the public housing in New York City. They have outside

investors that put in $10 million just in 2024 to get a stake in the profits of the public housing that Urban Pathways owns. When private money goes in, they expect a return, but that return is just more of our tax money. President Trump sees many of these public housing contracts as an issue, which is why he's suspending $1 billion from public housing programs. Now, I wouldn't have known about this particular story if it wasn't for the fact that I use Ground News. Ground News is an app and website that shows you stories from over 50,000 sources that you might have otherwise not seen in your regular news sources by showing you how the left and the right are covering a story. Like for this

funding halt by the president, there are over 60 sources covering the story. The left emphasizes that the halting of the program threatens livable units for low-income Americans, framing it as a crucial policy failure, while the right highlights the risk of project failures. Knowing what each side is saying helps me get the full picture before I hit the streets. That's why I really like their blind spot feed where I can see what's being under or over reported by both sides. Now, picture this. If you're

going to a social function where you expect there's going to be some different political opinions and you expect there to be a debate, ground news is by far the best way to prepare you for a very civil political debate. you'll impress some people and maybe even change their mind because Ground News shows you what the other side is saying. So to subscribe, go to ground.news/friedman and the link in the pinned comments. You can just click that or scan the QR code to get 40% off the Vantage plan which gives you unlimited access which is the same plan that I use. Now even just clicking that link in

the pinned comments is one of the best ways to support the channel. And now back to the shelter. Now, I asked residents at Urban Pathways about migrants living there, and it's really quite shocking what's truly going on. Now, would you say that if you're a migrant or you're somebody else, they want you to come. If you're somebody that comes with everything, you got knowledge and family, it's like a they don't really want you here. I got you.

But they can't kick you out unless you do something crazy. So, they want migrants in there because they don't they won't say anything. They won't. They can't say they can't. They don't even know English. Some of them. Uhhuh.

You can't speak up for yourself. You can't. That's what they want. They want people that can't fight for theirelves. When you learn that migrants are getting free healthcare, you might have assumed that that was the end of it. But what if

they used that government-f funed healthcare to commit crimes? Another dude who I said was from South Africa, illegal immigrant. He'd just be like stealing liquor out of the liquor store and he's just like pouring it down his throat, getting drunk, yelling at people and then it turned out, oh, he stole that. He would just be in the hallways of the shelter like, "Hey, anybody want to buy either all?" He's just he's just like openly basically getting government health care, claiming that he had pain, whatever the or depression, and he was just taking the pills and just reselling them. So, he had asylum. He didn't

qualify. They revoked his They took away his health insurance and then he's just still here in the shelter. Urban Pathways doesn't hide this. They publish in their own annual report that 49% of New York City shelter residents are asylum seekers. Just like this guy said, migrants are the perfect customer for urban pathways. In many cases, they are

coming from harsher conditions, which means they're less inclined to complain. They're also not going to complain because of a fear of deportation. And even if they did have an issue and wanted to bring it to the attention of the staff, not knowing the language makes it significantly more difficult. So, it's really a perfect situation for urban pathways. The cost of each of these rooms cost the taxpayer $135 a night so long as someone is occupying the room. It would make sense that you'd

want a resident who wouldn't complain about the roaches, the mold, and the crime. So, how did the migrants get into the homeless shelter system? Do you speak English? Why do you ask no questions? Why can't Well, in this case, Urban Pathways abuses the safe haven shelter system.

Safe havens are different from standard homeless shelters. They do not mandate sobriety and they have no curfews. So, listen to this. So the ones that they have here, I think are like the overflow of like, hey, they couldn't put them in migrant shelters. Yeah. Like like, hey,

this this dude didn't he uh he jumped the border and avoided everything and then like wound up in New York City and then he's sleeping on the train and then the outreach people are like, "We'll send you to this place." So then he gets to go to one of these places or if you go down to the end of the train line, they'll put you in a safe haven. But but they they'll take them. And they don't give a They're just, yo, it's more money. You want to know what's really crazy? Urban Pathways assets when the

migrant crisis hit went from 35.8 million to 55.9 million. They got rich from the migrant shelter system overflowing. So, not only do we move migrants into four-star hotels, we also put them in shelters that were designed to help American citizens. And you are

continuing to fund it. Not only that, but I found that Urban Pathways is $46 million in long-term debt. Remember, that's after they just got $35 million in government grants in just one year. And I also found that they raised their salaries from $18 to $21 million a year. So instead of clearing their shelters of roaches and mold, they gave themselves a massive payday. The term nonprofit is a

Trojan horse. And you're about to see again exactly how your money is going into the pockets of nonprofit executives. So what they do is we want you to meet your case manager every week. Okay. So I meet my case manager every week. It's 2 minutes sit down. Hey

George, um can I get some soap? Can you, you know, can you help? D Oh, no. We don't do that. Is there anything else that you need uh you know you want to bring to our attention? And the meetings

have never been longer than like 2 minutes. But they build the city for those meetings. Like a huge amount of money. I'm almost positive it's like it's several hundred to like $1,000 per like we're helping this person here. He signed his name. He agrees. And it's

just bull. It's just total bull. I think they have three or four like case managers. Then they have a woman named Darlene Reddish who I think she's like the case manager manager and then they have Larry Harris who is the program director. So it's like three case managers who do nothing. Then they're

managed by Darlene who does nothing and then Larry oversees everybody, you know, like essentially for them to get the money from D the Department of Homeless Services or um the city's like DHS, Department of Homeless Services, for them to get the money every month for their contract, they have to show we have met this person once a week here or they signed or they don't want to meet us and it's their fault. See, we're going to put they refuse to participate because they're a drug addict or, you know, whatever or they're they're violent or but they need to they need to make an excuse. They either need to get the person to sign or they need to make up an excuse that they're it's not their fault. It's this person. I want to say I'm not 100% certain, but they do hire handymen to like come in and do work. And I'm pretty sure those

people are like relatives. like they they're Larry's cousin or some bull. Are you able to meet with a case manager once a week? I'm about to do it right now. So, you're meeting with a case manager. How long is the meeting? Not

that long. Not that long. Probably 5 to 10. Do they give you up to an hour, though? No, like 5 to 10 minutes. 5

minutes. But they say an hour. Yeah. And you only get 5 minutes. Okay.

Interesting. And do you meet with them once a week? Truly every once a week? Yeah, sometimes once, twice. Sometimes they're not even here. Sometimes they're

not here. No, I was talking to my case worker. He wasn't even there. Oh, wait. Hold on a second. You just went to see

your case worker and he wasn't there? Yeah, you're not even coming to But they promised you to meet with them, right? Yeah, I was supposed to meet with them. And what were you going to talk about today? I'm supposed to be signing documents, updating some documents for um my lease I just got. You got a lease?

Yeah, I just got with which program do you have a lease with? Hra. H. Okay. Do they promise to help you with employment here to find employment opportunities?

No, not really. So, picture this. That $50 million that you see going to program services and supporting services isn't really going there. Part of the reason our homeless population increases is because clearly they are not getting the active support that these nonprofits claim they're getting, like employment assistance. I asked the residents about it, and they just say that they don't help with it. Yet, that's listed as one

of the things that Urban Pathways provides. They even go as far as to say that each participant undergoes a thorough assessment to identify their skills, strengths, interests, and barriers to employment. This information guides the development of a customized employment plan aligned with their goals and aspirations. Admittedly, it's pretty nice language, but it's hard to do all that if the case manager just isn't there. Now, remember that fraud from nonprofits comes from the company charging the city for services they don't provide. In the Urban Pathways

audit, it shows $10 million being bought up by outside investors. Now, that's not about shelters, but about public housing, which is a huge industry in New York City and a very controversial one at that. While Urban Pathways doesn't have the money to buy up tons of shelters, they own 14, by the way. Outside investors help foot that bill and get checks from public housing tenants. Urban Pathways houses people in their homeless shelter until they go to public housing. So, Urban Pathways

essentially becomes a funnel for those investors to make millions and get huge tax breaks for buying up public housing. So, those are the people getting $50,000 plates at the gala. People who are essentially incentivized to make the neighborhood worse. The question is, is that just free market capitalism or should outside money be really involved with public housing? Now, some of the bank loans that Urban Pathways has received are close to $10 million for just one project. They're building

another huge shelter on Hugh Avenue in the Bronx with an $8.8 million loan with a 60-year operation obligation. 60 years. To think that hundreds of millions of our tax dollars has already gone to Urban Pathways. for them to still go and get loans from the bank that are projects that won't be paid off until half a century later. It's a

little bit ridiculous. To close out, these places should be safe and crimefree if we're paying over $35 million a year for them. Now, clearly, Urban Pathways has been lying to the American people as to where the money is really going, and I expect my investigation to be ongoing. I talked to Jake for many hours, and he did tell me how he became homeless. It's very personal, but he's allowed me to share that he was taking care of someone who had MS. When they died, he got a

roommate. He paid his roommate money to pay the landlord as he was told that they had a connection. His roommate ended up pocketing Jake's rent money and they got evicted. Jake is staying in school and getting A's and B's at the New York Institute of Technology. Please drop a thank you to him in the comments for his courage to come forward and expose the corrupt shelter system in New York City. Now, because my job is to ask

questions, I came to thinking that it would only be fair if you can ask me a question. So, if there's a question you've had, whether it be about conversations I've had off camera or what I was thinking while working on an episode, I've opened up the press corps, which is my brand new membership on YouTube where I'll do weekly live streams where you can ask me anything. So, if you've ever wanted to support our boots on the ground journalism further or just wanted to see the behind the scenes and have your questions answered, then I'd really recommend joining the press corp. The video on your screen is an episode we did on covering who has been getting rich off the migrant crisis in Boston. It has prompted a lot of emails from you guys submitting tips of how much deeper this story goes. So,

there will be a follow-up and I'll see you there.