---
video_title: "I Exposed Anti-ICE Protestors"
video_id: 2K4_76dif50
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2K4_76dif50
video_date: 2025-06-11
video_description: |
  Try coupert today! https://www.coupert.com/join-coupert?ref=natefriedman97-1744128000&m=youtube
  
  I went to an Anti ICE protest and asked them questions about what they really want. 
  
  New York City, ICE, Police
  0:00 Interviews
  7:22 Coupert
  8:12 Interviews
---
I think borders are pointless and borders should be erased. You cut me off with that one. I went to an anti-ICE protest today in New York City and I saw signs like you're next and f ICE. I walked up to those people and talked to them to see what they really want. Welcome back to the Nate Friedman show.

Also, I'm getting this video to you guys as soon as possible. I didn't even like set up my recording space, so the video is going to feel a little bit more raw than usual. Anyway, enjoy. I'm just I'm independent. Can I ask you guys about your sign? Can you just tell

me about it? Okay, go ahead. Uh, what about it? Um, anything just why you like what's the message and Yeah. Um, basically the message is [ __ ] ICE because they're [ __ ] abhorren and are literally destroying families and people's lives. And then also stop the

US war machine which is more just about just all the imperialism all the countries that we've you know uh wreached havoc upon which is you know part of the problem too is like people are like oh why do people come here it's because the US has put their hand in so many countries and dismantled their governments and caused instability and then we are treating them like this when they try to find safety or new opportunities. Do you think that we should like get rid of ICE like like the organization? Yeah. Is there anything that you would like replace it with or do you think that that's there's no need for it? No need. I think borders are

pointless and borders should be erased. That's not how we're meant to be in this world. Do you see that like for across the world and not just the US? I do. But I mean also I think every people's and it I mean that that goes back to a whole other problem too. We're on stolen land

right now. So all of we're on stolen land right now. So all of the, you know, stewardship and control of the land should go back to the indigenous people of that land and they should be the ones who are deciding who comes, who goes, what's what needs to be done. And what do you think about what's happening in LA right now? I think it's I mean I think when people are pushed and like pushed past the point of what's okay, they're going to fight back. And I think

that's the same thing that's happening in Palestine right now, too. I mean, it's very different, but in Palestine, there's um, you know, there's people who are fighting back and fighting back against their oppression. And I think that we're seeing the beginnings of that, too. We're seeing, you know, family, people being disappeared and kidnapped, and you see people in the community fighting back for those people. Do Do you want to see what's happening in LA to happen in New York City as well? It's not that I want to

see that. I don't I actually don't believe in necessarily violence. I'm I really pray for no violence. Um but what I do think is true and and I also have a different definition of what violence is. I don't think property destruction is violence.

I think it's a statement. Um when especially when people are being like killed and and kidnapped and p and starved and pulled away from their families and put in [ __ ] like horrible um places to be held for long periods of time inhumane conditions. To me, property damage is not violence. It's property. It's only like a natural response. Exactly. And I think like we

need to be, you know, I'm very careful about even calling that violence, but I I'm even talking about something that's further than that. if it continues on, it wouldn't be on the offense, it would be on the defense because I think that when people are pushed, they're going to fight back. And I think everyone has the right to do that. Yeah. What do you think about Trump's like national guard that he's like bringing in? I mean, I

think Trump wants to be able to uh instate martial law. So, I think he actually wants a lot of this because he wants to be able to have martial law and I think and he wants control over over the whole country like every aspect and he Yeah. And during martial law, there's no elections held. You know, there's a lot of stuff that would really benefit a third and fourth term. And so, Exactly.

So, I think he actually I think that's also why like I forget the word he was using, but he was calling the protesters in LA like insurrection something. He was using some kind of word and because that is one of the things that needs to be present for martial law to be able to be instated. So he's already laying the groundwork. Exactly. Like these people are doing this thing that, you know, allows me the laws around it are very vague though.

So, and I was like a little bit late to this. Like um who's speaking right now? Is it like I actually didn't hear them introduce themselves. Okay, fair enough. Well, thank you so much. My name is

Nate. Thank you. Nice to meet you. Thank you. Can I interview you about your sign? I'm an independent journalist. Can

you tell me so what does it say? Next question. It says, "Respect my existence or respect my resistance." Okay. So, either I'm respected in this country alongside with my people or we're going to fight back and we're going to witness conflict. Yeah. And how do you guys want

to fight back? Um, I believe that we contribute to the economy, we pay taxes, you know, just because their parents came to cross borders for a better future. I believe that this is the place that we have known as home for years and we have each and every right to migrate just like alongside other people. Yeah. Um what do you say to those people that say like well you can migrate just be here legally. What do you say to those?

I feel like that is very controversial. I want to say also very unjust and unfair because if things were so easy it's actually easier said than done. And if that were the case, I feel like each and everyone would be here the right way. Unfortunately, that's not the way things are. Like it's too difficult to come here. Like they need to make the

process they need to make the process easier to come here legally. Would you say? Yes. Yeah. So in in the meantime, while it is very difficult, you would say that we should get rid of the borders. Like what would you be your

solution to what's happening right now? I would say no borders, no walls, you know, stop the deportations, stopped separating families because I feel that children shouldn't have to witness the fact that they should be allowed back in home and not see their parents there coming back from school. New borders. Yeah. And would you say that for the world or just for the US? I would say

for the world. For the world. Yes. Yeah. So definitely I set up New York. I set

up our communities and also free Palestine. I like I can't and free Palestine. Just like just just sneak it in there. Um no borders in the whole world. That's that's that's going to work. Let's let's

keep going. I I love your vibe. Can you tell me like um I just want to shut down these like these claims? So one of them is like well what if like criminals come across the border and they do stuff like they do bad things like do you see that as like um as a possibility if you open the borders? That's a difficult question.

Um You caught me off guard with that one. That's fine. Yeah. So, do you mind repeating it again? Yeah.

So, like if if we open the borders, then we could have some bad people come across and do bad things and then that's sort of the I hear from the other side cuz I interview both sides and the other side says that if you open the borders, bad people can come in and that's why we need to have borders. That's what they said. I feel like that's definitely classifying, you know, just a group like predominantly on like a specific I want to say like band. I feel that just like there's good people from, you know, different parts of the world, there's also bad people. And yeah, that makes sense. Yeah. So, thank you so much. I

appreciate it. Thank you. There's plenty more to show you from this protest, but real quick, if you're already shopping online, which you probably are because everybody is, if you're not using Coopert though, you're leaving free money on the table. Cooper is a free browser extension that automatically finds and applies the best coupon codes while you're checking out. No searching, no guessing, just instant savings at over 30,000 stores from Amazon to Best Buy, Walmart to Booking.com. Now, here's

the kicker. Cooper doesn't just save you money, it rewards you as well. Every time you shop, you earn cash back. That's real money you can withdraw via PayPal. So, not only are you saving, you're getting paid to do it. It takes

10 seconds to install and it's totally free and works in the background so you never miss a deal again. Now, shop smarter, save faster, and get Cooper for free at joincooper.com. And now, back to the protest. Hi, guys. Hi, guys. Can I

interview you about your assign? Sorry. No. Oh, I just was wondering what it meant. Uh, well, I wrote your next because it starts with the people that are illegal. There are quotes and then it

goes to everyone else because in a fascist country there's no one safe. So, they're going to start with people who are here illegally, then they're going to go with people who are here legally and then like you think they're going to go out who would they go after after that? Who? Everybody. Everybody like Jews, Christians, everyone. Exactly.

every other minority will will not is not safe in this country. Understood. Thank you. You hear this a lot. They're going to come for illegal immigrants.

Then they're going to come for Jews, Christians, and everybody else. I think the part that's missing is that he's been president before and hasn't done that. How old was your wife when you met her? How old was your wife when you met her? Thank you. How old was your wife when

you met her? for being nice and it's a new question. Now, can you understand me? You pedophile. Why did you say he's a pedophile?

All you have to do is kids in cages. Your government children. That's what the IDF does. They just cages.

Is there a specific Is there a specific incident that they did that the idea of like a child or something? Every day, man. So when you ask these people like to come up with an example, they never can. Um somehow this protest became about Palestine as it does. Um this is an anti-ICE protest and about 80% of the flags were Palestinian flags. They were

all covering their face with the same catha. Um which is universally understood as a just a hatred toward Jews. So I saw this guy that was yelling terrorist at the protesters. So I figured he would be a interesting person to talk to. So, here's my conversation with him. It actually goes into the

who's going to be running for mayor in New York City. It's all very interesting. So, enjoy. Terrorists. Well, how are they? You see what's going

on in California? That's that's terrorist acts right there. They're attacking Jews. That's that's not right. Anti-semitism is real here in New York and elected officials are doing nothing.

They're actually there. So, Ron Mandani is running for mayor. Is he here? I don't know if he is. He'll probably show up. Yeah. But he calls he he calls for

BDS. He supports BDS. That's anti-Semitic. His father, his father is calling for uh the state of Israel to not exist. His father, Madani's father.

Yes. Madm Madm Mandani, he's a professor in Columbia University. Are you Jewish? I am not. I'm Puerto Rican. I'm an

American citizen. I'm a native New Yorker and the Jewish community is part of New York City. Tell me why you feel New York City is they're they're no different than any other community. You cannot attack people. You cannot attack them just because they're a certain background. You can't do that. They

could be easily Puerto Ricans. They could be easily Jewish. You can't you can't do that. I know plenty of Jewish people. They're they're fantastic people. It's disgusting. All this

anti-semitism. They're saying October 7th them happened. There's people that say that Holocaust never happened. That's ridiculous. Yeah. And he got a

Trump hat on. Yes. We support Trump. Yeah. Yeah. So, what do you think that

he should be doing in California right now? What he's doing now? What he's calling in the the law enforcement. He's calling the the military. That's not there's nothing wrong with that. You

don't have to fear law enforcement if you don't break the law. The only people that don't like NYPD or law enforcements are the law breakers. That's it. And if they can't stand NYPD or LAPD, this probably already have felony records. They probably already been in jail.

They've been through the system. They should start making a database. They make a database of these individuals cuz you may not want to hire them. Yeah. I see so many Palestinian flags as well.

And I thought this was about ICE. Why is it so related? Like why are those always together? because they're probably weaponizing everything. That's all it is. They're weaponizing the immigrants

are welcome here. We say legal migration, no discrimination, justice for all. That's what we say. We got immigrants in our family. I'm Puerto Rican. We got immigrants in our family.

We got uh people from the Dominican Republic. We got people from Peru in our family. That's it's ridiculous to say that. The city council is full of blacks, Puerto Ricans, Dominicans, Asians. They weaponize all this stuff.

these NOS's, the Working Family Party, they they they they brainwashing people of color. And people need to realize that you have to think for yourself. You can't live in a bubble. New York City is not the world. New York City is not America. It's only part of it. You know,

and if they could conquer one of the biggest cities in the world, that's disturbing. You know what I mean? And the way these council members, Alex's husband, threatened me on camera, these council members are are radical left. I mean, they're just radical, radical, radical. They just hate this country.

They want Zeram Mandani wants free what? Free the rent, free subway, free this. That's all socialism. That's all. So socialism doesn't work anywhere. It

doesn't work anywhere. It might look pretty in the beginning, but it's not. You surrendering your rights for money. That's all it is. Freezing the rent is money. That's all it is. That's not a

way to live. A life lived in fear is a a life half-lived. You don't do that. He could get in the face of Tom Hman. How many more? How many more?

How many more times? Do you believe in the first amendment? Do you believe in the first amendment, Tom Hman? And when I get in his face, he runs away right here. He said he was going to denounce Hamas, Hezbollah, and Sharia law. And he

said he was going to do it and he didn't do it. I stood here and I listened for him to say it and he didn't say it. So he's a liar and that's why we call him a liar. We have proof that he is a liar. So AOC has endorsed Mum Donnie and that's to nobody's surprise and the race is actually closer than you'd think especially now. He has about a 30%

chance to win and a few of his policies include cityrun grocery stores, freezing the rent and abolishing ICE. Now I'll obviously be doing an episode on who New Yorkers are going to be voting for very shortly. So subscribe and turn on notifications for that. But now I want to share with you some of the things that I saw during the protest that I think are really important but were not interviews. Number one, I saw children at the protest. That to me is just nuts.

I'm I'm not a parent, but this is just not a safe environment with the way that LA is looking. New York City can be next. And I I just thought that was crazy. Number two, the place got so packed so quickly that I watched as the police had to shut down another street totally unscheduled. Seeing the driver's face completely confused was just mind-blowing. Now, I did talk to police

officers and they weren't told about a permit or anything like that for this protest. I even asked the press team at city hall if they knew about permits and they still told me I was talking to the wrong person. So if the press person at city hall is the wrong person, I don't know who the right one is. So it's very unclear if permits are even obtained for all of these protests. Now I watched as the surrounding area became absolutely packed with people wearing cfas. They

couldn't even get into the main square because it was so packed. Now that costume or whatever you want to call it is a symbol of hate and it's become the uniform for protesters regardless of the issue. Now, there's the stolen land bit. Every piece of land on Earth was taken by someone. I don't know why America is the only one expected to just apologize forever. And to all these young people

who were born in America and have found it very fashionable to hate America, here's what I'll say to you and to what you're protesting. If America was so awful, why are all of these people risking their lives to get here? Why are they fighting deportation this hard? If you hate America so much, luckily you live in a country where you are free to buy a plane ticket and leave. Now on your screen is an episode I did with an ex-migrant shelter director who blew the whistle on all the fraud taking place inside the system, including $100,000 a month spent on lift rides for just one shelter. And I'll see you there.