---
video_title: "I Exposed a Migrant Crisis in AOC's District"
video_id: wDwEWCYHk0Q
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wDwEWCYHk0Q
video_date: 2025-03-28
video_description: |
  Check out Goldco to support the channel! http://www.natesgold.com/
  X: https://x.com/NateFriedman97
  #goldcopartner 
  0:00 Interviews
  8:00 Goldco
  9:00 Interviews
---
This is Jackson Heights, deep inside AOC's district. These are illegal immigrants selling food on the street. And that's a group of prostitutes, and there's about 10 police cars surrounding just this one block. AOC is a national celebrity, once a bartender and now a congresswoman with 4 million followers. She just tooured the country promoting her agenda, but what's really happening back home? So, I came here to see how

voters truly feel. Welcome back to the Nate Freriedman Show. Tell me about this neighborhood. Do you you live here? Before like eight years ago, yes, I live in that area. Yeah, it's good. Now it's

like too much people. Bad people. Bad people. Yeah. Yeah. What are they doing out

here? Why did it get so bad? Because a lot of a lot of gangers. Gang violence. Yeah. When did that start happening?

Maybe like two years ago. Oh, two years ago. Yeah. That's when um illegal immigrants started coming in, right? Yeah. Okay. Especially to Venezuelan.

Okay. So, the Venezuelan migrants are committing crimes here. Yeah. Really? It's true. Okay. It's difficult to even

contemplate, but in 2023, there were 2.4 million encounters at the southern border. The system was completely overwhelmed and among those who slipped through were members of Venezuela's most dangerous gang, Trende Aragua. Now, many of them set up shop in Jackson Heights, the neighborhood with the highest percentage of immigrants in all of New York City. Here, they could blend in, access city resources, and wreak havoc.

Crime data reported directly from the precinct shows felony assaults going up 46.9% from 2023 to 2024 in Jackson Heights. Now, while AOC told citizens that claims of crime going up was just hysteria, taxpayer money was quietly flowing to shelter, feed, and enable the very criminals causing the chaos. We didn't just allow these gangs to come, we funded it. When did you come to the country? Oh, I come to this country

1995. I see like behind me I think there are prostitutes. Does that happen here a lot? Yeah, that one happened maybe like like too much women like that maybe two years ago. Okay. And you see

that a lot? Yeah. Cuz right right behind me they shut the door as soon as they saw me with a camera. Do you know that this spot they're they're here? I know I know the spa. I know it's probably

because I see it but never go inside. I know the lady go over there. Prostitution is illegal in New York City. So why are we still seeing it here? How come AOC is not making this a top priority? She's not even talked

about it once. Community leaders in Queens have even come forward saying that these brothel are two blocks away from schools. And yet I'm still seeing them out here. AOC and the governor are refusing to let state police work with ICE to deport criminal migrants. How could such a thing become political? Not

only that, AOC helped illegal immigrants stay one step ahead of ICE. Take a look. Homeman was upset, I suppose, because he felt that you were giving advice to people who were here illegally. Were you? I was giving advice to all of my constituents.

Yeah. How do you feel about AOC? You know who she is? Elsie uh Alexandria Okaziocortez. Do you know who that is?

No. Who Who's that guy? Um she's the congresswoman of this district. No. No. No. Nothing about that. Okay. Do

you vote? Yes. Okay. But but you don't vote for Congress. You vote for president. Only for president. Okay.

Okay. Um who did you vote for? Uh Donald Trump. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I'm seeing

that. I'm hearing that. Uh why Trump? Hey, why did you vote for Trump? because like good guy to like to putting everything right. Well, 4 million

followers later and in her own district, this guy didn't even know who AOC was and he voted for Trump. Now, in 2016, Trump got 22% of the vote in Queens. In 2024, he got 37% of the vote. Maybe, just maybe, importing criminal migrants isn't the best long-term strategy. How do you guys feel about AOC? AOC? I'm not

familiar with AOC. Uh, Alexandria Okaziocortez. She's like the congresswoman for this district. Oh, I think this conversation is a little too smart for me. I can't lie. No, no,

that's fine. That's fine. You selling water out here? No, we got weed, we got water, we got graba, papers, everything you need, vapes, everything. Yeah. Yeah,

totally. So, I'm seeing a lot of um seeing a lot of vendors out here. Um, what kind of started that? You know, started I think to be honest with you, of course, it's ambition from somebody self and as well as the stores and everything. the way it's going. Smoke

shops are getting closed down, stores getting closed down for weed, these [ __ ] [ __ ] vapes, everything. Man, this is actually a pretty nuanced problem, and AOC's district is particularly affected by it. Unlike the prostitution in her district, which she's been silent on, she has spoken up about the explosion of illegal street vendors, but only to defend them. Her actual quote was, "Don't tell people to get licenses when they haven't been given for 10 years. It is unrealistic."

The answer is to let them grow, not kick them out. That might crack the top 10 for dumbest things a sitting member of Congress has ever said. Imagine running a legal business and then hearing that from your own representative. Now, weed became legal in New York in 2021, but the city made it incredibly difficult and expensive to open a legal dispensary. At the same time, they let illegal shops run wild. Thousands popped

up overnight and then a couple years later, the city finally decided to enforce the law and more than 700 illegal cannabis shops have now been shut down. So, what is the long-term solution? Well, the city doesn't have to reinvent the wheel here. Just treat weed like they have with alcohol and tobacco. Right now, a weed license costs five times more than a liquor license. Why? I

would lower the license fee from $7,000 to something like $2,000. And if people still can't afford it, so be it. Opening a weed shop isn't some human right. It's a business. Let the free market do its thing and enforce the law. In other

words, do the exact opposite of what AOC is saying. I know you don't know who AOC is. That's fine. What about um Trump or Harris? Which one did you go for? Trump

or Harris. I'm sorry. I got to go Trump all the way, my brother. All right, that's that's something that I I know a little bit about, but I'm I'm definitely ignorant on the subject. I can't lie.

Everybody, why why did you lean toward Trump? I'm going to be honest with you. It's the hypocrisy and the lies that come from Harris and it's just too much to to withstand, you know, like I I don't understand how you could, you know, support somebody like that in my I tell you what, this this district is very blue. It's very blue. And I'm I'm here to see if there might be a change, you know, like did you see some more folks vote for Trump than than maybe they were Democrats before and then they voted for Trump then? Then I then I see

him. Yes. Yes. Then we'd like to see. For sure. It was amazing. Especially a

lot of Hispanic folk voting for Trump. That's that's something great we like to see. For sure. Looking for my next interview took over an hour. Finding someone who speaks English there was actually not very easy. I don't

understand Bangali. Do you speak English? English? No. Espanol? Can I ask

you a question for my YouTube channel? No. Sorry. No. What do you speak? What

language? English. Bangladesh. Bangladesh. You can see a lot of flags in Jackson Heights. There is a ton of

nationalism in AOCC's district, just not for the United States. I'd also see shops like this that you wouldn't easily find in other areas of the city. Next up, I ran into this guy from Mexico who exposes something very significant about the migrant crisis. Something I can't believe is actually happening. But before we talk to him, I want to tell you about today's sponsor, which is Gold Co. Check this out. During Trump's first

term, gold prices jumped up 55.6%, hitting a high of $2,75 per ounce. As of January 2025, gold is trading at $2,72. If it sees another 55.6% jump, that's over $4,200 per ounce. Could it

happen again? Don't miss the opportunity. And it's not just gold. Silver is booming, too. It's in solar panels, electric vehicles, water purification, things we always need.

Gold Co. helps you diversify and protect your retirement savings with precious metals or direct purchases of gold and silver. There's no purchase minimums. They are A+ rated by the Better Business Bureau with over 6,000 five-star customer reviews and named best customer service in 2024. So, here's a limited promo just for you. Get up to 10% in

free silver when you open a qualified account. Click the link below or go to natesgold.com to see how Goldco future. And now back to the streets of AOCC's district. When did you come to America?

Are you living in a migrant shelter or you have your own place? No. There's a lot of people in Manhattan and they live in migrant shelters. Did you consider living in one of those shelters? [Music] So a lot of people in those shelters, they're working and they're also living in the shelter. How come you tell

yourself you don't need it? Very interesting.

So, he can't read or write in his language, which is why he's not in a migrant shelter now. I've been doing this for a while, and that is a new one. If you think he's here because of asylum, keep watching. Now, the illiteracy rate is actually quite high in some parts of rural Mexico, reaching as high as 55%. So, how is a man who is unable to read or write acclimating in the United States? And what does he think of AOC?

What do you do for work? Uh, do you know who AOC is? No. Okay. She's the congresswoman of this district. Do you feel like she's

doing a good job? Is this neighborhood safe and nice?

[Music]

So, you would vote for her? His definition of peace is very different from most Americans. Prostitution, gang violence, and people just sitting on the sidewalk eating is a strange kind of peace. The people crossing the border and coming to AOCC's district aren't exactly seeking out the American dream. With New York's obsession of trying to allow illegal immigrants to vote, this is concerning.

Why did it go to the highest court in the state to strike down a proposition to allow illegals to vote? How come Democrats are so against voter ID, even to the point of banning it? Perhaps this video is shedding some light on that. Did you get a work permit? cuz I know like in order to work, do you need a work permit? No.

So, the work permit situation is actually a mess. Some illegal immigrants got it when they applied for asylum. Some got it months later and others never got it. The ones you see delivering Door Dash more or less have it because that's just about the only thing that Door Dash requires for you to be able to deliver. However, even in that case, migrants without work permits will buy Door Dash accounts from those that do have one. No country can

withstand taking in millions of illegal immigrants. This was a calculated effort. Just wait until you see how this guy got here. He just continues to say the quiet part out loud. Did they give you any trouble at the border? Did they

bother you at all?

So, you just walk in and they say hello and they let you in.

So you don't have to pay taxes, right?

No. Insulin without insurance can cost hundreds of dollars. There is a new law that caps insulin at $35 for Americans with Medicare, but that doesn't apply to him, and he's getting it even cheaper. So, he snuck across the border without even being detained, and we pay for his medicine. Now, he wants to go back to Mexico. Let's see why. Why do you want

to go back?

Okay, so let's stop calling all of these people asylum seekers. That's not what this is. Asylum is when you are running from a credible threat on your life. It's not when you sneak across the border so you can get free insurance and then come back to your country after you make some money. That's not asylum. That

is however a reason why Democrats now have an approval rating of 26%. Now let's ask him about ICE. Um have you seen ICE here at all? Like do they do any deportations in this area? No. No. No. No.

in this neighborhood. I see a lot of people who came here illegally and they don't speak English. What percentage of people do you think are like that here in this neighborhood? [Music] I just wanted to ask that just to confirm if I got unlucky and came here on the only hour of the day where pretty much nobody speaks English. And for our final interview, I did manage to find someone who knew who AOC was. Do you

know who AOC is? Alexandria Okaziocortez. Yeah. Do you think she's doing a good job here? What What do you like that she's doing?

order. Oh, okay. I see I see a lot of police on the street now. Did she do

that? All right. When you said restore order to the streets, um, was that very recently after Trump won or before?

Well, there you have it. The streets got cleaner after Trump won. Yet, look at what AOC says in this clip. Every time you see Tom H. Homeman on Fox News, every time you see Christy Noom, every time you see these law enforcement officials doing flashy television interviews, understand that they are taking resources away from looking at human trafficking. They are taking

attention and focus and real dollars and real resources away. The irony of her criticizing Tom Hman for going on Fox News while she has made hundreds of TV appearances as her district hits an 18% poverty rate. That was one of the most hypocritical statements I've ever seen a politician make. And you know the competition is intense for that. Now to continue our tradition of announcing the three most liked comments from the previous video. Coming in at number

three, Kathy Hokll needs to go. She's destroying New York. Yeah, I think she should definitely come on to our show and talk about why she's installing barriers to prevent people from being pushed onto train tracks instead of locking up the criminals. And at number two, no more federal funding should be given to New York City at this point. Honestly, as a New York resident, I'm up for it. If that's what it's going to

take, it worked for Changing Colombia's act, then do it here, too. And at number one, he got a private room at a five-star hotel and the flood victims got a cold tent. This needs to stop now. I agree. That's what the people voted for. And we can already see the money

being drained from illegal immigrant programs such as the migrant shelters. If you'd like to see the episode where these comments are from, just click the video on your screen and I'll see you there.