---
video_title: "I Exposed More Iran \"Protestors\""
video_id: ubLY6MzRYwc
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ubLY6MzRYwc
video_date: 2025-06-28
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/friedman for a better way to stay informed on US Politics. Subscribe for 40% off unlimited access to the Vantage Plan through my link.
  
  Support the channel: https://buymeacoffee.com/nate3
  X: https://x.com/NateFriedman97
  
  0:00 Interviews
  11:06 Ground News
  12:22 Interviews
  
  New York, Iran, Protest
---
I'm just looking to interview one person. People are like not able to talk to me. Would you be down to talk? I don't have my role today. So, all the speakers are there. No, but I I mean I

just want to get to know your thoughts on the strike last night. It's not my job for the day. What What's your job for the day? Well, right now I'm on security, so I can't What What organization are you with? So, who can go or one of these members? What

organization are you with? Can't answer that. Sorry. A day after the United States struck Iran's nuclear facilities, I went to a pro-Iran protest in New York City to ask people their thoughts on the strike. I ended up exposing multiple paid protesters and an NGO facilitating lawlessness all over the country. This

is my biggest exposed video yet. Welcome back to the Nate Freriedman Show. Question. Um, what did you think about the strike yesterday? What are your thoughts on it? Just

making sure he's a Zionist. He's not going to talk about it. Wait, wait. What's that? Do not engage with him, please. Are you a Zionist? Am I a

Zionist? How am I a Zionist? So, within 3 seconds of my first interview at the protest, this woman runs over to stop the conversation. And if I slow the video down, you can clearly see her getting instructions from a professional protester to run over and stop the interview from happening. It's clear they have me on a list, and you'll see more evidence of that in a moment. But

first, I want to say something directly to the woman who tried to stop the interview. The man you're protecting from an interview has a flag in Arabic that writes, "There is no God but Allah." Now, Gaza agrees. That's why it's governed with Sharia law, meaning if you touched him in public, you'd be a criminal, and it wouldn't help your case that you're not wearing a hijab either. Now, unfortunately, in your effort to cover up the truth, you showed me where to look. This man is not only a

professional protester, but something much worse. Watch this. Here he is leading a protest right in front of the White House. Back again in New York City leading the charge. And again and again outside the Trump building on Wall Street. Here's where things take a

horrific turn. This is him standing with a man wearing a Hamas headband. So that made me want to dig deeper, especially because he may be a threat to the American people. That's when I found him honoring a terrorist that killed American soldiers. Here he is speaking at a vigil for Nasaralla, the former secretary general of Hezbollah. the very

proxy that killed over 600 American soldiers in Iraq. Now, this man actually may be responsible for the health of some New Yorkers right now because I found him with the Healthcare Workers United for Palestine movement and again wearing a test and trace corps jacket. That's part of the New York state government, the people responsible for doing medical testing. Now, would you want this man to have anything to do with your healthcare? Cash Patel, I know you must be very busy, but it is my belief that this man is worthy of the FBI's time. Do you want to see Tel Aviv

get bombed? This is not I what I want to what's going to be happen. I can tell you. Okay. It's going to be what is going to be CS? That's I can tell you.

It's not my option or your option. Do you think that um what's that? You going to stop him from interviewing me? You know what? You know that this proves our point, right?

Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, so now two people listen listen two two people. What do you want to prevent him to say?

We're getting ready to march. Now here we go again. Another paid protester coming to stop my interview. Although this time he's not just one of the workers. He is a leader. His name is

David Chung. He is the general manager at the People's Forum, the company responsible for organizing these pro-Iran protests. We know that because they literally told us that at the previous rally. What's the best way that people can get involved into organizing the protest? Um, in New York, the people's forum is a great space to get politicized, to meet people in your community, to come together. Now, David

has been a paid protester for a long time. This is his portfolio that got him promoted to be a manager. Here's him yelling to stop NATO. Here's him yelling to release Khalil, a man who was the spokesperson of an organization at Colombia that passed out pro- Hamas flyers. Here is David again wearing a safety vest at a protest, which is what you get to do after you prove yourself.

Now, David has even been in the promotional material for the party of socialism and liberation to never stop fighting for Palestine as they show themselves protesting just one day after October 7th. Now, just looking at the People's Forum on Glass Door, it seems managers get paid between $60 to $90,000 a year, and you've just seen what they do with their time. And it's not as if all these protests take place on the weekend either. If you look on their ex, they are constantly posting their protests that take place during the work week. You might even see some familiar faces on their ex feed. But all of this

isn't about just some manager at a company. This goes all the way to DC. Here is David with Rashida Talib. Now, Talib is a congresswoman who has called for the abolishment of police. She's also promised to quote impeach that mother when referring to Trump. She

showcases the Palestine flag outside her office. And yes, there's a bit of irony in this picture when you see which flag is also there. And this is a glimpse of Talib's district. Does this look like the United States to you? [Music] So, what is the People's Forum and how did they get powerful enough to meet with a congresswoman? First, we have to

talk about this photo. On the very right is Monalo Santos. He's the executive director of the People's Forum. Now, I'm not sure if there's enough therapy in the world for Monalo because he said, "When we finally deal the final blow to destroy Israel, when the state of Israel is finally destroyed and erased from history, that will be the single most important blow we can give to destroying capitalism." Now, when you get your kids ready for school, he's protesting. When

you go to work, he's getting arrested. When you go out to lunch, he's occupying Fox News. He has without a doubt one of the largest portfolios of a paid protester that I've ever seen. But they got this picture with Talib because she's been an advocate for ending the blockade to Cuba for a while now. Talib actually tried to push an amendment in 2022 to suspend US restrictions on financing agricultural exports to Cuba and even 55 Democrats voted against it.

So that was tax money well spent. Now, David is in this picture because he's high up at the people's form and he has been no stranger to Cuba activism. The irony is that Cuba doesn't have freedom of speech. It's a one party state ruled by communism. So, this entire career that he's built himself wouldn't exist in Cuba. Now, who's funding the bales of

these paid agitators? His name is Neville Roy Singum, a billionaire and self-described socialist. Singum and his wife Jodie Evans, who is the co-founder of Code Pink, have given over $20 million to the People's Forum. Singum funneled the money through the Goldman Sachs philanthropy Fund. And after a while of keeping the source of the money a secret, the People's Forum eventually said, "A few years ago, we met Roy Singum, a Marxist comrade who sold his company and donated most of his wealth to nonprofits that focus on political education, culture, and internationalism." Now, Singum, the

principal donor of the people's forum, made his money by selling his IT consulting business to a private equity firm for $785 million. Now, Singum has praised Hugo Chavez, describing Venezuela under his rule as a phenomenally democratic place. He's also said that China is teaching the West that the world is better off with a dual system of both free market adjustments and long-term planning. So with that $20 million that Singum gives the People's Forum, they use it to host classes on Marxism. They essentially serve as a protest incubator for other nonprofits.

In April of 2024, more than 100 activists from ongoing anti-Israel protest on Columbia University's campus met with members of the People's Forum in their Manhattan office just hours before protesters occupied Colombia's Hamilton Hall. So Singum along with Soros is one of the biggest funders of anti-America protest. Next up, I went to go see what the flyers were that they were passing out. When I went to just ask the guy a question, this gentleman wearing a shackled by the occupier shirt in Arabic came to stop my interview. Okay.

Hey. Hey, man. Can I ask you a question? Why are you stopping people from doing interviews? Can I ask you guys why you're doing that?

You want to keep walking? Yeah. Yeah. Fake point somewhere that you need to go. Now, this guy is another professional protester. Take a look at

this. You see how he's the middle one here with the director of the people's forum occupying Fox News. Now, that's all normal behavior for these guys, but here's him getting arrested. Little less normal, but still part for the course. But what was he arrested for? Now, I

found an article of him getting out of jail. You can clearly see it's him. It's the same tattoo. And the article says it's for the Colombia protest that took place, but yet there's no sign of him actually being a Colombia student. So when Eric Adams did say that there were outside agitators, maybe this is one of them. Now it looks like he works with

the PSL. You can see he doesn't like getting his picture taken. Now the PSL's fiscal sponsor is the Progress Unity Fund. And we know from last episode that the sponsor of the Progress Unity Fund is the Tides Foundation. George Soros gave the Tides Foundation $40 million.

So this is yet again another Soros soldier. There's also something very dark about PSL's past. The shooter responsible for killing the beautiful couple last month outside the Jewish Museum in DC had been affiliated with PSL's branch in Chicago back in 2017. Now, they lost contact with Elias for the years after, but it's important to note that after October 7th, PSL put out a statement that said, "Resistance is justified when people are occupied free Palestine." That's also what he chanted when he shot the beautiful couple. And

that's clearly calling what Hamas did as justified. Now, they don't hide their love of terror either by just putting Hezbollah flags on their flyers. Now, I was not going to leave until I got interviews uninterrupted by professional protesters. Can you tell me about your sign? Yeah, I believe Netanyahu dog walked Donald Trump into bombing Iran last night. So, I'm here because I just don't

want to go to war. I don't want to get entangled in another Middle East conflict. I I do not either. Um, so why do you think Trump did what he did? Did you watch The Address? I didn't. I

can't I couldn't I couldn't I was too angry to watch it, so I didn't I don't even know what he said. Yeah. So, I can't really comment on that. Okay. Um, do you What Why do you think he did it?

Like, why do you think he bombed Iran? The nuclear facilities. I I'm sorry. I'm trying to be thoughtful. Yeah. No, please. Do you

know what I mean? I'm sorry if it takes me a moment to form a thought, but I just don't want to talk for the sake of talking. Of course. Of course. No, there's enough of that. So, whatever you

feel, speak from the heart. Now, while he gathers his thoughts, did you see that Iran condemned Trump's quote disrespectful Kamani comments? Now, the left is agreeing that Trump's comments went too far, saying that it could escalate the conflict, while the right is highlighting how Iran has real capabilities and that Trump is a strong protector. It truly feels like you're reading two different pieces of news about the same story these days. That's why before going to these protests, it's crucial I understand what both sides are thinking so I can ask great questions.

The easiest way to do that for me is to use ground news. It's an app and website where they aggregate the news so I don't have to click on each individual site to see what's really going on. For example, maybe you saw that the Irish rap group kneecap, the one who put FI Israel on their concert at Coachella, is still touring the world. The left is emphasizing how this is preserving artistic freedom, while the right is highlighting that the BBC has endorsed this extremism. Now, if you want to see how that person in your life sees news the opposite way that you do, then the ground news blind spot feed will do just that. It doesn't just show you what's

trending, it exposes what each side is choosing not to cover. If you genuinely want to know what's going on in the world and how people are taking it, try out Ground News. It's one of the best ways to support the channel. And because they're such a great fit, you can get 40% off the same plan that I use, which is the Vantage plan. Go to ground.news/friedman

or scan the QR code to see news in a whole new way. [Music] Well, that bombing bombing the the nuclear sites has been a name of Israel for years and Israel can't do anything without our support. And so that's again why I think he manipulated Trump into doing it. Why why Trump did it when he said he was a peaceime president and demonized Kla Harris and Biden for and Obama for the possibility of getting into World War II and yet he's the one now that's opened the can of worms for violence. I I spoke to the other side and one of them said that well they bombed Iran's nuclear facilities because uh Iran's parliament was saying death to America and they were enriching their inadium.

So what do you think about that? Well they're enriching their uranium because Trump pulled us out of the Obama. Uh so there was no reason to be constrained and the amount of uranium uh my understanding is the amount that they have enriched well I've heard a couple of different things so you don't know like they need I don't know 3% to maintain electricity and run their nuclear facilities and then I've heard that they've enriched up to 35% which gets 60% which gets them to the threshold of building a nuke. So they need 90 to 95 to have a nuke and from 60% to 90 to 95% takes a couple of weeks. So that's what that's what they're reporting.

[Applause] If if if I'm not mistaken, Iran I mean uh Israel is the only country in that area that has nuclear weapons. Is that correct or not? Do you know? I I I can't say for sure. Israel has I believe I think they're the only ones that do. And

it was supposed to be used as a deterrent. Yet they're always claiming the victim. Yet they're going into every country all around them and starting a war or change want a change of head of which wars which wars of Israel are you talking about that they started Lebanon Gaza. Did they start the war in Gaza? No, of course not. I mean, no, of course

not. That was a terrorist attack and they had a right to respond. Every American understands that. Especially those of us who live in New York and we're here for 9/11. We get it. But it

has gone, the IDF has gone way beyond responding to Hamas. It is a genocide. And anybody who can't see that it's a genocide is not being truthful with you. It's just that's my that's how that's how I observe it. So sticking with the the site, sticking with the strike because that's what's that's what people are talking about right now. They want

to know like Yeah, but Tulsi Gabbard was the one that came and said there's no intelligence that they're building a new. So, I saw I saw that um testimony from Tulsi Gabbard, and I later saw that she said that the that the mainstream media was sort of like um spinning her words. Well, well, well, what So, what she said was basically like, look, they're as of right now, they're not looking to they're not building toward it right now. But she also sort of said, oh, they are able to build it in a couple of weeks. She's saying they're at the point where, right, we said 60% uranium, so to get to that 90% would only take a couple of weeks. She wasn't

necessarily saying they're not going to do it. It's just that the intelligence specified that right now they're not bridging that gap between 60% to 90%. Right? They're not doing that at what the intelligence reported. However, it would seem like Trump said, "Look, we don't want them to get to that 90%. So,

we're going to take this action." That's what it seems like. I don't have a source in the White House, though. Neither do I. And yeah, I'm at a loss for words because I don't trust this administration. Yeah.

So what so what do you do when a country says death to your country and wants to have a nuke? How what do you do? That's what everyone's wondering. Listen, freedom of freedom of speech. That's what we love here. People can say

whatever the [ __ ] they want. I agree with you. So let them say whatever they want, but as long as the action there are no actions, right, that do they have it? They do not. As of last night, they do not. And yet, we bomb them. Sure.

We're the aggressors. Israel is the aggressor. And to turn around and now play the victim, like it it's we're back to 2003, right? But what the other side was going to say is that so the amount of uranium that you need to sustain civilian life, 3 to 5%. But yeah, 3 to 5%. But they need they were at 60%. And

there's no actual reason to have that much uranium unless you want to build a nuke. There's no other reason. [Music] I can acknowledge that. You know, I'm not going to say. So, what do you do?

You know, I mean, I don't know. It's it's not just it's not just Republicans. It's been Democratic administrations, too. Look at look at Obama. Yeah. You know, there was

there was a doing a lot of strikes as well, though. Yes. Kofi and had a peace agreement. Obama blew it up by not voting at the UN, right? So, like Yeah.

I I I just in the interest of free speech I saw I saw your sign. Oh, you have there's a backside of it. What's the backside? Uh not a worth show. They're lying to us. Yeah. How is Schumer and Jeffre

lying? Um by saying that this is just about um I guess by not acknowledging that we have gone in, you know, that Trump has committed, you know, a war crime. Has he not? I mean, doesn't the congress have some say in whether we go to war or not? Well, so he it's under article two that he's able to take action under direct threat, but we are not under what threat is America under. This goes back to some

first, right? That is the controversy, right? Is that like one side is saying that he has the right to do it because he's commander-in-chief and it was a threat and it's a country that a threat though. What a 60% uranium of a country that wants to murder us. That would be the threat. How How are

those nukes getting to America when they're having a hard enough time getting into Israel? Do you know what I mean? It's just like I they're not a threat to us. They're a threat to Israel and Donald Trump's Israel's [ __ ] That that's that's my So, I've heard that before that Donald Trump is Israel's [ __ ] What do you mean by that? How how could something like that happen? We are

We are a much wealthier country because he's easily manipulated. because he's such a narcissist. And watch what Netanyahu does when he talks about Trump, talking him up, talk, it makes it all personal. Trump is easily manipulated, you think? Yeah. When it

comes to stroking his ego and being a narcissist, that's and that's what Netanyahu's been doing, talking him up. And so he's the greatest ever. And so he does this like, but are you saying that he's bombing Iranian nuclear facilities cuz he got a compliment from a from a foreign leader? He wants to be the strong man. He wants to look strong.

This is when I just asked him, "What do you want to happen?" And this was his response. Go back to the agreement that Obama had. It was working. The devil's advocate say, "What money did they use to build those facilities? Did they use

the cash from us? Did they use that? I don't know. You mean the money that Obama unfroze? That was their money to begin with? Yeah.

What did they use? Did they use it to build the nukes?" They don't have nukes. Don't say that. Should say. Sorry. say

use it to build toward the news. I don't know. Yeah. I mean, it's it's really really Can I just say that I very much appreciate you talking. Okay. I

want to say that because I spoke to two people and right away people came and wouldn't let them talk to me and it's you're out here, you have a sign and you're speaking your mind which is free speech which I know and you're you're you invoking the first amendment. So, thank you so much. I appreciate you. Thank you so much. My name is Nate Freriedman. Next up, I saw this guy in a

MAGA hat and was curious what his thoughts were on the protest and the strike. I didn't realize how many anti-semmites out there were. I really just didn't know. I used to be a [ __ ] Democrat. I used to be a Democrat. I was

in the same haze that so many people are in. And October 7th was a wakeup call and the way people reacted was a wakeup call. I didn't I've never seen anti-semitism like this in my life. You said you used to be a Democrat. Were you a Democrat before October se right before October 7th and you switched or when you switched? Yes, it was at when

when when uh Bernie Sanders used the word indiscriminate at first at first he supported Israel. The f Bernie's first words were in support of Israel's right to defend itself. When he started saying the company lines, I realized that the company is not what I thought the company was. So, uh I learned a lot about anti-semitism even from Jews. I learned a lot about Jewish self-hatred.

I learned about the the Bernie Sanders. I learned about the Nurvy Carter, who these people really are. So, it's been eye opening. What were your thoughts on the strike last night? I'm so grateful. I'm so proud to be an

American and I'm so grateful for Donald Trump. I'm so thankful for Donald Trump. I I was against him and and I'm for him now and and I I I'm just very grateful today. Yeah. Okay. So the some of the

you know a lot of the world is saying well look they didn't have nuclear weapons and this is going to start a war and uh that Trump had no right no he didn't go to Congress. What are your thoughts on the haters? They were very close to having a nuclear weapon. They had enough to make to start making some nukes. Okay. And they had they almost

had enough to have way too much. So for the people that saying that they didn't have a nuclear weapon, they were right on their way. and they made very clear what they would do if they had it. Israel saved the world and the United States came through when it counted yesterday. A lot of people are saying that this is not an America first thing that I just spoke to someone and he said that Trump, you know, that uh Trump is Nats on Yahoo's [ __ ] What do you think about that?

Insanity. That's that's that's not somebody who knows what they're talking about. That's someone that's emotional and attaching themselves to this in a in a in a very hateful way. you you know you tried to get in you tried to have conversations. I've been out here all year in in the beginning I tried to have conversations with people. I went to the

Ivy League universities, Ivy League professors, Ivy League, and they will they refuse to talk. They refuse to debate. They strictly say their nursery rhymes over and over again. Nobody will talk to you. It's because they don't know what the [ __ ] they're talking about. They're fed the lines from their

the organizers. They don't think for themselves. They're very happy to wear masks because they don't want to talk. They they they they uh it's it's like they feel entitled to have this false identity and not be questioned, not have to account for it as long as they have that mask on. Ladies and gentlemen, my investigation into these NOS's funding these protests is very much ongoing. If

you know anything or have any insight as to what I should look into next, please message me at natefriedmanshow.com. Now, thank you so much for watching. And if you'd like to see the clip that the president of the United States posted, it's in this episode right here. And I'll see you there.