---
video_title: "I Exposed Mamdani's Revolution"
video_id: Q_JP30S5cw4
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q_JP30S5cw4
video_date: 2025-10-16T20:51:28+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Grab your free seat to the 2-Day AI Mastermind: 
  https://link.outskill.com/NATEOC3
  🔐 100% Discount for the first 1000 people
  💥 Dive deep into AI and Learn Automations, Build AI Agents, Make videos & images – all for free!
  🎁  Bonuses worth $5100+ if you join and attend
  
  Join the new newsletter: https://forms.gle/bhREAPR7tu4A2ytk6
  Support the channel: https://buymeacoffee.com/nate3
  X: https://x.com/NateFriedman97
  
  0:00 Interviews
  10:01 Outskill
  11:24 Interviews
---
Do you think that Mondani is the best person to begin this revolution? I crashed a paid protester meeting and on the way to the anti-west protest is a protest for communism. So, I went undercover and what you're about to hear is one of the most important conversations in this channel's history. The reason being is that Zohran Mamdani is favored to win the election in New York and with his rise comes the rise of actual communism. Welcome back to the Nate Friedman Show.

What? Are you guys taking capitalism? >> sure am. Tell me about communism. Okay, so yeah, I mean I guess what what would you say are are some of the things that you think in society are you know are I just don't think that there should be any billionaires. Yeah, oh we agree.

Yeah, we think that we we just expropriate the billionaires, right? Cuz uh there's so much in society all all of the so many resources in society, but since they're all privately owned, then these commodities are only produced for the profit the competition between the billionaires instead of for the actual needs of society. >> Yeah. But if we look at all the all these big corporations Amazon, Google, right? Walmart, these are all useful companies that have been built up by capitalism that if we were able to expropriate and put under workers control under under a workers democracy under workers government that this could be the start of a planned economy so that the the working class could democratically control what's being produced for the needs of society instead of just for the profits of the billionaires. I mean a criticism that I

always get is like oh if the billionaires all leave New York City, the corporations will leave and then people won't have people to work for. So, what do we do? Do we have to take control of the businesses? Do the government has to take control of it? Um so, I mean I I think the first question is is what government, right?

Cuz right now we're living in under a capitalist government capitalist state. But what do we do about like companies like Amazon? Does should the government take control of Amazon? Um so, this would have to be you know be through the act of revolution. And so, the working class would >> Sorry, I just meant like a yes or no cuz a lot of people ask me that and I don't know what to say. So, yes or no should

the government take control of Amazon? Um well, if the capitalist government took control of Amazon, it would you know we would be in no better position. I'm talking about if we were a communist government and if we took control of communist took control of Amazon, would that be the right thing to do? Yes, after the revolution under workers government, yes we would absolutely take control of the What do you mean by revolution? How do we have a successful revolution? Um so, the act of revolution

you know a lot of people think oh what violent bloody no like I can see why she would say that revolutions don't have to be bloody. This is Ella's Instagram and in it she calls to abolish the police. It is much easier to have a revolution if there's no police. Now, she's wearing the hammer and sickle so let's place her into communist Russia under Stalin and see how she would do. This is her old license with an M on it for male and her new license with an F for female. Stalin

sent gay people to a labor camp for 5 years and the idea of being trans you probably just disappeared right on the spot if you managed to even pull off the surgery. Now, I have a hard time believing the guys who did this would go along with this. So, I use three different sets of pronouns they them theirs, am airs, and it it its. And typically I just use they them theirs in public or at work around other queers then I like using am and it its. Fast forward to today and a big part of the communist uprising does look like this, which is why you see Mondani smiling at drag queens because that's a big part of his base. Now, Ella is a coder for a

tech company while marching on the streets for communism. Go figure. Next up we talk about Mondani and if he's the one to lead this movement into the mainstream. A a a genuine workers revolution is the working class getting to a point where they're basically already running society. Right. Right?

They're they've they've realized like hey look, you know all the factories, all the services, everything like we're already running it. We don't need the bosses. Like the working class as the working class we're more than capable of running society ourselves. It's you know almost just a matter of of formalizing that process of of the workers saying look, we're already running society. We we want to take political control.

>> think that Mondani is the best person to begin this revolution? Um I think that what Mondani has shown is that the working class is is that the working class is is absolutely sick of the establishment and sick of being crushed under the weight of the capitalist class. And and so, I think that you know what we would say as as as Marxist is hey look, you know the the first step that needs to happen here if we actually want to accomplish these goals, right? He he's putting forward some really really good reforms free buses rent freezes rent stabilized housing, but we would say why stop at buses? Why not free subways?

Why stop at just rent stabilized housing? Why not expropriate all of the houses and put them under workers control so that we can guarantee the housing as a basic human right. Um but in order to do this, you'd have to actually lean on the working class and you you can't accomplish that. >> a start though, right? Like he's going to step in the right direction. Well,

the the the first thing the first thing that that you know he would need to do to actually be successful in this is break with the Democrats. Break break with the party of the class enemies and form a workers government. Start start to form a workers party. I know but the problem with that is that you might not be able to win elections if he's not part of it. You know what I mean? Like

can he just do that stuff if he if he's a part of the Democrat party cuz as you said a lot of his stuff is like like you said free buses government owned grocery stores like he wants to do this stuff, right? >> Yeah. No, I I think that he's he's certainly a very genuine person and I think that a lot of people are are like looking up to him and I I think that we have to be honest though and say look, attached to the Democrats he's not going to be able to get this stuff done, right? He's already had to capitulate on so many things. He capitulated to to the to the business leaders saying oh he's going to discourage the use of the phrase globalize the intifada. He's he's

apologized to the NYPD about calling them racist. Like he's all these things in order to like win the approval of the Democrats. Like he shouldn't he shouldn't have he shouldn't have walked back on the globalize the intifada thing. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Like he shouldn't

apologize for that. So, he never walked back or apologized about using the term globalize the intifada. All he did do was refuse to condemn it, but say that he personally doesn't use it. Also, did you catch how she said Mondani was appealing to the business leaders by walking back on globalize the intifada? You talking about what I think you're talking about? That was quite the

finesse. It's much more subtle than Zionist. We have to take a sober look at like what are the tactics that have worked throughout throughout history and what are the tactics that haven't. And reformism always leads to betrayal and like you know we've seen this time after time you know Like with Bernie and AOC and and Corbin and you know in the UK and Syriza in Greece. >> seem like they're going to go toward communism and then they They use very radical language to describe the problem, but then the solutions they limit themselves to what's possible under capitalism. Here's the issue with

that. Bernie has proposed we tax income over $1 billion at 100%. In fact, he used to talk about how much we need to tax millionaires, but then he became one so now it's about billionaires. The irony of selling your book titled Our Revolution on Amazon and then getting rich off of it is really how communism normally goes. The politicians get rich and nobody else does. And AOC has

proposed we tax incomes over $10 million at 70%. So, I don't think it's about fear of suggesting these ideas in a capitalistic society. If anything, they got elected because of those ideas. I think it's that we still live in a capitalistic society and our lawmakers aren't voting for these ideas yet. Next up I asked her about the Trump ceasefire deal and at the time it was a peace plan, but buckle up for this answer. I

actually came here to cover the Palestine protest, but I saw you guys on the way. Can I ask you what your thoughts are on the peace plan that was submitted by Trump? Oh man, the hypocrites full of hypocrisy through and through, right? Cuz like you know you have all these states now that are talking about oh you know what now we're going to recognize Palestine as a state. What state? It's been bombed completely

by Israel. There's there's there's no state left, right? Like this is this is after 2 years of a genocide on top of 75 years of occupation. Like there there is no state to to recognize at this point. So, you know like all these governments are only doing this now that there's this mass pressure from below. I think

one of the most inspiring things has been this last week seeing all of the mass move workers movements Italy and France and Spain. They're all standing with Palestine. Exactly, yeah. Generals there was a general strike in Italy yesterday. The the population of Italy is 59 million. There was over 2 million

people out on the streets yesterday, right? That's over 3% of the entire population. >> Huge support against Israel, yeah. Uh yeah and and so, you know I think that we can start to see like the workers are actually starting to see like what tactics actually work and what tactics don't. And so, hopefully you know this movement will spread internationally and actually be able to connect the issue of Palestine to the issue of living conditions. They don't want to lay down

their arms um and they're okay with returning the hostages, but they don't want to lay down their arms. What do you think about that? Well, I mean I think if we look at the history of any deal that Israel has ever agreed to, you know they've always broken it. So, I think I think that you know that like in this situation of an oppressed nation and oppressor nation, the oppressed nation you know I I think it it I I think it makes sense the actions they're taking. Look how comfortable she is speaking for Hamas, a terrorist organization. Do you remember when we

first started doing these videos and it was always I don't speak for Hamas, you know get away. Now, we have people like her gleefully saying how Hamas should not disarm. You know who else says that? The favorite to be the mayor of New York City. Do you believe that Hamas should lay down their weapons and leave the leadership in Gaza? I believe that any

future here in New York City is one that we have to make sure that's affordable for all. And as it pertains to Israel and Palestine, that we have to ensure that there is peace. And that is the future that we have to fight for. But you won't say that Hamas should lay down their arms and give up leadership in Gaza. >> really have opinions about the future of Hamas and Israel beyond the question of justice and safety. The irony of that is

that Mondani wants you to get rid of all of your guns, but Hamas can keep theirs. So, if you think communism isn't the way to go and that capitalism will continue to thrive, then you'll love Outskill. Outskill, the world's first AI focused education platform, is hosting a 2-day AI Mastermind Workshop, which is happening in this Saturday and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Eastern on

both days. Over 10 million people across the globe have attended this training, and they have boosted their career growth and made business with zero code and revenue models worth $4 to $5,000. It also is rated 4.9 out of 5 on Trustpilot. Normally, it's $395, but they're giving our viewers 1,000 free seats for the next 48 hours as part of their Halloween sale. Now, here's why I

would urge you to join it. Firstly, it's completely hands-on AI training led by Microsoft and Nvidia experts who have built real industry innovations. Secondly, in just 2 days, you'll learn 10 plus AI power tools, AI in Excel, sheets, and presentations, building AI agents, and automating your workflow, and so much more. Also, you'll get access to the learning dashboard where you meet like-minded people to build with them and enhance your overall learning process. And that's not all.

You'll also get bonuses valued at $5,000, including a prompt guide, a roadmap to monetize AI, and a personalized AI toolkit builder. Limited seats are available though, so grab yours now via the link in the description. And PS, join the WhatsApp community to stay updated before it begins. Ultimately, you know, the only way to get liberation for Palestine and all of the oppressed masses in in the Arab region of the world is for to to overthrow not just uh you know, the Israeli Zionist ruling class, but also the reactionary ruling classes of all of the other countries in that area. Because you can see all >> How do you do that without bloodshed though?

Well, again, I I I think that it comes down to a um a question of numbers. We're not outnumbered, we're out-organized, right? And so, if if the majority of society, the working class, they find So, sorry, I just want to make sure I understand. So, you're saying you're out you're not outnumbered. So, you believe that there are more Americans that are pro-communism than are against it? Well,

uh I don't think that it's about ideological um understanding currently, right? It's about class interests. And and we can see that the working class forms the majority of society. And so, inherently, uh all of all all workers around the entire world share the same common inherent interests. Um and these interests are to overthrow the real oppressors, the imperialists, that that are making our lives miserable.

>> you believe that anybody who's working can be convinced that communism is the way to go? >> Yes, absolutely. So, that's the argument from them, that anyone who is working can be convinced on communism. How do you guys feel about that? Could you be convinced that communism is right? Apparently, as working people,

you're part of her target market. This is perhaps the best part of the conversation, where I go over to the table where they're giving away flyers, and just watch this. Oh, that's cool. Oh, cool. Can I take one?

Yeah, we sell these usually like like I think these ones are yeah, two two bucks for this one. Okay. It costs money? Yeah, yeah. But if you'd like to take one of our our pamphlets for we have plenty of >> money to get the communism one? Yes,

yeah, yeah. I see. Yeah, I mean, we're living under capitalism, we have to They got to take money from the billionaires to make it, doesn't it? Yeah. And what about this? This I can

take though, right? These are free, yeah. Okay. Well, thank you guys so much. >> Have a good one. You too. So, if you

remember part one, I crashed this paid protester meeting, and it was one particular person that I needed to do a little bit more research on. Well, I'm ready to share now. You see this guy who's refusing to answer any questions? What's the plan for today's protest? Well, he wasn't so quiet when he was getting arrested at a protest at Columbia University. Now, this guy was a

teacher before he was fired from the Department of Education after being arrested. He wasn't at all affiliated with Columbia, more evidence that the Columbia protest movement was not just people within Columbia, and we've exposed that many, many times. Now, before he got arrested, he called Israel a racist terrorist state. The Department of Education said there is no place for hate or anti-Semitism in schools, and Parra's response was that he was targeted by Zionist parents. Zionist, nice. Now, for this redhead who

is staring me down, she's a socialist that protests with Victor, who's in this country legally that we exposed from part one. She's often at the front of protests, and she wants to defend immigrant families. Now, this is one of the worst things that the left did, referring to the people who came into this country illegally as just immigrants. What a slap in the face to the people who did it the right way, like my father, and I'm sure like many of your family members. Whenever I see those signs in New York City about knowing your rights as an immigrant, I'm reminded that this whole thing was to get them to stay in this country long enough to become citizens and then vote for Democrats. That's why they did it.

You don't open the borders to 15 million people accidentally. And now back to the communists. And at the end, I'll speak to someone who fled communism and had some things to say about these guys. Can I ask um where this is going? I can tell you where I who I am. I'm Nate Friedman.

Who are you? What's that? I'm Nate Friedman. Who are you? Nate Friedman, who are you with? I'm with Nate

Friedman. That's I work for myself. Okay. Nice to meet you. Who do you work for? I don't Who do I work for? It has

nothing to do with why I'm out here today. Are you wearing a hammer and sickle though? So, Yep, absolutely. >> Okay. So, what do you represent?

Same thing as my comrade here. Yeah, are you a comrade? Okay, got it. And uh why is communism the right way to go for uh United States? Uh well, for the United States, I mean, it's kind of the only way to go. It's a

historical inevitability, right? It's like the revolutionary wave that we see coming across the entire world right now. That is going to come to these shores at some point. >> communism worked? When has communism actually been enacted in practice? Has it ever been in

practice? They certainly tried. Has it ever It's never been in practice though, right? So, we can never say whether or not it worked if it's never been tried, right? Okay, it's a historic inevitability.

What about Lenin? He tried. How did that go? Right, they were a state that was transitioning from a kind of semi-feudal technological level, Tsarist Russia, transitioning into socialism. Okay. They

were never going to survive >> full communism. They were never going to survive, right? Because the global economy is entirely integrated, right? If you suddenly impose impose massive sanctions on that country, yeah, are they able to survive? No. Any single

country can't survive What's the closest we've gotten? >> of the US, right? Yeah. If you want to talk about places that tried, I don't I mean, Fidel Castro was never a Marxist himself, right? That was not Yes, he was. And again, this guy is proving that

the Palestine stuff and communism is completely interlinked, which is why I've called these protests anti-West protests for the last few months, because that is what they are. They don't want you to own your own house. They don't want you to achieve the American dream. In fact, they don't want the American dream to even exist anymore. Especially like that other guy selling communist pamphlets for $2. His

name is Kevin Nance, and he's a member of Antifa. When he's not on the street calling for communism, he's at home writing articles on racism and identity politics. Here he is at the founding congress of the Revolutionary Communist Party. The language in the back you see there is Urdu, which is what they speak in Pakistan. Kevin was even in Pakistan not too long ago, and there they discussed how capitalism is collapsing, the Pakistani government is rotten, and that it's time for a full-scale socialist uprising.

They're teaching this garbage on our soil. Here's Kevin at the Atlanta Marxist School, which builds the forces of Marxism in the American South. And here's Kevin with his idols, Marx and Engels. He wants to teach your children that this is the preferred way of life. >> Right. So, in order to get communism

going uh in New York, and obviously worldwide, like who are you supporting for mayor? Uh I will support any mayor who runs on a class-independent line. Is that Mondaire, or is that Cuomo? We would urge Mondaire to actually like break from the Democrats, right? As soon as he attaches himself to a capitalist class, you can already see like his biggest enemies, in spite of all the like the racist rhetoric that's thrown at him from conservatives and like that, like his biggest enemies are the ones in the Democratic Party coming up to him saying like, "Let me show you how it's done now that you're here." Right?

People like Elizabeth Warren, people like Bernie Sanders, He's got to break apart from them. So, him being in the him being in the Democratic Socialists of America, do you want to see him leave that organization? I'm pretty sure he denounced it himself in the debate. Well, he's on the front page of the website, so Right, even though he said that like their program has nothing to do with me. So, you'll have to talk to them if you >> Mondaire isn't far left enough?

He's not genuinely socialist. Oh, how how to avoid another sellout? >> Yeah, you said sellout. Got a copy. We're having a full What did What did What did she do? What did she do wrong?

I'm not following it. So, what did AOC do wrong? She voted war credits for uh the war, you know, uh the genocide in Gaza. Oh, she voted to keep the Iron Dome funded. Yeah. Yeah, and that keeps the

genocide going. Yes, yes. I I heard someone say that like the the Iron Dome is used only for defense. Is that Is that true or I I'm not doing an interview with you. >> Oh, oh, okay. Uh oh, my name is Nate.

Would you like to get a copy of Workers Vanguard? So, the Workers Vanguard? Yeah, we have an article in here you might want to read that says, "Why can't anyone stop Netanyahu?" Really? You want to buy one to get a coffee? Okay.

I'll get a coffee. Is it free? Yeah, $1, I think. Oh, $1? I can't.

Thank you. I thought you would be taller. Sorry, you So, you're a fan of the channel? Yes. Okay.

That's all That's all I wanted to say. Thank you. Oh, of course, yeah. So, what's your favorite video? I don't know, I just watch them. I I

just can't can't help myself. Look, we are all uh immigrants from the Soviet Union, and we know Yeah. So, all these guys, what do you guys What do you think about all these guys supporting communism today? They don't understand anything. They don't understand how it works. I

suggested, "Okay, go back to the Soviet Union and uh see it for yourself." Unfortunately, Soviet Union, for them, unfortunately, collapsed more than 30 years ago, but there are other countries. I always say, "Go to Venezuela or go to North Korea." North Korea actually has built communism. That's the future.

Yeah. Yeah. But, they say that nobody has gotten to full communism. That's what they say. They say we keep We getting close, but we're not all the way there.

Yeah, I I don't think it's a it's a bigger difference. Actually, no difference. Democratic socialism or socialism or communism, it's all built on ideas of Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels, and Lenin, which are not bad ideas, but if it's utopia, how much blood do they want shed to prove it wrong again? I That's That's all I Yeah. I appreciate it, buddy. I know that they said that

they they can achieve this mission without bloodshed, and I uh Okay. They say they didn't communism >> road to hell is paved with good intentions. You can build socialism in your in your own family. Not I mean, not more. It's always so cool seeing you guys in person. Initially, I was a bit on guard

when he came up to me because I was between a communist rally and a paid protester meeting. So, thank you so much for watching this episode of the Nate Freeman Show. If you want to see part one, it's on your screen right now, and I'll see you there.