---
video_title: "I Exposed No Kings Protestors..."
video_id: hVUdi1Bi_So
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hVUdi1Bi_So
video_date: 2025-06-15
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/friedman for a better way to stay informed on US Politics. Subscribe for 40% off unlimited access to the Vantage Plan through my link.
  
  X: https://x.com/NateFriedman97
  0:00 Interviews
  9:13 Ground News
  10:32 Interviews
  
  New York, ICE, Nate Friedman Show
---
Round him up. He doesn't care. They committed a crime. Why are you touching? They did not. Who are you with? I'm with

America. No, but you asked me who am I with, so I'm asking you who are you with? Well, you're acting like a reporter with a I am a reporter. You want to see my press credentials? I want your credentials. Here's my press

credentials. Okay. Thank you. Okay. So, who are you with? All right, guys. We

are outside the biggest protest in modern day American history, the No Kings protest. We're going to talk to some folks here and see what they really want. I love the pins. Gays against guns, abortion excess, Harris waltz, obviously in a world of Putin's beinsky, anti-dictator 40th and 5th and we're marching down to 26. The directions and everything. I was

going to see who she works with. We are showing the world what democracy looks like. [Applause] If you see any trolls, do not take the bait. This is a peaceful protest. Yeah.

Yeah, I don't know how peaceful this protest is as this was one of many signs that I saw that were a direct threat to the United States president. Tell me what you're doing out here. I'm uh I became a citizen of this country 10 years back right at New York Public Library. Here I am after 10 years protesting against a goddamn whiny little [ __ ] Trump is a fat whiny [ __ ] and I think he wants to be a powerful person because he's got a small little [ __ ] dick. We are marching down. I

think I know exactly what these kind of people are because weaken who's got all people who have noing, you know, self-control, anger issues. They've riled up people against. Look at the kind of people all get together here. This is aing America. It's just not belongs to one group of people. It's

for all of us. How did he win? How did he become president? Because people are scared. they are uh they don't think for the welfare of others. All they care

about is themselves. It's very easy for people to be selfish. And it is very easy to people to scare people. It's happening all around the world. It is happening in India where people are scared. You have a strong man. It's

happening in Israel where you have Netanyahu who is a strong man. It's happening in Turkey where Aerodan is a strong man. It is essentially people are scared. What are people scared of? themselves. First of all, they are not

confident about their lives. They think their lives are bad. They are comparing themselves to others and that's it. They're not happy with what they are. Why? Why? Why did more legal immigrants

vote for Trump this time than ever before? It's not again we are no different. Just because we are legal immigrant doesn't mean we can be scared too. Yeah. And it is essentially is that we are as selfish as any other group. So

what we said is that okay, I've got mine. Why don't I push the others who are following me? We are the worst actually compared to others. That's scary. The worst. Yeah. Because we don't

care for others. We all care for immigrants. Yeah. A lot of us we say that we made it. Yeah. And this country

belongs to the immigrants who risk their lives to come here like crossing the border. Exactly. I mean the point is that once you made it yours, it's the same story. It happened to immigrants who came here who were Irish and Italians. Once they got settled, they said, "Okay, now it is ours. We don't

want to give it to anybody else. It's as simple as that. We are a selfish species." So like the ones the ones who are come here illegally and they're getting benefits and those migrant shelters, they're just in it for themselves. They are in there for themselves, but they are but we should protect them. We should take care of

people, right? We should take care of each other and that's all. We've got one life. They've got one. So we should keep having those migrant shelters. I saw

they're closing this summer. That's again we are being we try to hurt people who are the most the politicians only care about themselves. It's not just politicians. I'm sorry. No, it's not just politician but it is a Republican politician. Let's not get

carried away with this thing. There are two parties. One is a party of Nazis and fascists. The other party may not be all put together and Nazis like um what do you mean by Nazis? Cuz Hitler's fascists people who want to use groups against each other who feel that they can put one group of people in concentration camps. Do you feel like Republicans want

to kill Jews? Yes. They want to kill Jews. They want to kill black people. They want to kill brown. Can I just ask

your your credentials and what your My name is Nate. I just have a YouTube channel. Nate. So, we don't know what side name. Let him let him go. I will. I

don't care. Just so you know, I'm with a group that's is is just pointing out that there there are some folks here who will take words and let them do it. I don't care. They will have to say I give I don't give a [ __ ] Let them deport me. Who the [ __ ] cares about these people?

These are [ __ ] These are who have no [ __ ] balls and they will troll. Let them troll. I don't care. I don't give a [ __ ] about I'm giving you fair warning. I know that. I

don't give a [ __ ] like I don't care about trolls like Charlie Kirk Fuentes and these [ __ ] white ass [ __ ] I don't give a [ __ ] about them. And and that's who you just might be speaking. Let them let them let them share it. You know what trolls you I don't give a [ __ ] Can I ask who are you with? Can I ask who are you with?

Thank you. Who are you with? I'm with America. No, but you asked me who am I with, so I'm asking you who are you with? Well, you're acting like a reporter with a I am a reporter. You

want to see my press credentials? I want your credentials. Here's my press credentials. Okay. Thank you. Okay. So,

who are you with? Uh I'm I am uh right now I am representing myself and I am representing uh the folks at Rise and Resist who have been Rise and Resist. How much how much do they pay you to wear this vest? Absolutely nothing really. So I did some digging and the woman trying to stop my interview is named Karen Shawl. She is a professional

protester. I found her at almost 100 different protests. Let's look at her portfolio, shall we? Here's her outside Trump Tower saying, "Tik Tok, times up." Here's her saying, "Ban guns, not drag."

Amazing. This is her telling us that lies have consequences. She is also very passionate about abortion. Even in the video right now, she's just wearing a hat that says abortion on it. This is deranged behavior, by the way. I studied

psychology in college, and I'm confident that I can diagnose this person as insane. Sometimes she gets less creative, though, and just holds a sign that says enough. Now, here I found her working with a different professional protester that I've exposed. This is Stuart Waldman. He was there when they raised the Palestinian flag over city hall in Rhode Island. Everyone knows

you. Everyone knows me. I know who you are. They know what you do. I know what you do as well, Steuart Waldman. You are

on the board of riseandresist.org, the company that is paying people like Karen for a second job as a professional protester. And the donation link to give you money is just Act Blue, which is the fundraising platform for the Democrat party. That's who you are, Steuart Waldman. Now, back to Karen. I found her

with another professional protester that I've exposed. This was back at the Tesla protest. This is just a few photos of this other professional protester out of maybe 50 that I found. It's clearly a very wellestablished industry, and Rise and Resist is just the tip of the iceberg. Now, here's some more about Karen. I did find her Instagram where

she just documents herself vandalizing New York City. She puts these chalk signs all over the place like this one right outside the Trump Hotel. She also likes to flip off cyber trucks and just post that on Instagram as well. If you just scroll through her profile on Instagram, it is the best case study for reopening the asylums that you can possibly make. Now Karen is the associate director of development and special events at Lincoln Center Theater, which is devastating because Lincoln Center is a beautiful place that just got a little less beautiful after learning that piece of information.

Well, I asked me how much do I wear to wear this ve? I got I'm not asking you. You seem passionate about it. I'm not you all theing rightwing Nazis and right charis if Republicans want to kill Jews, why is Trump so with Israel? Like what? Israel

and Jews are not the same people. Jews are different people. Okay. His daughter is Jewish. His daughter is not Jewish.

She's married to a Jewish movement. She converted to Judaism. Who gives a [ __ ] I'm an atheist. I don't give a [ __ ] about somebody being Jewish, Hindu, Muslim, or anything like that. Who gives a [ __ ] Okay. Okay. What song is that?

What is it? What's your talk to me, man? What's your problem? This is so what you're trying to filming. No. Yeah. Like

film. This is amazing. What song is that? We're going to push you on YouTube. It sounds good.

out of here. But now, you're doing this for free. You're just this passionate about it. Yeah.

Um, it's a mental illness, you know. I What can you do? One second. Right here. Thank you. And

why do you want what what's uh what's up? Why? We're going to get back to this nice fan of the channel in just a second. And I cannot believe this video gets even more insane by the minute. But first, you guys can see that this protest isn't all authentic, and that's because it is funded by tons of NOS's.

And that's why we see US Senator Josh Holly launching an investigation into paid protest funding. Now, have you noticed that depending on what news source you're reading, it feels like something entirely different is happening at these protests. The left is focused on dozens of LA mayors demanding that the Trump administration stop the ICE raids, while the right is focused on who is funding these protests. Whether it be launching an investigation into the funding or just about the FBI catching a guy passing out riot gear in LA from his car, not exactly something you'd think of as unpaid work. But that discrepancy in the media is why I use Ground News, so I can understand both sides to do my job better. Ground News

is absolutely the best news app and website that shows you how the same story is being covered across the political spectrum. You can use Ground News for simply entertainment purposes, but it's also legitimately a great tool to understand those people in your life that disagree with you on a lot of things. And my favorite feature is the blind spot feed. It doesn't just show you what's trending. It reveals what the left and right are ignoring. You see

what they don't want you to see. And I like it because it helps me prepare to talk to a lot of these protesters who might be reading a very different source of news than I am. If you're tired of the media's one-sided spin and want to take control of your news, then subscribe to Ground News and get 40% off the Vantage plan, the same plan I use, at ground.news/friedman or just use the QR code right here. you'll be directly supporting this channel and helping me to continue to have security at these protests. And

that's ground.nnew/friedman. And now back to the protest right here. Thank you. And why do you want what's uh what's up? Why [ __ ] me? Tell me. No,

tell me. Let's talk, man. Believe in fact. Okay. And I don't Yep.

How do I not believe in facts? Tell me. Tell me. Give an example of one time I don't believe in facts. So, the reason that Canadian So, Steven Miller fired all the ICE people who were in and he has a quota, which is what the Nazis did. And he just

wants rounding them up. Round up 3,000 people a day. Round them up. Round them up. He doesn't care. They committed a

crime. No, they are not. They did not. They did not. No, they did not. They

did. So, that's the fact. That is not a fact. They're not here illegally. No, they're not. And being illegal is

actually not a crime. There's No, it is not. No, it is not. See, you don't know the No, it is not. So, they're rounding up pregnant women, kids, people. Oh,

they rounded up someone who had a mis They are rounding up people who are legally here, but they had a misdemeanor. Do you know what a misdemeanor is? They didn't pay their parking ticket, but Donald Trump has 34 accounts against him, and he is a rapist. A rapist. So, those are the facts. How was he a

rapist? When was he a rapist? Be safe. I'm not You don't know when he was. You didn't watch the news. When was when did

he raped somebody? He's here to feed the trolls. How old am I? Guess I love your thoughts. Don't feed the trolls. Don't

feed the trolls. You know, we're headed south on this. How old do you think I am? Thank you. He means nothing.

He means nothing. What's pathetic? Means nothing. How am I pathetic? Say why I'm pathetic. Feed the trolls. Are you feed

the trolls? Do you want to Do you want to tell your boss that you're assigned to me today?

[Music] All right. So, I had a feeling that although this woman is assigned to me for the day, I think I could outrun her. So, that's what I did. And while I outrun her, I want to tell you that the woman I just spoke to who was just completely unhinged touching my hand while she was being interviewed, uh, she's a therapist charging $150 a session. Um, if you don't agree with her on everything, I wouldn't go to her for therapy. And I guess that was her

husband who was saying f you to me and his only reason for saying it was that I was pathetic. No actual reason. Sorry. Oh, this is I I like your hat. Make make America Mexico again. Can Can you tell

me about it? So, I was in Mexico when before he was elected the first time and I bought this hat and I've been saving it to wear because people don't always read your hat and they assume what's on it. So, yeah. You didn't seem like a maggot type, so I just I'm a I'm a mama type. I'm a mama type. Right. Cool. Um,

can you tell the audience more about like um when America was Mexico and stuff like that? When are you what are you filming this for? Uh, my YouTube channel. You you have a YouTube channel? I'm a New Yorker. Yeah. and I put the

stuff on YouTube. Okay. So, when did I realize when did I become a devout anti-racist? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I'd

say probably about 25 years ago as a white person that, you know, I just sort of glide through around here. But yeah, everybody's an immigrant. Even two of your wives, mister, and your grandfather was an immigrant, too. So, you know, his anger and his callousness and his disregard for humanity, he has no humanity and so takes away hope from people. So anyway, when did I become aware of it? So I would say like 20 30

years ago. Yeah. That I mean specifically about America being Mexico like Yeah. No, I mean Texas was Mexico. Parts of California was Mexico. I mean

and and it was indigenous people who lived here. That's who lived here. Indigenous people or enslaved people were forced to come here, but everybody else was an immigrant. So do you do you mean on like a technicality like we should make like sorry Texas and California like back to Mexico or more so just like you're saying it is a sentiment if you're going to be so cruel to people you know where do we go back and make reparations to people instead of honoring the immigrants that have come from Mexico and from all so South America. So anyway it's it's a statement more than a more than a I don't know. Maybe it should become

Mexican. Oh, yeah. We're in a mess. Sorry. We're in a mess. And here's my um

umbrella. You can take a picture of that. Oh, yeah. What does it Oh, does it say ice? It says no ice. No ice. No ice.

Okay. Looks like it's heating up. So, I'll see you later. Goodbye. Bye. Oh,

this is a nice What is this sign? What does it say? Is it in Hebrew? It's Camp Kinderland. Camp Kinderland. upside

down. We need to visit. What is Camp Kinderland? It's a progressive um camp um focusing on social justice. Is it like a like what?

It's like a summer camp or something? Summer camp. Oh, summer camp. Okay. Started off as Jewish. It's not Jewish

anymore. Okay. Is it like for kids or for adults? Uh kids. Oh, kids. Okay.

What does it mean for like like what does social justice mean like for for kids that are coming there? kids. Um, like for example, they uh have a summer Olympics. They pick teams, focus on social justice, like labor workers, education workers, women's rights. Yeah.

And they learn the curriculum. Do they do they talk about like politics like Trump and stuff as well? Yeah. Okay. What are some things that they say about Trump at the camp? I'm not up there, so

I don't Where are you with? Oh, I'm independent. Yeah. Who are you with? Uh, my name is Nate. All right. Right. So,

yeah, here's her uh protesting for the judge that was harboring illegal immigrants. Kind of what you would expect. As far as a summer camp for social justice, I wouldn't send your kids to that. I'm not a parent yet, but I feel like I feel like that's not a great idea. It should be a bipartisan thing that we should not involve kids into this. It's what do they have to do

with it? Let them enjoy their lives. I got a quick question for you guys. Um I have a YouTube channel and I I saw I haven't heard of this website. Can you tell me about it? Sorry. Uh I don't have

any information. Oh, okay. Does she Hi, ma'am. I got a quick question. I saw the back of your vest and I was wondering what riseandresist.org is.

Sorry. At the very start of the protest, I saw a guy with a giant FT Trump flag. I feel like I just had to talk to him. Feel like he would be an interesting guy to talk to. So, here that is. And you'll

recognize their blue jacket in the back that I interviewed at the beginning of this video. Yo, my man. I saw I saw the flag. T this is a big flag. Yeah, it's actually getting heavy after a while. I

can take Do you have um do you have a message for Donald Trump on his birthday? [ __ ] you. Okay, tell tell me why. Tell me tell me like um why we why we hate Trump. Because he's trying to dismantle our democracy. He doesn't understand that

the full civil uh the the Constitution, the civil rights that we've been granted by the Constitution, the people that fought for that constitution over the last 200 years, and all those that are fighting every day to make sure that we can keep rights for our children. Yeah. And for those who are out of the loop, how is he destroying our democracy? Basically, he has cut through some of the the uh the constitutional protections that have been given to our democracy that have been given to uh individuals, women. He's going after people without due process. Uh trying to

have ICE put them into different uh holding detention centers just like they have done in other um uh what am I looking for in in other uh can I just pull your sign? We can take a picture of it. And this is going to get a lot of attention. Do we love this bag or what? Now you love it. Thank you. Great song.

So, do you believe that Trump is a king? I believe he'd like to be. I believe he's going to subvert the Constitution again and try to find a way to run for that third term. Uh, I don't believe that he has any really vested love interest in the United States as much as he does in Trump and in money. And I don't think he actually cares for any single individual voter in this country.

I think he's just a scam artist. Gotcha. Uh, I know it's your pin. U ma'am, you have the I have a quick question for you. Um, yeah, I'm I'm asking um some some of the women out here who have pins like that. Um, what do you say to the

women who voted for Trump? Like 45% of women voted for Trump. I think that they're just not thinking about what they're doing for their daughters and they're um you know just screwing up our human rights kind of lost. Yeah. Okay. And now I want to

just zoom out and show you the scope of this protest and just how large it is. Also, I'm cutting through the protest here. I'm trying to get to the front, but it's actually blending in with another street and it was impossible to actually get to the front. I did meet some interesting people on the way though. Is that is Air Force One? Uh

yeah, that's Air Force One. It's a Maria reference. Yeah. Yeah. I ended up speaking with this guy who says that he stands with Iran. So, of course, this is

going to be an interesting conversation. Hey, how you doing? Uh my name is Nate. I'm just pressed and I see you have a different kind of sign. Can you tell me about it? Sure. My sign says I stand

with Iran. So, we're with the Veterans for Peace. were against the war of the horror of killing innocent people in Palestine. And we've extended Netanyahu's brought another lie and has extended this war. They premeditated this whole thing, faking peace negotiations this whole time. And we and Israel have

now unprovoked attacked Iran under the guise that they have a nuclear weapon. They've been talking about this for 25 years. It's been alive for 25 years. IAEA has been there all this time checking things out. They don't have a nuke. They never would want to nuke

America ever. Ever. Ever. I've been to Iran. These And what about the what about the Supreme Leader of Iran saying like death to America? Is that just like

words? Well, that's [ __ ] And that's part of our propaganda.

So yeah, that's literally the Supreme Leader of Iran saying death to America, but apparently that's propaganda now. He doesn't believe in death to America. He wants alliance with America. So we got to stop pushing those lies. They've been pleading for dialogue. And they also

don't say death to Israel.

What they say debt to is aparthide and occupation of Palestine. That's what they have been fighting all these years. But we turn it around our propaganda saying they want to kill all Jews. Do you know that there are Jewish synagogues in Iran for hundreds of years? They are still there. People

practice their Jewish faith freely. What percentage of Jews are there in Iran? Uh not many. right now and Israel is really has uh done a good job with giving them a hard time in Iran. Israel says they went after Iran largely because also they are funding Hamas and Hezbollah. Do

you think that's true? Iran has been supportive of movements that try to stop the slaughter of innocent people. They do not supply. They didn't start Hamas. Israel started Hamas. You got to know

that, right? How did Israel start Hamas? They funded them. They wanted another faction to split up the PLO. You got to know your history. I So, one one thing I

was reading about the other day was that like there's footage of Hamas thanking Iran for funding. Why Why would probably [ __ ] You got to really All right. I hate to keep doing this, but the guy's lying every 3 seconds. So, here you go.

All

right, you get the idea. Um, so the guy is literally thanking Iran on video. And what can you do with these people? It's probably [ __ ] I'm just not getting the right information. What? Well, I'm

not getting right information. What should I read? Like, what news source should I read for this? Go to Iranian news sources in Iran. Uh, go to Al Jazer. go to um you know uh um Judge

Npalitano interviews a number of CIA agents that know uh Jeffrey Sachs go he's another Jewish we by the way voice uh Veterans for Peace here are led by a number of Jewish the president of Veterans for Peace is Jewish we've known about the lies for a long time so they've just been spreading lies constantly about Iran what do you what do you think about the attacks on the response from Iran to hit Tel Aviv. Do you think that that was the right thing to do? Well, Israel purposely has put its command center. It's in the center of Tel Aviv. Their command centers in Tel Aviv. What are they supposed to do?

This is this is real defense, right? That's what they say about Hamas putting their military um bases under under civilians as well. It's been proven to be wrong. They've gone into every hospital. All the doctors said, "Okay, we're back. So, here's inside Hamas

tunnel base beneath a hospital. Okay. And it's from the IDF footage. Now, I don't know if I'm allowed to trust that, if I'm only allowed to trust Iranian media. You know, honestly, it's the hypocrisy is amazing because if I cite something that Caroline Levit said in their press conference, it's not reliable information. But it is reliable

if Iran says something from their press conference. I mean, these people hate America so much. It's pretty astounding. Anyway, I'm not even going to have you watch this. You can just go through it.

This is just them literally giving a tour of it under the hospital. You get the idea. It's unbelievable. What? No, they haven't shown us any evidence. But

yes, we heard that right from the start. All the highrises that were going down from 2023 right after October. So, oh yeah, Hamas is in there. Hamas is in there. Hamas is in there. Those are

lies. You're killing. It's called indiscriminate killing. That is a war crime and we're supporting that. Last question. And a lot of there's a lot of

misconceptions about um people like you stand with Iran. Do you do you think that October 7th do you condemn October 7th? Everyone condemns October 7th. For God's sake, I we're against killing of anyone. And Hamas, by the way, people should read up about Hamas. They have a

political wing. They have a civil wing. They have all then they have a military wing. Yeah. So, and so the IDF or the IOF as we say they the atrocities being look they cut out and that's the thing like what people will say to you right and what what what the other side will say is like well Hamas is being funded by Iran and and October 7th was Hamas and and in which case that Hamas is not really they're looking to kill innocent civilians.

No, it's not true. It read Hamas changed their their whole dictim. Yeah. like eight years ago. So people Israel pro-Israelis keep repeating that Hamas wants to kill Jews and and destroy.

That's what Hamas says, I think. No, it's not. That's what I'm saying. Read

their declaration. They changed it in 2017. They did say that because frankly they were tired of being put in a prison and having their people put in thousands of Palestines in prisons, you know, tortured as well. So anyway, God bless you. Thank you. And you know, uh you you

know as a journalist that you you're not allowed to step foot in West Bank and Gaza. You'll be shot and killed. You I know you're you support Israel. I would be shot and killed by by Hamas. No, you wouldn't. They do not shoot journalists.

I'm sorry. They haven't. We know who shoots and kills journalists. But they they use journalists to shoot other people. That's not true either. Well,

all righty. We are back. So, this is a man in a press uniform who is going to give his uniform to a Hamas soldier so that he can disguise himself as press. Take a look. And we see him just give him the uniform. Amazing. But that's not

happening, right? Why won't they release the hostages? Look how many hostages are left alive. It's amazing that they're still alive because they've been bombed for what, 20 months now. Israel's been bombing and killed many of the hostages themselves. And how they're feeding

them, I have no Their own people are starving and they're feeding hostages. So, they're being treated well. I would like all No, I wouldn't I wouldn't. So, I don't I just I I just want to know like So, give back the hostages is what you said. Of course. would like all

hostages to be released. However, I pro-Israelis, that's all they say. They come up to and say, "Release the hostages." Talking about 12, 15, 20 people. Of course, my heart goes out to them and their families. I want them

released. Yes, do it now. But I I've always said from the start, so you're going to release hostages that will stop what's happening? No, it won't. It never was. From the start, we knew it wasn't

about that. It's about taking over Palestine. Isn't it interesting? I I really appreciate you having this with me. This is nice. Um what what is um why

do I see videos of Gaza as like oh sorry why do I see videos of Gaza looking like a pretty nice place before October 7th and of course after October 7th it looks different but it looked as though uh Israel was not bombing Gaza um before because they they relinquished control in 2005. They do something called mowing the lawn every couple of years. Well, look it up. mowing the lawn. Israel does these things where they go in and they basically kill a couple of thousand people and they do a lot of destruction.

It's called mowing the lawn. They do it like discreetly. They do it not so discreetly because our media doesn't cover it. But we know it. Those who pay attention, those who have been to Palestinians, I have. I haven't been in

22 years. But 22 years ago, it sucked. Let me tell you, going through checkpoints sucked. It sucked. And I'm an American with white skin. Yeah, it

was it was a lot. But the way they were talked to, the way grandfather and the grandchildren had to go through those checkpoints, it was it was really just inhumane. I I appreciate you so much. What's your name? My name's Nate. All

right, I appreciate you having this conversation with me. A lot of people don't want to talk and I appreciate you. Oh, God bless you, Nate. Thank you for listening. That's the most important thing. Appreciate you. And if we can

make a deal, so when I get home, I'm going to look up some of the stuff that you mentioned. And will you look up the there's some videos of Hamas saying that they want to kill Jews after 2017. Will you look at those videos? Sure. I'd look at I I look at so many videos and I look at everything from every side and I and I've asked for give me the proof about the uh headquarters. You know what? You

know what? You know what? One thing I want you to look at is look at Gaza celebrating after October 7th. Look at the civilians celebrating and look at how civilians were breaking through the walls themselves. Not just Hamas, but civilians as well. That's what you

focused on. No, I'm just saying I'm just saying well you look at it. That's all we we made a deal. Sure. Sure. Sure. All

right, guys. That wraps up my coverage for the No Kings protest. As you can see, it was intense. And I really hope you enjoyed it. If you maybe missed the last two videos cuz we released them back toback. I know it's not normal that

we releasing so many videos, but a lot's going on. And uh I'm working through the night to get you guys these videos as fast as possible. So, hope you're well and I'll see you at the next video that is on your screen right now. Bye-bye.