---
video_title: "Tommy Robinson Exposes the Islamic Takeover of the UK"
video_id: kM6hqIGWgd4
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kM6hqIGWgd4
video_date: 2025-12-15T19:47:24+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Friedman Files: https://natefriedmanshow.com/#friedman-files
  Support the channel: https://buymeacoffee.com/nate3
  X: https://x.com/NateFriedman97
  
  0:00 Teaser
  0:45 Introduction
  1:11 Vision for the UK
  6:50 The Path to Extremism and Gang Violence
  14:50 Bangladesh, the US Future, and UK Mentality
  17:05 Women’s Safety in Modern Britain
  19:17 Voting, Freedom, and the Attack on Christmas
  22:36 Personal Persecution and Legal Dilemmas
  24:50 Rising Chaos
  27:36 Why Remigration Is Needed
  31:12 Waking Up the Nation
  34:30 Crime, Robberies, and Failing Democracy
  38:00 Muslim Immigration
  41:43 Interfaith Challenges and Why Conservatism Works
  45:19 Friedman Files
  45:55 Money Trails, Warning Signs, and Hope from America
  48:57 Elon Musk, Visits Abroad, and Tucker Carlson’s Blind Spot
  56:42 Clash with Christianity
  1:02:34 Their Growing Influence in Britain
  1:12:27 Final Message and Call to Action
---
Great that you've come to the UK, yeah? Cuz you need to take a warning back to the United States of America. Cuz what you're looking at here is your future. And you know how quickly it comes? Like that. No one is allowed to talk

about it, stop it, criticize it. Literally, you get crushed. I was demonized, I was slandered. Now, everyone knows I was telling the truth. Your culture, everything that you hold dear, you're giving up for them. What

would they give up for you? Cool. What does Tucker Carlson know about living in a Pakistani town? 50% of my town's Pakistani. There's only one thing they understand, and that's that. They

understand strength. There's no solution without chaos to this problem. The chaos is that when you try to enforce the law against any Islamic community in Europe, you're going to see the countries burn. They're going to You're going to have a war. You're going to have a war.

This is Tommy Robinson. He's leading a movement of millions to unite the kingdom. If you remember the huge march through London just a couple months ago, that was Tommy leading it. To some, he's a truth-teller exposing stories the media won't touch. To others, he's a symbol of division. But regardless of

your view, his impact on British culture and the West is undeniable. In this interview, you will see Tommy Robinson like you've never seen him before. Welcome back to the Nate Friedman show. Tommy, thank you so much for sitting down with me. No problem. It means a

lot. So, look, I want to talk about just what is your vision and what are you doing to achieve it? What is my vision? So, I'm born in Luton, which is a town 30 miles north of London. When I was born in 1988 1982, there was one mosque.

There's now 45. So, rather than talk about what my vision is, we talk about the vision of the UK, the future of the UK. Now, Luton is a blueprint for every town and city. So, as I've grown up in Luton, I've witnessed the rise in anti-Semitism. All the Jews are gone.

The attack The homophobia, the um the hostility towards our our women, the rapes, the terrorism, the jihad. I've seen it all. I've seen as Islam has grown, I've seen the police's inability and the council's inability and everyone's inability to deal with it. They all just hide from it. They pretend it's not there. They don't just pretend

it's not there, actually. They crush anyone who tries to raise the alarm about the problems that this brings. Cuz the problems that come with mass open border immigration are the problems I've seen in my hometown. Now, they are all down to government failure and policy failure of allowing in Islamic migrants in their millions. So, that's what I've seen. I know Luton's a blueprint for the

rest of the country. I've seen the more Islam, the less freedom. The more Islam, the more violence. Afghanis are 22 times more likely to rape in the UK than other nationalities. In In 2003, we had 8,800 rapes. In 2023, we had 88,000 rapes.

Now, this growth is a perfect line with mass open border immigration and Islamic immigration. It's to do with the Islamic growth. You can literally draw a graph and it fits perfectly. The same with Sweden. Now, if we take that graph and we look another 20 years ahead at the same growth, we're talking about nearly a million women being raped.

That's what we're looking at. So, this is the growth of Islam. So, my vision and my all I've tried to do is raise awareness, like a cry for help. It started off I started a street protest movement in 2009, which was to go out on the streets and say to the rest of the country, "Look, I don't think you quite understand what's happening here." I understand. I've now been I was

demonized, I was slandered, I was attacked, called a fearmonger when I started this in 2009. Now, everyone knows I was telling the truth. Unfortunately, the problem has spread across the whole country. Any town and city you visit now, you'll witness the problems I spoke about, but they used to be confined to towns like Luton, my hometown. Now, they're everywhere.

Rapes, attacks, terrorism, jihad. No one's safe. Women aren't safe. All of this, non-integration, non-assimilation. There's no assimilation from the Islamic community. Now, I talk about my

experience cuz I'm from Luton, where every everyone are sons of immigrants. My mother was an Irish immigrant. Most of my friends are Lucian, Bulgarian, Italian, Jamaican. We all get along. We all It all works okay.

Islam It's like oil and water. You're mixing oil and water. So, my vision has always been to try and highlight it, try and even talk You can't even talk about it. You can't We're getting there now, but you couldn't talk about it. I've been imprisoned, attacked, deplatformed, censored from every social media. I've

I've I've I've spent 2 years of my life in solitary confinement for work, for my journalism in trying to highlight these crimes. In trying to highlight, to make the public aware this is coming to a town near you. Now, I great that you've come to the UK, yeah? Cuz you need to take a warning back to the United States of America. Cuz what you're looking at here is your future.

What Joe Biden done with your borders over the last 8 years, what's happened over the last 8 years, you You used to moan I used to watch Americans moan about Mexican immigration and Hispanic immigration. I used to laugh. I used to be like, "You ain't got a clue. You don't have a clue, yeah?" Now, what you've just allowed in, Somalian, Afghani, Pakistani, Syrian, Iraqi, God help you. It's coming.

And you know how quickly it comes? Like that. Now, even our government have just five children on average. So, you I don't think people understand that when you're looking at the future of our country, it's trouble We're in massive trouble. Cuz you only have to look 30 years ahead. Someone born now Someone

born now in 25 years time due to the birth rate in their age group of peers, they will be a minority in this country as an English person. They will be a minority to Muslims in 25 years. Like that. So, that's the warning. So, all I've ever tried to do is give a warning to say and I wish, you know, I traveled to the United States of America in 2010.

I illegally entered your country. Stupid move. I knew it was wrong, but I felt the message I had was that important. I gave a speech called A Warning to America in New York in 2010. Dig up the speech. And and I said to I I said to

Americans, "I wish someone come to my my country 30 years ago and told me what was going to happen." I'm not telling you about what I've read in a book. I'm not telling you about some experience that someone told me about. I'm telling you about my life experience. I've grown up in Luton town. Luton town was named

by the CIA CIA as the epicenter of terrorist activity. It's the home. The kids that went and fought and died for ISIS I went to school with. Terrorist and conviction after terrorist. I know them all.

I know them all. My friends have converted. My childhood friends have converted to become terrorists. White boys. The prison system has been taken over.

The entire prison system from one end of the country to other. Every prison. The last prison I was in, 40% Muslim population. 40%. They only make up 6% of the UK. 40% of the prison.

Control everything. They control the streets, control the prisons, control everything. Everything. So, I want to ask about a lot of that, but most recently you just said that your childhood friends were converted to terrorism. Yeah. Why? Uh he went to

prison as an armed robber and he come out a jihadi. Because when you go into prison everyone is converting. Yeah, there's no fight back. In fact, you can follow me if you want. I'm going after this to the city of Birmingham to tell the story of the men who tried to stop the Islamic takeover. My next one

of my next documentaries is going to be telling the story of how the prison system crushed any resistance to Islam. There was a resistance at one point. A group of men tried to resist the Islamic gangs, the domination, the forced conversion. They tried to fight back and they've been crushed. They're sitting on solitary confinement for years and years just rotting away in the in the dungeons of prisons.

And because they tried to stop Islam. Cuz no one is allowed to talk about it, stop it, criticize it. Literally, you get crushed. The same way I've been crushed on the outside, prisoners were crushed on the inside. So, I just think that everyone converts in prison. It's the biggest gang in prison.

It dominates prison. It's a safety mechanism. It's a weapon. Um and it's it's going to do the same to the American prison system. And you see how easily they'll convert the blacks.

The blacks are all converted. They've done it here. All the young black gangs in my hometown Luton, all now Muslim gangs. All of them. Every one of them.

Isn't it? The London gang Look, Birmingham, the city I'm going to now, two big black gangs, the Burger Boys and the Johnsons, the biggest gangs, all are now Muslim. Within 15 years, they've gone from totally non-Muslim to entire gangs, street gangs, are now all Muslim. It's cuz it's the biggest rebellion against the system. If you're in prison, you've been wronged your whole life, you want a fight against the system, what will fight against the system? Islam.

And Islam will welcome you in. So, what is the way out? And I ask that meaning that uh when I went to Whitechapel, I didn't see many people that looked like me. Uh the statistics I read some like 40% Muslim is felt more like 90-95%. >> Forget the statistics. It's all

[ __ ] >> It felt when I was walking in the street, it didn't feel anything like that. It felt more like 90-95%. And I I spoke to a lot of people on the street. One of One of them said right outside a mosque, he said that We respect the West and their culture. Yeah. And Islam has their own culture

and their way of life. Yeah. Another person said, "We came here because there's democracy here, but we don't have democracy in Muslim-majority countries." >> So, so Muslims will use democracy to end democracy. That's it. What you've just

seen happen in New York, it doesn't matter how bad he is now in his next term. It does not matter. Cuz people 30 years ago, New Yorkers, it's all changed. The New York's population has changed. They're no longer voting on politics, they're voting on identity.

He's been voted in on identity, same as Sadiq Khan is in London, aren't they? Who's a total failure. Look at crime. Every failed statistic. It doesn't matter, still gets voted in. It does not

matter. He's a Muslim, he's getting voted in, yeah? Now, those same politics, which is Muslim vote bank politics, are being played across our country. Our whole Our whole last election was about Gaza. And we elected five independent pro-Hamas uh fascist Islamist politicians. That's

what we've now elected. That's the start. And that's now when 6% of the country is Muslim, this is the power they now hold. Now, you see your swing states in the United States of America. See if they get big Muslim swings in those states, they will dictate to the to Republicans or Democrats. The block Muslim vote, cuz

they block themselves like a military fashion, will be able to negotiate with Republicans and the Democrats if they can swing the vote. And then they will hold ultimate power. And at that point, like in my hometown, for example, in Luton, in 2013, I did the projected growth forecast. I was looking I've got three kids. I'm looking at my town.

Projected growth population forecast by 2030 is a seven seven in 17 years. The Pakistani and Bangladeshi community were going to increase by 70 to 77%. The white and black by 1.2 to 1.4. That is

why we're irrelevant. So, in towns and cities like that now, we working class white English people, and this will happen to you in America. It's already happened in Michigan. It's already happened in certain places. This will happen. You will become irrelevant, cuz

the way the Labour Party, your Democrat Party, keep power is through the block Muslim vote. At which point, my local in my local town, the local council will do a deal with the leader of the council of mosques. So, that will secure them 40,000 votes. What do you want for 40,000 votes? Now, even Nigel Farage, who's meant to be our next leader, who's going to be our next leader, who's meant to be opposed to all this, he's already said it in an interview, the Islamic demographic by 2050 is so strong strong in this country, we cannot alienate Islam. Now, how do you not alienate

Islam? By surrendering to it. Cuz if you want to deal with this problem, you're going to alienate Islam. So, when you're saying, "What can we do?" Well, we can start by ending Islamic immigration. It

doesn't work at all. It just does not work. Yeah? If we need immigrants, if this country needs immigrants, and hard working immigrants, then just look at the statistics of crime, and look at statistics of work rate from the Muslim population. They don't work anyway, per se.

They're they're for 6% of the country responsible for 80% of the prison population. Three times more likely. All of the crimes all the rape gangs Muslim men make up 3% of the UK population. They're responsible for 90% of the convictions of great groups of men that rape kids. 30% of men convicted are called Mohammed. We have 40,000

British Muslims on a terror watch list. 40,000. That's an army. On a terror watch list, 3,000 of them are monitored 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. That cost us 9 billion pound a year. Now, the all of

these little problems Pakistanis make up 3% of the UK population. They're responsible for 33% of the child defects at birth, because of cousin marriage. Now, all these problems, maybe you can deal with them when 1% of the country is a minority population. But as it becomes 6%, it's not 6%. You've seen that today in Thailand. It's ignore the figures. It's

total [ __ ] I sat down my Imam in Luton, the main Imam, and I said, "How many are there? 40,000 Muslims?" He said, "Double it." He said, "Double this." He said, "Come on, Tommy." He

laughed at me. I said, "I know." He goes, "Double it all." So, whatever the figures they're giving us, we can double. So, say we're 8%. Well, what do

you've walked around this country now. Yeah? Everyone's seen the riots. Everyone's seen the violence. Everyone's seen the rapes. Look at the statistics. Look at

the crime stats. Look at the hotels. Just look at all of it. Yeah? What is this going to be like when they get to 20%?

Now, I'm not rolling the dice with the future of my kids and country. And this isn't their country. Now, for too long we've been too ashamed to even say that. This is not your country from Somalia. You can go home. Yeah? Pakistanis, go

back to Pakistan, can't you? Syrians can go back to Syria. Where are we going to go? Where as an Englishman am I going to go? Where are my kids going to go? When they

become a minority, when violence is so bad, when my daughter can't walk the streets, cuz they can't walk the streets. In those areas, they cannot walk the streets at night. They're coming under hostile violent barbarian style rapes across the nation. So, what is the solution? End Islamic immigration. You could start to pull in

the million over million illegals that we have here. You could take every criminal I think we've got 12,000 foreign criminals in our prison system. They can go. Everyone on the terror watch list, they can go. Pakistanis can go back to Pakistan. Syrians can go back

to Syria. Afghanis can go back to Afghanistan. Where are we as English people meant to go? Cuz at the minute, everyone's leaving. If you look at the rates, half a million Brits left last year. People are fleeing. Anyone with

money is leaving. I know my friends are all leaving. Everyone's They're going to Dubai. They're going Spain. They're going Portugal. They're going. They're

leaving for safety, cuz this country is no longer safe. Why is it no longer safe? Because we've imported hostility. We've imported aggression. We've imported an alien culture into our country, which is not here to integrate or assimilate. It's here to dominate.

And we're witnessing that first hand. In towns like Luton, in places like London, in Birmingham, people can see it with their own eyes. So, why do I hear from most when in Whitechapel, Bangladesh? Many of them don't speak English. Um many of them are on government benefits.

No English? No English? What do you speak? Bengali. Why Bangladesh?

Well, Tower Hamlets is Bangladeshi. Luton's Pakistani. They're different immigrants from different areas. You've got Somali areas, Milton Keynes. You've got um Indian Muslims in Leicester, which aren't as bad compared to some of the others. In fact, Bangladeshis aren't

as bad compared to the Pakistanis. So, when you grow up around the all of them, you understand who's worse, per se. Um but yeah, Tower Hamlets actually elected their own fraudulently elected their own Bangladeshi mayor, who then become in charge of a billion pound budget. Now, back in 2013, we had an organization. We were fighting to try and highlight this problem. In

the end, he was ousted. They got rid of him. The government were able to remove him. But when he become in charge of a billion pound budget, his first plan was to put a million pound sculptures of head scarves at the entrance to Tower Hamlets. He took all the money away from any moderate groups and siphoned it to extremist groups. This is what we're

what we're witnessing across the country. It's not just Pakistani politics, but Islamic politics, corrupt politics. Now, it's here. Like the voting, it's all fraudulent. Postal votes.

Everything is happening in the UK. But the biggest thing for you coming from the United States of America, you're just looking at the future. Whatever you've come here and you're going to go back and show it to the United States. Don't think this is a million miles away. It's coming to you. It's already

in your country. And you don't understand how quickly this is going to grow. And you don't understand how quickly they will gain power. And the power not just the power, but I don't think people quite understand you may think you're different. But I don't think people understand the influence and the power of political correctness. Just how powerful it is.

The fear of being labeled a racist. The fear of losing your job. The fear. So, you may think you have free speech. You don't really when social media is still censored. Many social medias are still

under control, which is the debate center of free speech. For so many years, the right or Republicans have been censored, deplatformed, and they've decided whose voices can be heard. Same as here. Same as here. But these problems are here, they're going to mirror straight into the United States. You're 5-10

years behind us. It's all coming. So, I think I witnessed part of the reason why this happened in the UK. I spoke to an older white couple um in in Whitechapel. We were the only white people on the street. And I asked

her I asked them, uh you know, do you feel comfortable here? Do you feel safe here? Do you like it here? Oh, yeah, sure. And I was like, "Well, um are you cool with there being so many Muslim immigrants here?" And

they said, "Well, absolutely, you know, UK, we we conquered so much. It's time to give back." Um is this a common mentality >> not common mentality. That's a weak pathetic mentality. You need to go to working class Britain. You need to go

into working class estates and speak to working class British people. You have to understand that there's two different countries. London's a different country to to the rest of the rest of it. Inside the M25, think different, act different, and are different. Did you see anyone like Tommy? No. See anyone who looks or

talks or walks or dresses like me? No. No, you won't. Yeah? That's working class Britain. Go to working class

Britain and speak to them about their view of what's happening in this country. Now, I'd say the reason the reason why it's been allowed to happen I'll tell you what I done. In fact, how long you here for? Um here for three more days. Two Three more days, okay. So, get a hidden

camera. Yeah? Right? Cuz I I went to Republic of Ireland. And I I made a documentary called Plantation 2: Rise of the Celts. If you want to watch any of

my documentaries, you can do them at trfilms.co.uk. Yeah? Okay, that plug in there. They're great. Okay?

But I went there, and I went there with the intention of showing the world how the women feel. This is what you should do. Yeah? And I put on a hidden camera. And then I walked down the streets where Muslim migrants were, and went up to English women where the migrants have been housed, and just said went up to Irish women, said, "What's it like here now? I'm from

England." And they're like, "We can't walk streets. We're terrified. My I work there. My husband has to pick me up and walk me from A to B. It's all

changed in three years. We're not safe. We're getting attacked." And then I'd say, "Brilliant. I'm a journalist. Let

me just get the camera over." And then I'll start waving, and they'll say, "Oh, I can't say that on camera. No, I can't say that on camera." And every woman, watch my documentary, every woman I approach tells the truth when they don't think they're being recorded. But I was recording everyone. They're all scared.

They're all It's all changed. They're all suffering violence. They're all They're all intimidated. >> But are they voting for it? Are these people that are afraid to speak on camera, are they voting for these policies?

>> 9 million people voted in Keir Starmer. 20 million people didn't vote in the UK. That 20 million people is us. Yeah? That as in working class Brits, because we've been so demoralized with politics.

Distrust in politics. Told our vo- our vote and our voice doesn't matter. We formed this organization two years ago. The purpose of this organization was to give back our identity, which we've lost. To understand that's a void has been filled. A void has been filled by

Marxism, communism, LGBTQ+ and Islamism. All these things have filled a void where Christianity has been taken. So, our our our identity, whether you want to believe in Jesus or not, we're a Christian cultured Christian culture it's our history. So, we wanted to form an organization where what I did is get get together influencers who have been sidelined, silenced and and and deplatformed. Bring us all together, which was 20 of us, and say what do we agree on? We agree British culture is at

threat here. How do we fight How do we save it? How do we fight for it? So, then we started putting on the events, public events, where we focus on our identity, we have celebration in identity, celebration in culture. Rather than talking against things, we just talk about us. We and we celebrate free

speech, we stand against mass immigration, we stand against Islam, we stand against we we agreed on five principal values that we all agree on. And then we come together for these events. We held our first one, it was 30,000 people. Second one was 100,000 people. Third one was 200,000 people.

13th September was millions of people. We have now hit mainstream Britain where the lies and the smears for so long they had this country, which is pretty embarrassing, cuz I'd say we are the most fearsome fighting nation in the world, as in Englishmen. We're known to fight. It's what we do. It's in our DNA.

It's in our blood. And they have made us that weak that people, instead of fighting, are scared to even talk about things. Now, what we've always focused on is we need to remember who we are. We need to focus on who we are. We need to remember what our forefathers sacrificed and why they sacrificed. Why did they run in

those fields? Why did they give their lives? What were they fighting for? They weren't fighting for the mess you've seen today in Tower Hamlets. They were not fighting for that. So, what were

they fighting for? And it's about time that we grew courage, and I think that we can give inspiration and courage by people seeing that they're no longer that they're not a fringe minority. They managed to let people think they were they were on their own thinking like this. And on the 13th September, millions descended on London, and the whole world could see that the British public is wide awake. There's a cultural revolution happening right now in this country. We're about to announce our

next event. We're going to have a Christmas celebration of Christmas hymns, cuz Christmas, do you know, when I left the English Defence League, there's so much going on in this country that is away from the Islamic immigration to do with an attack on our culture. Out of 360 councils, six councils changed name of Christmas. They took the word Christ out. Winter illuminations, winter festival. They're

doing it this year. I think if you go to the Christmas market in London, it won't be called Christmas. Going to Tesco's, they're not called Christmas trees anymore. Okay? So, they're taking the word Christ out of everything. I is I had an

organization called the English Defence League. I wrote to the 360 councils and just said, "Our organization, which is tens of thousands of us, young men, we will hit your city if you change name of Christmas." And it cost between 500,000 to a million pounds to police it. And that comes out of your council budget. Now, I got accused of blackmail. Google

this story, you'll see the newspaper saying Tommy Robinson blackmails councils. I'm not blackmailing them. I I learned from how the Islamic community operate. They threaten things. If you do this, we'll do this. And that's why the

government continually pandered to them. Let me ask you this something though. You mentioned that the way out is to prevent all Islamic immigration. Now, I want to tell you about a conversation I had though in Bethnal Green, which was a man a British man tells me, "We can't vote our way out of this because they're citizens and they're here legally." He was talking about We were at a bus stop and everybody at the bus stop, their eyes just showing their eyes, yeah. And

he's saying, "Look, they're here legally. They've gotten asylum, they've gotten So, is it true? Like, how do you How do you vote your way out if >> We have 1.2 million British Muslims who want Sharia law. That's 1.2 million British Muslims that

need their citizenship revoked. They need to go back to their place of birth or their parents' place of birth. They need to look at They've all got dual nationality. They've all got dual nationality. They've got Bangladeshi passports and British passports. And

they don't they don't want to leave. Well, they have to leave. If you want to Yeah, but how do you get them to leave? >> Well, if you wish to over- overthrow democracy and replace it with a extreme violent um authoritarian idea of Sharia, you need to leave. And then if And you can make it very diff- You can make their lives very difficult, which is what the government should be doing. Make their life diff-

Well, the our government just agreed to extend benefits for more than two children. Well, that that's over That's the Labour government. Do you know who has more than two children? Well, not us. English have 1.4 1.5.

>> Yeah. So, the Labour government have purposely brought in a policy that is to allow all of the migrants to have five, six, seven kids, and we pay for it. And they've done that. What do you think they've done that for? They vote.

They've now got the Muslim vote, cuz the Muslims can sit at home, not work, we pay for them, we go to work, they have six kids, they have seven kids, we pay for all We're paying for the destruction of our country. We're housing the migrants in hotels. We're paying for all of it. When you say what can be done? There's a lot that can be done. Once you

start Once a Once the Muslim community know, step out of line, try and enforce your backward ideology on this country, try and change this nation, try and attack Christianity in this culture, you're gone. But in order to do that, you need to have that be part of your political platform, and you need to be voted in based on that political platform. And I got to say being in Whitechapel in these Islamic neighborhoods, I I don't see how you can win with that. >> still win in We can still win across the country with that. If you look We We've run out of time. By

2041, we're done. Yeah. By 2041, we can't win. Yeah, it seems that way, yes. We can't win. And that's the same with Europe.

So, if you look at the Europe voting patterns now, whether it be Wilders, whether it be Le Pen's party in the next election, Swedish Democrats, all of the grand parties across Europe are the parties trying to address Islam. They're the parties cuz the public can now see. I started my activism in 2009. I went into Europe trying to highlight these issues and no one wanted to listen. No one wanted to listen cuz they couldn't see it. Now, everyone sees it.

Thanks to social media. Thanks to the problem getting so bad. But some of these sites are like you don't believe it till you see it. So, I went to um What's the pronunciation? Bethnal Green?

>> Bethnal Green. >> Bethnal Green. Okay. Do you know Bethnal Green used to be a tough working class The history of that place is all of the old English criminals, gangsters. That's the That's the home of boxing. It's the

It's the It's the end It It was the It's the working class British London Cockney center. So, the first thing I see when I arrive there is a big soccer match, a school soccer match, and there's about 20 kids all dressed in Islamic clothing. Um I didn't know what country I was in when I saw that. And and I saw the only flag that they fly even in the the nursery, they're just showing the Palestinian flag. And the children are not Islamic.

Um the children are not not all of them are Muslim in the nursery. So, the parents are sending them to a >> have Parents have no choice. Sure. >> And parents are stuck, same as Luton. >> I'm saying that their kids, the teachers are wearing a hijab.

>> Yeah. Um so, these sites are difficult to digest. Oh, there's there's no there's no solution without chaos to this problem. There's going to be no solution for Europe without absolute chaos. And so, what exactly is this chaos you're speaking of? The chaos is that when you

try to enforce the law against any Islamic community in Europe, you're going to see the countries burn. When You see what Trump's doing now in America? You try that here. You're going to You're going to have a war. You're going to have a war.

Do you Do you see any other solution or only civil war? No, cuz No. You try even try to enforce Say our government banned the niqab. They won't be able to enforce it. I know that.

In my hometown Luton, they will burn the whole the whole town. They will The police will be barricaded in their own police station. You need the military. And even then, they will fight. That's on the niqab. Just on

>> Italy Italy is moving to ban it. So, do you think So, they say. So, they say. So, they say. >> they're going to be able to do it?

No. Okay. France wasn't able to do it, was it? So, they say. So, they say. But what's what's going

What's going to be the turning point is when an a government is elected to deport. Mass deportations is now part of vocabulary for British for the British population. It wasn't 2 years ago. Things have shifted that quick, that fast. The mood of the nation is changing very quickly. People are fed up.

So, mass deportation is what this country is going to demand. Watch by the next time the next election in 3 years, it's going to be screamed from the rooftops of every town and city by every member of the British population. People have had enough. Now, they were silenced, they were quiet, not anymore. Not anymore. Watch our next event. Our

next event's going to be in the summer. I think millions and millions and millions are going to gridlock our capital city. Now, what are we going to be calling for? Remigration. Remigration. It's time to go home. Even

the Say like the German population, they let in a million Syrians. Well, the war's over. The war's over. Most of these people, where if they've claimed asylum in the UK, are unlawful and illegal. They're economic migrants have come through 16 safe countries, which means any of their asylum applications should be revoked. Go back

to France. Start there. Yeah? Start back in France. You You were safe in the 16 countries you traveled through. You come here for

economic reasons, you come here to bleed our country, you come here to drain our country, and you've not come to integrate or assimilate into this country. So, are the migrant shelters still happening? So, I bring that up because I Googled, you know, refugee centers, migrant shelters, and I and I went to them, and it seemed like they were closed. No, they're not closed. Every every town and city has hotels. Every

single town city. >> Okay. It's very hard to find them. No, it's not. Well, >> I'll give you the location.

>> mean Sorry, you can get me that. I'm just saying for the for a normal for an average person, if you Google, like it's >> Oh, yeah, they're going to hide it. But they hide it cuz now people are exposing it. But I could give you a whole list of where they are. It's just it was not it was not honestly like in New York, the major migrant shelters were relatively easy to find. You would

Google migrant shelter New York City, you'd see them. There were some ones in the outskirts where, you know, you'd see a Holiday Inn with a sign taken down, and you'd say, "Okay, that's a migrant shelter." But they were more or less like the Row Hotel, the Roosevelt. These were like on display. But I didn't feel that same thing here. I didn't feel like

the big migrant shelters were were easily findable. No, they are if you know where to look. Yeah. They are if you know where to look. They're in every town and city. This is what's woke the

population up for the last 2 years cuz even towns that don't have a Muslim population, the whole hotels have been flooded with men. The men are coming out there. 25 sexual assaults against children, 12 women raped, a terrorist attack, murders all from migrants in the hotels. They're the ones being housed in the hotels have committed these crimes. And bearing in mind 90% of rape cases don't go to court. So, you've got 12

women raped. So, when the riots were on after Southport, remember? There was the Southport stabbing of the three young three-year children murdered by Axel Rudau Kabaugo. In the riots aftermath, which our leader, if you can leader, I can't even leader can't even go in the same phrase as Keir Starmer. But Keir Starmer, who's in charge of our country, or meant to be, well, he come out and said that it was the far-right rioting.

What he didn't want to tell people in Tamworth where people were protesting and in the end rioting about the hotel, Mohammed left the hotel and raped a woman. Okay? In Hartlepool, a Muslim left the hotel and murdered an old age pensioner. In all of the cities where some in Rotherham attacked young school girls. So, in all the cities where the public come out and said enough's enough outside the hotels, those Muslims had left the hotels and attacked, raped, and even murdered British citizens. People have had

enough. Our government didn't talk about that. They don't address that. They just call it all far-right. You This country is paying for its own destruction. And what I don't understand

is how is everything that you have said, how is that not enough to wake a nation up? What what what will it take in your opinion? What will it take? Well, what just happened in Israel would be if that a similar attack like that would be the equivalent of 15,000 British people murdered. [Music] If that happened, our country's awake.

If that happened, but I'll tell you what wasn't enough. 26 murdered at the Ariana Grande concert. A soldier beheaded in London. Butchered and murdered in eating their dinner in the in Borough Market in London. The attack on the synagogue. None of

this has been enough to wake the country up. What we'll tell you is I've been involved in this for 15 years. I would say now the country's ready. This country is ready for real change. I don't I think the government know it.

Everyone knows it. Our figures, let me I don't know if you've actually watched like just so and I'll send you this so you can play this in as we're talking. Just cuz they can downplay everything that's happening, yeah? This This here This is a revolution. United the Kingdom march yesterday led by Tommy between 100,000 and 200,000.

Now, this is the start of the protest here, yeah? That's the crowd starting there. Yeah. This is never happened in Great Britain. This is the biggest event this country's ever had.

This doesn't stop. The media told everyone 100,000. They're killing themselves cuz our we quote tweeted this. 66 million views we had. Now, on our event, we had 64 million watching.

Look at the crowds. This doesn't stop. [Music] This does not stop. It just doesn't stop, okay? Look.

[Music] That is millions, yeah? That is Now, the biggest protest ever in British history we call it a million people with the Iraq war and we hear all about it all the time, yeah? That the country's awake. No funding, no finance, no support. We brought millions to the capital city, yeah? Without

coaches, without organization. That is hard-working people making their own decision. That is a cultural revolution and it's happening right now. Were there a lot of people in that march that were in living in central London or living in London or was it mostly from outside? There'd have been some from London, but they come from all over. All over

Britain. It's called Unite the Kingdom. Yeah, they come from all over Britain. That march that you did was one of the few times I've seen the last few years where London looked like London. But when I went to I've been in London for a week.

There are times where I think I'm in Ukraine. There's so many Ukrainian flags. I'm not sure which country. That's about equal. And the trans flags, gay flags. It's just

It's just again, it's very tough to know which country you're in. Yeah, but that's the same. You can go get on for a train. You can go get off a plane in Berlin. Go get off a plane in Paris. Any

western European nation. Sweden, Malmo. Any of them. You won't know where you are. Yeah. You won't know where and is that

what we want? Is that what we want? Is that the future we want for our country? And it's got to boiling point now where people have had enough. So, a lot of the times stories of of a young girl being raped or or murdered, it seems like people just almost like getting desensitized.

Yeah, and just recently I saw a clip. It's nothing like that. It was just a woman. She's sitting, she's having dinner with her friends. And these Tunisian migrants who have been in London for 1 month come under her chair, take the purse and it's all calculated. They They did it in

teams. So, one of them covered her line of sight, the other one kicked it out with his foot out of the chair. And they've been in London for a month. It would seem like they're not here to do good. They were sentenced to prison for 18 months, but without a deportation order. Which I would think would anger a

lot of people, but it doesn't seem I don't know. It's confusing. No, cuz none of them are getting deportation orders. None of them. No one's getting deported.

Why? Why? Cuz the government don't care. The government have not had the drive, the want, or the courage to deal with this problem. And the easiest thing continually cuz it's all [ __ ] numbers. It's all

flooding the country with migrants to keep the fake money bubble going. To keep their GDP to pretend that the country's successful when in we all know it's not, yeah? So, they are continually flooding this country. Now, that's not just this country. It's not a mistake.

You see, you've solved your problem by voting in Donald Trump. If you didn't vote in Donald Trump, exactly what you're seeing now would be flooding through your borders now in their millions into your country. Unskilled, uneconomic migrants coming with crime, coming with disease, coming to violently commit, coming as terrorists would be flooding your nation if you didn't vote for Donald Trump. Now, the difference is not one single European country has elected a leader that is willing or brave enough to tackle this. Cuz when you want to be brave enough to tackle it, I'll tell you what they're going to try and do. They're going to try and

assassinate you like they did Donald Trump. Cuz the globalist plan to weaken the nation, to break down the state, to desensitize, to demoralize, to feminize the men of the nation has been a well-orchestrated, well-funded operation for 50, 60 years, yeah? Donald Trump's got in the way. Right now, I think that through Donald Trump, you're going to have a growth of European leaders who are ready to fight. And to be honest, this I'll tell you straight again. This country's ready to

fight and it hasn't been. And I can tell you now, I thought I was banging my head against a brick wall for a decade. I was thinking, what is it All we ever heard about was when that when that British lion wakes up, when the lion awakens, everyone better be ready, yeah? I'm telling you the lion's awake. I'm telling you. I know that, mate.

I know we need I know we need vote vote. We need we need democracy to solve it, yeah? But to get those politicians into a position where they're brave enough, you need the influence on the street. When you see millions on the street, trust me cuz Nigel Farage are all shifting their politics. Nigel Farage was against mass deportations 12 months ago. Now he's for them. Nigel Farage

wouldn't talk about these issues. Now he's talking about them. Why do we think that is? It's not cuz of anything other than he's seeing the presence on the street. He's seeing the growth of our movement and the influence of people in our politics and the effect we're having on the public. So, we had an idea.

When we set this movement up, 20 of us come together. I said we can try and start a political party, yeah? We can try. We're going to need hundreds of millions of pounds. If we change If we change the culture, we change the politics. We can actually

shift the culture through a well-organized effort on the streets, through culture, through celebration, through identity. We can do that hell of a lot quicker. Right. So, right now Farage, he has about like a on the prediction markets I checked Cal Shay today. It was like 24% chance of winning. And

so, my question is the woman who had her purse stolen. Here's how I would think about how it would go normally is she has her purse stolen by Tunisian migrants. She says, "Okay, we can't do this." She tells her friends. Her friends are like, "Okay, we can't do this." But that must not be happening

because well, I guess because I'm saying like in New York, we have we have a similar thing in the states where it's a suicidal empathy is what the term people use. And it's that it seems to be that England gotten to this position because women like that who had her purse stolen I can't speak for her. I don't know what she voted for. But it seems like there it should have a chain reaction where people say enough. That's where we're at, bro. I'm telling you.

I'm telling you. You You watch the next election. Ignore what they're saying about 24%. You watch the landslide. I'm I have my finger on the pulse. Before my

last event, I told everyone millions are coming. Biggest event this country's ever seen, yeah? I sense it cuz I walk the streets. I see the reaction. People who didn't like me now like me. People

who hated me now on side. That moment of this person tells that person and tells that person and people are putting up with it and putting up with it. It's there. It's at bursting point. The country's ready. The country's ready for

real political change. The country's ready. People are ready. And they weren't. And I'm And so, you Nigel Farage, unfortunately, I think Nigel's weak on a lot of the issues.

Maybe he's playing it really cleverly. Maybe I'm wrong. I think he's weak on a lot of the core issues that we need to address. But he's a hell of a lot down side better than any of the other any of the others. I want to go back to the Islam thing for a moment. So, I had a conversation with a

store owner who he came here legally as a student. And I asked him, "Why are so many Muslim people coming to UK and why did you come to the UK? And he said >> UK so the main thing UK have a lot Muslim community here. So UK I I have might be UK have more than any other country who have a lot more in UK. There's about 14 mosques in Whitechapel that I counted about equal number of churches.

Um but it seems like Islamic life is very much based on availability toward mosques. Like they're consistently building new big mosque. Who who are Who's funding this? Yeah, Qatar Qatar and Saudi Arabia. And And then whoever funds it dictates which form of Islam's being promoted in it?

Which Qatar own Barclays, own Harrods, own the ports in this country. I they they pump 3/4 of a billion pound into radicalization in Europe. Qatar are a big problem. Qatar need ending. As in their influence needs ending. The influence they have

over our politicians and our capital city and the money and infrastructure and economy needs ending. The Muslim Brotherhood needs ending. Trump's has made a great move. We need to make it here. We've been crying out for this for decades. They have such

influence. You're right about the influence. The Wahhabists, the Salafist mosques. Now I went for a meeting that what 2013. I was leading the EDL and Bishop Tom Robinson, same name, of Pontefract. They called in a

a secret meeting and it it was with us as the leaders of the EDL and it was with Deobandi clerics. And the gentleman we were meeting had just been preaching at the Golden Dome mosque in Jerusalem. So and when we met the church leaders, we met in a church in Oxford and the church leaders said MI6 see these guys as the future leaders for you for Britain. I said these guys. Yeah, Deobandis.

Do you Do you know what Deobandis are? A very orthodox all of them were wearing niqabs and they're radicals. They're radicals. They may not be planting bombs but they want the same as ISIS. They want to overthrow democracy and replace it with sharia.

They have the same end goal. They just got peaceful means of getting it. But it still still needs stopping. We've got to stop them. So when I sat down I said okay.

So these Deobandis are the future of our country, are they? And then when I sat down I said the bishops there, the vicars there, all the church are there, then all the Muslims are there. And they just said tell us what's wrong. So I said I'm going to tell you straight what's wrong. And I went into one about what's going on where the Muslims are from cuz they're all from Dewsbury.

You're raping our women. This is happening. Converting our women. Blah blah blah. And then they I said what are you what are you like actually doing?

What are you doing? There's a church. I asked what you doing? They goes well we have diversity days. I said You have diversity days, yeah? I said

tell me about your diversity day. He goes well at Christmas we had a Christmas we had a Christmas meal. Us, the church groups and the Muslims together. I said did you have wine? And he looked. I said you didn't have

wine, did you? I said you had a sharia compliant Christmas with meal, you mug. I said this is the problem. You're surrendering everything. Your culture, everything that you hold dear, you're giving up for them.

What would they give up for you? [ __ ] all. To do with their religion, nothing all. They won't budge. You're budging every time.

You're budging every time. You're weak. You're pathetic and they don't respect it. See I grew up in Luton. I grew up with Muslims. I know all the gangs. I've

grown up fighting them for throughout my life. There's only one thing they understand and that's that. They understand strength. They don't understand it. They respect it.

That's their mindset. I I know how they think. So when they see cowards and politicians bending over and flapping at their feet, they're laughing at them. Yeah. Well look, I know you've said that Islam has no place in the West and I know that a lot of people obviously in the UK are going to see it as as bigoted that almost like play a scenario in your head which is like well what about a brilliant young kid from Afghanistan who can be a great engineer.

He should be able to come here. I think a lot of people worry about blanket bans. They worry about that. Okay so okay so say here in this pot there's a hundred biscuit there's a hundred sweets. And in this hundred sweets two of them you swallow them they're going to kill you.

Are you going to pick a sweet out of that pot? Are you going to eat one? Yeah, I wouldn't. >> wouldn't. So why should we? So why

should my daughter have to take the risk of a hundred of those men? When you look at the statistics and the demographics and the and the crime statistics, why should my daughter have to take a risk of 100 of those sweets? I I don't want my daughter to touch them. I want them gone. I want them out of here. Sorry if I smashed the place up. I

don't want them here. So if if my daughter should not have to take that risk, yeah? Why should any of our daughters? It's not a game of monopoly It's not a game of roll the dice. Let's just roll the dice for Britain's future. Let's just I know,

let's bring 30,000 Afghans in like Joe Biden did. Yeah? Well two of your soldiers have paid their price yesterday. Go and tell those families it was worthwhile. Go and tell them. Go and sit down the

the mother who's just lost her son or the child who just lost their parents. Cuz that's what's happening here. They're raping their way through this country. And I'm sorry, he might be a nice scientist or engineer. Well let's find a scientist or engineer who's not from Islamic country. It's not hard.

And they will integrate and assimilate properly because unfortunately the test it's already we've seen it. It doesn't work. That's not It's not my fault it don't work. It's not the British public's fault it doesn't work. Cuz you know what? Sikhism works. Hinduism

works. Judaism works. All those other cultures have come here. They all work. They've all integrated. They all

assimilate. Some of them have their own close-knit communities, certain Jewish sections, certain Indian sections. But they're not raping. They're not selling heroin. Look at the crime statistics in the prisons. They're not over They're

not overrepresented. They're underrepresented. In fact, they're overrepresented in success, in education, in schools. They're flying. So this podcast is not sponsored and instead I'm going to tell you about something that we've been working on for quite some time. This is the very first

look at the Friedman files, dossiers on the paid protesters that we've been exposing for close to a year now. You'll see them at more protests than you can count. You'll see their violent ideologies that they spread and the stories behind their arrests. All in one centralized location that you can look at and share. Go to natefriedmanshow.com/friedmanfiles

or scan the QR code to get a special discount. The link is also in the description and the pinned comments. And now back to Tommy. The 24,000 Afghan migrants that were brought in for 7 billion pounds. Where does that money go cuz that's a lot of money for 24,000 people and obviously Afghan we we know what >> Well I think the 24,000 is going to become a lot more, isn't it? They can

all bring more family in. So where's the money Where where is that money going? Probably to backhanders, who knows? Who knows? Who knows? But that 24,000 we already

know are 22 times more likely to be commit rape. So some of those 24,000 just like the 30,000 you received, one of them murdered two people yesterday, right? One person's killed the other person seriously injured. Is that worthwhile as an experiment? Is that American life? Is it worth it

losing it? Cuz those 30,000 are going to bring nothing positive. That's the reality. Even if half of them positively integrate, it doesn't matter cuz the other half aren't going to. They're going to rape. They're going to

commit crime. In fact I just shared a thing earlier when I was digging through the news stories. I was digging through the news stories. Just to say that this wasn't like to anyone who follows what's going on. To anyone who follows what's going on this didn't just happen with regards to your latest terrorist attack. Here's some headlines. Afghan

evacuee charged with raping Montana governor says demanded resettlement halt. Two Afghan refugees staying in Wis- Wisconsin arrested for trying to rape child, strangle woman. Driver exclaims I should have served with [ __ ] Taliban moments before fatal traffic stop shootout with police. Former Afghan diplomat charged with rape in Virginia. Now this didn't happen like that in America. So that killing

yesterday all the warning signs have been there. From the from the previous Afghans you've already taken. Now you're such a big country. You're such a huge nation that someone needs to put put the dots together, yeah? When you start putting the dots together, you'll realize those Afghans you brought in, they need to go.

Somalians, they need to go. Okay? You want to safe future prosperous Christian America? Someone's going to have to tackle this problem. And unfortunately again I know in the United States the the influence of Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the money, the business still got someone's going to have to tell the truth. Someone's going to have

to say how it is. Yeah. Well with Donald Trump's last tweet President Trump's last tweet he said that Tim Walz was [ __ ] for letting in hundreds of thousands of Somalians. So it seems like the rhetoric has Only because you got Donald Trump. Only it's only because you got Donald Trump.

That's it. If you didn't have Donald Trump if Obama if you could say it was Obama but if it was Obama, wouldn't it? But if Biden Biden if Biden or Kamala would have won Do you know when you voted to save America? That wasn't just a vote to save America. So I hope you know how much we relied on that and how much we rely on the hope that that gives us cuz hope is hope is hope is contagious. Hope is something

that gives you the chance. We've got hope because of who's in power in the United States. We've got hope because of Trump, because of J.D. Vance, because of Elon Musk.

And that's why we're ready to Speaking of Elon Musk, do you want to say a quick thing about how he's impacted your life? Elon Musk has bought me from the gutter. Lifted me back up. I was censored, deplatformed from everywhere. Not for any crimes. I've never been convicted of

any crimes due to hate or racism. I was just deplatformed and censored for telling the truth. Warning the public. Everything I said and was warning about has now been proven as true. Elon Musk has helped me. I recently had

a terrorism trial. Charged with terrorism. And I got a not guilty and the judge ruled that it was a politically motivated targeted case. The previous case both of which Elon Musk supported and helped fund. If he if he hadn't done that, if Elon Musk hadn't stepped in, I don't know where I'd be. I know if I'd

still be alive, to be honest. My life was chaotic. Um so I owe Elon a lot. The British public owe Elon a lot. This country owes Elon Musk. Do you know I

don't think Elon Musk will be remembered for flying rockets into Mars. I think he'll be remembered for saving freedom of speech. Obviously, uh you know, I follow your Twitter and I saw that you had just come back from Israel and Poland. What were the things that struck you the most about those two trips? Well, Poland doesn't have any problems.

Poland's a beautiful, clean, safe country. Lowest crime rate, lowest rape rate in Europe. Why? Cuz it hasn't had Islamic immigration. It's protected its borders.

It still has a sense of identity. It still has religious belief. It's very Christian, very Catholic. So they haven't lost their identity in who they are. Hasn't been bred out of them. The men haven't been feminized.

They're not all running around with rainbow flags. It's not been destroyed. Israel, the same. Strong sense of identity. They know who they are. Do you know I

sat at a table with 20 lone soldiers? Who A lone soldier someone who travels to Israel on their own, no family there. And sitting with those young men, they are all aware that there's something greater than them. What's greater than them? The Jewish state, the home of the Jews. For these

kids. Yeah. They've come to sacrifice their life on their own. To be willing to fight for something greater than themselves. This country, we all think the greatest thing is us, individuals.

We have created a generation of selfish cowards. That's what we've created. Where no one actually really cares about the country or community. No one's Everyone just thinks of themself. Just us. Whereas when you go to a place like

Israel, it's not about yourself. It's about the country. Which is how we need to get thinking again. So um I had a fascinating time. I got a lot of backlash. I got a lot of stick, a lot of

the usual [ __ ] accusations, but I don't really care if I'm honest. I see Israel as the forefront. I see Israel as I went to Israel in 2015 to see how they live. Because I knew how they live, we're going to have to live. And when I went there, I saw the bus stops, all bollards everywhere. And we

didn't have any of that. We had freedom here. Now go to a Christmas market. While you're here, go and get some food, yeah? Bollards everywhere, armed police everywhere, fortified. But I saw that in

2015 and realized that's our future. We're going to need this cuz they were doing car attacks in. But they weren't doing it in Europe. Now they're doing it. Yeah? So I went to experience how

they how they experience it. How do they deal with it? To ask the questions. Do you know I met a senior ranking politician. And I went into his office, yeah? A very

senior ranking politician. And on the wall was a map. And he drew a line. He said, "Do you see this wall here? Israel built a wall here. If they didn't, Sudan

and Eritrea would have replaced the Israeli population, yeah? We built a wall. Your politicians aren't doing anything." So I went to listen to cuz there's so many accusations against Israel. But I went to listen to All of their politicians were very concerned with what's happening in Europe. Concerned

with the cultural change, the attack. And when people say it's Israel flooding Europe, yeah, purposely with Muslim immigration, this is what some of some of the my detractors say, "They're flooding." Why would Israel, a country this big, why would they want the future of Britain, Germany, and France to be controlled by Islam? Cuz if those countries controlled by Islam in the future, which is they say is the goal, that means their military's controlled by Islam. It means their nuclear weapons are controlled by Islam. It means

Israel's gone. Reality, yeah? If every single Western nation in Europe becomes Islamic, then that's not just Afghanistan, Pakistan, you're now dealing with superpowers who have got arsenals of weapon and military. So it doesn't make sense. The whole argument doesn't make sense. But I

went there to ask lots of questions, to see how they deal with it, to understand which I think the public need to understand. Because you see, I feel here, living in Luton, uh from Luton, I feel surrounded. I feel surrounded by Islamic problems. I feel surrounded by terrorism. So when I went to Israel, I realized Hezbollah on the northern border, I don't know how many people realize, 50 to 100,000 soldiers on the northern border ready and waiting and trying for a decade to plan a ground invasion. Who

fears Hamas And I think I don't think people really understand what it must be like to be standing there and surrounded by 100 million, 60 million, 80 million. We've only got a small population in Israel. So I went there to experience all that. I had a fascinating trip. Um yeah.

Come back unapologetically, I totally side with the with the state of Israel and the people in Israel. I don't give a [ __ ] how many people are upset. Cuz anyone who's at anyone who's accusing that or beating that. Do you know I have I listened to these Americans. You come back to America, right? Tucker Carlson. I've got Tucker

Carlson on the video yesterday talking about he has more in common with his his Pakistani taxi driver than he does some white middle class American. Yeah, what do you know? What does Tucker Carlson know about living in a Pakistani town? 50% of my town's Pakistani. You don't know nothing about Pakistani taxi drivers. We we do. We're beaten up by my

whole growing up. Our daughters are abused by them. Our wives Our wives are harassed by them. But yet you pretend you know something. What do you know in the United States of America about growing up around Islamic immigration?

They'll talk about all the Muslims and the Christians are together. Yeah, come and say that in Europe. Come experience that in Europe. We're not together. They're not with us, you clowns. But I

listen to all these new right-wing commentators talking just cuz they hate Jews or hate Israel saying we need to work together with the Muslims. Yeah? Come and speak to people who live with Islam. It's [ __ ] in It's infuriating. I'm watching like even Tucker Carlson thinking, "What do you know about Pakistani taxi drivers, mate? What do

you know? Do you know who's ferried all of our girls around in every town city? In Rotherham, Telford, Oldham, Rochdale, Birmingham, Bradford, Leeds, every city where our daughters have been raped. Who ferried them round? Pakistani taxi drivers, Tucker. Your mates.

Who you'd rather hang around with. You know nothing about this subject. So don't try talking about it just cuz Qatar are in your back arse. Cuz it's pretty infuriating. Yeah. And I see that so much coming out

of the United States. I'm looking at it thinking, you don't know what you're talking about. You have no idea what you're talking about. You live in America. You're not plagued by Islamic rape gangs. You're not surrounded in a

town with 50% with 45 mosques. You've got no idea what you're talking about. So don't just start talking about how we need to be all we're all friends and and Muslims and Christians are together. Yeah, turn that to the Christians in Afghanistan. Turn it to Christians in Pakistan, the Christians in Iraq. Go

speak to the Christians in the Middle East. Go speak to the Christian population which has gone from what, 20% to 7% in the last 20 years. Why? The real genocide happening right now in Nigeria. Now they don't want they don't want to talk about that.

What do you want to talk about? Jews? It's It's pretty infuriating. There's not cuz there's a Jewish population in the UK and they're not raping no one. In that same interview, um Piers Morgan and Tucker talk about how well, no one should hate Islam because hating Islam is this EU you could be hating Jewish people. Hate is of all

kind is wrong. >> Don't have to hate Islam. Islam hates us. There's a hundred verse in the Quran that tell them to kill us. Don't worry about us hating Islam. Read what Islam

says about us. 70% of the Quran is about how to treat non-Muslims. Of course we should have an opinion on that. Muhammad beheaded 600 Jews in one day. He raped.

He pillaged. Well, of course we're going to have an opinion on that. And no one should hate nothing. It's like, mate, they hate you. Piers, you mug. They hate non-Muslims.

Not And per se, not every I'm not saying every Muslim, yeah? Cuz I grew up in Luton. I met some great Muslims. But they're not great because they're Muslim. They're just good lads. If they

followed the Quran to the word, they'd go fight for ISIS. Do you know we had four times as many British Muslims went to fight for ISIS. So Bearing in mind we've had 60 years of had a Muslim community here, 60 years. In a three-year period, four times as many British Muslims went to fight for ISIS in that three-year period than had joined the British military in a 60-year period. We have a problem, yeah? Yeah.

And it's not hate. It's not us, okay? It's not us, right? For highlighting and telling the truth. Unfortunately, the truth hurts some people. Unfortunately,

people don't like hearing this truth. Unfortunately, people like saying, "Oh." Do you know what I mean? But the same people who don't like hearing this truth, yeah, they don't live with it. Yeah. Why is it okay to want more people

that look like you and to have the same values as you? Why is that It's okay because if Nigeria become a majority white nation, it would be wrong. If Japan become a majority non-Japanese nation, it would be wrong. When you look at Chinese Parliament, how many non-Chinese people do you see? When you look at Russian Parliament, how many non-Russian people do you see? When you

look at our Parliament, you see Muslims everywhere. Now you're right about other migration as well. It all needs to stop. We have had too much migration, whether it be Indian, Sikh, whichever, Hindu. We've had too much, okay, of all of it. But if

you addressed the migration, then the birth rate of those communities is not going to replace us. So you could deal with it. But if we deal with migration, we've still got to deal with Islamic birth rate cuz the through the womb Colonel Gaddafi said we would take over Europe without firing firing a bullet. We'll do it through the biggest weapon we have, the woman's womb. Now there's not a mistake. Seven children are having

on average in France. We're paying for it all. But to the people who feel like that, we are a majority white country. We must remain that. Or it no longer ceases to be Britain or England. The culture

disappears. It changes forever. There's a thousand years of English white Christian history here. >> And why does that matter? Why does that culture matter? Why does it matter? Cuz

that culture is Britain. That's our culture. Why are we going to give it away? Our forefathers fought in wars, in battles, sacrificed, bled, died, suffered, tortured, everything to protect our culture, our identity. Our culture is the most superior. Let's stop

pretending all cultures are equal. I have this debate when I had it with journalists. I said, "Well, Islamic culture? We go living in Islamic country then if you think it's so great." Where a woman is a property of a man.

[ __ ] culture. We are the most superior, advanced culture in the world, which is why everyone wants to come to our country. There's 50 Islamic nations. Go there. Why don't you want to go there? Cuz

they're all They're all Sharia-driven [ __ ] holes. >> But the people that are getting These young people that are getting a 6-lb coffee with like 12 pins on their backpack, they don't They're my noise. >> I know that they don't Well, Now, there's there's a lot of You see a lot of them in the in the posh little London, but what I mean is there's an awakening that happen from working-class Britain that's coming in every town. I understand, but I'm saying that those people it seems like convincing them through this idea that their ancestors had fought for them and that Britain had fought for them. Obviously, I get it, but I don't think that that is going to hit a nerve with them.

>> no, no, no, they just need to know the truth about Islam. We need to stop We need to stop hiding the debate. They need to know who Muhammad was. They need to know his crimes. They need to know his views on women, his views on homosexuals. Most of them are liberals.

And I'll say most liberals are good people. And they're liberals cuz they're loving people. But they think all cultures are equal. They think Islam is just like Christianity. Jesus was just like Muhammad. Now, Jesus said turn the

other cheek and Muhammad said cut your bloody head off. There's two vast differences here. Yeah? Two differences in the ideas, in everything, in ways of life. And Islam is not a a religion. It

needs to stop being recognized as a religion. It's a total controlled way of life. It needs to stop being given the the the same recognition as a religion. The last thing they do in the mosque is pray. A mosque is a command and control It's there to command and control the entire community. To change the

community, control the community to Islamize the community. Where do they start all their wars from? In every Islamic country. Where do the wars start? From the mosque. Okay?

It People just need to understand what Islam is. Yeah, but these people, liberals in the UK and United States, it's a very similar mentality. They don't want to paint with a broad brush. It's the last thing they want to do, and I think I think they're willing to die over it. Well, they're going to have to die over it, aren't they? Cuz they'll be getting

killed by the Muslims. Like the left who aligned with the left who aligned with the Islamists in in each battle, whether it be in Lebanon or in Iran, they'll kill straight away. They aligned with them. Many of the If you you're never going to convince a staunch Marxist communist because they're aligning with them for their political ideology. They see Islam as the biggest weapon to help overthrow the state cuz they want to destroy the state, to break the state down, to start again. So, you're not going to convince

them. But the do-gooders, the decent people who are just trying to protect everyone, lovey-dovies, they're going to realize at some point that Islam's going to bite them on the ass or bite their daughters on the ass. So, I don't think any of this could have happened without the education system changing a lot. So, I went to Whitechapel and these other Islamic neighborhoods. I spoke to students that were about in high school, and they went to private private schools where they, you know, dressed up in in Muslim attire, but they were private schools. They weren't public.

>> Are they teaching about Islam in public schools or is it just in private schools? >> I know in public schools. In public schools? >> But they're not teaching the truth about it. They're not teaching them facts about it. They're teaching that Islam

means peace. It doesn't mean They teach that in public schools? >> went to school and they they come My kids all all they were hearing about was Islam. My kids. All they heard about is Islam. I don't mind if they're teaching

them truth about Islam, but then they're not They're teaching them this lovey-dovey version of Islam, how Islam means peace and everyone's beautiful and Oh, Islam's great and you can pray this way towards Mecca. No, Muhammad beheaded people. Muhammad Tell my daughter when she's nine Muhammad married a child her age. Tell the kids the truth. But they're not They're not touching on any of the truth. They're basically

downplaying and bastardizing all of it. Weakening the reality of what Islam is. To lie They're lying to next generation of children. They're confusing them. They're indoctrinating them.

And in those madrasahs you're talking about, they just learn the Quran all day. I know girls who went to those madrasahs. My mate went to one of those madrasahs till he was 11. He had to leave and come to our school. He had to leave cuz they started teaching him his dad had the devil in him cuz his dad was black His mom's a black Muslim Kenyan and his dad was white. They started

teaching him his dad had the devil in him. Those madrasahs are a massive problem cuz so many Muslim kids are not even in the British education system anymore. They're just in these madrasahs learning the Quran seven days every day of the week. So, they're teaching that Islam is a religion of peace. Do they teach about Christianity or Judaism or Yeah, but not as much. Mhm. So, you They

take you to the mosque from the age of six. The kids are taken to a mosque at six years old in every school across the UK. Every school across the UK, national curriculum, they bring all the children to the mosque. They have The girls have to cover their arms. They're not allowed to bring a ham or pork in their lunchboxes to school that day. They And

they want you to pay. When my kids were at school, got a letter, "Yeah, it's going to be £2 they're going to the mosque." What are you talking about? My 6-year-old child So, you're bringing them to a mosque. I I basically just When my They said in my kids' school, I looked up the mosque, looked up the history, went on the website, looked up what they're teaching, just sent it to the school. [ __ ] talk Take our kids

there. What do you mean you're taking our kids there? But again, it's national curriculum. So, what about diversity? >> When did this start becoming part of the national curriculum? Uh yeah, uh

10 years ago. Right, so that's That's what a lot of people are confused about, myself included, which is that we felt in the states that you blinked and this invasion happened. We We did not feel like it was this slow burn, but apparently, like you're saying, 10 years, it's been a while. >> No, the mass immigration recently is something different to what we've always had. So, my hometown Luton's always had a massive Pakistani community the whole way through growing up cuz they controlled everything.

The whole way through growing up. They were They were They were brought in legally. Like don't forget about the 50,000 coming on the boats. 1 million were brought in the year before. 1 million in legally were brought in the year before.

They don't leave. Whether they're coming on [ __ ] student visas, whatever they're coming in, they don't leave. None of them leave. None of them. Yeah, there there seems to be a bit of a misconception about um Muslims being a minority, I feel. I don't know. Like

there's >> That's the biggest weapon they have. >> There's 2 billion Muslims and there's about 2.5 billion Christians. This They're not a minority, right? What started this?

It started 1,400 years ago. This war, which is what it is. Do you know what I I find quite funny when they talk about Israel? I think you think it had started in 1948. What are you talking about? Even I've just been to

Poland. In Poland central, there's a statue which is from 1683 on September the 11th, which was the Polish Hussars? Were they called Hussars? Who was when the Ottoman Empire were prevented at the gates of Vienna from the total onslaught and destruction of Christianity. What was happening then?

Jihad. The same that's happening now. How many Jihad battles have there been? It's gone on for 1,400 years. There's 45 Islamic 45 countries where Islam's gone as a minority and then overthrown the country. Turkey, Syria, Iraq, Afghan

They're all Christian countries. What happened to them? What's happening now in Nigeria? They come in small numbers. They come peacefully. And then

they get to a certain point and just start dictating [ __ ] And that's what they're doing now at 6% in the UK, across Europe, France. No right Get ready for when it's 20%. And the point is I've got three kids. Our job as Englishmen is to protect and preserve a safe and prosperous country for the next generation. That's our kids. Simply being weak and not telling

the truth cuz everything I'm telling you now, people may not like hearing it. If you're watching this and you don't like hearing it, it's facts. It's all facts. It's facts. Muhammad was a barbarian pedophile. It's a fact. That's not my

opinion. It's all from Islamic scripture. He was a warrior. Islam Do you know Islam is a religion of peace? You know that phrase? I hear it a lot,

yeah. Yeah, try and find it before George W. Bush. You won't find it. It was never said in history. No, it was

never said. No, I went through it through the books. Try and find anyone anyone saying it. From my book I wrote I wrote Muhammad's Quran Why Muslims Kill for Islam, which was putting the Quran in chronological order because the Quran at the minute when you pick it up, when Gladstone picked it up, when Churchill picked it up, who both told the truth about Islam cuz there were no Muslims here. Gladstone held the Quran above his head and said there'll never be peace on peace on this earth so long as we have this book. This is a violent and cursed

book. He said that in Parliament. He wasn't talking about an interpretation of the book. He was talking about Islam. Churchill said Islam in a man is like rabies in a dog. It Islam has the power

to bring Europe back to the dark ages. Individual Muslims can show great traits, but when they come together, society goes backwards. Yeah? They believe they own a woman. All these things are facts. These are what

previous leaders knew. Yeah? Why? Cuz when you used to pick up the Quran, it used to be in chronological order. Why is that important? Because cuz of

abrogation, when Muhammad says one thing here, whatever he says later in his life supersedes what he says earlier in his life. So, the peaceful verses in the Quran, they were all at the start. Cuz in the first 10 years of Muhammad's life, he was peaceful. He had 300 followers. 300 followers.

That he brought in rape, war, pillaging, rape, murder, torture, everything, kidnapping. He He found his winning formula. And then he swept through the world with the sword and they haven't stopped since. What I'm trying to figure out next is is voting. So, I spoke to one man um outside of mosque again who barely spoke English, but he repeatedly told me that he was a citizen. He told

me that he took the test and he became a citizen. I don't know if he's telling the truth. Is he telling the truth? >> Probably someone done the test for him. It's probably all done for him. Does

that happen? Yeah, everything happen Everything's fraudulent within their community. Everything. I I spoke to a British man who said that I said, you know, "Are you worried about Sharia law coming here?" He said, "Oh, it's already here. It's They're keeping it on the

down low." What exactly does he mean by that? Because I I did ask him and he said, "Well, if you call the police, you know, if you see >> Mhm. Police don't come. Muslims sort it out themselves. In the Muslim areas,

they don't call the police. They sort it out themselves. They have Sharia tribunals, councils. Mhm. And that's how they deal with things. Right. One of the

things I saw in Whitechapel was it was not It was It was only one group of police. It was two >> Leyton. Is it on the side of Sharia It's Sharia It says on the side of the mosque and you can go into the Sharia building. >> Okay. There was two There was two policemen. I saw them once every like

hour or something like that. But what I did see a lot of was these security guards with these uh vests. Um You know what I'm talking about? Like rain Like some park security or something like this. I don't know. But it was like It

just seemed like Yeah, like their own sort of >> to happen. They They had Sharia patrols going on in London, which was groups of Muslims patrolling the streets. If you're gay, they'd get rid of you. Holding hands, drinking alcohol, they'll come and confront you. They'll stop you.

You shouldn't be doing that here in this Muslim area. But you see what happens is you just get battered. So, if you're drunk and you're walking in a Muslim area, you get battered. If you're a woman, you get harassed, sexually abused cuz you're not covering your hair, you're wearing a short skirt, you'll get terrorized or raped. If you're gay, you'll get violently attacked. Look at

the home of Look at the rise in Tower Hamlets where you was. Go and have a look at the statistics on the rise on homophobic hate crime. Through the roof. All the gay clubs are gone. They're all closing down.

Yeah, and and in those areas, I see the people running for mayor here wearing a hijab. In the UK, I mean, at least in the United States, you become a citizen, you can vote. It's the same thing here. So, you become a citizen, you can vote. So, are they voting in droves?

>> No, they vote in a military fashion. They bust them to the voting polls. It's all organized. Which is what Labour intentionally have opened the borders for. They bring them in. They know

they're loyal voters. They They're happy. See the people you're interviewing? They're happy to be relying on the state. Oh, yeah. The

people I saw in the mosque don't work. They don't want to work. They're quite happy taking the state money and sitting there having seven kids. And what about these markets that I see popping up everywhere where it's like there's just They're on the street or on the side sidewalk. Um Are they licensed to sell stuff there?

>> away with everything. So, they can set up illegal markets. They had them in Manchester for a decade. They used to have all these and then And when the police would come, they'd all warn each other and they'd all shut down quickly. But the police would very rarely go.

They get away with selling fake stuff, stolen stuff. They They get away with everything. They don't The police do not police their communities like they police other communities. Now, other communities, if you put a a sign out on the I'll give you an example. There's a Finnegan's Cafe, black man in Luton. A

very well-respected black man. Had a cafe called Finnegan's. And he put a sign out on the road, just on the pavement, saying Finnegan's Cafe down here. The council would come, harassed him, fined him, friend him. So, he went and videoed and he went to the Muslim area. He just videoed the whole road

where all of them have done it. Yeah. And he said, "How are they not getting done?" Cuz the police are too scared cuz if they went in there, they'd all turn on them. They can't police it.

So, then they get away with everything. Parking tickets, everything. They get away with everything. Why don't they police it? They're too scared cuz they'll come out and riot. They'll come

out and violently attack them. >> They're scared of being killed. Like the police are scared of being killed. >> They're too They're scared of provoking the peaceful community. Interesting. That's it.

That's it. Now, the best thing for a United States audience is that you've come here. And everyone who watches this, don't think this is a problem a million miles away in Great Britain. Cuz this problem is now in your backyard. Yeah. You either deal with it

now or you end up like this. And when you end up like this, it's gets so bad and so severe that no one knows what to do like in Great Britain now. You're at a crossroads. You The only people The only answer people see is civil conflict, civil war. You ask them The majority of the population believe believe we're heading towards civil civil war. The majority of the

population in polls believe we're heading towards civil war. Now, what sort At some point, people start then preparing for civil war. Yeah? It's a natural thing. So, who wants that for their country?

Who wants it? We want freedom. We want love. We want community. We want cohesion. You're not going to get that

out of Islam. That's just It's just a reality. I'm sorry. It's just It's just a reality. So, wake up, America. Is

there anything that you'd like to share with the United States audience? Just that don't believe the media in anything. We We have now created our own media. We are We are now we are saying is we are the media. Due to gentlemen like yourself.

So, I'd say to anyone, support anyone like this. Support any free um free citizen journalists. Mainstream media are the cancer. We are the We are the cure. But to an American audience, just get ready.

Anyone who really cares about Western civilization and wants it to prosper, I would say to come to London and just walk around. That's it. I don't even You don't have to talk to anybody. Just walk around. And that is what this battle is for, Western civilization. Yeah. It's a

risk. If we lose London, if we lose Britain, Yeah. We simply can't. It's not an option for us. And that's why the only option is is going to be to fight.

It's the only option. Thank you, Tommy. Thank you very much, mate. Pleasure. Thank you for watching this exclusive interview with Tommy Robinson. If you

want to watch one of the episodes that we referred to in this podcast, it's right here on your screen, The Rise of Islam in London documented through street interviews and investigations. I'll see you there.