---
video_title: "What I Saw at Charlie Kirk’s Memorial Shocked Me"
video_id: aRdijyI6p00
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aRdijyI6p00
video_date: 2025-09-27T02:59:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Charlie Kirk. Remember the name, he changed the world for the better.
  Support our investigative journalisim: https://buymeacoffee.com/nate3
---
But somebody who was on the front lines of the No Kings protest this last weekend and did a fabulous job is Nate Freriedman, host of the Nate Freriedman Show, independent journalist, where you identified some of these protesters do this for a living. Play cut 296. In closing here, you as a as a young man, I'm guessing you're Jewish. Is that correct? >> Yeah, that's right. And so this takes a

lot of hutbah for you to go out into the streets and you kind of see the the protests and what what what have you learned about the radical left that you wish other Americans and liberal Jews would know? The truth is I went to Arizona with no intention to make a YouTube video about it. If I had planned to, I would have been thinking about questions to ask people there and maybe even confront the few protesters that were outside. But I went just to honor my friend who was assassinated for speaking the truth. The memorial service turned out to be by far and away unlike anything that I've ever experienced in my life. And that's why

I'm making a video about it. [Music]

I've thought about Charlie for most of every hour for the last two weeks. I dropped everything when he was killed and rushed home to be with my family in Boston because the pain was too intense. That's why the last video of me asking college students about Charlie's assassination took place at Harvard and not at NYU. So, this video's purpose is to show you what it was really like in Arizona and how for just the 2 months that I knew Charlie, he wounded up changing my life. So, the night before the service, I decided to go to the vigil that was outside the Turning Point headquarters. I wanted to see where

Charlie built this movement and pay my respects. When I arrived, I saw a few police outside the vigil, which if you think about it is really quite sad how there has to be police outside of a vigil, but that's where we are. Anyway, as I walked through, I noticed a lot of things. One was that the average age were people in their 20s. Do you understand the significance of that?

Rubio and Donald Trump Jr. in their speeches even talked about how they both essentially pushed Charlie away from the concept of convincing college kids to be conservative. They thought it was impossible. In fact, those lines were some of my favorite of the whole ceremony. Charlie always brought out the best in all of us.

When Charlie first said to me during the 2016 campaign, "Hey, let's start doing events on college campuses." I was like, "Whoa, seriously? Come on, man. uh we've given up on that. We're going to let those kids grow up and we'll get them when they start paying taxes.

And I remember thinking back then, I was I'm going to admit to you guys, I was a little skeptical. I said, "College campuses, you're going to do that? Why don't you start somewhere easier, like for example, communist Cuba?" You know, Charlie did the impossible. And this isn't about whether you agree or disagree with his mission to convince young people to vote on the right. It's

about the sheer grit and will to believe in yourself in your mission despite some of the most powerful and intelligent people in the world telling you that it's impossible and then going out and doing it. The second thing I noticed was how quiet it was. Everyone was so respectful, which is a microcosm of how there hasn't been any riots across the country about people's favorite content creator being assassinated at 31 years old. Instead, people are just respectfully honoring a great patriot. Now, I'm just going to let some of these videos play without sound so you can truly feel what it was like to be at the vigil. And just look at how many

families are there, too.

Are you going?

This is awesome.

After going to the vigil, it was time to get back to the hotel and get only a few hours of sleep because as press, we were asked to get there at 5:45 a.m., which meant waking up a lot earlier because my hotel wasn't in Glendale. The hotels in the area around the stadium had essentially been sold out for Charlie's service, which is just the first visual I'll mention of the sheer impact that this man had. I woke up at 3:45 a.m.,

allowing for more than a few things to go wrong with the travel and still get there by 5:45 a.m. I was wrong. The morning started with an Uber notification that said, "All drivers are busy right now." And I was in downtown Phoenix, just 20 m away. So, I went on

lift and it loaded for like 10 minutes, but I was lucky enough to find someone. Now, the car drives up and as I get in, she goes, "What brings you to Arizona?" And I just said, "I'm here for Charlie Kirk's funeral." Her response, "Oh, no. A Trump supporter."

And I just responded, "First one of the day." And she goes, "Yeah, looks like it." What a wild thing to say to someone going to a funeral. And she goes on to tell me how racist Charlie Kirk was and how something like this was bound to happen because of how hateful he was. Now, normally I would have hit record, but as I said in the beginning, I really didn't plan on making a YouTube video.

In this case, I just thought I would be getting a lift to my friend's funeral. I didn't think I would be on the verge of debating at 4 in the morning. So, I ignored her and things stayed silent for a little bit. and she kind of smiles and says, "You know, I didn't like the guy, but this traffic is crazier than when Taylor Swift had a concert here, but this this is for a funeral. I just sat by as she witnessed Charlie's impact firsthand, bumper-to-bumper traffic in Glendale, Arizona at 4:00 in the morning." Now, that is Charlie Kirk. So,

at this point in the drive, it's 5:40 in the morning, and I'm about a mile away from where the press is supposed to meet and walk over to the stadium together. The email says that they absolutely they leave at 6:00 a.m. sharp. So, it's either roll the dice in this traffic that at the time was literally not moving. This was more than bumper-to-

bumper traffic. This was a parking lot. It was either that or run with all my bags because I was leaving for the airport after the service. So, I told myself, I'm not missing this thing. I got out and just ran along the side of the stopped cars and got there just before 6:00 a.m. I also saw many other

families get out of their cars and just walked the rest of the way, too, because again, the cars were not moving. When I finally got to the press staging area just in time, I didn't expect this many people. Granted, I don't think I've ever attended an event as a member of the press, but this clip that you're watching here is just the press going to the stadium. This is not general admission, VIPs, or anything else. This is just press. So, I was quickly getting

acclimated by how historic this ceremony was going to be. Next, we get to our first checkpoint. And I can't show this, but we had to put all of our bags on the ground, and every bit of press equipment was analyzed to the max. Cameras, stands, you name it. This was the type of energy that I was really hoping to see because, well, this was the entire administration under one roof. And yeah,

they were not taking any chances. This place was locked down. It felt akin to inauguration. I did go to inauguration, not as press, but I did overhear some members of the press being like, "This is more security actually than inauguration." After all of our bags got checked, I look across the parking lot and I see General Admission. It's a line

like nothing I've seen before. Not in any movie even. It's a site I will never forget. Imagine it being 6:00 in the morning in Glendale, Arizona, and you look out and see a 100,000 people lining up. Charlie's right hand said that it was even close to 300,000 people. Now,

it was this mixture of, well, of course, there's this many people in honor to support Charlie, but then this utter disbelief that we couldn't talk to Charlie about it. After waiting in line for the second checkpoint, I had finally made it inside the stadium. Walking in, it felt more like a celebration of life than a funeral because you see thousands of people pour into this stadium, not wearing all black, but wearing MAGA hats and Turning Point merch. But on the screens you see remembering Charlie Kirk and the dates are not nearly far apart enough. The entire previous 10 days before the funeral was just about complete disbelief that he was gone. But

by the end of the day, I finally said goodbye to Charlie. And you'll see why that was the case for me and many others at the end of the video. Now around the stadium, you could see pictures of Charlie with his wife and kids. I had two favorite photos. one was this one because well just look at Charlie his brain was like this when you talked to him he'd already know what you were going to say that you started to wonder why am I even still talking but the point is he was thinking harder and faster than you were so for him to close his eyes like this only love could do that then of course this photo because you can just see how happy he is people are remembering Charlie just by the debates he did but I encourage you to remember him for photos like this you just watch this clip and you will >> I can tell you I'm super blessed. I have

the best wife in the world. We have an amazing life. Building a family is the coolest thing ever. And I my prayer for all of you is that you one day can do that. It's >> that's so cute.

>> It's um it's honestly the most joyful thing. And I you know I've had some pretty amazing experiences. I've been very very blessed. Very lucky you could say, but very blessed is the word I would use. And the greatest joy I've ever had is coming home to my little daughter running up to my leg. There's

nothing that even comes close to it. not flying on Air Force One, not meeting with presidents. That's all that pales in comparison to your little girl coming up and squeezing your leg. >> For millions of people in the country, they didn't want Charlie to have that. It wasn't just Tyler that helped pull the trigger. It was the ideology that's

perpetuated on college campuses and across legacy media that violence is acceptable. Now, when I asked Harvard kids about 32% of their peers believing that violence is acceptable to prevent someone from speaking on campus, many were surprised it wasn't higher than that. There was like 32% of Harvard students surveyed that it's acceptable to use violence to prevent someone from speaking on campus. Does that surprise you? >> I thought it'd be like maybe a little bit higher.

>> Oh, higher. >> I feel like I feel like Yeah, I feel like Harvard's quite liberal. >> He basically just said that the more leftwing you are, the more violent you are by going, "It doesn't surprise me. Harvard is pretty liberal. Now, just think about how crazy that is. That our

top university, a third of the students there believe it's okay to hurt people you disagree with. So, now I'm walking into the press area on the floor of the stadium at 8:03 a.m. and I see these people already seated. And I just know that they must have been waiting outside since practically last night to already be in the stadium. I just smiled at all

of them because they too dropped everything and were here to honor Charlie. When I got there, I was offered to be on a panel by NTD, the same news station that interviewed me about the paid protest that I've investigated. >> Besides being on his show, you actually shared a meal with him. And you've also said before he seemed wiser beyond his years. Talk to us about that.

>> Yes. So, Charlie, you know, it's impossible to believe that he was only 31. When you spoke to him, it felt like you were speaking to someone twice his age. His knowledge, there wasn't any religious text he didn't know. You could ask of any concept in economics, any industry, and he would know. And what

was so incredible about Charlie is that while you were trying to learn from him, he would try to learn from you. He really wanted to know what I'd been seeing on the street so that he could connect with voters better. So, I just wanted to learn from him, but him wanting to learn from me was just incredibly meaningful. And I got to see the magic that was behind Charlie, which is this pursuit for knowledge is completely unprecedented. Now, it was time for the speeches. And I want to

highlight a few particular moments that were especially moving to me. What I believe didn't get enough coverage in the media were the statements made by not the administration, but the people who knew Charlie from the very beginning. I sat in the stadium listening to this woman, one of Charlie's first donors, and she gave me a muchneeded smile telling this story. Almost 12 years ago, I met this bright young man filled with optimism about his plan to reach young people. I was so impressed that I invited him to come to our home and tell my husband and me more about his organization.

Charlie told us how he wanted to start two chapters in North Florida. When asked how much money it would take, he told us he thought it would take about $50,000. Not knowing anything about this young man except that he sounded impressive, we told him that if he could raise the first half, we would give him the remaining 25,000. Two days later, Charlie called to say that he had raised the money. He [Music] >> Charlie coming back two days later just reminded me of his just undeniable sensational work ethic. When Charlie

invited me to an event with a few other creators, we were listening to him interview someone very famous and influential. In the middle of the interview, Charlie just goes, "I gotta go do my show, but I'll be back." Now, that's who Charlie was. I don't think he ever for a second lost sight of the mission. That's why whenever a speaker would mention Turning Point USA, the crowd would roar because even from the outside, we all saw Charlie sink his blood, sweat, and tears into building Turning Point. Next, I loved listening

to Mikey McCoy. I never met Mikey, but one time at that same event this summer, I was sitting in the hotel lobby with one of the other creators, and this creator turns to me and says, "You know who that is?" I said, "No, sorry. Who is that?" He said, "That's Mikey McCoy, Charlie's chief of staff. When you see

him, that means Charlie is only a few minutes away. They're always together." Mikey in his speech shared how he met his wife building Turning Point with Charlie. The first time I met Charlie was when I was driving him and his then girlfriend Erica to the airport after he had spoken at my father's church. The entire car ride he was grilling me on Aristotle, Socrates, Plato, American history. At the end he said, "Don't go

to college. Come work for me instead." At 18, I canceled my college plans, moved to Arizona. My life was forever changed by Charlie. My first day working at Turning Point, I met an incredible girl who Charlie was interviewing on his podcast, sharing the story of her family who had survived a totalitarian regime, whose grandfather was imprisoned in the Goologs for 10 years for preaching the gospel.

Elizabeth and I were married a year later. Thank you, Charlie. This is when I got to realize that Charlie did that for likely hundreds of other couples. This wasn't just any organization. It was one that brought together people of similar age with similar values. That's going to end up

with a lot of weddings. So kudos to you, Charlie. Not only did you build an incredible company, but you helped others find their soulmate. Now that is priceless. Next was the only speech that brought me to tears, and it was one of the very first ones, Stacy Sheridan. I'm

just going to play a moment from her speech, but I encourage you to listen to the whole thing later. As with all the speeches, >> yes, technically Charlie was my boss, but it really never felt that way. Far more than my boss, I felt like he was my little brother. In 2022, my husband Mike became sick with cancer. Two years later, that cancer took his life.

Throughout those two years, Charlie called me consistently to ask how he could help us. At one point, he had critical medication and an oxygen machine sent to my doorstep without my knowledge. I still to this day have no idea how he made that happen. Sometimes I would express guilt to Charlie that I couldn't do my job at 100%. Charlie's response every single time was family first.

When Mike ultimately passed away, Charlie and the entire team were there for us yet again. They helped my daughter Grace through the unbearable tragedy of losing her father on her 9th birthday. But Charlie's help didn't stop there. This January, I lost my home in the Pacific Palisades fire. Charlie's response was very clear and very direct.

This is a sign you and Grace belong in Arizona. Now, Erica, Grace, and I will support you and your babies the way you and Charlie were there for us in our darkest days. Charlie, we will miss your words of wisdom, your high-pitched laugh. It was kind of awkward. And the way your voice would always soften when you spoke to Erica and your children.

And I promise we're going to make TPSC so TPUSA so big that it reaches you in heaven. [Applause] I imagine you can see why that one hit the hardest. Next up, I loved hearing Charlie's producer, Andrew Kulvit. I didn't know Andrew well, but he was the guy that I briefly talked to before going on Charlie's show. He told me to send in my favorite moments and just like he was just on top of everything.

And listen to what he reveals about Charlie here. He read every single email you all sent to him. That's why he said every single day, send us an email at freedom@charlleykirk.com. Send us your thoughts. If you agree, you

disagree, and we want you to keep sending us those emails. And this is a true story. At the end of every show, I had a little ritual of my own. I would go into the scent folder of freedom@charlkirk.com and sure enough every single show I would find debates that he was having with his audience that disagreed on some minor point.

There would be email chains six or seven emails long all while Charlie Kirk was hosting his own show. It's truly remarkable. >> You can see that with Charlie, none of what he did was an act. Over the course of those two days where I learned from Charlie in person, he'd always talk about the marketplace of ideas. He won in the marketplace of ideas and that's why he was shot because nobody could beat him in a debate. Now, one of the

most moving realizations I had was not only did Charlie and his organization get Trump elected, but many of the most productive members of Congress wouldn't be there if not for Charlie. Anna Paulina Luna, who I personally admire very much because she's serving on the oversight committee and actually looking into the same people that I'm investigating for doing all of these paid protests like Roy Neville Singum who is a Marxist billionaire living in China funding these protests across America. Luna sent a letter to the Treasury Secretary to do a formal evaluation into Singum to determine if they need to freeze his assets. Now, she's actually been going on Fox and getting this out there, even on Joe Rogan, and just getting it out to as many people as possible, and I've never met her, but um thank you, and please keep doing that. Now, it turns out that Anna Paulina Luna would not be a congresswoman if it wasn't for Charlie.

She was going to go to medical school, but Charlie offered her to be the head of Hispanic outreach at Turning Point, and they tabled together at a university here. From there, she gained the momentum to get up to Capitol Hill. One of the thousands of stories of people whose lives completely changed because of Charlie. Now, when I went to get some food at the stadium, I was in line with a woman I'd never met, and she asked me where I was from. I then asked her where is she from, and she said, "Cal." So, I

said, "Did you drive 6 hours this morning to come here?" And she said, "No, we came here yesterday, but we got here at 2:00 in the morning to wait in line." Just think about that for a second. My family drove 6 hours, stayed the night, and then got up at 2:00 in the morning and stood in line for 8 hours to get into the stadium for a chance to get into this stadium to honor Charlie. There wasn't a guarantee that morning. She told me that she was a real

estate agent and that people keep coming to her to sell their home in California. And why so much now? Well, she says it's woke policies. They're sick of the transgender agenda being perpetuated in schools, not just in the media, but schools. And that's where a lot more people draw the line. Now she's on the

front lines hearing that information straight from the horse's mouth and she was at the service because she knew Charlie was fighting for her family's values. Something so beautiful that Turning Point did for this memorial is that they would play a little video of moments that the next speaker had with Charlie. They were pictures one after another, but it geared the audience up for who was up next. And the roar for Tulsi was one I won't forget. Now, there was a roar for many others, but the Tulsi one hit me in most because she used to be on the left and this audience of all people knew that, but they embraced it. Tulsi was debating Kamla in

the primary. Then she was put on the TSA watch list under the previous administration. And now she's the director of national intelligence. You talk about a comeback. And now for the moment that many of us traveled across the country to bear witness to, Erica Kirk. She was about to give the speech

that would echo for eternity. 100 million people tuned in across the globe to hear Erica talk about her beloved Charlie. Everything about this speech was memorable, but what will be burned into my mind is how long Erica took to get to the podium. That bulletproof glass surrounding the podium of an indoor event after it already had intense security because the worst evil walks among us. But the way that she looked up, remembering Charlie and knowing full well that this would be one of the biggest speeches of all time was just incredible to even be in that same room.

Now, this was the line that if someone asked me about this speech in 40 years, I'd be able to recite it word for word. >> He was 18 years old. a man barely out of high school, running around the halls of the RNC without a dollar in his pocket and a single contact in his phone. People who saw him said that he didn't know what he was doing, but he did. He did know what he was doing.

He knew exactly what he was doing. He was going to change the world and he did. >> That's the kind of line in that the way it was delivered could only come from a family member who loves you more than life itself. Now just imagine her husband is murdered for speaking the truth, leaving her and two beautiful children behind. And then within 11 days, the board elects her to be the CEO to carry out Charlie's and her vision.

And then she organized the biggest memorial service this country has ever seen for a civilian. All while being a mom having to explain to her one and three-year-old that their father won't be coming home. That is a hero, a lioness, a phoenix from the ashes. There was a moment over the summer at this event where we were having dinner in the same hall as Charlie and his wife Erica. My chair was positioned directly opposite and diagonally from Charlie and Erica. In my

peripheral, I saw the way that they looked at each other. And it's the same way my parents have looked at each other after being married for over 40 years. It's no other word than love. It's purely unconditional love between two people trying to achieve one mission. And my heart has shattered over what they have taken from her and her children. Next up was President Trump.

And this was the second time I had seen him far away in person. once was at the Madison Square Garden rally and this was the other time. And that's crazy to see him in person because you realize that he is just a person like you but with the weight of the world on his shoulders. I was talking to some members of the press that travel with the president and they were talking about how difficult it is to keep up with Trump and how quote with Biden he never moved. Trump did Trump things where he delivered a moving speech while also giving the audience a muchneeded laugh after a day of tears. But I did a double

take when I realized that he was talking about paid protesting here. I couldn't believe it. I mean, all those long nights investigating these NOS's, talking to these people in person that are trying to destroy our country. And here's the president talking about it. I remember when he posted my work a couple months ago. It was one of the best days

of my life. This just like then when he posted my work, it just came as such a surprise. Take a listen. Many of these people, by the way, are paid a lot of money to do this. They're agitators. They're paid

agitators. Remember that. When you see they all have the same beautifully printed sign. Every sign is identical. Comes out of a top level print shop. That's not the

signs that are made in somebody's basement. Those are paid for by very bad people. And hopefully we're going to be finding out through the DOJ who those people are.

Now, as the speech was ending, Trump brought Erica onto the stage, and like you, I saw the way she hugged Trump and how Trump embraced her as family. It felt to me like the media never shows this side of Trump. Now, you can be from the left or the right, but you can't deny that this embrace is that of a father and a daughter. Now, I don't know anything about Erica and Trump's relationship. I only saw this hug and I just sat there hoping that it gave Erica a little bit of solace after the hardest 11 days of her life that a sitting US president gave the eulogy to her husband who was only 31 and that Trump along with his administration will look after her. Two planes, two presidential planes

came to Glendale, Arizona and so many members of the House and the Senate were there and not even to speak but just to honor Charlie. Now, as I turned away to go to the airport, I saw this. They didn't use this picture until after the ceremony was over. Remembering Charlie Kirk, 1993, 2022. That's when it truly hit me that he was gone. I had been

denying it for the last 2 weeks. Every day waking up and thinking that I'll see a new Charlie video or see him at the next event. As I walked the steps out of the stadium, I said goodbye to my friend, knowing that the world would never be the same again. It hurt in two ways. One was because he was becoming a mentor to me and two because I genuinely believe he was the greatest soldier for Western culture. Maybe it all occurred

to me then because it was like conditioning. It was so many speakers coming up that knew Charlie much better than of course I ever will. But saying that he's gone, you know, you hear it enough times and you start to believe it. Finally, at the airport, seeing the Turning Point hats and signs was one last reminder that people traveled the world to honor Charlie. I will miss you, Charlie. No

one can even get close to filling your shoes. But we know what your mission was, and all we can do is fight it in our own way now. [Music]