---
video_title: "I Confronted ICE Protestors..."
video_id: uxJgZMl0ki0
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uxJgZMl0ki0
video_date: 2025-06-13
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/friedman for a better way to stay informed on US Politics. Subscribe for 40% off unlimited access to the Vantage Plan through my link.
  
  X: https://x.com/NateFriedman97
  0:00 Interviews
  10:52 Ground News
  11:52 Interviews
  
  New York, ICE, Nate Friedman Show
---
putting people in danger.

Get out. My name

Obama deported more people than Trump. What do you say to those guys? What encourages you and others to cover your face? My press pass, right? Yeah, I am.

What are you going to do with my uh information? I feel like you Antifa. You are all right. You look equipped. Like you look ready to go. So get

describe the fit. You know, I got arrested 12 times last year. 12 times. 12 times at protest. The protests in New York are getting more and more intense. Even throughout

this night, it gets crazier and crazier. Many are left wondering if we are going to become the next LA. Videos like this are going to help you figure out whether that's going to be the case. Enjoy. Welcome back to the Nate Friedman show.

Yeah. Can you tell me about it? Um, basically it says Melissa Migra. It means like cursed the migra like curse the um like curse ice really. Like I'm catholic. So this is like completely

against my beliefs. Like nothing that's going on is righteousness. It's act it's just Can you go into more of that of how Catholicism is against what what's happening here? Well, I'll start. Okay.

I'm Dominican. I think the whole flag on obviously I come from a a place with like a lot of diversity. Like we got people of all colors. This is something and to see like the people who are supposed to protect us coming against us. This is this is not this is not righteousness. This is just this is

just damn I don't know how I don't know how to word it for sure. What do you say to those people that say like um well people can come in they just got to come in legally and separating the difference between legally and illegally. What are your thoughts on that? This America is like is very glorified in second world and third world country. This is that's why so many people want to come here but they get here and they realize the hardships that they have to go through. They don't see just like

they they don't see in retrospect is how bad it is. They think that this is like the the land of the free like paradise. But really like the American dream is just going a and it has been for the American dream is dead. So like the people who come here, they think that it's going to be easy. They think Yes.

having to go through the hardship that nobody should have to go through and you come here and it's basically the same Yeah. Yeah. I don't know what she's talking about here. So she says it's basically the same I keep thinking that I'm going to hear it all at these protests, but that's never going to be the case. Her argument is that we need to make America better for the people who are here illegally. And

they're waving the flags of the countries that they don't want to be deported to. But America is also not good enough. Uh uh let's just keep watching it. It gets worse. So I'm going to ask you one controversial question that I hear from the other side. Okay.

I'm all over X. They say, "Well, Obama deported more people than Trump." What do you say to those guys? Yeah, but he did this in a in a in a matter of like time. This was smoothly. You wouldn't

hear about like mass deportation on the news. You would just hear I'm sorry I have to interrupt. you wouldn't hear about mass deportations on the news and therefore it's not happening. Yeah, that's why people don't trust mainstream media anymore. Like, she's just saying the quiet part out loud. While Obama was

president, I by the way, it's a fact that he deported more people. I had to frame it that way because if I said that it was a fact, she would say, "Where's your data?" And it would be a long thing. It's just amazing that Obama didn't do mass deportations because the media didn't frame it as that. You wouldn't hear about like mass deportation on the news. You would just

hear, "Oh, uh," and it would it would be specifically like bad people. I would always see, when I was little, I would always see, oh, uh, drug cartel, uh, busted in San Francisco and this and here. That's that's good. You're getting people who are, um, bringing down the country. Yeah, you're getting them out and bringing in a chance to bring in new people who can actually like raise the the stakes like but yeah, okay, maybe even more so than the last time.

This is showing you the power that media can have over people and why I just go on the ground and ask people questions because look at what a spin can do to somebody's mind. This is crazy. She says that Obama went after bad people so it's fine. Let's just look at Boston because I was just there. Operation Patriot that took place, 1,400 ICE arrests in Boston.

790 of them had prior criminal convictions. Some of these people included a child rapist who was convicted and deported in 2017 and then came back illegally. The same goes for LA. If you look at these guys, they're deporting many, many of them have done horrific, absolutely horrific things. So Trump's approach to deportation is honestly quite similar to Obama's, but it's just under very different scrutiny.

Really quick question for you guys. Um, I see the goggles. Are you like are you preparing for something? Um, I don't want to be on media. Okay. Do you want

to talk? I'm just chilling around. I just like the view. You need to ask him. No, he actually doesn't. It's a public

It's a public street. No, but like that's fine. If you want to be among us, if you want to be among us, you need to respect the culture of like you can ask people before they want to be filmed. I understand. I understand. If you're not

going to be like amendable to the culture in New York City, I don't need to leave. It's a public sidewalk. You need If you're going to be among us demanding quotes from us, you need to respect the people. This is basic journalism. This is basic journalism.

Okay. Okay. Okay. If you're not and flip your badge around. We want to see who you are, please. You want to see my

press? Yeah. Go ahead. My name is Nate. Why Why are you keeping it backwards?

Cuz it flipped over. Here you go. I don't understand what your issue is. It's a public street. I was just curious what the the goggles were for. I mean, you've seen what

happened in our way. So, it's Yeah. So, were you planning on starting something? What? Were you planning on starting something? It seems I'm just a person

here. Like, I was just walking around. So, yeah, I'm coming after work. I just uh check. So, you're friends with that guy or was a girl? I don't know. I don't

know. I was just walking around so I was just talking. I was like, "What's going on?" type of So, I was like curious. Sure. Yeah. There's people been

around. I mean like you know it's like like you say it's a public area so what the why are there cops in our streets right okay well tell me about that that's that's interesting so I'm not here to interview by the way I'm just talking like you want to keep the footage yeah we're going to keep it who are you

putting people in danger

[Music] So, yes, literally as we were filming that, a fight broke out in the middle of this circle. Um, something surely a protester agitated a cop. We didn't see the very beginning of it, but cops don't just randomly attack protesters. Um, so when that happened, I noticed that the NYPD covered the area super super quickly. And before this point, uh, there had been actually four arrests that have been made already. So clearly

the NYPD, their approach to these, you know, riots are much different than LA. I would say they're handling it much, much better. Officer, deescalate yourself. I'm professional. [Music] Why are you taking a photo of me? Cuz I

can't. Are you interested in asking me anything? Go ahead and ask me something. I don't want to. No. Go ahead.

You want to say anything? I'm not hiding my face. You're hiding yours. You want to say something? Put your hand on your face. I'm not putting

my hand on your face. You have to hide security guard. How could you? You want my press pass? You're pressed, right? Yeah, I am. Okay,

good. What are you going to do with my uh information? You want to say what you're going to do with my information? Should I add you on Facebook? We're going to be friends. Okay, I can't wait.

Hey, what the was that? Why are you scared? You're the one. What? You're the one who roasted people.

Well, he threw a water bottle cuz you're the one harassing people. Who am I harassing? Clearly us. How? You're getting all up in our faces. I'm

literally on a public sidewalk filling. You don't have to be on them. So, she says that I'm harassing them when they threw a water bottle at me. And before this all happened, they're the ones who came up to me and started taking photos of me. Now, much to my surprise or not really. He did not

friend me on Facebook and I would have loved if he did because then I would able to see him without his freaking mask on. And another thing, this is part of their playbook. So, again, I was not interviewing anybody. I was literally against the wall just watching the protest and they come up to me and taking photos of me. Then they're like, "Put your hand on my face." Okay. And

then they throw a water bottle at me. You can see that this is just instigating, instigating, instigating so that when I throw a punch or if I throw a punch, whatever, they can say, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa." Okay, there you go. Now, next up is this guy. I'm going to go out on a limb here and just assume that he's very upset about something.

So, I just went ahead and asked him, "Yo, can I can I ask you about the flag? I don't recogn Is it is it a Palestine flag? Palestine. It's Palestine in Arabic. Oh, is it Arabic? Okay. Can you

tell me about um what you're doing out here? I'm protesting against uh what the Trump regime is doing with regard to ICE and more broadly with its murderous foreign policy. It's policies of supporting the 1% against the working class of this country. Uh assault on the working class. Really unprecedented assault on the working people. Tell me

about that assault. Like what is the assault on the working class? attacking uh Medicare or attacking uh Medicaid um gutting the various branches of the government, federal government, giving uh tax cuts to the 1%, massive support for the regime of Israel that's committing genocide in Palestine right now. There is no genocide. Genocidal armies don't warn civilians before attacks. They don't send in food and

they definitely don't deliver millions in aid to the people they're trying to wipe out. That's just not how genocide works. Now, we'll get back to this future Nobel Prize winner in just a second, but real quick, the FBI just arrested a man passing out riot gear at the anti-ICE protests in LA. And have you noticed that depending on what news source you're reading, it feels like something entirely different is happening at these protests. The left is focused on how much it's costing to deploy the National Guard, while the right is highlighting how immigrant voters have swung 40 points toward the GOP since 2020. Not exactly what you'd

think if you were one of these protesters. Now, I only know all of that because I read Ground News. Ground News is the only news app that shows you how the same story is being covered across the political spectrum. And my favorite feature, the blind spot feed. It doesn't just show you what's trending, it reveals what the left and the right are ignoring. You see what they don't want

you to see. Now, if you're tired of the media's one-sided spin and want to take control of your news, subscribe now to get 40% off the Vantage plan at ground.news/freedman. The link is in the description or just scan the QR code. you'll be directly supporting this channel and helping me continue to have security at these protests. And now back to the streets.

That's not to say that things were good before, obviously, under Joe Biden. Biden was a criminal himself, a horrible leader. How was Biden a criminal? Well, basically, many of the things I mentioned about Trump apply to him as well. Apply to him. But Trump is taking

it to a much more extreme level, certainly. Okay, cool. And can you tell me, I like your cath. It's red and white. I mostly see black and white. Can

you tell me about the catha and what it symbolizes? The Kufia is a it's an Arab uh garment um and it's very much associated with Palestine and um you know it comes in various different colors. Um it's sort of a symbol of support for Palestine and Arab liberation but it's also more broadly just a cultural um piece of clothing within our culture. And like for people, the folks that are covering their faces, is it like a is it worrying about employment or what what encourages you and others to cover your face? I think it's a number of things. Um, employment,

uh, doxing. I love that he says doxing because his other Hamas uh, fanboys came up to me and took photos of my press ID all in their masks while I didn't have one. Yet, they're the ones complaining about doxing. So peace in Palestine, do you believe that it can be achieved while Hamas is in government or No, I think that's the choice for the Palestinian people to decide. That's not the choice of the United States. You know, it's

funny. The United States, the Trump regime likes to talk about American sovereignty supposedly being under attack um because people have flags from other countries. That's somehow an attack on American sovereignty. But the US thinks it can dictate to countries around the world what government they have. That's not America's decision.

That's the decision of the people that live in the land and they elected Hamas. So, we'll just have to see, right? Yeah. I would say what really needs to happen is that the Muslims, Christians, and Jews need to come together and unite against this extremism of Zionism because Zionism doesn't represent the Jewish people. Many many Jews are against this ideology. Yes. A

lot of self-hating ones. Unfortunately, now what's fascinating about this guy is he talks about we need to unite against the extremity of Zionism. Okay, what does that mean for the 7 million Jews that live in Israel and the 2 million Arabs that live there as well? In Israel, Arabs serve as doctors and members of parliaments. Not a lot of Jewish members of parliament in Gaza.

They don't even have a parliament. So, I'm not sure that Israel is the extreme one here, my friend. So, now the video is going to feel a little bit more raw. I'm going to show you kind of just you'll be my eyes and ears throughout this protest. It gets crazy. We even see

a very familiar face of the protest. So, uh, enjoy. I know your mom is disappointed in you, bro. You could have did anything with your life, but you chose the NYPD. You got to stop reading them dumbass train ads, bro.

Like, that's why we tearing them down. So, stop getting like you off the street. There's six figures in all these crowds. Looking up on 58. Look up the badge numbers. Go to the website

5A and see see the six figure salaries they have worship

white cop y all children of the devil anyway all the black people I don't know what's wrong with y'all listen you got to know though you know what's really important they were all probably what fifth generation Americans here sixth generation all fought the civil war sound like there's no no immigrants in this crowd. You deport your own daughter probably right there. English is the native language, right? English is your native language. No, no. Like I

got Well, I'm seeing some tattoos. Yeah. Wait, I think they deported people with tattoos. You guys are You guys worried about that? Can I ask you about that? Um, you're saying they

deported people with tattoos? Like, how does that work? I think they didn't deport. I'm just saying they were using that as justification. Like, oh, because I mean I'm being hyperbolic. MS13 tatto.

I really wish I could go to just every protest that's happening across this entire country at the same time and get people to just be like, "Yeah, I'm being hyperbolic." Like, at least this guy admits it. At least he admits that what he's saying is ridiculous. Like people are going to get deported cuz they have tattoos. Then I heard this absolute beauty call the police officers Nazis. So I bit

That's the side you're on. You have to live every single night knowing that. Yes. I cannot hope it feels great. I got a quick question. Are you calling them Nazis?

I'm not engaging. You're not? Well, that's a pretty just big claim. So, I wanted to know what you meant. You said he's not engaging. Let's not do that.

All right. So, you're bodyguarding for him. He just says want to engage. You should fat boy off to attention. Matt, you're taller than him.

I know. Go off. I know you're turned off. You were just calling him a Nazi. So, I was interesting. Happy Pride Month, baby.

Does he Does he put Jews in gas chambers? I don't know. You tell me. That's what Nazis do. So, I just figure if if he's a Nazi, that's what he does.

No. If he doesn't want to engage, he doesn't want to be. So, this is kind of a classic with these protests. Say something utterly preposterous and then fold under no pressure when you're getting asked about it. Uh, then I saw these two people that were just yelling at each other and I went to go find out what that was about.

No one likes you, bro. No one likes you. You're not ugly. You're ugly. You're ugly. Get out. You're ugly. You're ugly.

You're ugly. Both of you guys are ugly. Get the out. Get the out. Get the out.

You guys are ugly as No one likes you. No one likes you. You guys are mad annoying. You guys are so annoying. That's all it is. You guys are annoying.

You guys are mad. I'm being annoyed. That's all. I'm annoyed by this What is he doing? I don't know. Oh, he's

just harassing people. I don't You can see that her vocabulary is not the best. Who is he? I don't know. He's a streamer of some kind. They both are.

They're over here. They're asking They're asking us questions. She's She's with you. We're all just We're just everyday people just like

You don't got no one on camera. Who's the moderator? Now, before I moderate this debate, I do want to tell you something kind of cool. So, when I was at the protest, uh I saw a familiar face. I saw Nick Shirley, and I had never actually talked to Nick or or seen Nick in person. Um, you know, we're both

boots on the ground journalists. I respect him tremendously. So, it was it was cool. I I saw a ton of people around him, people that don't look very nice, you know, all messed up, cathas and everything. And uh he was being surrounded, so I was like, "Oh my gosh," you know, like I I was kind of I mean, I know he can handle himself and there was police there, but I really just wanted to provide some backup. So I cut through

the crowd and just want to, you know, shake his hand, make sure everything's like good. Uh so after the protest, you know, I had seen that the NYPD kind of helped Nick get out of that situation. And then yeah, I saw a message on my phone that was actually from Nick and said, you know, hope you're okay and hope you're safe. And I said the same thing to him. And yeah, it was great. It

was awesome to uh to meet Nick in that way, too, like in that fashion of seeing like a fellow journalist that was surrounded and just cutting through the crowd and and genuinely like wanting to help, you know? Oh, yeah. And right before I went to cut through the crowd, I saw this guy. I didn't I didn't know who he was. And then later I saw CNN's coverage of this protest and here he is. That's that's

CNN. Three words. Three words. Mind your business. Mind your business. You little

twink. That's not three words. Good job though. You know how to count. It's literally bothering people. It's

boys bothering women. Just ignore them more than bothering you came up to us a pair and bother a man. Nobody's bothering and bother a man. See what happens. Go a rest of y'all and bother a man.

And bother a man. I feel like you Antifa. You are outright fascist. You are outright fascist. I'm an allight fist.

Yes. I antagonize these people. You are outright fascist. I'm telling you women. You know what? Cuz I'm tell

it ain't a woman thing. Two women. But I can do that. Shorter than you and then another woman shorter than me. You act like I'm 53. No, you're

not even that tall. 5'8. I'm 5'8. No, babe. I'm about I'm I'm 5'11. How

you going to play with me like the best players think I'm Why are you calling her a fascist? Huh? Why are you calling her? Cuz the white women out here to antagonize They ain't here for no reason. We didn't ask the gay white men why they out here. They say it's pride

month. They out of school. They ain't got to do. And the white women out here, they talking stuff when it's white women that gave birth to like Donald Trump. What do you think about ICE? Huh? What do you think about ICE?

What I think about ICE? Ice? No. Ice? Don't Ice? Hold on. Hold on. One second.

Ice needs to Ice ising wrong for what they're doing. If you are confused right now, just know that I was even more confused. I assure you. Listen. Hey, listen.

I love you. You so bro. Listen. Hey, don't trolling women. You know you want just trolling women like respectfully for everyone.

I just came in there just yelling, but like what are we debating? I just saw two girls that I knew between two candles, so I just popped in because of that. Okay. So, these two guys were interviewing somebody. Not interviewing. They were just around

someone from what I saw because both lights the lights are bright. I'll give you that. Yeah. All right. Well, tell me, you look you look equipped like you look ready to go. So, just describe the

fit. The fit is a CS uh mask. No goggles because I couldn't find those. And everything's a shirt basically besides the pants. Is something going to go down tonight? It

seems to be chill. Uh, four people already got arrested today. When did that happen? About 30 minutes plus ago. 30 minutes to an hour ago between that.

Okay. And what are they arrested for? Honestly, for standing on the sidewalk from what I've noticed when we've been told to stand on the sidewalk. Pretty classic. It's a classic one. Me and this

woman are actually kind of getting along and we're going to get into the minds of these protesters here. And this guy with the red cafe just I guess got rid of his flag and was going up and down the street uh filming I don't know me or whatever. But I was that's why I was looking behind me cuz uh you know this guy doesn't look like he's going to do something good. These got to go because they are terrorist group. We know that. The police the police.

Tell me about tell me that. Let me let me That's interesting. Give me a second. Yo, tell me tell me tell me why the NYPD is a terrorist group. Anybody in New York City? Why am I on the You

know what? All right, I'mma do it. Anybody in New York City, you know, you know the one thing that everybody in New York City has in common with each other? They all hate the police, bro. Let Let me Let me ask you a question, man. Since

we doing here, you see you see Instagram videos, right? All this stuff. How many of them How many of the police Now not I'm not going to say they all bad. I'm saying anybody all bad is dumb. All right. I'm educated. I'm not going to

say that But you call them You call them a terrorist group, so let's back it up. They are they are they are a collective. Yeah. Not maybe individually some of them are let's let's keep it parallel. So like another terrorist group would be al-Qaeda.

Is that a terrorist group? Sure. Okay. So let's let's say how they're similar. Sure. Um okay. So I'm going to bring you

back to the I never asked you the question though. How many how many videos have you seen of the NYPD doing NYPD doing good on Instagram or Facebook or YouTube versus them doing bad versus them doing bad? I see them arrested. Like how much stuff do you do? Did you see the video? You know, they they come

in at the Puerto Rican Day parade like what when what was that? Sunday and just start beating up people on Myrtle A for what? What do they do? They go arrest street vendors for what? People just trying to make an honest living for what? They don't even give them a chance

to be like, "Okay, we'll pack it up. We'll go do what you say." Do we know what police in the city? We I'm I have always been against not so much policing of communities, but whatever this is under this capitalistic system. The police are now, they don't police communities, they police property. I'm all for

people in your like community watch, neighborhood watch. That's what police should be. Police shouldn't be out here protecting buildings and protecting vans and and going around protecting people. They should be protecting people. Yes. I

like him. Do they protect people? No. That's what they should be doing because I keep it chill. So, yes. So, so, so

yes, I am against the police. I 100% am. Like, even the good ones. I'm against them, too. Partially cuz I got PTSD. I

mean, you know. Yeah. Um, but yeah, that that no, we don't we don't need them. Like these people right here, how many of them are from the community? Like if you if you look if you go to the Bronx, you go to Brooklyn. I live in Bedstar.

You go to bed. How many cops in Bedstar from Bedstey? Probably not a lot, right? None. I ain't met one cop in Bedstar from Bedstey. I never met one cop in the

Bronx when I lived there from the Bronx. None of them. Where they from? Long Island, Staten Island. Or even even if you got cops in the Bronx, they be from Brooklyn. Brooklyn is a whole two states

over from the Bronx. Do you think they should institute a policy where you you can only police community you grow up in? Yes, actually they should. I I I have family in Hoboken, New Jersey. People probably never heard of it. Small

city. They have a police department. About 70% of their police department comes from community. You don't hear about the Hoboken Police Department wing on people. Like I've never heard about I mean they they have their little issues but I've never heard about them dragging people across the street like shutting down cookouts and block parties for no reason. Why? Because they know each

other. They treat people different. They just don't go on and start arresting people for no reason. Like so yes, I'm a firm I'm a firm believer that the police should police our own community. Well, this version of the police got to go.

They'll never be good as long as they're under this capitalistic society. They'll never be good. They're they're always going to pick property over people because that's what they get paid to do. They don't get paid to protect us. If they get paid to protect us, we'd be alive. If they got paid to protect us,

the MTA would be on the trains protecting people instead of, you know, standing at the gates jumping people over 290 while somebody's getting stabbed two cars down. If you look up any of them on like 50 Oh, like you can see their salaries, bro. Seeing their salaries is really astounding. Yeah. How much is it? Like there's one cop that's

a lady cop. She has number one a settlement for 40k. That's taxpayer money. She gets paid 150k a year. My mother's been a school teacher, preschool teacher for about 25 years now. She gets paid 40k. My dad has

to work overtime to get 60k as a a school bus driver. No, teachers should be paid a lot more. It's it's BS. It's literally insane. Yeah. They don't know

their own laws. You know, I got arrested 12 times last year. 12 times? 12 times at protest. Damn. One time they

kidnapped me. They kidnapped you? Yeah. That mean what happened? They they arrested me off the street for something they thought they saw that they didn't see. It's cool. I got a lost the same

day or something. Oh yeah, 100%. Like they didn't even put me in handcuffs, but arrested 12 times. So, okay. 12 times is a is is more than a few. Like,

were you What were you doing? Protesting. Literally protesting. Like everything I got arrested for got dismissed in court. One time I went to court for an arrest paper and they arrested five of us in a group. Yeah.

And these doofuses wrote the same thing on everybody's paper, but they left the description the same on all five of them. That that's pretty much what you're dealing with out here, bro. Like that that's pretty much what you're dealing with. Like if you ever just sat in court at arraignments for a lot of these cases, like the judges throw most of them out or if they throw throw them out, they go they keep dragging the process. I'm still going through a court case from last year that they don't even have evidence that I did. What's that

case? Uh, I'm not gonna speak about it. Like, that's fair. I'm not gonna speak about it because they don't got no evidence. But I've been arrested before for literally resisting arrest. What

arrest? For what charges? Because you can't detain me. Yeah. How is my only charge? Resisting arrest.

Literally, how is that my only charge? What am I being arrested for? What am I being detained for? Am I detained? If they can't tell me a straight answer, then they're kidnapping me. That's the

stuff for that's why that's why I can't say the police the police the way they are is good. Like how how could you look at them and be like oh yeah they serve and protect the community? I'm like what community? What are you serving and protecting out here? Yeah, but who are you protecting here? Because from what I

see there was I counted at the beginning before there was even protesters at the roundabout because I was bored. I was there by myself so I started counting cops. There was about 10 protesters sitting around like that roundabout thing and there was about 40 cops in riot gear. Full riot gear, batons, everything standing around us. For what?

We were sitting there not even chanting them. Yeah. For what? I got off Canal Street just to walk over to the roundabout. That's a million blocks.

Literally from Canal Street down. Cops all riot gear all line in the buildings for what? like they're escalating before anything even happens because there's no reason why there should be cops in riot gear. There's no reason why there should be military in our streets. There's no reason why there should be assault rifles at people that aren't doing anything. The most that we can do is

throw a water bottle at them. It's comparable to throwing a rock, isn't it? Yeah, similar. Fair enough, guys. All right.

I think just one thing I want to mention about that conversation and the rest, you know, I'll let you guys take in is that the term kidnapping has lost some meaning lately and it's because of this um kidnapping is what occurred on October 7th. Kidnapping is I don't need to describe it. You know what kidnapping is and it's not what they were describing. So I hope that something is done about that. I hope that young people in this country can will stop using that term when it's not appropriate. Anyway, if you guys are

curious who else is getting rich off of the migrant crisis, especially in Massachusetts, just click this video and you will see.