---
video_title: "I Exposed More Paid Protestors"
video_id: nQRqg-kkMrY
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nQRqg-kkMrY
video_date: 2025-05-21
video_description: |
  They put up the Palestine flag over the city hall in Providence, RI.
  MyHeritage: https://bit.ly/NateFriedman
  X: https://x.com/NateFriedman97
  
  0:00 Interviews
  9:03 MyHeritage
  10:35 Interviews
---
harassing people not. So, how do you feel about that? So, right behind me is a Palestine flag that they just hung up. It's 11:00 a.m. They

said that it was planned to raise at 12:00 p.m. We were just walking down the road. You blink and you miss it. They just sneakily put up the flag. This is

an American city. We're in Providence Town, Rhode Island. Providence, Rhode Island. And you see all these news trucks pulling in right now. If you pan over, you can see NBC and you can see uh ABC. Hamas wants to kill every Jew and

destroy Israel. Okay. Okay. I would like to micro. No, no. Can I Can I moderate

this? Let's have a nice civil debate here. Could have happened in two weeks. Don't touch it. You fire this. Let's

have a nice civil debate here. Okay. You got a microphone? I'll give you my opinion. Not going to mention my name. Two two things. That flag that

flag that was raised represents two things. Number one, it does not represent a country. Okay? It had opportunity to be a country and Israel would support it 100% of the time. if Hamas put its arms down. Number two,

that flag represents the destruction of Israel. Okay? Not the Palestinian people. It represents Hamas's goal and agenda is to destroy Israel. That's what that represents. So, any government

official that is proud of hanging that sign should be fired immediately and actually deported from this state. Okay. It's a sad situation. Rachel Miller, thank you. She's behind this. Tell me

about Rachel Miller. Well, she's the president of the council. She's Jewish, which is amazing. And from what I understand, she was one of two counselors and two whole people from the city of Providence that wanted this flag flown. Two people. And you

know what? To to want Palestinians to have their sovereign country. Jews wanted that. Israel wanted that for for decades. They've had more than five opportunities. Were given opportunities

to be their own country. But each time they refuse. Why? Because they don't feel Israel should exist. They they don't want a two-state solution. Their

goal is a one-state solution and that is no Israel. All of so-called Palestine. And what's sad is Jews occupied Palestine before any before he's even called Palestine. So Israel's been there much longer. The proof and the evidence keeps coming by every day. That's that

flag represents the destruction of Israel. It should never be put on any public or even private property, never mind state. Do you believe that any foreign flag should be allowed up there? apparently against it is against the law to put any uh foreign flag on unless there's some ex uh exception dignitary. I don't see I don't see a dignitary number one. Number two, there can't be a

dignitary cuz Palestine is not a country. That's right. So that there can't be a dignitary. Did the mayor have a say? Cuz I'm just trying to understand fully like cuz the mayor is also Jewish.

The mayor just converted to Judaism within the last year. I believe but he would have voted not to do it. Correct. Yeah. He didn't have a choice. Okay. The

state law does state that you cannot put a foreign flag on correct. So that's what I'm just trying to understand. That's not even a foreign flag. Can I add on to this? Yeah. Yeah. So

absolutely. Yes, please. Thank you so much. So I did I did speak to the Providence Police Department about this. I said, "Hey, there's going to be a violation of the law happening. Are you

going to enforce it?" They essentially told me that no, they won't. They won't be enforcing it. And that it's up to the city council and the mayor to decide. And I said, "Hold on, wait a second.

Their role is to write laws. you're a police department and your role is to enforce the law. Yeah. Um I also spoke with the legal team at the governor's office who said, "Well, that law just simply hasn't been enforced for years." So, something's going on in our state and it's clear that there's back back door deals happening between the mayor and the city and the uh Providence Police cuz they really should be the ones taking action on this. And also, I

disagree politely with what my colleague said. I do think that the mayor was responsible and he could have said no. he could have gone against what the city council, the two counselors wanted and said, "I don't stand for this and won't allow it." So, he's right. There actually were five documented times that Palestine was offered peace. The most

notable one being the fourth time when President Bill Clinton offered Palestine 96% of the West Bank and all of Gaza, as well as parts of East Jerusalem, some control of the holy sites, and billions in aid for refugees. Palestine denied it. President Clinton to this day says, quote, "You walk away from these once-in-a-lifetime peace opportunities, and you can't complain 25 years later when the doors weren't all still open and all the possibilities weren't still there. You can't do it." Now, as for the state law in Rhode Island, the young lady is right. The law specifically

states it shall be unlawful to display the flag or emblem of any foreign country upon the flag staff within this state of Rhode Island. I will later speak to a state rep about this who was actually at the protest. Now, before I talk to the Palestine side, you must have noticed this guy ensuring that any journalist or the pro-Israel side couldn't go toward the steps. Well, I suspect that he's a paid protester. Here he is walking towards the protest without the cafe on and no safety vest.

He then says hello to one of these protesters as if they are co-workers and picks up his safety vest. Then he walks down and puts the cathe as if this was at all natural. Here's him at the front and center of a completely different protest all the way out in DC. Here he is at another protest, always at the front. It shouldn't come as a surprise that he works for a nonprofit and it's all the way out in Boston. It's called

the Bar Foundation. Now, let's talk to the Palestine side. I know it's very hard to speak to them once the protest starts. So, I got there early and asked the organizers what they were doing out here. This is what they had to say. I

just talked to the uh Israel side right over there. Do you mind uh saying a few words about what's going on here? Um we can give you uh contact info for our press person. Well, let me talk to you cuz you have the flag here and I think it'd be good. No.

Um I'm happy to give you uh contact info for just a quick interview cuz we're we're I just talked to them. They were happy to talk. So I just want to get capture both sides. anything to say? Um, we're happy to give you contact info for the press person.

I'll take the contact info of the press person, but you're in front of the city hall, sir. Do you want to say anything? Free Palestine will we'll have uh we'll have give you contact information. So, you heard it here, folks. So, so listen.

So, the people behind me are occupying a municipal building and they won't speak for themselves. Now, since the organizers won't talk to me, I'm going to share with you unreleased footage of a documentary that I'm working very hard on. I went to Little Palestine, which is home to the largest enclave of Arabameans in New York City. Now, I went there to learn what the pro Palestine side actually wants. I ended up convincing an owner of a daycare center to talk to me. Outside his business, he

has plenty of ceasefire messaging, but what does he actually want? Keep in mind this conversation is inside of our country. And then ask yourself, is this a turning point for America? How do you want to see the the war in Gaza resolved? Let me let me tell you something about Hamas. Yeah. Yeah. Hamas

was elected by the Palestinian people was election and who was in charge is this country. And what's happened? Hamas win. Mhm. So and after that with the help of this country and the other country like Egypt and then help this guy Abu Mazin or Abbas like a coup against Hamas. Mhm. So Hamas if the

people they don't like Hamas in Gaza Hamas will not will never last for 14 months. So you think they could elect Hamas out the people of Palestine? If they don't want Hamas they will tell them go. What do you think of Hamas? Do you feel that they freedom fighters? The

freedom fight. Yeah. Yes. Okay. Um, do you feel like October the 7th was a success for change history? Yeah. Like it was a good

thing. Change the change the history. So you feel like October 7th was good. Yeah. Of course.

How is this a wall? How How can I get into this line of work to to like to get paid to stand out here? How can I get into this line of work? Is it Craigslist? It's quite ironic. The messaging is all about

tearing down the walls. We heard it directly from them when they occupied Trump Tower. And yet they want to put their own walls up. Now, you'll notice the Palestine side so far has put up a wall, is silent, and hides their identity. On the Israel side, no one is hiding their identity.

They've been open to talk, and they have American flags. There's not one American flag on the Palestine side. This is just the reality you see before you. What else is reality is that I not only love my parents dearly, but they are a key part of the Nate Friedman show. They are often behind the camera, but today you'll actually see my father talk to a protester. Now, given how much my family

means to me, my heritage was a perfect partner for the show. If you've ever been curious what your origin story really is, there is no better way to find that out than to look at your family tree with My Heritage. All it needs from you is to enter in a few relatives manually. Like here I am entering my grandfather into My Heritage and then it begins to autopop populate in minutes because of their instant discoveries feature. My Heritage is trusted by 90 million users and they have 33 billion easily searchable historical records. You may be a

descendant of a king or a president. And let's be honest, that would be kind of cool to know. Now, I wanted to show my dad his family photo from the 1950s from black and white, fully restored in color. And well, here goes. Okay, so I have your family photo right here. Um, I

can actually make it go into full color here. I drop into here. Um, and it just takes like it takes like literally a few seconds. I'm not speeding anything up. And then you can go from left to right. And you can see that that's your

Wow, that's so nice. If you want to do that with your family or just really want to know more about where you really come from, then I can think of nothing better than signing up for the free trial with My Heritage. Just save the link in the description or scan the QR code and enjoy. And now back to the protests. You guys are Jewish. I'm

Jewish, too. Cool. Awesome. Um, so tell me about this. Um, I I've seen Jews that are for Israel, Jews that are not for Israel. So tell me your side. Yeah. So

we are here with Jewish Voice for Peace, which is a This is a far right. [Music] So how do you feel about that? So this guy just walked in, right? And he told you not to talk to me. Is that right? Do

you want to clarify? [Music] How do you guys feel about this? Is it not Is it not pathetic, right, that you come out here, you can't speak for yourself? A guy that's being paid to wear in a safety vest that he bought from Amazon. All right. Comes over here.

You're affiliated with that person. It is a friend of ours. You're not just a random person. So, everyone knows you guys are all friends. I always imagined that. Anyway, everyone who knows who you

are, you're everyone knows you. Everyone knows me. Who you are. They know what you do. Thank you, man. I I I've been working

very hard and everyone knows me. I appreciate that. That's Thank you. New York, right? I'm from New York. Yeah. My

name is Nedman. Yeah. Are Are you Jewish, too? Uh, I am not answering anything for you. [Music] So, this is the all-star who stopped my interview with them, calling me a right-wing reporter. First of all, if

you come to a protest, you should speak into any microphone. The whole idea is to get your point shared. Secondly, by rushing over and stopping the interview, you are essentially announcing to the entire world that you're paid because this took place on a Friday in the middle of the day and you're running around stopping interviews. It's not exactly unpaid behavior. And oh look, this is him or her at a protest all the way in New York City. Remember, these

protests are anything but authentic. Now, as for the guy who says, "Everyone knows me." He's quite the character, I've learned. His name is Stuart Waldman, and he's a professional protester. Here's him protesting Chase.

Here's him protesting in front of the Met. Here's him protesting in front of Trump Tower. And him at even more protest. His Facebook profile picture is literally him being arrested at a protest. The only thing missing from his profile is the rate that he charges.

Here's him organizing yet again another protest. I'm not going to lie to you, this guy does keep busy. We have reinforcements here.

[Music] What I find most interesting about these people is that it's all about acceptance, just not for the other side. You can see it clearly even in Providence because I walked around a whole bunch before the protest. And I found anti-ICE posters basically so people can notify if they've seen ICE. I saw many different flags just not American ones. I saw many signs where it just becomes sign inflation. Like if you

don't have a BLM sign on your door, then you just must be a bigot. I also saw many old buildings steps away from city hall that were completely abandoned. So, it would seem like the city has bigger fish to fry than deciding what foreign flag to fly over its residents. And now back to the protest for a very interesting take by this woman. I think all humans are humans. What's that? All

humans are humans. All humans are humans. Oh, where are you from? I'm from Province. Province. Where your family

originate from? Is that relevant? Although I do I do notice that there's more vital diversity on this side than on the other side. Right. This is the most racial diversity side on this side than on the other side. The reason why I

care about this is I think it's a human rights issue for everyone. Yeah. It's also an issue about freedom of speech. I mean I I when I see you know people that are diverse on the Palestine side, my my question is like I don't quite understand because in Palestine they don't tolerate that. It isn't aparttheid. They only accept Isra. Well,

it's apartheid because of the Israeli state. So, Palestine is an apartheid because of the Israeli states. Obviously, in my line of work, I hear a lot of stupidit that actually may be in first place. And here's why. 99% of Palestine is Muslim. Now, here's the

graph of diversity in Israel. Muslims serve in parliament in Israel. They're doctors, teachers, you name it. Now, good luck running for office as a Jewish person in Gaza. That's going to be the shortest political campaign in human history. But just the idea that Israel

is forcing Palestine to be only Muslim was something I actually have not heard before. As for the free speech issue, many of the free speech protests we see on campuses involve a lot of vandalism. Now, that's breaking the law, and it's important to make that distinction. Now, the organizers of this protest weren't very happy about my line of questioning with this woman. I I do want you to What's the What's wrong? Can I not talk

to her? I'm not checking her in. Sorry. Could I talk to you for a second? Okay, I will. Oh, yeah. Let's talk together.

Yeah, let's talk together. You're going to stop her from talking. Go ahead. Say why you're going to stop her from talking. Take a step away. I'm going to talk to

her oneonone. I'm in a public street. I can do this all I want. Sorry. Okay. I heard you're not allowed to talk

to me. How do you feel that somebody who's paid to be here is going to tell you that you're not allowed to talk to me? How do you feel about that? They did not tell me that I'm not allowed to talk. What did they say? They were

incurred to me not to talk to rightwing people. All humans are human. All people are human. All humans are human who deserve dignity and selfrespect, including Hamas. All people are people.

All people. Now, I'm sure you guys are familiar with the atrocities that Hamas committed on the 7th of October. Now, I'm of the opinion that if you rape, burn, and kidnap innocent women and children, you lose your right to be called people. Every human deserves a right to live and deserves a right to dignity. And to me, it doesn't matter if they're born Jewish or born a Palestinian, born black, born in this country or another country. I think that

we all have a right to dignity. And right now, the dignity of the Palestinians has been taken away from them. And that's not okay. You have a dignity dignity like in other countries like where would Israel take a sample of how to treat Palestinian like in Syria or I'm not going to put a name on it. We know dignity when we see it just like we know what we know what suffering is you know we know what starvation is. These

are things that don't have to describe exactly. It should be obvious. And right now when you see like images coming out of Gaza, you're not actually allowed to go there right now. But look at the I agree with you. I look and they see people with food, but I see a lot of overweight women. How would you say

that? Often you people are overweight because of poverty. You see that in the United States. The poorer you are, the less likely you are to have access to fresh fruits and vegetables. So being overweight doesn't have anything to do with provide them fresh.

You know what? I don't care who provides it, but right now Israel is preventing shipments of food from going in. Egypt. Israel is preventing aid from entering. It's a This is a fact. It's actually not

a fact. Israel does give Gaza food and they are the only country that provides aid to the people attacking them. This would be the equivalent of Britain supplying Germany with food and electricity. Do you think that if Winston Churchill had the option to stop food and power to Germany that he wouldn't take it in an instant? I'm here to support the Palestinian people who it's like who need support and they especially need support from Jewish people because it's the Jewish people who can 99% Palestinians I just said by straight that is not true well they will survey but I mean people well you have to show me that study I'm not going to argue about it until you show me the study interviewers independent uh inside the West Bank in Gaza stream they do their interviews and you look at the statistics. In other words, when you if

you would go to gossip and just stand up say I'm Jewish, I don't know what will happen to you. You know what? I don't know what will happen to me either. But I think one thing is interesting is what's the definition of anti-semite because according to some definitions like the IRA definition, I would be considered an anti-semite. Well, so I think I think that and right now, for instance, a lot of stuff that Trump is saying like all these universities are anti-Semitic because they're teaching history, they're doing other things. So,

so I think you have to look at the you have to look at the actual definition. One question was there, do Jews control the world? You say, yes, anti-semit. Well, that's clearly something that would be anti-semitic. We agree on that, right? That's what 99% of the on the

west I would I would have to see that survey 98% I'm not going to take your Would you change your mind about your stance when you go home and you see the survey and you see that would you be open to changing your mind just curious you know what if I saw a survey that said that I I'd have it would make me sad to know that but I also if that was what the actual survey dead it would I have to get this right I'd understand why people have those feelings like if you know like if if someone goes and kills your entire family and those people Okay now we're going toward understanding those feelings let's stick on to whether or not you if you saw this study and you saw those numbers would you be open to changing your mind um I'm always open to changing my mind about things but I'm not open to changing my mind about what Israel is doing to that Palestine is wrong I'm not open to that at all. Okay. So, if if the study if you see the study that it says 99% of people that are in Gaza want to kill Jews, you wouldn't change your mind about Israel's approach to the war. I'm not talking to you. So, thank you. I have a hard time believing

that study is accurate. So, okay. So, now we're back to whether the accuracy of the time I really have a hard time that if she was in stro on October 723, I'd be killed. I know that. I'm Jewish.

Yeah, I would be killed because they wouldn't give a that you were Jewish. I would be killed some Jewish for a lot of reasons, but a lot of Palestinians are being killed just because they're Palestinians. Like those babies, those children putting them in the way. That's not true. You know what?

I'm ending this conversation because you do not see the true reality of what's happen. So, the number is 97%. 97% of Palestinians hold anti-Jewish beliefs. Also, the leaders of Hamas have been very clear that they want Islam to be the only

religion. This isn't just about hatred toward Jews. It's hatred toward freedom of religion and all Western values. And the independent interviews that my father was talking about are ones like this where a woman in the West Bank, not even in Gaza, blatantly says the quiet part out loud. Keep in mind the Jewish protester who was on this woman's side while you listen to this. Should there

be more October 7 type attacks?

It hasn't just changed time. It changed the entire world. all the worlds. And what was interesting is that before the pro-Israel guide came in, I actually think the woman was giving it some thought. As a thought experiment, if everyone Israel is fighting against wants to eliminate you, maybe you'll think twice before occupying a government building in America to hold that sign. This person who's eyeing me

down is a biology teacher at Providence College. Do you want to say who's paying you? Free Palestine. So, uh, remember when Boston had the big dig and everybody knew that tunnels were being built? Well, the same thing I imagine happened in Gaza, they people were hired and they put in tunnels and they knew the tunnels were under the schools and under the hospitals. So,

when people say innocent Gaza people, I don't believe that they were innocent. they were being paid and um they took billions from the European Union and the United States and the Arab countries and they could have built a gorgeous city on the Mediterranean, but instead they put in tunnels big enough for two jeeps to go through at the same time in order for warfare. So people knew what was going on. What do you say to the folks that say that this flag behind us is not the Hamas flag but the Palestine flag and therefore they're standing with the Palestinian people. They're not standing with Hamas. Okay. So the

um temple, the Jewish temple was built in Jerusalem a thousand years before Christ and the Jewish calendar is now in the year 5785. And the Islamic calendar is in the year 1,447. I just looked it up. So, the Jewish people were there in the region more than 4,000 years, more than 3,000 years before Muhammad wrote the Quran and before Islam was started. So, when you're talking about a land grab, you can't say the Jews are taking the Arab land. Jews have always lived there. Yes,

other people live there, too, but they were generally Jordanians or Lebanese or Syrians that happened to move over. and Palestinian people. Uh, Yaser Arafat and people who were his friends in the 1960s came up with that word, that term for the people cuz they aren't a Palestinian people. They are people from Lebanon or people from Jordan and and it was made up. Now, before I actually run into a state rep at the protest and someone running for the US Senate in Rhode Island, I want to show you a conversation I had before the protest started. First of all, I didn't actually

know there was even going to be a protest. I came here because I heard that they were flying a foreign flag on a government building, and that's news enough for me to take a 5 a.m. train from New York. So, when I saw this guy's truck and the flag that he had on the back, I of course wanted to get his opinion, the same way I would want to get his opinion if he had a Palestine flag on his car. So, I see I see you

with the flag. I stopped you on the road because I see there's a there's a Palestine flag right above us. What are your thoughts on this flag above us? Listen, Rhode Island knowns as uh taking the weapon from people and now they know as the hosting a terrorist in their own town. And it's bad. It's bad because

this is just like a like a disease. Once it's done, then it's going to be just like in Gaza and Israel. You don't know that yet, but that's going to be so bad that you will going to be so sorry that you even put that flag up. this support. You support terror. This is not

Palestine. This is a PLO flag. This is a terrorist group, not a Palestine. There's no such a thing Palestine. You should know about it. You should be able

to recognize it already. Israel went through enough things to show the world then whatever you call Palestine, these people are animals. And I include everybody because on the October 7, October 7, even those who you call not involves, littering, killing, beating up. So you guys do your thing, but you bring it on yourself. That's for sure.

Do you think that um do you feel like there's mass support for a stunt like this? Do you feel that the people in Providence support this? Well, it's nothing to do with the people in Providence anymore. So this is what the city decide. This is what the uh the politics decides. They don't give a

about these people in Providence. They just do whatever they want for the money, for the power. I don't know if this is a lot of uh money involved by supporting this flag. Maybe oil, maybe more money, maybe airplane, I don't know something. But um this is the wrong way to go. Y look at Europe. Look at Europe,

man. open your TV, your channel news on what's going on in Europe, not just in America. You guys burying yourself in this country. You just want to hear what you want to hear, but you not even see how dangerous our people are. You don't even see that.

What is it? Do you need them to come here and your heads your babies so you understand this is the wrong people? You're supporting the wrong people. I came back for 400 days. 400 days since October 20, October 7. You were there. I

came back 4 months ago and I see some things that you guys ever ever think to see over there. I certainly did not expect to get a perspective from someone who was actually fighting over there. Now, I want to show you a few images and videos from Europe that I believe speak for itself and clarify his point about Europe. Now, when you see these photos and videos, you can ask yourself, is this what I would like to see in America?

[Applause] [Music]

I think this headline sums it up. Hamas welcomes UK, France, and Canada's statement as a step in the right direction. If those guys are supporting you, then you're truly lost. I'm State Representative Charlene Lima. I represent Providence and Cranston in District 14. I'm here because I believe

this flag raising is wrong. That flag right now represents a terrorist organization, Hamas, which cuts babies, not the good people of Palestine. So until the Hamas terrorist organization is eradicated, then we can celebrate the freedom with the Palestine people. But right now, it's wrong to be celebrating a flag that represents a country that's being run by terrorists. You said you're a state representative, right? Yeah. And

it's against the law to be doing that. The only So how did this happen if it's against the state law? This happened within the Providence City Council. I don't know, but I'm here as an elected official to say no, this is wrong and it should not be happening. What what needs to change within the local government in order for this to not happen? I think uh

people have to be careful uh who they're voting for. They have to really know who they're voting for and they have to go out and vote. I have never been distracted in an interview before, but I think we all would in this position. All I could see was a person in a cafilla with a vest around them. Now, those two things do not go very well together.

Hey, what's he wearing? Probably a weighted vest. It's a weighted vest. I I don't do it. Yeah, but it looks like a So, my name's Ray Mccay. I'm running for the United States

Senate here in Rhode Island in 2026. I'm here supporting our Jewish friends, family, community for what we've got going on here today. The flag that you see being raised today is a flag under the control of Hamas. This is not about the Palestinians. This is about October 7th when 1,200 plus Israelis were slaughtered and murdered by an invasion of the Palestine army, the Hamas people. The Hamas have not

fired their government. They are not running under a peaceful government. So to come out and saying we just heard them say from the river to the sea, Palestine will be free. That is talking about genocide of the Jewish people. That is talking about the obliteration of the Israeli state. That is

unacceptable. So while this man running for Senate was telling me about his platform, a woman came along to disagree with everything he said. Now you'll want to see what she realizes at the end. So you're going to educate me on that. Educate against these protesters who are out there. Those are the few and that's

I have to stand. I'm going to live in your army veteran. I'm going to stand. I have I have 14 veteran. That's nice. You know what? I served. So

did so do my family. I'm glad. And what they fought for and they would be appalled if they knew. Um but I think we're all here for the same reason. We all want justice. We want justice. This

never This never ever should have happened. This Yes, you're right. They shouldn't have invaded Israel and killed 1,200 people. If you really think October 7th happened, they knew what was happening. Indignities have happened for years. It's not okay. Of course, the

hostages should be released. And it never should have it should never have come to they should never have murdered, 1200 people. They never should have done the things they did in the first place. And in fact, Netanyahu was up for corruption crimes. It's not anti-semitic to say for Jews to say that they hate what Netanyahu is doing. He's he's he's

worse than Trump. So you I think Trump's good. What would be your solution to the peace in the region? I so I heard a statement that peace isn't really the answer. It's more like justice. I don't I don't know what peace

is. Um that's a good question. Human human dignity. Okay. But can you put a more comprehensive plan behind what a justice would mean? Does that mean

killing Israelis or what does justice mean? That's kind of a loaded that's a that's a you want to rephrase that? This is a loaded topic. No, but you just but you came in with a certain point of view that Sure. So, you're out here today because you're in support of the people on the stairs, right? There are a lot of

people on the stairs. I'm in I I'm in support of I'm a social worker. I'm a diplomatic person. Okay. I'm supportive.

I think we all want the same thing. I'm not sure about that. So, what do you want? Do you want peace? I What I want is I wish that our elected officials paid attention to the emails I sent before October 7th, well before saying things are ramping up and we did nothing. Yeah. But we can't change the

past. So I I'm curious. But they're bringing in the past. And of course, but I don't think I'm not them. I don't want to talk to you about the past. I want to

talk about the future. So what can be done? I don't think we should be here today in that if our elected officials really believed in justice or peace. We have a lot of smart people over there, over here, across the world, something could have been done sooner. I know. But this is there's political

grief here on all sides. And so we we can't ignore that. It's not that simple. All I know is that we're just we're perpetuating traumas in so many people. And I hate that what this is doing to the kids and the kids have been trying to speak up and and they what they see is a bunch of us acting the fools and they're hurting because they see other kids not being I understand. I I get

that and I understand if you're if you're a college kid, you want to do that. No, younger. Even younger. Even younger. But I I mean more so from you about what you believe is a plan for peace. I'm independent. I don't work for

anybody. I don't have if I had all the answers. Like I know. But so here here's my confusion, right? So he brought up that river to the sea is a call for genocide. And you you said that's not

true. And you said that you want justice. And I asked you what does justice mean? And you couldn't define it. So you want something that you cannot define.

Hey, if I was that smart, I'd be somewhere else. But hey, if I were that smart, I'd be somewhere else. Okay, is that an excuse to chant for something that you can't even define? Anyway, there's one more thing I want to show you. The only people I talked to so far were people at the protest or maybe going to it. But I saw this couple

before any of these people came and I saw them taking a photo of the flag and then just walking away. I couldn't quite see if they were happy about it or sad about it. So, I was just very curious. I'll show you this clip and then I have a surprise for you. Is it Is it a Palestinian flag or It's a Palestinian flag. Um, are are you from here? No, we

are from California. Oh, you're visiting. Yeah. What do you think about the Palestinian flag being hung up here? I think it's a little bit out of uh out of ordinary to tell you the truth. And I I don't think I would

support it. Yeah. Why Why wouldn't you support it? because I think that why would you put the Palestinian flag in on the town hall of the American city. Yeah. It doesn't belong to

Palestine and if they want to have a rally, let them have a rally. But why would you demonstrate like that? Yeah. Yeah. It should be both. Then they need

to put Israeli flag as well. Yeah. And what do you what do you do? You feel the same way as he does about it. Yeah. What

would be your to let you guys go? What would be your message? I'm Jewish, too. Okay. I'm Jew. You notice I'm Jewish.

Well, that's fine. What would What would be your message to the people that are hanging that flag? What would you like to tell them? I would use some profanity. I'm sorry.

That's okay. You can. No. Can we Okay. Well, but we are for freedom of speech.

So, they have a right to to protest. They have a right to protest. But do you feel that they they have a right to say it's unacceptable? Unacceptable. Oh, yeah. You feel they have a right to put

it? No. No. No. No. But rally? Yes. Yes.

Rally? Yes. They can have rally as long as it is peaceful. Yeah, as long as it is really peaceful rally, they can have rally. It's a free country. But putting

a flag is already taking sides. It's taking sides. This is not this is not what America is about, you know. Besides, still there are still hostages there. They didn't release the hostages.

And with that, I'm excited to share that this week you will see the first ever debate on the Nate Freriedman show. Destiny, who is the most famous debater on the left, came on to the show to debate Kaizen. Now, if you want to see that episode as soon as it comes out, be sure to subscribe and turn on notifications. You can also join our YouTube membership to see our first Ask Me Anything live stream this week as well. And in the meantime, you can check out our last episode where a source of mine in the homeless shelter system exposed that they let illegal immigrants into the shelter system. And not only

that, but this nonprofit got rich doing it. Now, that episode is on your screen right now, and I'll see you there. And be sure to check out the link in the description for My Heritage or scan the QR code for a 14-day free trial to see your family tree.