---
video_title: "I Exposed Trump Tower Paid Protestors"
video_id: 894CrsyHXhk
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=894CrsyHXhk
video_date: 2025-11-22T16:58:16+00:00
video_description: |
  Try out: https://ground.news/friedman for a better way to stay informed on US Politics. Subscribe for 40% off unlimited access to the Vantage Plan through my link.
  Support the channel: https://buymeacoffee.com/nate3
  
  This video is for EDUCATIONAL purposes.
  
  0:00 Interviews
  12:49 Ground News
  14:15 Interviews
  
  Shoutout to NGO monitor for their awesome work. 
  
  Anti ICE Protest
---
You see this guy getting ready to protest? Well, he's assigned to me today. Throughout the protest, you are going to see him try to prevent my interviews, but there's something about the truth that has a way of coming out even if forces of evil try so hard to prevent it. Can I interview you real quick? I'm an independent journalist. Yeah, I

know who you are. Okay. Can I interview you? Okay. In the last part, we exposed a professional protester who has attended over 50 protests, been arrested multiple times, and has ties to a US senator. And

this video is even more crazy. Welcome back to the Nate Friedman show. Does melt ICE mean like to hurt ICE officers? You know, it's it's one of these little metaphors one picks out of the air. We know the term melt ICE. It's a nice way

of saying other ways [music] of getting rid of ICE. And we need to get rid of ICE. >> How can we get rid of them? Well, he's a right-wing YouTuber generating content for >> Okay. Thank you. I I I look No, there's

somebody that I look like. In any case, in any case, there there are ways of getting rid of ICE, and um I would like to see our government do so.

Do you want to say something?

So, this woman goes, "Oh, this one." after one of the paid vests says that I'm a right-wing YouTuber. Then she proceeds to give no actual suggestions for what other ways of getting rid of ICE could actually mean. And fun fact, according to her Amazon bio, for nearly a quarter century, Avis Lang has collaborated with the ubiquitous space advocate Neil deGrasse Tyson. Here you can see her listed as a co-author on one of their books together. She dismisses

me as a right-wing reporter, yet she's a researcher at the planetarium. So, she's willing to explore other planets, just not this one.

Hey, I I I pay my security. So, if you're going to do security for me, I need to know your name so that I can put you on the payroll.

Karen! This is the infamous Karen Schall, or the Karen Kazoo Lady, and we meet again. After I exposed her for being a professional protester at the first No Kings protest, she rushed to private her Instagram. And here's just a really quick recap of what happened. Who are you with? I'm with America. Well, no,

you asked me who am I with, so I'm asking you who are you with. >> acting like a reporter with a I am a reporter. Okay. [laughter] Okay. Wait. Here's my press credentials.

>> There Okay, thank you. Okay, so who are you with? Uh I'm I'm uh right now, I'm representing myself, and I'm representing uh the folks at Rise and Resist who have been trained to be part of March. >> Now, here's some more about Karen. I did find her Instagram where she just documents herself vandalizing New York City. She puts these chalk signs all

over the place, like this one right outside the Trump Hotel. She also likes to flip off Cybertrucks and just post that on Instagram as well. If you just scroll through her profile on Instagram, it is the best case study for reopening the asylums that you can possibly make. Now, Karen is the associate director of development and special events at Lincoln Center Theater. After Karen privated her Instagram, a couple months went by and she unprivated her Instagram. So, I screen recorded it, and

her portfolio as a protester has grown tremendously. Here is her getting arrested, calling for ICE to get out of New York. And as a leader of the protest, she stores arrest pictures of her co-workers on social media as well. Here's Jamie, the leader of this protest, getting arrested. And here's Julie. This is not authentic. You

recognize him? That's Ryan Casey, and them is a professional actor turned professional protester who cries support for the trans community while also supporting Palestine. Now, Karen Schall has a lot of questionable posts on her Instagram, but one that stood out the most was this one here: Racist lives don't matter. Now, the glaring issue with that post is she's the one who's defining racist. In fact, she thinks every Trump supporter is racist, effectively saying that 77 million American lives don't matter. Not only

does she depict Trump supporters as KKK, but also as Nazis. She writes, "Resist the dictator." as she calls to organize a protest on Presidents' Day with Rise and Resist. The job of these professional protesters is to incite violence, but to do so in a way that doesn't clearly come back to them as an individual. Here she writes in her chalk that ICE is America's Gestapo. It is

this rhetoric that is putting ICE in danger, and it is this rhetoric that killed my friend Charlie Kirk. Now, I'm not ICE. Immigration Customs Enforcement. Have a nice day. Let's have a conversation. She even goes

as far to call the Republican Party the Republican Party, again calling half of America rapists. The hate from these radical leftist protesters run deep. That's what makes them such good recruits. Here she is again getting arrested at the height of the Tesla takedown protest. She continues to trespass and spend our tax money on these frequent arrests. Next up, the

leader of the protest, a woman named Jamie Bauer, who was going to get into her first argument with the police because they told her she couldn't have her protesters blocking the road. While she did instruct her protesters to try to block the cars from moving on the road, that was shut down immediately. However, police warned them at the start of the protest that they can't protest on the side here, either, as it still does block traffic and possess a safety risk.

If it's on a red light, you're perfectly fine to do that.

This is a professional protester. They're taught all the loopholes to disturb the peace for as long as possible before getting arrested. Jamie is then instructing her team to continue to occupy the side of the road here, right in front of Trump Tower. Now, this isn't Jamie's first rodeo. She's attended over 50 protests and was the one who instructed her team to prevent my interviews as soon as I arrived to the protest. We have two identifiable

right-wing journalists here.

You said I'm well-funded. How am I well-funded?

Whose attention? I can get their attention. What do you need? This guy? Why don't you want troops in the city?

How are you doing? Are you going to film me or are you going to do an interview? You refuse to talk? You just want to chant? So, this guy filming me is the same one who said I was well-funded. For the

record, I'm funded purely by my viewers. No nonprofit, government, or high-net-worth individuals fund me, which can't be said the same for you because Rise and Resist is backed by George Soros. Now, this guy has an absolutely vicious variant of TDS, where it forces you to print custom stickers with Trump's name on it and put it on your own phone so you see his name every day. This is how bad it's got for him. He thinks Trump is a king, yet he protests inside of Trump Tower and knows that nothing will happen to him. A king

doesn't let you trespass his castle and get away with it. No, instead, you were arrested because you broke the law and almost instantaneously you were let out, which you know, a king would never do. You say billionaires are robbing you, not migrants. Well, migrant robberies got so bad in New York City that even ABC News was forced to report on it. ABC wrote, "Half of the suspects arrested for robberies in the southern end of Central Park so far this year are migrants." In fact, more than 3,200

migrants living in taxpayer-funded shelters were busted for violent crimes over a nearly 2-year span, according to police data. Now, many of those migrant robberies were from children, such as this 11-year-old Venezuelan boy who was arrested as the main aggressor in a subway robbery. A different culture was imported. Now, you happen to be carrying the exact same sign as Leon Kirchner, a professor I exposed as a professional protester, yet you want to lead people to believe that your movement is authentic. He works in teams, same as the rest of them. Here he is leading the

way with Jamie at a different leftist cause protest outside the beautiful Met Museum. Also, remember this picture from the start? That's Julie, another professional protester we've exposed. He likes working with Julie. Back again with Karen saying that Trump committed election interference. Karen loves that,

too, even painting her nails saying that Trump didn't win. Professional protesters like him are used to bring the left further radical by starting movements like No Trump Democrats. I don't know what a Trump Democrat is. Is it the Democrats that helped reopen the government? Anyway, you'd probably be safe replacing that shirt with quote, "No Democrats that won't fight Trump on every issue." And I think that that's

what they're after. Now, if you're wondering why he won't talk to me and just film me, it might be because this is what happened the last time a reporter talked to him. Is this unprecedented to arrest a former president for not turning in documents? >> for a president that had committed this many provable criminal acts. >> But what are the provable criminal acts, I guess?

Provable criminal acts. Well, I just I I'm done talking. Next up, a woman holding no ordinary sign, who after being questioned about the sign, hid behind it. Is that a swastika? You're You're portraying Trump as Hitler?

How How is Trump Hitler?

She's calling Donald Trump Hitler, who just negotiated a peace deal in Israel and Gaza. He's Hitler now. Usually we have different We have different phrases.

Do you have a different chant for the day cuz the the no troops one is getting old, I think. Do you have a different one or no? It's only this one? I think we have to go do a meeting and come up with a new one. You would you agree, right? I can see

that. I just want to say as a Jew, this is very disturbing to me. My My grand- was all slaughtered in Treblinka and you're saying that Trump is Hitler. So as a Jew, it's extremely disturbing because Trump is not putting Jews in gas chambers. You understand that?

You see this? You see this? This is a Jewish star. You see it, right? Tell me you understand what it is.

So for the woman that is calling Trump Hitler and then hiding behind her sign, she is a professional protester. Meet Jenny Heinz. She's a vicious woman who has a history of calling Trump Hitler. Here's another sign where she dresses up Trump as Hitler with text saying I will bomb. Make no mistake, many of them don't think you are Nazis. They call you

Nazi so they can incite violence against you. While she distracts you with her violent rhetoric, she wants control of your children's minds, which is why she supports drag storytellers alongside Jamie, who we exposed in the last video. People are sick of the trans agenda being pushed onto our children. 82% of transgender children have considered unaliving themselves. That's why when Trump did his executive order banning the castration and mutilation of minors, Elon Musk wrote, "Children cannot consent. That is why there are laws

protecting minors. Those who perpetrated this evil should be in prison for life." That post went on to get 588,000 likes. Continuing on with Jenny, believe it or not, the New York Times actually did a profile on her. The headline reads, "Lincoln Center turns away woman wearing anti-Trump sign." She refused to

remove an 8 by 11-in sign affixed to the back of her jacket. The sign read, "No, in the name of humanity, we refuse to accept a fascist America." She uses this photo of her wearing that sign as her Instagram profile picture. I found out that Jenny is actually affiliated with a designated terror organization, but first, one of the biggest lessons I've learned after talking to hundreds of people on the street is that we're all seeing completely different news. Major stories often go unreported by both the left and the right and even when both sides do report on it, the information is often presented completely different.

And that's why I'm an avid user of our long-time partner Ground News. They're a website and app designated to help you see all sides at once. They do this by aggregating all of the coverage for a single story in one place and providing important insights and analysis to help you see the full picture. One of my absolute favorite features is their blind spot feed, which shows you stories underreported by one side of the political spectrum or the other. Like this story about how 86 Democrats voted with Republicans to condemn socialism in the wake of Mondani's mayoral victory. I

can't recommend Ground News enough, especially with the times we're living in. The truth has never been more important and we need to find it wherever it may lie. And best of all, they're offering 40% off their Vantage subscription, which is what I use for unlimited access to all of their features. This discount is available just for you at ground.news/freedman or scan the QR code here to subscribe today or give a subscription to a friend. Now this also really helps us

pay for security costs for my videos, including my upcoming trip to expose the illegal immigration in London. And now, back to Jenny. And Jenny is part of the Granny Peace Brigade, where they often sport Arabic t-shirts and read out a script to people just trying to get to work. This particular event was the Mother's Day Peace Stroll and it was organized by the infamous Code Pink. The co-founder of Code Pink is Jodie Evans, who is married to the Marxist billionaire who lives in China that funds most of the anti-West rallies in New York City through the People's Forum. He gave over $20 million to the

People's Forum. If you've been watching the channel, you know his name, Roy Nevil Singham. Now who else just so happens to be a member of the Granny Peace Brigade? The woman standing right next to her Trump is Hitler sign and refuses to answer my questions. Here you see them together and again and again.

Most of the true beliefs of these protest groups are masked. You see it starts as something innocent like Black Lives Matter and in no time it's about referring to border detention centers as concentration camps, saying close the camps and abolish ICE. She says no to Islamophobia, yet has no issue standing beside a poster of our president depicted as Adolf Hitler. By calling Trump Hitler, you're effectively calling everyone who supports him a Nazi. Also, the no to Islamophobia sign she's holding took place at a Jews Say No to Occupation Rally. While there's calls

for Intifada outside a synagogue in New York City, these Jews are more concerned about Islamophobia. A reminder that over 30% of Jews in the city voted for Mondani and with him never condemning the phrase globalize the Intifada, those Jewish people effectively voted for chance of their own death. And her friend Jenny, actually holding the sign, has ties to an actual terrorist organization. This is her advocating on behalf of Samidoun, a group designated by the US and Canada as a terrorist organization. At the edge of the frame here is a celebrity on the channel.

She's been at more protests than you can count and she said the quiet part out loud to me. Do you want to see Israel destroyed? Yeah. Iran is funding Hamas and Hezbollah. What are your thoughts on that?

Yeah. Like do you do you feel like that's a good thing to do? >> Of course. Here's how Samidoun is funded. First, Soros gives money to the Open Society Foundation. Then he takes

that money and moves it to the Tides Network, which consists of the Tides Center and Tides Foundation. When you see Tides, it means Soros. From 2022 to 2023, Soros gave $17.8 million to the Tides Network from the Open Society Foundation. Tides goes on to fund a lot of the professional protesting that you see around the country. Now because Samidoun has been

designated as a terror organization under US law, it is illegal to provide material support to it. When Bill Ackman and the President of the United States posted my investigation of Soros's ties to Samidoun, Ackman asked Alex Soros to say anything about it if I got anything wrong. Crickets. Nothing from Alex. Now I have uncovered something new about Samidoun. Here you can see one of their

leaders saying that we must continue the work of October 7th. Take a listen. And so it is true that October 7th changed the world and it is up to all of us to work together to do everything that we can to make that real meaningful change possible, meaningful and implemented for a free Palestine from the river to the sea and for a free world for all of humanity. That's Charlotte Kates, who attended the funeral of Hezbollah's Secretary General Nasrallah. Hezbollah has killed American soldiers. Charlotte

also called for the removal of Hamas, Islamic Jihad, Hezbollah and several other terror groups to be removed from the list of terror organizations. Samidoun, our organization was declared a so-called terrorist organization by the Zionist regime in February of 2021. But we also know that these same Zionist organizations are issuing CALLS FOR SAMIDOUN TO BE listed as a terrorist entity here in Canada. Now we know this is nonsense. It has no chance of succeeding here. BUT WHAT WE

DO HAVE TO SAY IS THAT IT'S TIME TO GET THE PALESTINIAN RESISTANCE ORGANIZATIONS OFF THE SO-CALLED terror list of Canada. That's who Jenny supports.

Oh. Oh, you're preventing me from moving. Don't you push. I'm trying to get through. DON'T YOU PUSH. YOU'RE BLOCKING THE

ROAD. DON'T YOU DARE PUSH. RELAX. WHOA. THAT'S GETTING pretty intense.

Chill. I'm trying to get through. You're blocking the road. United States government calls Samidoun a sham charity that serves as an international fundraiser for the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, the PFLP, a terror organization. The PFLP protesters have invaded the quote-unquote peaceful activists. You

see this guy at the synagogue protest where they chanted Intifada? We exposed him for his ties to the PFLP. His ties are just him being chummy with a guy wearing a PFLP headband. They're friends. The PFLP participated in the October 7th attacks and have killed Americans.

Oh, we're hugging the photographer. That's interesting. That's Michael. He's not just any photographer. Here's him getting arrested at a protest. His Twitter

consists of a lot of anti-ICE content and his pinned tweet is still of January 6th. So here he is in the middle of a pro-Palestine rally hugging anti-Trump protesters. This is also him right in front of Donald Trump Jr. And this is why the press goes through security like everybody else. Now the police are going to have a little talk with Jamie again.

>> [music]

>> This is my microphone. It's not a camera, so you don't to block it.

So that woman we exposed in the last episode, she's been arrested and is a teacher at Columbia. She also funded the organization behind Rabbis for Zoran Momdani. And just the way that she treats the police is sad. This policeman is clearly being reasonable and yet she is so condescending toward him. Now I have to literally run away from my additional security guard for the day as he's been preventing most of my interviews. As I cross the street, so

does he. Now watch this because I'm about to expose something crazy. Do you want us to run a play or something?

So far you've been able to keep up, right? So who is this guy that's been following me for the entire protest? And more importantly, who is the one asking him if he's been able to keep up with me? She is an interesting character to say the least. Meet Martina Crane. She's

obsessed with Luigi Mangione, the assassin of the United Healthcare CEO. Saying you're the only one I want to be cuffed to and I'd kill for you and can I shoot my shot at you? She calls the El Salvador prison C got a concentration camp. The term concentration camp has been used so unbelievably loosely within the radical left. Martina wants to tax the rich as she's only employed because of rich people as she works her job at Amazon. She went to Columbia Business

School and now she's pro socialism and instructing her professional protester teammates to follow journalists around, which I have to say is very ironic considering I saw her at the tax the rich rally just recently and asked her for an interview and look what happened. It says that it's 12:00 p.m. on November 16th here, but I don't see anybody. Are are people coming?

Yeah. Okay. Are they will is the meeting point here? Oh, where is it? Like where where is the rally happening?

Can I can I ask why you're not authorized to speak to the press? Like who said that to you? Cuz you seem like you >> training. Why do you need media training? >> But why do you need media training? I

it's just a conversation. So can you explain why you need media training? Like I'm just a New Yorker like you. Why why why do we need to have >> are. Please leave me alone. I do not

consent for you to continue to ask me questions. Please leave me alone. Who am I? People are aware of who you are. Please go away.

Why should we abolish prisons? Why don't you How ironic is it that she tells people to follow me and yet she won't answer a single question and runs away. Martina has been at her fair share of protest and she's also worked with the Democratic National Convention. But perhaps the most shocking thing about Martina is she seems to be committing a crime. She's actively helping illegal immigrants avoid ICE. If you look at her

link tree, you'll see the top link which is ICE Watch Signs. That link leads you to a spreadsheet of phone numbers to call if you see ICE. That is insane. Along with that is a folder of over 25 cities that provides instructions of how to evade ICE in that given city. Just click on any one of them. Here's New

York City as an example. If you flip the flyer around, it says how to report ICE and flip it back and it details how to do the report. In this case, calling Letitia James' office. Martina Crane might be worth law enforcement's time. As for her associate, the guy following me the whole time and preventing my interviews, his name is Matt Kevelto.

Here's him off to his court date for blocking traffic outside an ICE detention facility. On his social media, he shares more photos of him going to protest with Rise and Resist. He posts training for how to be an effective protester. Here's him saying trans kids matter. Yes, of course they do, but can we just agree that human life matters and leave all of this back in 2020.

There's also an issue with you talking about trans kids and then obviously working with kids at the Celtic Youth Combat Training. One of these days a kid is going to come up or has come up to him with a problem because he's a mentor and he should leave the kids out of the trans movement. Here's Matt back in his element. Just look at how much he's getting done in this video. These people would have absolutely no clue what direction to go in if it wasn't for him.

Now the protest that he goes to are backed by the Palestine Youth Movement, the Democrat Socialists of America, and JVP. The PYM has ties to the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and are funded by the Tides Foundation, which you remember is Soros. The DSA, who Momdani is the face of, wants to abolish ICE and prisons. JVP, or Jewish Voices for Peace, organized many of the Columbia protests and co-sponsored a webinar featuring Leila Khaled, a terrorist hijacker working for the PFLP. So that's a little bit about the organizations that Matt protests for.

Next up, I ran into this guy who I talked to in the last episode who says that ICE is the Gestapo. See you across the street. Different environment, right? Change it up. I hear you, man. I hear you. It gets

boring over there. Listen, man. I think you're a nice guy. I don't know. The people that's speaking for you, I'm not a big fan of it, honestly.

No, they are. They're literally Look at this. This guy's going to come over and tell you not to talk. I am a journalist. Why should we get ICE out?

Why should we get ICE out? Yeah. Immigrants are welcome here and ICE running around

>> [laughter] >> That was good work, man. I I honestly What was the What [laughter] was that? Do you know that Mabdou Ndoye was a criminal alien from Mali who issued a final order of removal by an immigration judge in 2008. It was previously arrested for crimes including assault, recklessly endangering, counterfeit, third degree, unauthorized use of a motor vehicle. This is one of the guys arrested. Also had a criminal alien from

Senegal who had previously arrested domestic violence, robbery, receiving stolen property, and burglary. Oh, man. This guy was no good. This is who he's wants to stay in the country. This is who you want to stay in the country.

This is the newest Let me play a song. Play me a song.

Yes, good work. Good work. That wraps up our deepest investigation yet. This was a heavily coordinated anti-ICE protest outside Trump Tower. Now I'm excited to say that I will be going to London in a few days to expose what's really going on over there. If

you want to watch part one of this series, it's on your screen right now and I'll see you in London very soon.