---
video_title: "Anti ICE Protestors Give me a Chilling Warning"
video_id: gtAzKQbDv2I
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gtAzKQbDv2I
video_date: 2026-01-20T22:24:16+00:00
video_description: |
  Support the channel: https://buymeacoffee.com/nate3
  X: https://x.com/NateFriedman97
---
My My hands just almost froze off. I couldn't pull my glass gloves off.

All right. What's going on, guys? We We are here early. We're like 10 minutes early before this protest starts. It's absolutely freezing. I already see some

familiar faces. Um we're going to ask them what they think about what happened at the church in Minneapolis. Do they support it? Are they against it? Let's go find out, yeah?

Hi. I'm an independent journalist. I have a YouTube channel. Would you mind Could I Could I interview you real quick? Absolutely. Oh, thank you so much. Could

you turn toward the camera? It'd be amazing. Um awesome. So, what does your sign say? Well, you can read it easily.

And who is this referring to? Um the president. Yeah. What What were your thoughts on the what happened at the church in Minneapolis? I know people are split on it, whether they support a protest at a house of worship or they don't support it. What

are your thoughts on it? >> I don't I'm sorry. I don't know about that. I just about the church. I don't know about a protest at a church. Well,

I'm sitting here wondering why we're at a library Yeah. >> having this and not in front of Trump Tower. Yeah. It It feels like a permit thing or something like that. Do you think it should be at Trump Tower? Constantly at

all times. >> Yeah. Every day? Every day. Would you be out there everyday? Yeah,

I I absolutely I'd love to do it. Yeah, yeah. Marching like little Snoopy. Yeah, yeah. I would be marching like Snoopy. Well,

what do you think stops you from marching out there everyday? Is it a lack of organizers or Well, I have a job also. That's it. Yeah. What do you do?

Um, I'm a private chef and an art I'm a private chef. Okay. And what does your other sign say? It says defend democracy and time. >> This this is from the organizer. I thought it would be good to

keep on hand. >> Yeah. What are your What are your thoughts on Tom Homan? >> [laughter] >> Not not not not nice at all. Do you think that he's a Nazi?

Probably. I think the whole thing it's the the scariest it's really dangerous and scary. I saw that Obama like put on Tom Homan and did that. Great. Oh, I didn't know that.

>> Yeah. Yeah, he gave him like a just a distinguished medal. For his deportations. What are your thoughts on that? Obama did? Yeah, Obama did.

How long ago? Like 2015. Oh, I would have no idea. Do you want to see it? I mean >> It's all so upside down. Maybe you

shouldn't be interviewing me. I don't know enough about anything you're asking me. >> No, I'm just curious like you know, they're calling him a Nazi now but Obama gave him a medal and I'm just trying to figure out how people feel about that. I don't know how many people would really know that. Do you think that people should know about it?

Um, sure. Would you Do you see Obama differently because of that or do you see Tom Homan differently? Probably something changed, yeah. >> Like with with Homan? Yeah. Yeah, like

Trump got to him. Probably something like that. But, yeah, probably. I don't know that much to talk it. I appreciate you.

Thanks. Thank you. Um it's it's Nate Friedman. Oh, thanks. >> Yeah, thank you so much.

>> nephew's name is Adam Friedman. I got [laughter] you. All right, have a good one. Thanks. >> Bye.

All right, so Yeah, she she thinks of Tom Holland differently.

All righty. All right, let's keep asking people.

Hi, can I ask what this flyer is for? I'm sorry, I'm interviewing people, but I'm not interviewing you. I just want to know about the flyer.

What happened?

All right, all right. What's that?

What's that? No, he bumped into me, didn't say excuse me. All right. Come on. Say excuse me, brother. It's common

sense. Are you protesting out here today? No, I don't want to talk to you, bro. I know you. Uh what do you know about me?

You're a Zionist, bro. Get the [ __ ] away from me, bro. I'm a Zionist? Stop talking to me, please. Why don't you want to talk to Zionists?

Okay, let's quick interview. >> [music] >> Hi. Um I'm a YouTuber, can I interview you real quick? Okay, you don't have to stop this one. She already said no. Can I ask you

why you're stopping the interviews? I'm not, I'm just walking around. >> Oh, okay.

>> [music]

>> Hey, can I interview you really quick for for my YouTube channel? Yeah, what's up? Awesome. So, I was wondering I'm asking protesters because there's it's kind of split amongst the left right now, what they think about the protest in the Minneapolis church. Are you for it or against it? Are the

protest in the I'm actually not familiar with the protest with the Minneapolis church right now, actually. >> They they they protested like it was during a during a church service they were protesting like protesters went in during a service. I was just wondering what you think about protest inside of houses of worship. I think that might be overstepping some form of [music] boundary in my opinion. I think like there's a time and place and where to it's a point of where like acknowledging when and where to protest in places that are effective. [music]

And I feel like church churches even especially in the middle of like services might be a bit of a a stepping over. I think we should be a little bit more like thoughtful in how we want to go about them. And yeah, I think there might have been a better way to go about that. But that's just based off of what I what you just told me. Would you like to see like Democrat politicians condemning it?

>> [music] >> I don't I'm not I'm not entirely sure if I would want I wouldn't want like politicians to acknowledge it and maybe take responsibility in trying to push the public into a way that is more that is more what do you call productive. I think there's a way to go about it as politicians I think they should be able to help work with the people and try and figure out ways to like prom-promote like a better way to going about it. And what brings you out here today? Um I actually I came out here with my partner. Um I She told me all about this this and obviously I'm a big I'm just I'm I grew up as an immigrant American immigrant. So like something

like this is like super important to me. So it's like I'm just have here to help support the cause and learn more and keep myself educated on these things. And when you say support the cause like do you want to abolish ICE? What is your cause? Oh yeah, I don't [ __ ] with ICE at all. [ __ ]

ICE. We never needed that in the first place. The fact that we even had it in the first place [music] is like it's a complete waste of time. Sure. And what would be the alternative to ICE in your opinion?

I think we should uh if if people are concerned about legal immigration, the perception of immigration should be changed in a way where like there is a actual possible way for people who are interested in wanting to come to this country have more access to a way to receive their green card and it is accessible for people and it needs to be like brought amongst the people and it needs to be presented in a way where it is like for people who want to come to this country and want to have like amnesty and be safe in this country like have the um have the means to go about it. And like people say like people will say like oh like why don't people just come in legally? There really isn't a like proper legal way or a system in which like it is like possible for immigrants to come in. >> in here legally though. Uh I I was actually natural- I I was Yeah, I I was actually coming naturalized. So like the thing is is

like the like the government is trying to abolish it if not they already have already. So something like that is like super important. So the fact that like they're taking away these opportunities is like you know like that's super [ __ ] up. >> have Republicans in my comment section being like well what do we do about criminals that come over the border? Like if we abolish ICE, what are we going to do with those criminals? What's

your response to that? >> There are criminals here right now. You mean that there's already pedophiles and like [ __ ] up people here right now. Why don't we focus on the people who are already here that are already doing these terrible things, the people in power that are on that list, you know? Like there we already have so much [ __ ] going on over here. Like [music]

to try and aim it at it as if it's a immigrant only thing is a complete like uh scapegoat. >> they say like the police department is responsible for the people that are committing crimes here, but if you came across the border committed crimes, that you should get deported by ICE. Well, what are your thoughts on that? Sorry, say that again. >> So, basically they're saying like if you come across the border and you commit crimes that you should be deported and the person the agency responsible for that is ICE. But if we don't have ICE,

what do we do with people who came across the border illegally and committed crimes? Uh I feel like people who are coming here like illegally and like supposedly committing crimes, like like I feel like they should be treated at like they should be given like their opportunity and they should have like uh treated as if like we have like a justice system that is supposed to be there to try and protect the people and like whether whether or not it is like a person who did a crime, like they should be treated justly and as a human being. We should we shouldn't treat them anything less just because they came here illegally. For sure. Do you think that we should open the borders?

Hmm. It's a tough I feel like that that's a bit of a tough question. I might have to think about on that one. Yeah. Yeah, I feel like there's a there's a lot of components to that. So, I think

I'm going to hold I'm going to think about on that one. Yeah, it is tough and I'm trying to understand cuz there's a lot of people that are interviewing people out here and they're just trying to get clips and stuff like that. I want to know like what is the solution. So, if you get rid of ICE, what comes after that? Because ICE is guarding the border. Right.

>> And if you open it, there there could be some potential issues. Maybe, I don't know. Hmm. I'm going to rethink about that. So, like people are saying that like, okay, if we abolish like ICE, >> Yes. there um

what do we have to like replace it? >> That's that's what they're saying, yeah. It's not about abolishing ICE, it's about changing the system. It's about doing it in a way that honors our constitution and doesn't infringe on human rights. And I know what I'm personally curious about is how do we change the system so that um like if we are to like you're saying you don't want to abolish ICE, right? Or you were

saying you do. >> I I don't think like a system like this should exist in the first place. >> So, what is a better system is what is what I'm trying to ask people out here. Well, I think also like detention centers probably adjust. I think you can look at other socialist countries in which they are able to have strict immigration policies, but still balance it out with you know, basic empathy. I think what we

see today with ICE is a lack of empathy or human beings. I think um people who are often here illegally are here because their visas are overextended and there's no reasonable way to extend those things. What are the right countries that we should model our immigration after? I think Canada has a lot of good policies. I think there are a lot of uh I think it's difficult because there's still wide diversity in America. It's

unprecedented to a lot of countries. So, I think like people often say like Sweden and things like that, but to be honest, they don't really have the same diversity levels that America has. So, I would say honoring after Canada. Last question, where do you guys get informed? How can people stay as informed as you guys? I try and get as

informed as I can. Uh TikTok is a Yeah, there is probably a better app, but uh TikTok is usually place where I usually get a lot of information. Um And the Plug-In with Apps is so good. Uh In Other News tells you um Unprecedented. I use a lot of NPR. I

like to support. Um yeah, publicly funded. Thank you guys. Appreciate you. Bye-bye.

Okay, so let's go over here.

All right. Let's talk about that interview a little bit.

Okay, so It's interesting. They get their information from TikTok, which Um but that there isn't a clear solution to this, you know? They're saying like we also want to abolish ICE, but what comes after that? No response. So, I'm trying to figure out here today. What is

the alternative, yeah? All right, let's keep doing interviews. I'll uh see what people are saying.

Gotcha.

Okay. I'm going to do some more interviews here guys in a second. There will probably be a lot more people soon, too. I know this one's going to be big. All right, here. Let's ask this woman.

Hi. Hi. I like your sign. Can I interview you? Okay, sure. Uh what makes you uh bring

this sign here today? Well, he's totally out of his mind at this point, doing horrible things to people in this country. So, I can the camera see you? Is that okay? Sure.

Yeah. Trump is a nightmare. He's getting worse, it seems, by the day, more empowered. Supreme Court does nothing to curtail him, neither does the Republicans in Congress. People have to stand up and fight back.

>> Yeah. When Do you think that when the Democrats or if the Democrats get control of the House, would you like to see Trump arrested? Yes, well, impeached, absolutely. Yeah. Um and what crimes would that be? Like

in your opinion? Uh well, crimes against the Constitution. He's not following the law. You don't uh turn the military on civilians. That's plain in the Constitution. Got you. And are you here

to uh in an effort to uh be against ICE or free Palestine? ICE. ICE. Okay. Cuz I know that there was also a free Palestine one here, too.

So, do you do you support free Palestine as well? Well, I'm of course in favor of people people's rights to survive Yeah. uh and against Netanyahu and what he's been doing in Gaza. It's a nightmare. Uh but I'm not going to be so entrenched against Israel in particular. I'm against Netanyahu's

regime. This is obviously a very powerful image. Did you print it yourself? Like Yes. Yes. You had to

design this as well, right? Yeah. It's my work. It looks like it's reminiscent of like the Time magazine, right? It was a Time magazine cover. Yeah. So, is this

something that you'd want to see on the cover of Time? Oh, I'd love it. >> [laughter] >> Well, maybe they're watching. Um can I ask you, what do you think of Tom Homan? Oh.

Awful. What happened to the $50,000, I'd like to know. A lot of people would like to know. >> What what $50,000 are you referring to? The $50,000 that came in a cava bag that he got before Trump took office, a payoff to for some job possibility from undercover FBI agents.

And he's lying about the whole thing. They have it on tape, and no one's no one can see it. So, Do you think that like Tom Ho- like like Trump, do you think that Tom Homan is a Nazi? I think they're all fascist Uh, whether whether you want to call them Nazis or not, but they're so reminiscent of what the Nazis did and their rise to power. Yes, I it is it's parallel. I have to

say I was kind of devastated to see this that um I saw Obama pinning a medal to Tom Homann in 2015. Did you Did you know that? >> No, I didn't know that. Do you like he was awarding him for deportations. He was saying that he because he did so many deportations that he got a medal.

That's Nazi hating. Did you support Obama? Of course. >> Yeah. Do you feel different about him now? Cuz I felt I was like this is

terrible. That that's a horrible thing. But, you know, I mean it it's Trump's lie. He kept saying, you know, we're going after the worst of the worst and criminals and that was total lie. He's going after anyone. You heard

about the Asian man that got dragged out of his house in a suburb of Minneapolis in his underwear, a citizen, a US citizen yesterday. It's on tape. I'll I'll look it up. So, what do you think about the protest in the church in Minneapolis? Did you see that news about the protesters going to the church? I know some people are

split on it and you seem like level-headed guys, so I wanted to know your opinion. Do you think that it's okay to do protest in a house of worship or not okay? Uh, well, it's it's up to the church leaders I think. If they want to be part of it and if they're allowing people to speak inside, it should be fine. I know in this case they were they were saying like stop, you know, we're doing our service and the protesters continued.

So, I'm trying to get opinions from from protesters like yourself if that's something that should be okay. >> Yeah, I guess that might be a bridge too far. Got you. Yeah. I respect that.

Thank you. So, where do you get your news so people can be as informed? Uh, MSNBC, Times uh and lots of lots of sites. >> Got you. Thank you so much. I appreciate

you. My name is Nate. Good to meet you. Bye-bye.

>> It's nice to see you again, man. Do you have flyers today? Do you have flyers today? I know you're working with the people's front. Did they give you any flyers to pass out or you're off the clock?

You're off the clock? Oh, you do the hot thing. That's your strategy. I forgot. You're the one that does what what what.

Yeah, you are that one. Good to see you again, buddy. All right, hang in there, all right. Hope you get some help. All right, you too.

All right, another professional protester out here. He's not passing out flyers today, but his whole strategy is to say what what what. Um, you know things are getting kind of crazy when the guy holding a uh Nazi armband on Trump is the voice of reason around not protesting in a church. Um, very interesting. Anyway, we can move on to the other side of the protest.

All right, we're moving over here. All right. What is going on, guys? So, it's getting bigger and bigger. We just arrived here early.

Show you around a second.

What are these people saying, guys? We've got Cory Booker Stop Trump. need to give more training and more funding to ICE agents. They want us to live in the past. We've tried that before. We know it doesn't

work. And right now ICE is the most well-funded law enforcement agency in the country and Democrats want to give them more money. Who's this guy? So, are we going to wait around for November for the Democrats to propose some kind of solution? He can't stand this.

We got agents in the crowd. Who Who are the agents? Who are these agents in the crowd, sir? Who are the agents in the crowd? Do you know who these agents that he's referring to? And that means that we

reject all of the attempts to divide us by race, gender, class, sexuality, and identity. There are these agents in the crowd, so I've always wanted to be a special agent, so to all of the labor that creates the wealth in society. All right. So, what's And together through organization, the workers will own and direct and control all of the wealth in society. And when the workers control the wealth, we don't want to take that Who profits from civil war? This is an interesting

question. So, let's see what they All right, then. I think your sign's very interesting. Can I interview you about it? No, thank you. No, thank you.

All right. Fair enough.

Oh, it's the Maoist Communist Union. I can I know your union.

Professionals have made it. Let's ask them some questions. We don't want to ask them right away. They're going to say, "We're setting up." So, we'll give them a second.

All right. This is a beautiful sign. Can I interview you real quick? Yeah, sure. >> Amazing. Um so, what is this exactly?

>> So, we're part of Maoist Communist Union. We're a pre-party organization in the United States. Oh, is this you as well or someone else? No, this isn't This isn't Yeah, we're working together. >> oh. Where are you from? Uh I'm from

Boston originally, and I live in New York last 5 years. Great. What is this for? Uh it's for my YouTube channel. It's not I'm not like a corporate, you know, [ __ ] like that. Yeah. Cool.

Great. Well, okay, back to that. Yeah. So, we're Maoist Communist Union. Sure.

a pre-party organization. Which means that we're dedicated to actually fighting to have a communist party in the United States, which is like the advanced attachment of the working class. We have comrades who are working in the unions. We also do different education programs, and we're trying to desperately grow. And yeah.

>> is the recruiting going? Well, I think that these moments in time in history are very important uh disease. Yeah. A lot of people are angry. A lot of people are fed up. And

the problem isn't so much that we can't spontaneously jump into the streets, but how do we uh collectively uh put forward the need to study and to learn from past revolutions. >> interviewed um communists in New York City before, and it really does seem like it's growing. What is the most effective message that you found resonating with people who are joining you? Resonating with people who are joining you? >> you get people to join up?

Okay. Well, I joined in 2020, actually. >> it for a while. Yeah, um but I think often times uh something that does set us apart and why we are Maoists, too, is because we believe in the mass line. We believe in the fact that we have to like engage with people in struggle. We can't just

study. We have to be engaged in practical struggle. So, some of us were involved in the UPS contract campaign. Uh we've done stuff on campuses or schools against uh recruitments. And Sorry, go ahead. Go ahead. And we

have to learn from the people. We're not experts. You know, our people dedicated to actually believing that uh we can change and are committed to uh yeah, understanding the lessons from I remember in high school I didn't study in college, but I remember high school there was a famine under Mao, and he was like kind of a dictator. Like, is that When you say you're a Maoist, like what do you have Tell me. Tell me. Please

clear that misconception cuz I have I haven't been in school in a while. No, that is uh that is completely wrong. They're Oh, [ __ ] You're going to like edit this stuff, right? No, no, no, it's I mean no, we're live, so. There's not many people watching, don't worry about Can I call a comrade?

Call a comrade? Well, no, we're having a nice conversation here. Nice. Who cares? >> good. But, the

I mean oftentimes the bourgeoisie will always try and put forward whatever they can that communist politics are responsible for more death than them. But, I think even given the time, if um there were issues during the Chinese Cultural Revolution or lack of food, like who's to really blame? There were issues in the party at various points, but it Yeah, yeah, you're good. We're good. We're going to end it We can end this have this conversation, yeah.

>> I I don't feel comfortable answering the question, but I know that that's a So, where's the most effective place people can learn about you? Is it in colleges and universities? Like, where Where do Where do you do the most recruiting? Um at big moments like like this or the workplace. We have different things on social media, podcasts, YouTube, whatever we can.

>> do they have to like is there dues to pay? Like how Like what happens when you join? What happens when you join? We do have dues, but it's like a long process. I mean, people can be involved with our studies for a long period of time. They can be

supporters. They can just be friends or uh you know, allies of the organization, but it really starts with us seeing that people are dedicated wanting to be involved. Like, it's kind of based off of your own initiative. Like, how you'll prove how serious or not you want to be involved, and then You know what? Like, I have to ask you one more thing, cuz there's all this like this BS hate around this, and they say like they they'll see someone like yourself or whoever who is supportive of communism, and they see you have a MacBook or an iPhone. Like, in this

case, it's like a coffee, and they say, "Well, you couldn't have that coffee if it wasn't for capitalism." What is your response to that? That's just like what are Where is that person trying to do? Just bring all of us down. Of course, we wouldn't have this without capitalism and then you know But we also wouldn't have it then without the workers who made it and all the people and the harvest you know, all the beans that have been harvested and all of trade and But we can also still have coffee under socialism, [laughter] under communism.

We're going to have to freaking eat. >> Yeah. It's just a silly silly argument, but it won't deter us or anybody who really actually has the conviction, you know, that sort of an argument should just roll off of somebody's back. That's what I wanted to ask you about. I wanted to clear it up. So, I appreciate you. My

name is Nate. What's your name? I'm Colleen. >> Colleen, nice to meet you. God bless.

Bye-bye. Uh Nate Friedman. Okay. Bye-bye.

Uh Palestinians are here. Uh read chat, see what you guys are saying. I guess I could I guess I could say it if Yeah, that was a an interesting interview. See, look at this. Oh, yeah. We got all the people out

here. Oh, sorry about that. I can probably I can probably get my phone out and video it.

My hands are absolutely frozen. Okay. So So, I want to find one of these people probably have flyers. I want to ask them something. >> detaining men, women, and children, holding them indefinitely in the most inhumane conditions.

>> [music] >> As we speak, over 10,000 Palestinians, 10,000 Palestinians, continue to be held in >> Man, how's it going? What's going on, man? Can I interview you real quick? Can I interview you real quick? Are you selling any Renee shirts?

You feel sick? All right, well, I'll I'll talk to you from over here. Are these Renee shirts? You want to talk? Okay, so people are profiting off this, I see.

All right, I want to find

I I have a question. No, thanks. Uh I just have a question. I'm not I'm not doing an interview. I'm not going to Can I ask you a question?

Can I I can't ask you guys a question? People don't have to talk to you. No, I'm not just asking a question. No, I'm not trying to interview you. Okay, is there someone that I can speak to?

Look at the all have Zoran hats now. It's like the uniform.

Hi. I have a question. Are you Are you holding this table? Is this your table? Uh you want one of these? I I do want

one, but I'm confused about this. So, did you get this flyer, this no no So so so okay, so this is a free Palestine, right? But then this is No no no, uh this is one year after Trump's election. >> Uh okay, so this is a protest against Trump because what he What I'm confused about I'm trying to attend the Stop ICE Terror rally, but this one is free Palestine at January 20th, 4:00, and it's also Stop ICE Terror. Is it divided? How do I attend the anti-ICE

one? >> This group just puts everything on their flyers. It's very confusing. >> Oh, yes, it is. Around the country it's on 1 year after Trump. Okay, that's what

this is all about, 1 year after Trump. Well, at least that's why it was originally called for this day. Got you. And and there's so much they murdered they murdered and not prosecuted in Minneapolis. Yes. We've got to stop this

[ __ ] Yes. And if you'd like a sign to carry It's cold. It's so cold. You want a sign? It won't make you warmer, but maybe it will make you hotter. Yeah, I can take a look at that

sign. And if you're able to donate anything it would be great. So, yeah, if I Okay, so donating. So, what is this organization? Well, this I'll tell you about it. This is uniting people

both those who are liberals to revolutionaries saying that we all face this danger Yeah. of Trump consolidation. None of the plans and hopes that we could have will go anywhere without that. Yeah. You want to tell them to stop doing the interview. So, let's have the

conversation. Let's do it. So, why should you stop this? So, um someone's looking for us right now. No one's looking for you. This guy just came over

and said you shouldn't talk. >> No, um yeah, just talk to me for a second. Charles? She's not She's not winning an Oscar for this performance. I will tell you that much.

So, um Did he tell you Did you tell him why? >> I can't. It's thrilling, right? To to lie like that. Okay, so what happened was this guy in a mask >> Can you just stay with me for a second? Okay, so

it's a different reason now. So, let me ask you a question. Wait a minute. Yes, absolutely. >> see a microphone before.

>> Oh, sorry. >> hell out of here. That's not right. Oh, no, that's a change-up. Nice work.

Okay. Uh I'll see what she has to say. >> [laughter]

>> This this woman, oh man, it's so I got to I got to talk about this. Okay, so what happens, right? So this guy with a mask comes over. He's been on the whole time. He just calls me like filthy Zionist, whatever you name it. And he comes over, he's warning

everybody not to talk to me. But he can't warn the person that I'm interviewing cuz he doesn't want to be seen. So he So he asked the friend or whatever to go stop the interview. And this woman's like, "I need you right now. I David is trying to get some Uh but uh crazy.

Uh trans flags and Ukraine flags. Racist colonizer. All right, excuse me. Sorry. How you doing, man?

Good to meet you. My name is Nate and I was wondering if I could interview you real quick about your story here. We need to speak English. This is fascist [ __ ] I'm a I'm a racist? Fascist [ __ ] Colonizers, we see y'all.

How am I fascist? [ __ ] you. I would hate to be fascist, so tell me how I'm fascist so I can stop, please. I hate fascists. >> you're fascist. You support fascism.

That's what you all do. How am I a fascist? Call you a fascist. Tell me how I'm a fascist. >> The way you do, the way you act, the way you say, or what you plan. You're

[ __ ] fascist. >> makes someone a fascist is how they act. Yeah. And what they do. And what they do. So what do I do? So what do I do

that's fascist? We won't let you win. We won't let y'all do nothing. So what do I do that's fascist? Name one thing I've done that's fascist. You support a

[ __ ] fascist. >> Who's a fascist? >> Trump. And who is a fascist? Yeah. How

is Trump a fascist? I want to know about that. >> Go [ __ ] yourself and you can put that down, too. Okay, great. So, I don't want to support a fascist, so tell me how he's a fascist so I can stop. No. You

won't tell me how he's a fascist? >> dead. That'd be good. If I drop dead? >> Yeah. Oh, great. You said that on

camera. Good job. Anything else? >> Indianapolis. What else is new? Go [ __ ]

yourself. >> how I'm a fascist and you told me to drop dead. So, so far you're coming out as a fascist. >> Yeah, no, no, no, no, no. Yeah, I cuz you're saying you're someone you're saying >> yourself.

You're saying I disagree with you and therefore I should drop dead. Yeah. And you got it clear. Go [ __ ] yourselves, aren't you? Bunch of [ __ ] fascists.

Great argument. Is this Can you just Can you just My backpack's open. Oh, can you zip it? >> [music] >> You're going to lose your hearing like that, man. Is he going to follow me? Don't want to

deal with another one of these people. Oh, he's I want to talk to the guy with the store, but he's going to bang his little [ __ ] in my face the whole time. So, I I want to ask if they're selling more trans flags or your flags. We'll come back for it. I'll take a look at this stuff.

So, All right, all right. Let's see. It seems like this protest is like somewhat divided. Um, Let's see. Let's see. I'm sorry about

that.

It's for Palestinian liberation.

>> HI, UM I'M A JEWISH YOUTUBER AND I SAW THAT YOU'RE SAYING JEWS for Palestinians. Can I interview you? Can I interview you? Okay. Hi, I'm a Jewish YouTuber and I was wondering if I can interview you. Just

as a fellow Jew. We're both Jewish. Okay. What happened? What happened?

You're telling people not to speak to me, so I was just wondering why. >> [cheering] >> You know. Do I? I don't know why. Oh, well. Tell

me. >> I'm so sorry. Tell me why they shouldn't talk to me. I'm so sorry. You're not intelligent enough to know. Sorry.

Uh you're preventing me from doing my job. Can I ask why? What do you do for work? It's the middle of a work day. What do you do for work?

I'm not going to stand in your bus.

They need some new chance. I'm honestly tired of this one.

Can I interview you? Uh I'm a YouTuber. Can I say cool? Hi. So, I was wondering if I can interview you real quick.

Okay. Uh people aren't in a chatty mood right now. Yeah, these guys they know me. I can't speak to them.

Hey, man. Can I ask like are you Which flag are you selling more of? Uh no, the my brother he sells everything flags. My brother, not He sells everything. Yeah, yeah. But, which one do you sell more

of? Like the Ukraine one? >> Oh, yeah. I have every everything. I have the American, I have the I have a lot of so too relax inside.

>> are you from? I'm from Ecuador. Ecuador? Yeah. When did you come to America? I'm

living here. Yeah, how what how when did you come to America? Uh I'm living 30 years. 30 years? >> Yeah. Oh, that's great.

Oh, what's up Veronica? It's good to see you. I haven't seen you Veronica Victoria. Veronica, right? Oh, Veronica.

Let's go talk to Veronica. I haven't seen her in a little while.

Veronica, I haven't seen you since the last protest. Could I interview you real quick? What do you do with PSL? I didn't recognize her. I hadn't seen Veronica in in a while. She took some

some months off after I exposed her at the Palestine protest in like what was it? The summer time, so but she's back again.

Hi. I'm I'm a YouTuber and I was wondering if I could interview you. Okay. Uh awesome. So, what brings you out here today? Uh the

everything in general since ICE regime uh Trump's regime took place between ICE uh the the the terrorism of uh innocent civilians. Yeah. Uh the whole his whole economic policy is just a billionaire policy. The great bad bill is uh just a destruction of anything that provides social services that people need and people pay their taxes for. Yeah. I pay taxes. Yeah. I don't

want to support a war against Venezuela. You know, I don't know what he's thinking, but it's just a power show. I don't want to buy I don't want Greenland. Greenland I want to stay a free country as it is. And his tariffs the repercussions of what Donald Trump has done is going to be with us for so long.

>> Yeah, you definitely got a lot of issues with him in the fair. What would be your top issue with Trump? Like what is the one that you're like that's terrible? I think right now since he's he's made ICE his personal police force military action against people. I think right now because that that put so many people's lives and well-being in danger that he needs it needs to be cut off. I

think ICE needs to be defunded. Do you think that he's going to start just like arresting everyone who didn't vote for him? You know, that that strategy is like take the head off the snake so to speak. So so anyone in power they're going to sniff out and that shows to be like an example for us. Like if you stand against me, I will make an example of you. Yeah, so so any any liberal that's

in power that you think he's going to arrest them? If he can if he can figure out a way, you know, he's a very petty and vindictive person. You know, he's just a man with no virtues. Yeah. You know, and he's a strange kind but this whole you know, white Christian nationalism is like you know, in some ways it's the death throes of an empire. Yeah, and you see you

mentioned white Christian nationalism. I know a lot of people are so frustrated with how much he supports Israel. Do you feel that that's like a white Christian nationalist thing to do to to be supportive of Israel? Well, actually strangely enough yes, they're not crazy about Jewish people. They're not they're only they're very Zionist because they feel that you know, there's the the the story of the rapture and that when Jerusalem that we build like three temples or something the rapture will come and then they'll be rid of the Jews at that time.

So sticking with anti-ICE then, did you see what happened in Minneapolis with the in the church, the protest in the church? I did not see that. I did read about it. Yes, I know about it. What are your thoughts on it cuz I'm getting difference of opinion today here at the protest. Some people are for it, some

people are against it. What are your thoughts on a protest that takes place in a house of worship? Are you against it or for it? Well, I It's how you behave when you're there. I mean, as far as I The information is a little fuzzy. You

know, it takes us a few days of finally So, cuz the law is coming on and we have to untangle it. There's a video of it. But it it shows that they did attend the service and that they were there for part of the service and when the part came after the prayer, she raised her hand to raise a question and question them about the member who is a member of ICE. Okay, I must have seen a different video cuz the video I saw was like a big group of protesters with Don Lemon went into the church and and sort of took it took over the service. Like they weren't able to have the service. That's

how it happened. Okay. Uh you know, but enough of the thing. The timeline is very tricky right now. I really would I don't know. I don't I don't know if

invading churches are a good idea, but since you know, this church is has this association, maybe even the church members don't even know about the association. I think it could have had a more subtle approach. Yeah. But some of these churches, you know, you know, their their interest does not lie with us either. I mean, they were pro-slavery during slave times. So.

>> [laughter] >> So, the person who's leading all this anti-ICE stuff, you know, I believe it's Tom Homan. What are your thoughts on Tom Homan? I I'm not sure. I don't recognize Tom Ho- Who is he? Tom Homan? Oh, he's like the

the border czar. Have you heard of him before? He's the border czar. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Tom Homan. All right. All right.

What are your thoughts on him? I think that anyone who wants to take the name of czar has is questionable. Okay. I know that Kamala was the border czar. She was coined the border czar. I didn't

want to vote for her. I did, but Kamala Harris she she she it was her to lose, you know? >> What made you not want to vote for Kamala? Well, Palestine for one. And then she decided she came out with some heat and that was from her some heat at the beginning, you know, with her running mate that they you know they Tim uh Tim Waltz Yeah. And that was good.

And then clearly the people handling her said not to go that with that route. Like with Tim >> Which route Which route did she want to go? I can't remember. Is it Josh Shapiro she wanted to ask her? >> Centrist. Centrist. And the centrist is

like you might as well stay where you are. So who would you have her choose if she if she's running again? Like what would be a better VP than Waltz? Uh well, I'm not for her running again. Yeah. I think we have better people

coming up and more people are are uh taking office like Madonnas, Fetterman, and Virginia. >> Yeah, I'm yeah. I'm I'm like it's always a wait and see, but he he has a strong enough background for us to have some faith. >> you think about AOC? I know that she's looks like she's going to run for president.

AOC confuses me sometimes. I know I know she's uh you know she's part of the pack, you know, but uh But she started condemning Hamas all of a sudden and it's like Well, I mean Yeah, that was taking but you you know you you want to condemn Hamas you got to have condemn the occupation of uh of the colonization of Israel. Yes. Of by the uh Palestine by the Israel Israelis. >> Yeah. You know, that it's a clearly a

part that system. It's true. And it's horrible. I mean there are kids who grown up there and never been without some confrontation at their door. Yeah, so would you vote for So let's just say, right? It looks like it'd going to be

AOC versus Newsom. Who would you go for? Uh I don't know right now. >> That's a tough call, right? Kind of. Who

are you leaning toward? Uh Maybe Newsom. >> Newsom. And where And where do you get your news? Where do you get your information? I listen to the radio and I

read the paper. I don't watch the news on TV. >> Which paper do you read? I read, strangely enough, the New York Times, the >> Times Times is good. The Washington Post, but I also read like The Guardian and I'll pick up on on foreign papers when I can because, you know, we're almost we're between oceans and like we're um we are psychologically like isolated in our our thinking, right? I

want to see what people are saying. How does it look from the outside? Like if you're involved in an accident, it may look one way. Yes. But if you're standing and watching the accident go down, the trailer go down, it's going to look a little different. You're going to have a

more more open long view of it as opposed to a a tiny one. Well, I appreciate you, you know, braving the cold and being out here >> Oh, yeah. exercising your first amendment rights. This weather and if Minnesota can do it, we can do it. And what do you do? What

do you What do you do for work that you're able to, you know, come out here because it's it's wonderful that you're out here. I know it's freezing. I'm freezing my hands off. >> retired. >> So, that that helps. You have time now.

Little time. >> Yeah. I You know, it's like I'm I'm I'm just so pissed off. I understand. Me, too. All

right. Well, hang in there, all right? My name is Nate. Great to meet you. Uh Nate Nate Friedman, yeah. I hopefully

I'm going to be on the radio. So, I would love to be on the radio sometime. Maybe you could you could listen to me one day or something. But yeah. I listen to um WBAI. WBAI

>> That's where I really find when I get some kind of distillation, I can figure out what what's really going on because, you know, there's all this it's like three card monte with this administration. Yeah. So, you know, you got to you got to protect pick your sources. Awesome. Well, I want to keep going around. Nice to meet you, okay? Bye-bye.

All righty. Okay, let's see. Um All right, that was an interesting interview, guys. Um there's a there's a super chat, guys. I'd like to read it. Um I'm going to

pull up the live stream on my phone. It's just my I'm going to freeze my hands off at the moment. Um All right, let's see. Um here, can you hold it for a second and I will try to pull it up if I can.

Julia B, thanks for showing us this stuff night. You got it, Julia. My pleasure.

>> [screaming] >> Seems like divided, like the anti-ICE seems to be on that half and Palestine seems to be on this one.

I can't remember her name. She wouldn't do an interview with me.

I'm really sorry to bother you. Can we finally do an interview? Just just to do one. And then I won't bother you anymore. Uh she she went to Columbia and she's a professional protester, but she doesn't want to do an interview with me.

Hi, how are you doing? I saw your sign. I was wondering if I could interview you real quick for my YouTube channel. Uh It's all right. I'm independent. No, no.

I mean, I'd prefer not to. Absolutely.

I'm learning the names. Uh what's this guy? Victor is his name, yeah. Victor. Let me ask Victor. Hold on.

Victor. Victor. Can I ask you a question? These [ __ ] people aren't allowed Proud Boys. Proud Boys.

Proud Boys now.

It's like so loud. I can't do an interview over there.

Hi. Can I ask you a question? I saw your sign. It popped out to me. Can I interview you? Yeah. Sure. Amazing. So

So tell me what your sign says. I saw it at the beginning, right? Well, they say women rarely make history, but [ __ ] [ __ ] do. Amazing. So what makes you want to bring that sign out here today?

I'm on the I'm I'm here to speak out against the femicide that's currently going on. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. What What What's

going on? The femicide that's currently going at the hands of Donald Trump in multiple ways, not just the murder of Renee Good by ICE, and the murder of other women by ICE, but also just the attacks on healthcare, the attacks on women across the board. But mostly here to speak out against ICE and the Yes, got you. And so should we abolish ICE, do you think? Absolutely. Abolish,

dismantle, get rid of, never needed before. Do you think that Sorry, I'm going to keep I just want to keep interviewing you, is that okay? Um two Do you think that we should open the borders? Um I I don't think that's a question here for me today. I'm not in that I am not the type of person to answer that question. I know that we should abolish

ICE. I am not into immigrant policy. I work in gender equity. I'm a gender equity, racial gender equity specialist. So I mostly work for women's rights and especially the intersection of women of color and white women. So I'm here to support all of the

women immigrants and all of the women migrants that are here today. Do you teach gender equity at a college level? I actually I was the last manager of gender equity for the last two mayors of Atlanta. So I've worked more in public policy and government work in gender equity. I've always wanted to live here.

New York has always been the New York has always been the dream. I've always wanted to live here. And what are some of the lessons that you've learned with gender equity that you that you can share with people? >> [cheering] >> Like what are some things that you can share with people about gender equity, what exactly it is? I specifically I suffer from something called I don't know what they're saying.

Um, yeah. You're saying proudly?

What have I learned about gender equity? Yeah, there's a feminicide going on right now at the hands of Donald Trump. Uh, I can teach people Do you have 12 I mean, do you have a course that I can teach you? Under Atlanta's government, do you share that Do can you share that message? Do they allow for that?

Does Atlanta's government Yeah, do they allow for you to say like those things about Trump? I know cuz it's so like taboo. I don't work for the Atlanta government. >> Oh, you don't. Oh, who do you work for?

Myself. I'm a consultant. I already told you that. Oh, I know you're a consultant. Okay, but consulting for like who? I am a gender equity racial

consultant. >> Gotcha. Gotcha. Okay. Um, our last question is I know I'm asking people out here. So, if we abolish ICE don't make

any sense at all. Yeah, I know. I'm working on it. What What should we replace ICE with? What should Maybe with immigrants that can actually help us learn how they got into the country in the most safest way possible and how we can allow them to keep coming into this country safely and possibly. Let immigrants be in charge.

Let them take over that role. Let them be in charge of border patrol. Let the It's their issue, correct? Let them be the ones in charge. How How exactly would that work? Like,

they come over the border and they It's not the policy that I'm in. Yeah, I was curious. Okay. If you're not going to like ask specifically what I'm interested in, I don't know what to Fair enough. Fair enough. I was just curious. Okay. Let's

talk about that. That's um interesting.

>> Okay, I want to I want to talk about that. Okay, so um I've done these interviews for about a year now and that I've never heard anything like that in my life that we should replace ICE with immigrants. You think you hear it all and you and you don't. You don't. How would that even work? What what does

that even mean? So people should pour over the border and then create a police force? I don't know. But that was a new one for sure. Yeah.

That was a new one. I That's genuinely insane guys. I feel like I'll do like one or two more interviews guys, but that's that is unbelievable. That is insane.

Hey, how much are these shirts? No camera. I just how much is it? 20 bucks? Okay. Where where do you make

these?

Okay, so I'll do one more interview. I want to read your guys' suggestions of what you'd like to be asked for this interview that we do here. So I'm I'm watching the the chat. Okay guys, let me know which questions I'm reading the chat right now. What would you like to ask people?

Okay, why are you crazy? can't ask that guys. What is your favorite color? Ask people about Iran. Oh, that's a funny one actually.

Their pronouns are good. Are they boosted? Why do they hate your country? Okay, wait, that's actually so funny though. The Iran one is so good. I got to ask

about that. Hold on. Um yeah, let's do that. Okay, hold on.

>> [music]

[music]

[music]

[music] >> I have a question. Do you know when the free Iran protest are? I don't know right now. You don't know? >> [music] >> Cuz I saw there was a free Palestine and anti-ICE today, but I'm waiting to join [music] the free Iran one.

Do you know when it is? Do you know like can I ask you a question? Do you know Do you know when the free Iran protest is?

I I have a question. Do you know when the free Iran protest is? I don't know where. There's a guy with a camera telling you not to say that. Do you know when it is?

No, I don't know. Keep wondering. All right. >> [music] >> Do you know when the free Do you know when the when the free Iran protest is? Uh hopefully soon.

What's that? >> [music] >> Hopefully soon. Free Iran. I know. I want to free Iran. Do you know when the

protest is? There are many people here who are very supportive of the free Iran, yeah. I saw that the flyer said free Palestine and I wasn't sure if we're able to say free Iran. Free Palestine and free Iran. Okay. Do you

think there will be a free Iran [music] protest scheduled? I'd love to, yeah. Okay. Can you talk to the People's Forum about it? Sure. Okay. Do you work with

them? Yeah. You do? I'd be happy to talk to them. Okay, yeah. Please talk to the

People's Forum about it cuz I know they organize all the protests. >> Absolutely. Is it rage bait for the internet? Is it rage bait? Yeah. Do you

think it is? It does look like it. Why does it feel that way? Because you're putting the mic in my face accusing us of not caring about Iran, which we do. I'm not accusing, I'm wondering what it is. Sure.

Talk to the People's Forum. So, I'll I'll check you guys' Instagram and and I'll find the free Iran protest this week, right? >> Yeah, go check out the People's Forum. Amazing. Thank you.

All right.

All right, guys. Um protest is marching. We can get some b-roll of this here. Okay, guys. So, we've done some interviews today. As you can see, it was

um nice to do interviews before the march starts. It's going to get more complicated to walk with them. Um thank you so much for watching this guys live stream. It was It was awesome. I think we got some great interviews today. Um

and uh I'll be reading you guys' uh chat on the replay and the comments. And uh yeah, amazing. I'll see you guys soon. Bye for now. See you.

So, you're you're in the journalism

You feel like Are you feeling like buying any of these? They're good ones. Thank you, but I got to run. Okay. You got to run. All right.