---
video_title: "Confronting Venezuela protestors in NYC!"
video_id: I41zLeQujtA
channel_name: "Nate Friedman"
channel_id: UCkZPmCUf37R_DZgKYH3duPg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I41zLeQujtA
video_date: 2026-01-03T20:11:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Support the channel: https://buymeacoffee.com/nate3
  X: https://x.com/NateFriedman97
---
I'm going to miss you guys.

Okay, sounds good. Okay.

Anything else to keep in mind while recording? >> No, you're good. Good. Thanks for recording you guys today. That's me and the crowd is good, yeah.

I want to see it on the how this looks. This is pretty crazy first live stream. All right, let's try like this. All right, so I texted myself the live stream, yeah. I'm going to post it on Instagram, too.

Yeah. Guys, we're going to We're going to the uh I don't know what to call it, pro-Venezuela protesters. These are radical left protesters that are very unhappy with what President Trump has done. So, we're going to ask them what they're unhappy about exactly.

Audio issues, I think. >> I'm having audio issues? Can barely hear you. Okay, that's not good. They got to check that. Um

Yeah, it probably has to do with Let's just see. Um Let's see. Let's see. I asked them if they did Is it Is it better audio now, guys? Let me know if the audio is better now.

>> Sounds good. Audio's fine. They say the audio's good now? Yep. We can hear you.

Okay, so I'm posting the link right now. Uh link All right.

All right, let's go, guys. Let's let's let's see where this is at. I know it's going to be down there. It suddenly warmed up. It was like I felt like it was so freezing earlier, but now it's warmed up. Okay, so we know it's going

to be happening around here. Oh, this guy's got the Venezuela flag. I think he might be pro-Venezuela. Like he might have liked what Trump has done. Let's ask him.

Hey, what's going on, man? I saw your flag. Um I'm we're live on YouTube. Can I ask you what did you think about what President Trump did? How you doing? I'm

Nate. Nice to meet you. Español? I don't speak Spanish, I'm sorry, but do you speak any English? Uh no, English, but uh very happy. Very

happy? Very happy. Very happy. Very happy. Yeah. What did you think about um a lot

of people in the West uh like hard left liberals are upset at what Trump has done. What do you think about that? No.

Okay, we'll translate that. Someone knows what that means. Thank you, buddy. >> Thank you. Have a good one, man. See

you. You, too. Um anyone in the chat know what that that means? Let's see. I'll have it pulled up, too.

First time live stream right here, guys. Um I I don't think this is the protest, obviously.

The People's Forum normally they do their protest right by over there.

All right. Where are my familiar faces? They got to pop up around here. Oh, they're distributing the signs. Let's go Let's go check that out.

Uh what are we unhappy about? Taking out a capturing a ruthless dictator that's murdered Americans and they're unhappy about it. Let's see.

Oh, all the signs are already propped up. They're just against the walls here. Oh, thank you. Thank you for everything you do. >> Thank you so much. Bless you. Thank you.

All right.

All right, let's just play it cool, you know.

Hey, Manuel, how you doing? My name's Nate. Nice to meet you. I'm good. How are you? Would you mind doing

an interview right now? Can I ask why?

You're the leader of the People's Forum. You got $20 million from Roy Singham to protest. Can I ask why you don't want to speak with me right now? Do you deny that you got $20 million to protest? You don't deny that?

How are you spending that $20 million to protest? I know you're paying David Chung 75k a year. Anyone else on the payroll? Oh, David, what's up, man? I didn't recognize you. Hey, you're back, buddy.

How you doing? All right, let's All right. This is how it is, guys.

$20 million to paid protest. Won't deny it. Won't deny it. Cuz it's a fact. Awesome, guys. All right, let's keep

asking people questions. Um Manuel, I got a quick question. So, I've seen you with uh the president of Cuba. Why should we bring back relations with Cuba? They're a communist dictatorship.

Mm. Okay. He's not in a chatty mood right now. Hey, can I see one of those flyers? Why can't I see one of those flyers?

>> You can have a flyer. Okay, thank you. That's all I was asking for. Really, there's so many. You can't spare one of them?

Can I just No. Can I just see it what it says? Okay. I just hear you're just passing them out and I'm just Okay. All right.

Hey, what's going on? Hey, man. I recognize you from the protest at Columbus Circle. How you doing? Hi. Hi. Um what What do you think about

this protest? Why Why are you stopping him from speaking? I just had to ask him something. >> Oh, okay. All right, so let's Hi, how are you doing? Hi, um I'm a YouTuber and I was

wondering if I could ask you what you thought about what President Trump did yesterday or overnight, I should say. I wouldn't be here if I liked it. Yeah. And why do you dislike it? It's totally illegal.

And um And how is it illegal? Well, you can't abduct a president of another state. I mean, and bomb a country with no reason whatsoever. What do you say to the folks that say that it's illegal to send over thousands of pounds of fentanyl that kill Americans? Uh Hey.

What's that? >> No, thank you. No, thank you. Oh, you're talking to the person I'm interviewing, so I just thought you wanted to be involved. No, no comment. No comment?

So, what brings you brings you Uh are you both Yeah, we're we're together. >> [laughter] >> We're not. We're not? I'm one of the I'm with one of the protesters You're one of the protest organizers. So, how do you feel about him telling you not to speak?

Isn't that kind of weird? I'm with Code Pink. You know Code Pink? >> You're with Code Pink? We love Code Pink. Yeah.

We love Code Pink. So, all right, other than the fact that it was illegal, anything else that you dislike about it? Yeah, why can't you speak? I'm not telling you to Okay. Exactly. See, that's weird behavior.

See, I like that. We're having a nice conversation. So, other than the Oh, Julie, what's up, Julie? Good to see you again. Um so, other than the fact that it was illegal, anything else that you dislike about it?

>> doesn't come from Venezuela. That's Oh, it doesn't? No. Where does it come from? Most from China and smuggled in by Americans, so >> [music] >> it's not a Venezuelan problem. I mean

What do you say to the folks that, you know, they see that Tren de Aragua is getting arrested, that they're operating out of migrant shelters, and they have drugs that are killing American citizens. What do you say to that? Cuz they are a Venezuelan gang. Yeah, of course there's gangs from every group in the in the world. Do you It's not a Venezuelan thing. Do

you think that Tren de Aragua operates in the United States? No. No? Interesting. And how are you so sure about that?

They This is a very small tiny group that operated within Venezuela, not There might be some here. I mean, I don't deny that. Oh, another person. What We're having a conversation. How many guys Guys, let's bring everybody out.

Okay, can we keep speaking? Can we keep speaking cuz you're actually really nice, and it's nice to get to know you. So, listen, I Are you trustworthy? What makes him trustworthy? What makes him trustworthy?

No. Julie, why can't she talk? How are doing, Nathan? I'm good. How are you?

Can Why are you getting arrested all the time at protests, Julie? Nathan, why are you lying to people all the time? What What am I lying about? What am I Julie, you're you're running away from me. And my name is Nate, not Nathan.

My name is not Nathan. >> Okay, Nathan. Julie. Julie, tell me, why are you getting arrested all the time? What are you doing?

Can you tell me? Nathan, you know I'm not going to talk to you, Nathan. You're not going to talk to me? Nathan, you need to leave people alone. I'm not going to talk to you. Who are you?

What's up with you? >> to leave people alone. Back off. Back off. She doesn't want to talk to you.

Okay, as she continues to talk to me. She doesn't want to talk to me? Julie, do you mind if we talk over here? All right. Julie Delower, she's a seen taking pictures with senators, a paid protester, always out here working with Rise and Resist. I don't know.

What do you guys think? I would love to see what what the chat is saying. Can I see? Sure. Very cool. She forgot her kazoo. I know.

How crazy is this? >> [laughter] >> Oh. Julie, can we please have a conversation? >> Hey, Nathan. How about that HomeLock scam? How about that HomeLock scam that

funds you, Nathan? What are you scamming people for, Nathan, with your HomeLock scam? Why are you taking hundreds of people, thousands of dollars from hard-working people, Nathan? It's called Home Title Lock, and it's not a scam, and they're not the sponsor of this video, but they're not a scam. It's a total scam, and you get money off of him, don't you, Nathan?

Hey, you're scamming people, right, Nathan, with your I'm not scamming. So, are we having a conversation right now? I just want to make sure. people, Nathan. One of your coworkers going to come over and tell us not to talk.

Nathan, why are you a scammer? Why are you always getting arrested? people, Nathan. I'm not getting arrested. You're the one getting arrested.

Okay. Oh, it's that kid. Someone said, "Oh, it's that kid." What's up? [sighs and gasps] How's it going, guys?

It's nice to see you all again. What are we upset about today? Tahir. Everything's cool with Palestine? So, we're talking about Venezuela now.

Can you tell me what you dislike about what Trump did yesterday or overnight? Can I talk to him? Yeah, yeah. >> [sighs] >> Tahir is not in a chatty mood. It was just ceasefire, ceasefire, and then there was a ceasefire, and then now this is the new thing that Soros has sent his people out. Uh Singham has given to

People's Forum $20 million, so they have enough funds to keep this going for a while. All righty. Let's have a conversation with someone sort of on these outskirts before they actually arrive and the people come and tell us to stop. Oh, I know her. Hey.

Hey, could I ask you a question? I have a YouTube channel. Can I ask you a question? Uh people are not in a chatty mood today at all. Can I ask how the PSL is involved with this protest?

It's like a 1-minute interview. Be super quick. You just want to stand there? It's kind of cold, so You don't want to say anything about what Trump did? You want to get your message out to the people at all?

Not at all? I'm sure there are people that are watching that agree with you. You don't think so?

Okay. All right. Well, be well.

Hey, I I heard you you were talking with me, and I was wondering if we could have a chat. I'm good. Okay. But, you were talking about me, right? No, I'm good. You weren't talking about

me? I'm good, dude. Okay. Are you going to start banging that drum soon? All right.

All righty. Let's talk to people that are just getting in here. Let me see someone who's not involved in the protest. Let's ask these guys. Hey, how are you guys doing? Hi, I'm a

YouTuber, and I was wondering if I could ask you what your thoughts are on this protest. I'm trying to ask people that are not necessarily involved with the protest. No? Can I ask you guys? Um I was just wondering to get New Yorkers' opinions on this uh Venezuela protest. We ain't

New Yorkers. Does that matter? That's absolutely fine. >> We're from Tennessee. Yeah. Um

it really doesn't affect me, so I don't care if they go take all their oil or not. Okay. I think that we need to leave land alone. I mean, what's Venezuela done to us? We keep putting our feet in different countries, and I think that we need to leave our nose out of everything because we're just bombing everybody and trying to take everybody's property, and it's none of our business. What do you

think about the Venezuelans that are celebrating on the streets today? I've honestly not watched the news, but I just heard about this as we were getting on the plane this morning, and it broke my heart. It broke your heart? Um what specifically about it broke your heart? I mean, we're we're going over there and we're capturing people because we want we want oil. Like, we're trying to take

over land that's not ours. We need to keep our feet here. I mean, we've already kicked people out of I mean, this was land of the Indians and land of like Mexicans, and we've kicked them out and took this, and now we're like trying to seal the borders and not allow people over. Like, we need to just stay within our country and leave everybody else alone. What do you say to the folks that say that Maduro is working with the cartels, and the cartels are sending fentanyl and other drugs over the border?

Drugs are going to come into the US no matter where they're coming from. Got you. Do you feel the same way? Sure, absolutely. Yeah.

It doesn't affect me. I'm in Tennessee. Good Tennessee. When you say like it doesn't affect you, like, what if there are drugs that come over the border and it kills your fellow American citizens, and they're coming from Venezuela? Are you saying that that doesn't affect you, or are you saying that Like, what exactly doesn't affect >> me and my If it don't affect me and my immediate family, I don't care what they do. No. Okay. Well, thank you guys. I

appreciate it. Have a good one. Bye-bye. It's an interesting way to go about life. Okay, it's very quiet protest. I guess

they're waiting for the paid protesters to start speaking to them and telling them what to do. Hi, how are you doing? Um I have a YouTube channel, and I was wondering if I could ask you a question. Yeah, of course. Okay, amazing. Um what up?

>> My voice is a little gone right now. >> worries. No worries at all. What What brings you out here today? Um so, I'm just ready for all this to end. Um I'm

sick and tired of it. It's going on every single day. Every single day there's something on the news. I'm just fed up. I'm angry. I'm fed up. So, I

have to be out here. It's like no choice. Was this the straw that broke the camel's back for you just >> No. No, I've been I've been angry. Like, long ago. Like, since we put him in

office, I've been angry. So, this is not the first thing. I've been going to protests. I've been speaking up. So, I'm just fed up. I think we need more people

out here instead of people just staying silent and not doing anything about it. So, I know right now, I've gotten some messages. People are confused that there are Venezuelans that are celebrating the streets and thanking President Trump. What do you say to those folks that are celebrating? Um you know, it it's it's definitely heartbreaking um because my my Latino community they're very uneducated, and and it genuinely breaks my heart because they think that he's helping them. Or he's

he's taking away a dictator that's that's, you know, obviously I know that that he's been doing damage, but it's not helping them at all. We have He's a a dictator himself. Like, I understand you guys want freedom, and but this is not the way to go. This is not And I'm And I'm heavily encouraging my Latino people to please please educate yourselves. Please read history, read books, please. That's what's important.

Do you think that they would be better off with Maduro? No, not at all. No, I hated him. He needed to go, but I'm saying this is not the way to go. Like, I seen a post I seen a post earlier where um taking away a legal um dictator um the right way to do it is not by doing illegal crimes yourselves. Okay. And

what is the right way to do it? The right way to do it Well, I can't tell you the right way to do it, but right now what I know is that this is not the right way. This is only bringing more problems to our country when we already have problems ourselves. So, Yeah. If If we were to just like brainstorm a little bit, like, what what How do you How do you help the Venezuelan people? Because, you know,

84% of them are in poverty. A lot of them are in poverty, but I I I genuinely can't answer that to that right now because, like I said, our country is falling. Our country ourselves is falling. We can't We can't help another country if our our country is literally falling. Our economy is destroying itself. Literally, our government

doesn't care. Congress doesn't care. So, how can we help another country? How? And have you been thinking about Venezuela a lot before this happened? I

have. All the countries that aren't free yet. Venezuela, um Sudan, Palestine, Congo, all my Latino countries. Honduras, Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic, all of them. This is a conversation every single day that I have with my people. Got you. Do you

have Do you have family or friends that are in Venezuela right now? Um no, not family, but I have friends. Friends. And what are they What are they saying to you? What are your friends telling you right now? They don't agree with this.

They don't agree with it. They They for sure are happy that Maduro is gone. But, this is not the way to go. They know that this is bringing more problems. And not only that, they bombed Venezuela, killing innocent people.

Do Do they want a democracy, your friends? They do. Obviously, they want freedom. They want their freedom. They want a democracy. That's all they've been

longing for. Okay. So, if a democracy comes, I know President Trump mentioned that he wants he's going to take control of the United States going to take control of Venezuela. And if a democracy comes out of this, will you be happy about it? Um out of Venezuela? I I know it's not.

I know it's not. And how do you know that a democracy won't come? Because of history. He's literally replaying the history playbooks. He's literally following [ __ ] Hitler's playbooks. Like we can't we can't we

can't ignore it. We need to stop ignoring it. We need to read history and stop and stop ignoring that. Okay. He's not He's not trying to to fight for democracy. Let's Let's be for real. He's

not doing that. He's not even fighting for democracy here. So, let's stop acting like, "Oh, if if if if he does do it, if democracy does come out of this, are you going to?" No, it's not it's not happening. We need to stop saying that we're hoping when it's not happening.

I've had enough with this president and people saying, "Let's hope. Let's hope. Let's hope." I'm fed up. That's it.

There's no hope. He's not doing [ __ ] He's not fighting for democracy. We're not going to get it. We need to stop hoping cuz that's that's only leading us worse down the hole. And you mentioned that he's following Hitler's playbook. Um as a Jew, I would

love to know about that because I'm I wouldn't want another Hitler. So, how is he following Hitler's playbook?

>> [cheering]

>> It's very interesting how you can say he's following Hitler's playbook and just say it like it's this minor thing. And and her friends literally say that they're happy Maduro is gone. Like the dictator is not just going to walk away. Um here, I'm going to mention something. So, guys, I'll tell you I've been to over 50 of these protests.

This is a small protest. This is This is a very small protest. This is like only the familiar faces, honestly. Like everybody in the front I've seen at 10 20 plus different protests.

So, THIS IS A

PARTY FOR SOCIALISM AND LIBERATION. THE PSL is funding this. The PSL is putting out these signs because it's not about Venezuela. It's about instituting socialism throughout this country. That's why all of these You see Answer Coalition is at the bottom of these PSL.

This is about socialism. It's not about Venezuela.

Hi. I'm a YouTuber and I was wondering if I could ask you about this protest and what you think about it? Well, I think that United States don't have to get in intervene in any other country that problems from Venezuela have to be solved by people from Latin international law. And we are opposed that because they already we there is a history of this type of intervention in other countries. I am from Puerto Rico and I don't want that to happen in Puerto Rico and Mexico and Colombia any other place. Yeah,

understood. Um what did you think about Maduro? I That's not my That's not my nothing to I I That's not my business in other words. It seemed that he was authoritarian and there were people from Venezuela complaining about a lot of things. Yeah. But that's their That's

not my business. That's people of Venezuela independent of Maduro's type of personality or his style of government. We don't have to abduct him and you know, invade another country for that. What do you think about the drugs that were being poured over the border from Venezuela? How do you know that? You

have proof of that? Uh yeah, I mean it's been reported by ICE and several other independent news organizations. >> So, ICE and these people I I Well, I I Yes, I do trust ICE, but I I also trust the multiple [music] third-party news organizations. They They asked Rubio where if they have proof about this people in the chief that they were fishers and there were people from Venezuela. He said, "Well, you have to believe." And that's it. No explanation.

No proof. >> Okay. But let me just say, what is the What is the solution then? So, what >> [crying] >> What is the solution for Venezuela? Say we didn't do this. Uh Huh?

Oh, we're having a conversation. Do Can we continue the conversation? Huh? Can we continue our interview? Well, for the For who? Oh, I'm just

independent. I'm just a YouTuber. It's okay? Okay.

He's making this his business, but Do I have proof of that? The photos, the videos. Um the hundreds Okay, from the people's forum. Let's see what our head of paid protesting has to say.

This is This is my This is um What's her name again? Uh Jenny. Jenny, how are you? Jenny. remain the piece of [ __ ] you always were. Jenny, can you tell me why remain

the piece of [ __ ] you've always been. Jenny, listen. Why are you comparing Trump to Hitler? You remain the piece of [ __ ] you've ALWAYS BEEN. NATE, GO AWAY.

OKAY. NATE, go away. Okay. So, Jenny, so we've established that I'm a piece of [ __ ] but now can you say how Trump is Go away. Nate, go away. It's It's It's a

song. Go Nate, go away. Okay. How is Trump Hitler? Well, you're calling the president of the United States Hitler. It's a rather

big statement. So, she's calling Trump Hitler and she's going to freak out over one question. All right. What? He's not even Hispanic.

Like What do you think about this protest? Maduro said Colombia and this is just insanity. Uh I don't know who's funding this. It's probably Maduro. I don't know. This

doesn't make any sense. Yeah. Like these people None of these people are Venezuelan. All these people are Latin. It's insane. So, you're from Colombia.

How long you've been in the States for? I've been here 3 years. Someone just One of these paid protesters just came over to tell you not to speak Anyway, you've been here for 3 years, you said? I've been here for 3 years. This is insane. Oh, okay.

Oh, got you. Okay. Thank you. I didn't know how to say okay. >> [laughter] >> Um so, what do you think about President Trump?

I mean it's up for grabs at this point, but I mean I support the actions today. Definitely. And why do you support it exactly? Why do I support it? Because um at least I've seen 3 million people cross the Darien Gap.

There's been a lot of poverty. There's been a lot of problems here. I mean this is this is at this point unacceptable. And how did you come to to the United States? Legally.

>> Yeah. So, what do you So, you're seeing millions of people come here illegally. What are your thoughts on us shutting down the border? I mean I think the the best intervention is to really attack the dictatorship so at least we all can come back. What do you say to these folks that are saying it's a violation of international law, that it's illegal and it shouldn't have been done? Uh I mean look at the

rest of the world. International law is over, my friend. We're living a post-liberal order. Thank you. The gloves that I have are not going to make a difference, honestly.

All right, let's do this a little bit.

Yeah, uh Nate Friedman. Yeah. I don't know.

Uh F R I E D M N. Oh, okay.

Let's talk to him for a bit.

Hi. Um my name is Nate. I'm a YouTuber and I was wondering if I could interview you real quick. You You punch your right wingers? Uh no, I'm not a right winger.

What do you want to know? I just want to know about your sign. What makes you want to say no war with Venezuela? >> Okay, first of all, it's not about drugs. Very little drugs come out of Venezuela. I've traveled

I've just came back Bolivia. Very little coca leaves is grown in Venezuela. Only about 5% of drug trade is going through Venezuela. Most of Venezuela being exported out through Ecuador in tankers. Huge amount that are going that's going to Europe. Why are they not bombing the

tankers? Why are they bombing fishing boats? It's It's just a bunch of lies. It's just It's unbelievable what's going on. Trump just freaking pardoned the biggest narcotrafficker, the ex-president of Honduras.

This isn't about drugs. It's unbelievable. And how can you go and kidnap a president from a country? It's It's unprecedented. I mean, they can just go to any country they want to just bomb it and kidnap it? It's It's

unbelievable what's going on. What do you say because I'm seeing both sides. What do you say to the right-wingers that say what war with Venezuela? The The war was over. Like that there is no war with Venezuela. No, but right now there is a

war. We're bombing it. You're bombing Venezuela right now. That's war, you know? Yeah. So, it's

just who they're picking. I mean, most of the drugs are coming out of Peru and Ecuador. I spent time in Peru. I spent time in Ecuador. I just came back from Bolivia. I spent time in all these

countries. Venezuela is one of the least the countries with the least amount of drug trafficking going through It's just It's made up. It's lies. There's I mean, you know your stuff. That's So, I'm personally quite confused because I see in on the streets of Venezuela people are celebrating what has happened.

Is that just a minority of people that are celebrating? What's exactly going on? >> I spent a lot of time in Bolivia. You know, there there people that have money in Venezuela that are you know, when when they when they not private when they publicize stuff, the the rich people are the ones that are going to be losing the money. And that's what they've gone into Bolivia just now, the United States government.

They came they got a new president and they're going in and trying to invest as well. And none of that none of that investment is going to do anything for the Bolivians. The same thing, you know, I'm I'm not a supporter. You know, we should not be in Venezuela right now bombing. There's there's absolutely no reason.

We could We could go to any country and bomb just because we don't agree with the president there. You know what I mean? Do you do you believe that Tren de Aragua and gangs like that are active in the United States or do you not think that's true? I don't know, but it's it's being used by by Trump. All this whole thing with gangs, drug war, narcotrafficking is being used by Trump, okay? I worked the

border. I worked I worked the frontera when the when the families were coming through. I mean, it's just it's just absolute lies that are coming through. Like a lot of the immigrants that were crossing the border were coming up to work in the this country. And they're using this whole gang thing, you know what I mean? You said that they're

coming to You said that they're coming to work, right? >> They were. When I was there, they were coming to work in farms in Florida. I asked it I speak Spanish. I asked most of the people what they were doing because I'm interested. I've I've

traveled all Guatemala. I've traveled all these countries. It's It's It's just It's just the lies that are coming out and the hypocrisy of this Trump is just unbelievable. I agree with you there. So, I've been documenting a lot of this for the last year or so. And when I speak to asylum

seekers, they say that they're here to work. But a lot of people are confused about that. They say, "Well, if you're seeking asylum, are you really here Are you here to seek asylum or you here to you know, for money?" What do you say to the folks that are here as asylum seekers but really here to just make money? >> there's different types of asylum, you know what I mean? There's political

asylum. There's economic asylum. A lot of the the problems that were being charged being caused by climate change. There's no there's no jobs and they're coming up, you know, and the gangs when I was working at the border at the very beginning, there are gangs in Honduras and now it's going into Guatemala. So, there is a lot of a lot of people who were you know, were owning stores and stuff and they were having to pay $30 a month to have a store or to live in their own house. So, there was extortion in

Honduras and stuff like that. So, they're coming up escaping that. But, you know, they're coming The first wave of it The second wave were the Haitians. I mean, I know you know, I worked Haitians in Venezuela. The first ones were from Honduras, Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico. Mexico's

couldn't cross and they were coming up to work in this country. I mean, and the jobs they were doing not one American would ever do, you know what I mean? Right. So, I mean, it's just part of like Do you think that we should take in a certain number of cuz economic asylum is not a term that I'm often hearing. It's usually what I hear is political asylum that if they were to go back to their country, they would be killed. But

you're mentioning economic asylum, which I think is interesting. Do you think that there should be a certain number of economic asylum migrants that we take in? But but immigrant I mean, It's not immigration. What did I say? Immigration is also political as well. I

mean, they're letting people in from certain countries and not other countries, you know what I mean? So, it's it's racism. It's totally you know, they're letting in I mean, when I was there a lot of the the Cubans and the Venezuelans that were white-skinned and rich were able to cross the border. But then when the poor people started coming, that's when they started calling them gangs and crim you know, criminals and stuff. So, it's it's and who's allowed to cross the border? It's all

It's political, you know what I mean? I mean, they're letting some people in they're not letting other people in. I mean, you know, go to I'm not going to start naming countries, but you don't you see very few white people deported, you know what I mean? It's always people of color being deported. So, it's racism in the immigration system.

>> But if people of color if they're being deported, then they did cross the border though. They did make it across. What was going on with immigration? It's not It wasn't illegal. They were being brought in this country They were allowed to cross into the country. They

They're in the They were in this country to then apply for asylum. So, they're here legally. It's part of our our immigration system. If they're you know what I mean? And they had, you know, the first group had ankle bracelets. So,

they were coming in and allowed to stay in this country to apply for asylum. Who's whole idea that it's illegal immigration, you know, it's just the whole Right. Well, first of all, you're very reasonable and I would like to continue this because I've had these questions for a while. So, That's all I say. People should travel and travel Latin America and see for themselves what is going on. Right. So,

when I was talking to the immigrants who came across the border during during the Biden administration, there were quite a few more you know, millions of migrants that were coming over the border during that time. And a lot of them said that they didn't really get checked at the border that you know, they would ask like every third person a question, but they were mostly letting people in by the droves because it was it was a lot of people, right? Do you Do you feel like that that is true? Yeah, well, when I went down there I went down to the very beginning and how it started I was down in McAllen, Texas and how it started is the the people were the families it was was families were crossing the border. They were getting picked up by immigration then they were being dumped at the bus station with with no money, no nothing. So, the

the nun down there, Sister Helen God God her name. She was seeing all these people living in the streets and so she started putting them up in the church and then it took the numbers got more and more because of the social media. Yeah. But they were contacting their families back and saying come on up and come over and they were crossing. These people had places to go. Yeah. So,

we were sending we were they were in the streets with no money everything. We were contacting their relatives by phone. The relatives were paying for bus tickets to go stay with them to await to apply for asylum. I I did see a lots of single, you know, young men crossing the border. The Mexican single men that first started migrating, they were crossing illegally because under this it was families that were able to cross. So,

there's all these different groups of different types of immigrants. What are your thoughts So, you mentioned that they arrive with no money. I agree. A lot of them did not have any money. And they were coyotes they were paying to to about $10,000 about about $10,000 and then it was $1,000 to cross the Rio Grande.

So, they were and a lot of them a lot of the women were being There there were narco narco gangs at the border that stopped actually narcotrafficking and started nor you know, trafficking human beings and the women were a lot of times abused or money they were being ripped off the money. So, they were they were paying extra $1,000 to cross the Rio Grande. What did you think about the migrant shelters that were set up in New York that were you know, forced our hotels? I live in Jersey, so I wasn't involved at all in the shelters, but at that point it was a it was a very different um migrant. It wasn't families a lot of single Venezuelan men that were coming up young kids. Yeah.

>> that. So, what are your thoughts on that? Well, I mean, it depends on I mean, the young boys that were coming but a lot of migrants are coming here to work. Sure, but you're you're referencing exactly what I saw, which is a lot of young Venezuelan men that were being put up in forced our hotels that were paid for by you and I. What are your thoughts on that? Well, I'm just I mean, the

immigration system it was I mean, it was the number of people that are crossing were got to be ferried a lot and it would be very money. So, Do you feel like we had to put them in hotels? I think if they were living in the streets, you know, that'd be a bigger problem. So, it was And it was a it was families coming over too. A lot of the young you know, young boys. I can tell

you kind of have an issue with it. I don't know. When I was working the border, it was a large number, but what are we going to do? But I mean, you know, if you if you saw what kind of jobs these guys were coming up over for, Yeah. A lot of them weren't working. No, well,

that was the that last bunch. The first bunch I was working with all had jobs and they were coming up to work in tobacco. I mean, would you ever pick tobacco? Would you gut chickens? Would you work like, you know, what? 12-hour

days picking oranges in in you know, in in in down in Florida? I mean, they were going to towns that, you know, traditionally had migrants, you know, I mean, we we wouldn't be eating here. We would not have food on the table without migrants. I mean, the dairy farmers in Minnesota or it's up in there, they can't even run cuz they can't find American workers. So, this idea that, you know, we're going to get rid of all these immigrants. Well, what we what we saw

with the Biden administration with the millions of migrants coming across, do you feel like that was sustainable if we kept that up? You're saying that we need migrants. Um do you think that that was sustainable? No, I mean there was an issue, but I think it's I think at one point when I was down in the border, there was more illegal Canadians in the United States than there were Mexicans. I mean, if you start looking, the top number one group of legal immigrants were Canadians above Mexicans when I was working at the border. And that was what year? Uh, oh

my god, that was right after right my last trip was right before COVID. So, January before COVID. And I was working at Catholic Charities in McAllen, Texas. I had gone down for the last two or three years. I had lots of friends and uh it was an most unbelievable experience in my life. So,

but to to go in what's going on in Venezuela is just it's unbelievable, you know. >> Well, thank you. You're out here, you know, thank you. I appreciate it. I had to do something. Exercising your first

amendment rights, that's great. Yeah. It's unbelievable [cheering] what's going on right now. It's wrong. Yeah. It's unbelievable.

I appreciate it. Thank you. What's your name? Eliza. Eliza, my name's Nate. Nice to meet you.

Nice to meet you. Thank you.

Can I see what the chat is saying after that interview? It's just interesting.

So, that was interesting. She definitely had an issue with the migrant shelters, like 100%, but she didn't want to say it. Um, she was very nice, you know, honestly, like her heart's in the right place. She's just really brainwashed, but her heart's in the right place.

I'm reading your guys' chat right now. >> [snorts]

>> I don't know what she's talking about most of them being from Canada. I did not see that, but um taking a look at the flyers that they're putting out. So, here I can put this condemn the US bombing of Venezuela. Free free Maduro. Oh my gosh. Anything Trump does

if Trump cured cancer, they would say that it's an issue. They'd say the population's going to get too big.

So, they free free a ruthless communist dictator that put his entire country in poverty. Free him. That's that's stage four TDS. That's really remarkable. I don't know if you can recover from that.

Okay.

Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. My name is Nate. Can I

interview you real quick? From my YouTube channel. That was amazing. That was amazing. Your English is incredible. I the way

that you said my English is not so good. He's going to do an interview with you real quick.

What's your Tik Tok? Tik Tok, yeah.

Can I Can I ask you a question in English?

You can translate? Thank you. Can you ask him what are his thoughts are on the on these people protesting?

Okay.

Okay. Okay.

Got you. I don't disagree with that. All right, I got CVS here. You can show CVS's interviewing Do you have a question you want me to try to translate? Oh, yeah, I can after yeah.

Okay.

Huh? Miedo.

Okay.

>> Are you guys at CVS? I was wondering I would love to come on sometime and talk about so the guy that's speaking is Manolo De Santos. He's the people's forum got paid $20 by Roy Nevil Singh. Anytime you'd like to have me on I've studied it and I can share with you guys. Okay, thank you. I'll

give you my card. Thank you. Appreciate it.

Let's see I'm going to read what chat's saying in case they don't know what he's saying. Um Guys, we got to get real time translations in there. Um Uh thank you so much. Appreciate it. All right. We we got her card, guys.

Maybe we're going to go on the fake news. Um

Free Palestine. Somehow they're related. Guys, I mean you can't you can't make this up. You really can't make this up. You've got you've got people in Venezuela celebrating in the streets and then you've got people that are I mean let's be honest there's not many people here being paid to come out here to to relate it to Palestine and socialism.

Free free free Palestine. Let's see if we can get that going. I'm I'm sure everyone's going to confuse a bunch of people. >> [laughter]

>> From the river to the sea. Now let's do um What is it? Uh from Palestine to Mexico all the walls have got to go. That's a good one. I got to say that is a very good one. They have very good chance.

Amazing. He's just paid to go out there and just talk about what Whose streets are streets? I don't know. There's about 100 people here. Don't know if the streets of New York belong to this group of people.

There's also not peace when you traffic hundreds of thousands of pen fentanyl over the border and kill Americans. It's also not very peaceful. It's also not peaceful when you trend a ragua raping American citizens. It's not very peaceful either.

A war against capitalism.

Okay. What? Oh, she's passing out papers. Let's speak to speak to somebody else.

Uh my communist. How are you guys doing? Can I interview you for my YouTube channel? Can I bring you to my We have someone who's designated for media. We have a lot of Uh you know your stuff. It's fine. No, I

want to talk to you guys. I don't want to talk to a media person. Yeah I Because they're just going to get like scripted line. I just want to have an actual conversation. >> at all. You should you should actually

talk to our I mean who are you? Oh, my name's Nate Friedman and I'm an independent journalist and I saw that you were passing out Oh, we're not passing these out actually. We ask for a $5 donation. We're entirely class independent but you can you're more than welcome to read for free online. No paywall or anything. But

yeah, you should check out that communist flag over there. There's a bright red flag. Um what are We're organized with the Revolutionary Communist of America. We're out here to say hands off Venezuela and we unequivocally stand with the people of Venezuela against the US imperialist aggression. >> What do you think about the people of Venezuela celebrating on the streets?

What? >> What do you think about the people of Venezuela celebrating on the streets today? Um I saw images of Venezuelans being bombed after the US you know bombed Caracas. So I'm not sure what you're talking about but yeah, I think you should definitely Show me the the bombings that you're talking about. I I didn't see any. No, I just

saw it on Reddit. It was on the front page of so I don't know. Um but you should definitely uh But what do you think about the people celebrating the hundreds of thousands of people that are in the streets celebrating? >> I I I have I have yet to see it. Can you show me that?

>> Yeah, yeah. Sure. I went I went over there to the idealistic you know when I was at it it was my life All right. Anyway All right. I mean if you're not going to show me anything No, I can show it to you right now in my hands.

You good? Yeah, I think I'm good but Nice to meet you. I'm Isaiah. [clears throat] Um you should check out communistusa.org if you want more info about our group.

>> We'll check out communist dictatorship. Hold on a second. Here you go, sir. US imperialism. People celebrating on the streets here.

What do you think about that? I mean I at the end of the day I stand with the people of Venezuela against US imperialism. The US has no right to bomb the people of Venezuela. The US has no right to kidnap another uh leader of another >> Why are they celebrating? You know I don't know. I Do you have a

correspondent there who can ask? I'm I'm I'm here demonstrating against I'm here demonstrating against US >> this AI though? These images of everybody celebrating? >> the one showing me the video so let me know. You're showing me the source. I don't

think it's AI because it's being published by multiple news organizations. So just what are your thoughts on it? Um I'm here protesting US intervention, US imperialism and US capitalism. The Epstein class, the class of Wall Street, the capitalist class the needs to be overthrown. The working class needs a party of its own. Neither party of

Epstein, neither party of Wall Street, neither the Democrats nor the Republicans represent the interests of US workers. >> What is the party of Epstein? Uh the Democrats and the Republicans both represent the interests of the Epstein class, the class of billionaires, the class of capitalists, the class of Wall Street. They exploit all labor. The working class of the United States generates all value in society and they leech off of it.

>> Okay, why why isn't the working class growing more? Like that the working class party that you're talking about. I would say the working class is growing. I'd say the working class is starting to show its immense Oh, we are growing actually. We've grown by over 100% in the last year. So

you know I I don't know where you got that information from but What do you think about Mumia Abu Jamal? Um I think so far I'm in full support of socialism of course. I think Mumia Abu Jamal's words and his actions have not matched up. He's talking a lot about socialism but he's buddying up to that those the representatives of the Democrats, of the Republicans, of the Epstein class, of the class of billionaires. So he's buddying up with them.

>> Yeah, that's I mean so far that's what he's doing. >> Do you feel like that's necessary for him to buddy up with them in order to get elected? >> I think he has two options in front of him. He has two ways that he can try and get his program passed. He can either buddy up and accept all of the limitations of the bankers and his friends that he's buddying up to in the capitalist class or he can stand on the million voters, the huge unions in the city of New York, not just the city union but also the private sector union that are there as well and he can stand on that layer of real working advocate for actual working class policies, for the expropriation of the landlords, for the expropriation of the Fortune 500 and the democratic planning of society by working class.

>> Great. Should we seize control Should the government seize control of companies like Amazon and Google right now? Um I think that the working class should absolutely seize control, expropriate the Fortune 500 with no compensation for the owners and take it under their control in a democratically planned society and economy. Okay. Do you feel like we're going to be able to get like a a better iPhone if that happens? Um yeah, I actually think we

will because I think human innovation when when workers are not being exploited and ground down to the ground by the bosses and they actually have time, they have a 20-hour work week, they have time to develop their interests and skills. I think innovation is going to be unleashed. I think capitalism is holding back the next iPhone actually. I would like I would like innovation to be unleashed. So the people that you're talking about that you know let's call it the $300,000 $300 dollar a year salary software developers that are coming up with stuff for the iPhone.

Do you think that they would perform better if they were They are being they are completely under attack right now. They're being thrown out They're being paid $300,000 a year in their pajamas working from home. They're under attack. Um writ large you're talking about the computing industry, right? Software development, software engineers. They're

being thrown out of work right now and displaced by AI by these exact companies, these corporations that you're mentioning and the only way to fight that is if those actually not The only way to fight layoffs is to seize those closed factories, right? A factory closed is a factory occupied is a factory nationalized and they need to be run by their workers in the end of it. What would be the motivation to come up with a great idea if you're not going to be paid for it? Um you would be paid for it. I don't know what you're talking about.

>> How would you be paid for it? >> With money cuz you you do work. What do you mean? I don't know what you're talking about. So if you're under communism how are you going to you're going to get a promotion? You're going

to get paid more if you have a great idea? How would that work? How would the inner working system Yeah, we're not trying to like abolish money. I We're trying We think everybody should be employed. You want to abolish capitalism. You want to abolish

capitalism. We want to abolish capitalism so that every single person who's able has a place in work or school. All right. I got to got to pick up my brain cells here for a second. Um one sec.

Oh, does he not agree? He's he's fighting for the $400,000 a year software engineers. He's fighting them for them. Wow. They need him.

Yeah, hey buddy, how you doing? How are you, man? Your hands are warm, my hands are not. I got some gloves, but they're not doing a thing. That's why you have your Jewish brother here today.

We're live streaming right now. Oh, yeah? Yeah, anything you want to say to the people? What are your thoughts on this protest? Well, you these guys these guys are paid. They they're they're so organized.

I mean, it's less than even 24 hours. They got hundreds of signs made. It's it's almost like they have a have a print shop in the back of their people's forum over here down in the city. That being said that if you would look at all the videos out out on on the internet, the people of Venezuela are happy that this is happening because now they don't have to deal with social communism. But the people who are actual socialists and communists are here in America protesting against what's good for the better people in in in Venezuela. And

that's that's the sad part. Oh, thank you. >> And this is they want to turn they want to turn this country into what that country is, you know? They don't want this country to be good. These people want to live in in socialism and communism. How is it related to

Palestine? They're talking about Palestine. Uh it How is it related to Palestine? Uh I don't know. I mean >> I'm trying to figure it out. There there

there is no relationship with these people who are just pretty much like I said, they're they're they're bored liberals that are have nothing better to do. They're funded uh better than probably I think one of the best funded people in the world, probably $18 million a year from what I understand they get funded. >> I I I confronted Manuel Santos, leader of the people's forum. I said, you know, you guys are got paid $20 million a year by really no one else seeing them to paid protest. And he he had no response.

He didn't say Yeah, well, he he never he he actually never says a word. He'll never cuz cuz he knows once he opens up his mouth he he what you may call it? He incriminates himself. So, he can't he That's why he he >> He's getting arrested at every other protest that he's Yeah, well, he's getting arrested, but he also which we pay for. And he was also what do you call it? He was also a couple of

times I've seen him with paid security armed paid security walking down the block with them in a protest, which is also illegal to do. Um what does this have to do with Palestine? Absolutely nothing. But it's the same people who who who protested BLM or protesting Gaza, protesting Venezuela, protesting anti-Trump from No Kings. Everything just to destroy this country.

Yeah. All right, man. Well, I'll see you around then. Nice seeing you again. Nice seeing you.

Are you Nick Shirley? Huh? Are you Shirley? Am I Nick Shirley? I wish. No, I'm just Nate Friedman. He

is Nick Shirley. That's Nick Friedman right here, boy. No, Nick's a friend, though. Nice to meet you, too. Nick's Nick's a Nick's a fellow Jew. All

right. All right, let's go inside.

All right, let's go in a little bit. Okay, we actually got some more people here. All right. Yeah, you can pan there. Oh, we got resistfascism.org here, too. It's

all this stuff.

Guys, I'm joking about wishing I was Nick. I I'm I like the I like my life. Nick likes his life. He's a friend of mine. He's a great guy.

Um I met Nick Shirley in I met Nick for the first time I can talk about it, actually. Um So, Nick put up a amazing investigation in Minnesota. I congratulated him for sure. It was remarkable. I first met Nick when I was at protest an anti-ICE protest, and he was being swarmed by by protesters, and I was really worried about him, and I cut through the crowd, and I just went to shake Nick's hand and say, "Are you okay? Are you okay? I can get you out of

here. I can help you." And that was the first way we met. It felt kind of poetic because we've been kind of making videos together, and seeing him in person like that in that setting was really remarkable. And then we were both nominated for the citizen journalist award, and I met him in Florida, and it was really nice to just sit down with Nick, have a meal, and just talk about all this stuff. So, I couldn't be

happier for him. It's remarkable what he's done, and he deserves every bit of praise that he's getting, and save the West.

Guys, do you want to suggest some questions? I haven't live streamed before, so if you guys want to suggest some questions, I'm looking at the chat right now, and I will I'm looking. So, suggest a question, and I will definitely consider asking it.

Uh it's going quick. Hold on. Uh ask what do they do for work? Okay. Ask if they sit down when they pee.

Shirley, that would be a good question to ask at the end of the interview. Don't know if the interview would continue after that one. Oh, this guy's with the flag. Um Uh so He's he's he's leaving. Get this guy.

Hey, can I ask you a question? I'm a YouTuber, and I noticed your flag. What What's that? Uh can I ask you a question? You called me a mierda? That's like

[ __ ] right? Why am I [ __ ] Okay. I couldn't figure out the gender on that one, but okay. Um

Try. I tried, man. I tried.

Hey, can I ask you about this protest? What are your thoughts on it? I wouldn't start recording people if they don't want you to, so >> Oh, I didn't know that he didn't want me to. Can I interview I don't know what gave it away. Hold on, man.

Can I interview you? Okay. Canada Goose at a at a rally for socialism. Are you wearing Canada Goose? What do you think about socialism?

I think you should probably leave cuz you're in our space. If I stand over here, it's okay? Yeah, yeah. What do you think about socialism?

Do you have any thoughts on socialism? You want to just stand there, or do you want to have a conversation? Why are you wearing that mask? Is there a new variant that we should know about? Are you wearing Uh no, I don't think these record.

Yeah, go and uh tell the group chat about it. All right.

All right.

Wearing Wearing Canada Goose at a socialism protest is pretty amazing.

Okay, so let's read this here. Um Defend Venezuela. Release Maduro. It's on the streets of America. This is what's being passed out.

They have all this typed out. This is by the International Communist League. Hm, we'll look into who's behind this. They put this together pretty fast. Kudos.

Maybe ChatGPT was involved. Hey. [snorts] Sorry to inter- Can I ask you a question? Okay. Nice to see you again. You're the only

one who's really been willing to talk. It's interesting. So, thank you again.

What's that? Do you think Trump really cares about the people of Venezuela? Do I think Trump cares about the people of Venezuela? Do you think that Trump really cares about the people of Venezuela? I think he cares about the American people for sure. No, the

the people of Venezuela. Venezuela. I think so. Yeah, I would imagine. Do you not think so?

Come on. Give me a break. Yeah. I will give you a break. Okay.

Let's see who else we can talk to today. You want to hold the camera for a second? I can give you my scarf real quick. Get it around your neck. Uh it's okay. Don't worry about it. You sure?

>> Yeah, it's fine. Um Let's see. Which way to the mail this?

Oh, we have more communists here. Are you a communist and get organized? All right. How much are the newspapers? $5. $5? Okay.

Um oh, this is a You can take a sticker. This is a sticker that says expropriate the billionaires with you. So, with with Luigi, hey, how you doing? With with Luigi on the Is this saying like kill the billionaires or >> No, it's very clearly saying expropriate. But it's a picture of Luigi on it. Yeah, because a lot of people

only support what Luigi did. Um because there's a real anger against the billionaires. And so we're saying instead of just an act of terror, instead we need to expropriate their wealth and put it to much better use. So you don't think this is like But you don't think this this doesn't imply anything by having him on it? >> No, I think it's tapping into a mood that already exists. We did not create

that. We did not We did not create the support for Luigi. We're saying We're saying do something different with that. Okay. Yeah.

Interesting. Well, I'll hold on to it. Sure.

Where are you guys from? Uh I'm from Boston originally, but um I mean like what do you What do you What is this a YouTube channel? >> Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. What channel? Uh

Nate Friedman. Nate Friedman? Yeah. Yeah. So, obviously I I heard from another group of communists over there that it's it's been growing about 100%. What do

you credit the growth of the Communist Party to in the in in the United States? Why is it growing? Yeah, I mean the continued crisis of of capitalism, unemployment, the inflation inflation, the absolute failure of the system to offer any sort of future for the young people, the continuing like erosion of just like conditions of access to education, to healthcare. All of that is completely eroding. It has been for for decades now and and people don't see a future under the system and so they they they they're looking for alternatives, right? And you

know, communism When Um What is the best example of communism working well? I mean I I think it's a shame that the the Soviet Union degenerated. I think the revolution in Russia offered like a huge inspirational push for the working class worldwide and it is it was like the most democratic form of government really ever to exist. Unfortunately, the continued isolation of the Soviet Union prevented it from having the necessary resources in order to successfully establish socialism. And imperialist aggression from all over the world really crippled it and created a society of scarcity that led to to corruption and degeneration that you saw under Stalin. Okay. So I wouldn't say

there has been a successful attempt at that yet. So how do we know that it works? I think there's a lot of theories that have been written about it. I think the American Revolution shows that just because it hasn't happened before doesn't mean it couldn't. The American Revolution in this country in 1777 where I we're approaching the anniversary, right? Like

that clearly showed that something that hasn't been tried before, democracy. People were very skeptical of democracy in the US for the United States experiment as well. And yet, you know, like it Yeah. It was formed anyway. And now you see the the flaws with that democracy and people are ready for a new system.

>> Given that we're at the Venezuela protest here, a lot of people are saying, you know, that Venezuela is kind of communist country. They um that didn't work out too great for them. That's what they're saying that they're 84% of the Venezuelans in poverty and there's food shortages. They still have private industry. They still have capitalism and they have a capitalism that is completely dominated by US imperialism and by other imperialist powers. And so

you know, socialism like no, like the wealth of the billionaires of Venezuela has not been expropriated because the wealth of Venezuela is in the hands of US capitalists. Those resources >> why there stolen by US oil companies. And so no, it is absolutely not a completed revolution. There's a lot of energy by the masses. We actually have an article in our paper But is that why there are food shortages in Venezuela because of America? Um I think it's due

to a number of reasons. I think it is mismanagement of resources in in Venezuela, but primarily it is from attacks from imperialist powers like the US. Okay. So for the last like 10 20 years before now we we've been attacking Venezuela? There have been There have been embargoes. Like you

Trump literally stopped an oil shipment in the Caribbean of of Venezuelan oil just deciding to to take that for the as US property. This Venezuelan So if we let that in there wouldn't be like food shortages and stuff like that. I'm just trying to figure out like how how can communism fix this situation in Venezuela? >> I think it would put the working class in power. I think that the working class of Venezuela should be able to decide first of all who their president is and that is why we're out here today. leader though.

against the the kidnapping of the president of Venezuela. That is the act we are protesting today. It's not about the Venezuelan regime. Whether you are a for or against them, you should be in favor of democracy, right? You should be in favor in favor of a [clears throat] people electing their own government.

But Maduro Maduro cheated on his That is why we're out here today. It's not about whether you support Maduro or not. It's not about whether you support Trump or not. It is about whether you support democracy and that is why we are out here. It's not about It's not the the time to be critical or not of Maduro. It

is about whether you think one country should kidnap the president of another country. >> Got you. Are you a student? No, I'm I'm I'm a little older than that. Got you. I

didn't know. I was just getting to know you. Okay. Cool. Yeah. All right. Well,

how are you recruiting people for this Communist Party? What are the strategies that you've been doing? I mean all we're doing is talking to them about the issues they care about and we're telling the truth about the system. I think people see the politicians now and they see all lies. You know, Trump made a lot of promises to improve the economy. He

made a lot of promises about ending all wars and yet here he is bombing another country. And we're just pointing out the truth. We're just pointing out what's going on and we're pointing out that there are there is another way forward. You know, we have enough resources for for healthcare, for education, for all of that. Um and if it's if the the resources are under control of the working class, we can absolutely make that happen. We can implement the a lot

of this stuff, you know, tomorrow. We could end homelessness. We could end hunger in this country. The richest country in the world has, you know, millions of children going hungry. You know, what kind of sense does that system make? Because we're out here

telling the truth, I think all that attracts a lot of people. Okay. Great. My name is Nate. Thank you. This

was actually a pleasure. Thank you. Is this um Is this condoning killing people? I answered that question already. Okay, expropriate the billionaires. That's

what we're thinking. Expropriate instead of

Okay, come look at this. Here, come Do you see this flag? This is a flag with Hamas on it. You can see Look at this.

So, this same flag is at every protest. It's the exact same one and it's a Hamas flag and I don't know how Hamas has anything to do with Venezuela. But it's just pro-Hamas. All right. Let's see if we can get some more in

How did we do on our first live stream? I'm curious. Let's see how how did we do, guys?

Think I would do this again. This was fun.

I don't know where the

Okay. I think uh Okay, so I'll tell you guys what's up with the gloves because it's just funny. So these are the gloves I have and um I don't have an inherent issue with Nike or anything like that, but I don't know These aren't really meant to really warm your hands. I think they're meant for your hands to look cool, but I don't think they're to warm your hands. Um They've made absolutely no difference.

Um but yeah. Okay. All right. Well, so I guess we'll head out then. Um Had some good interviews today.

Uh got to know a little bit about how they feel. I'm going to go do go home, do some research on on everything behind this and uh should get the YouTube video out in in a day or two. Yeah. So I'll see you you there and thank you so much for watching. God bless you and I'll see you soon. Bye.

>> [snorts]

>> Let's go like this.

It's all good.