---
video_title: "How an anglerfish glows"
video_id: liNVJhRBT5Q
channel_name: "Real Science"
channel_id: UC176GAQozKKjhz62H8u9vQQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=liNVJhRBT5Q
video_date: 2025-05-04
video_description: |

---
The lure of a deep sea angler fish called an esca is one of the most bizarre and specialized hunting adaptations in the ocean and most of them are bioluminescent. At the heart of the lure is the bioluminescent bacteria which produce light through a chemical reaction. The bacteria contain a light emmitting molecule called luciferin and an enzyme called luciferase. When the luciferin reacts with oxygen, it produces light. But how did the bacteria get in there in the first place? The

process begins when free-living bioluminescent bacteria in the ocean are attracted to chemical signals released by the angler fish's esca. Once the bacteria are near, they enter the esca through specialized pores or duct. Inside, the angler fish provides a nutrient-rich environment with a stable supply of oxygen and other compounds that the bacteria need to thrive. In return, the bacteria produce light, which the angler fish uses to lure prey in the dark depths of the ocean. It's an incredible symbiotic relationship. This

type of glowing sounds kind of simple, but the thing is, an angler fish does not necessarily want its esca to glow constantly and in all directions. It needs to direct and control the glow to maximize its effect as a lure and also to not shine too much light on its menacing, waiting open mouth. So although anglerfish can't directly turn the bacteria on or off, they might influence factors like oxygen supply to the bacteria indirectly affecting light production. On top of this, they can direct the light through what is called a light guide. This is a specialized structure that directs and controls the emission of light produced by the bacteria. It functions similarly to a

fiber optic cable or a lens, channeling the light outward in a focused manner to maximize its visibility to prey. The esca also contains reflective tissues that help focus and direct the light outward. These reflective structures are often composed of guinine crystals which are highly effective at bouncing and scattering