---
video_title: "The Insane Biology of: The Saltwater Crocodile"
video_id: Z5rCogD4e2k
channel_name: "Real Science"
channel_id: UC176GAQozKKjhz62H8u9vQQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z5rCogD4e2k
video_date: 2025-07-19
video_description: |
  Get a lifetime or yearly membership to Nebula here:
  https://go.nebula.tv/realscience
  
  Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/realscience-the-insane-biology-of-the-saltwater-crocodile
  
  SUBSCRIBE TO MY NEWSLETTER 
  https://stephaniesammann.substack.com
  
  
  Patreon: (https://www.patreon.com/realscience)
  Instagram: (https://www.instagram.com/stephaniesammann)
  
  Images Courtesy of Getty Images
  
  Thanks to Sonnie Flores for her insight into this incredible topic, and her help throughout this video making process. And thanks to David White for providing some incredible footage. 
  
  References:
  [1] https://d1wqtxts1xzle7.cloudfront.net/61939836/Britton_et_al_2012_-_Cpor_exceptional_size-libre.pdf?1580385093=&response-content-disposition=inline%3B+filename%3DHere_be_a_dragon_exceptional_size_in_a_s.pdf&Expires=1749480426&Signature=Jp9bhB8c-DEBFYcWZecVpE1Vct9ELBRZBz2eZh1Mzm35pBqJcsUVzaa0Y7vCZcA3ZkknFl3ar3qHHUdqinVEwhI50xD2luoDwY~Cnu~Unec3nGBZpRHXLtVEAafl43N-FsZFUh9N1AuseZuNd1LjvmhNWEezkXPxga-rmM78o3~6x8u5rnzTI6MbaOMGJVelXKJINwxsAeEU9LnP6ZaLmkFaPljdE6DNDkm2bKwlN2pCTRYxgBaiBuQkOTFXx0-SwtuOMK7psPb0uyn8pNvwaL5BdNeC-X3pv42V~FhnMSL5dQ~dgEVkAdi7Kv~NiMZu9FT3FU8CQAxS0bdXGcIZ5g__&Key-Pair-Id=APKAJLOHF5GGSLRBV4ZA
  [2] https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/pala.70005
  [3] https://www.researchgate.net/publication/253333807_Structural_Design_and_Mechanical_Behavior_of_Alligator_Alligator_mississippiensis_Osteoderms
  [4] https://sci-hub.ru/10.1007/BF00802765
  [5] Book: Biology and Evolution of Crocodylians  Chapter 11
  [6] Book: Biology and Evolution of Crocodylians  Chapter 5
  [7] https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24091039/
  [8]https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0031781
  [9]https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0000949
  [10] https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1469-185X.2009.00079.x
  [11] https://pure.qub.ac.uk/en/publications/embryonic-chemosensory-learning-in-the-saltwater-crocodile-crocod-2
  [12] https://pubs.aip.org/asa/jasa/article/148/4/EL307/995981/Crocodiles-use-both-interaural-level-differences
  [13] https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18189580/
  [14] https://www.researchgate.net/publication/272369202_Apparent_coordination_and_collaboration_in_cooperatively_hunting_crocodilians
  [15] https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rspb.2018.0178
---
There's something you might wish you didn't know about saltwater crocodiles, but I'm going to tell you anyway because it might save your life. >> People have, you know, underestimated crocs at their peril. >> Saltwater crocodiles are remarkably intelligent. Not just by reptile standards, but by any standard. These animals don't merely react. They plan

and strategize hunts with chilling precision. I learned about this recently during my conversation with Brian Fry. We'd been talking about Komodo dragons and then got off topic talking about saltwater crocs. >> You know, don't confuse lack of movement with lack of awareness. You know, like there was a croc here at the Berat Zoo that worked my mate Stewie out of position over 6 months. It would stop

about a centimeter or two earlier at its position for feeding. And it just did that steadily over 6 months and work Stewie out of position until one day was able to go for him and got him on the leg. And that shows planning. >> What a reptile that can plan ahead. I didn't think it was possible for a croc to get any more scary. But don't worry,

it gets worse. >> And that's why like here in Australia, you know, we have, you know, warning signs about crocodiles and such. And to be croc aware, if you're camping in croc country and you have to go near a water's edge, you know, whether to, you know, do dishes or I mean, first off, you shouldn't, but if you do, you're supposed to break up your pattern. You never go to the same spot twice. And whenever people are taken here and we recollect it, they're typically taken on day three having done the same thing.

Day one, the croc notices them. Day two, it works out their pattern. Day three or four, it's waiting. >> I like I was already kind of scared of crocodiles and that just made it a thousand times more scary. >> This intelligence gives them a massive edge in their role as apex predators.

And it's a force multiplier to what is one of the most dominant builds in the animal kingdom. With six meter long bodies, bulletproof skin, and the strongest measured bite force of any living animal, there isn't a predator that's more pants poopingly scary in my opinion. And if you live in its range, it feels like nowhere is safe. They can live in fresh or salt water, inland or on the coast, and even swim great distances in the open ocean, hunting things like bull sharks. But in my quest to understand them, I've also learned something else. Their intelligence isn't

only used for killing. They have complex social lives and have a huge repertoire of vocalizations and social signals that scientists are beginning to think are a part of a rich and nuanced system of communication. Mothers are also fiercely protective of their young, carefully guarding nests and even carrying hatchlings gently in their jaws to water, which is behavior that seems more in line with birds or mammals. Crocodiles are likely the most misunderstood animals on the planet. So, how and why are saltwater crocodiles so smart? How do they dominate their

territory in both salt and fresh water? And are they really capable of complex communication?

The saltwater crocodile is the largest living reptile on Earth and inhabits a vast and varied range across coastal regions and river systems throughout Southeast Asia, northern Australia, and the Western Pacific. Its habitat spans brackish estuaries, mangrove swamps, tidal rivers, freshwater wetlands, and even open seas. Crocodiles can even climb trees. Unfortunately, this also means they're quite good at climbing fences. The average size of a saltwater crocodile is around 17 ft or 5.2 m long

and 1,000 lb or 450 kg. But the largest living specimen ever measured was an individual nicknamed Lolong, who was suspected of attacking several people and killing two in the Philippines. He was captured alive, though it took 3 weeks and 100 people to do so. He weighed approximately 2,370 lb or 1,075 kg. He measured 20.24 24 ft

or 6.17 m in total length, making him the largest known crocodile ever reliably measured. Crocodiles in general kill around 1,000 people per year. And most of these are fatalities from saltwater crocs or Nile crocs. The number could even be higher, maybe even as high as 4,500, because many deaths from rural areas go unreported. For

reference, sharks kill around five or six people per year. And it's not like it is with some other animals who are territorial or who mistake humans for something else. Crocs very much eat people on purpose because they're hungry. They're one of the only remaining true predators of humans. That being said, dogs and even bee stings easily kill more people than crocodiles per year. And we don't walk through our

neighborhoods in terror. The fear we feel of crocodiles is probably due to their unfamiliar, gargantuan reptilian form. My whole life, I've looked at them and wondered, "Is standing next to them like standing next to a dinosaur? Are they basically dinosaurs that didn't die?" While crocodiles are not dinosaurs, they are relatives. Both are

part of a larger group called the arosaurs, which also includes birds and extinct terasaurs. Dinosaurs and crocodiles share a common ancestor that lived over 240 million years ago. That ancestry split into two evolutionary branches. One led to terasaurs, dinosaurs, and eventually birds. The other led to crocodilians. So,

interestingly, crocodiles are more closely related to birds than to lizards. So, while they are not dinosaurs, their relatives lived alongside them for millions of years. And those crocodile ancestors survived the mass extinction that killed most of the dinosaurs 66 million years ago. And they did so likely because they lived in less affected habitats like underwater. They needed less food to survive because of their slow metabolism and ate opportunistically. They also protected

their eggs in buried nests. And for these reasons, our modern Earth is graced with these incredible beasts. In the past, there were all sorts of shapes and sizes of crocodilians. Some long-legged or even some bipeedal and terrestrial. But the 26 species of crocodilians that exist today are lizardshaped reptiles that live at the interface between water and land. This

video will focus largely on the saltwater crocodile, but sometimes I will show other species to illustrate certain behaviors. Saltwater crocodiles are well adapted to aquatic life with webbed hind feet and eyes, ears, and nostrils positioned at the top of their head. Their nostrils and ears can be partially sealed to keep water out. And a third eyelid called the nictitating membrane protects their eye while swimming. And their entire body is protected by skutes, which are thick keratinized scales. In some spots, like

the back and the head, these are reinforced with osteoderms, aka bony plates. These bony plates give the crocodile a sort of external skeleton and can even deflect small caliber rounds like from handguns or 22 caliber rifles. The skuts along their tail and back are also elongated and triangular which helps increase surface area and thus improve swimming maneuverability. This protective layer is of course important for protection against predator attacks when they're young and from other crocs when fighting over territory. But it serves another purpose. It allows the crocodiles to be

almost completely impervious to water loss through their skin. Skin like ours has some water resistance, but it's not completely waterproof. We're constantly losing water via sweat since our skin is optimized for temperature regulation, not water conservation. But for saltwater crocodiles, it's another story entirely. Their keratinized skoots are designed to retain moisture in harsh sunexposed environments, preventing dehydration. And it also protects them

in another part of their habitat, the salty ocean. Without watertight skin, the salt water could draw water out of the skin, causing dehydration and damaging tissues. The ability to live indefinitely in saltwater is remarkable for a reptile that we think of normally as a freshwater creature. Other reptiles like sea turtles have evolved to live in salt water, but they live their entire lives in the sea. So, they're adapted perfectly for salt. But to go between

both requires evolutionary specialization that is almost unheard of, and it requires more than just thick skin. In fresh water, a crocodile must deal with water constantly entering its body through osmosis. In salt water, the challenge is the opposite. Water tends to leave the body. And yet, their blood salt levels remain constant, as proven by a 1975 study that measured crocodiles blood salt levels across a salinity gradient. They found no matter where the

crocodile was pulled from across the gradient, their plasma osmotic concentration stayed at 304 millles, which is close to the 30% concentration of seawater. It was clear that the crocodiles were regulating this very tightly. For many years, scientists could not figure out how they did it. The crocodiles didn't have salt glands around their eyes like ocean birds or turtles who basically cry the salt out. or they didn't have rectal salt glands like in sharks. But in 1980, they

checked somewhere that no one had before, the mouth. It turns out the salt gland is on the crocodile's tongue. These arrows point to the salt gland pores. It probably escaped notice for so long because everyone is reluctant to poke around in there. So these salt glands in their tongue help them excrete a concentrated solution of sodium and chloride ions which then get expelled through the nostrils. And because of

this incredible adaptability in their range, saltwater crocodiles can eat a huge variety of prey across different ecosystems. They'll eat almost any animal that enters their territory like fish, crabs, turtles, birds, kangaroos, walabeees, bats, buffalo, and even other predators like bull sharks. Saltwater crocodiles have been seen hundreds of kilometers from shore. But before a crocodile catches its prey, it must first detect it. Their eyes, positioned at the top of their head, scan the environment for motion, while the rest of the body remains almost completely hidden beneath the surface.

Anatomically, their eyes are not very different from our own, except the pupil is a vertical slit. And while not fully forward- facing like a predator, such as a cat or an owl, crocodile eyes do have slightly forward orientation, which gives them some binocular vision. Underwater, you might expect a predator like this to have excellent vision, but they don't. Plus, sometimes the murky dark water would render even the best eyes useless. And yet, saltwater crocodiles have been observed to hunt underwater in pitch darkness. This is

because they don't just see their surroundings, they feel them. They scan the environment with their entire body using a network of specialized skin sensors called integumentaryary sense organs, also known as dermal pressure receptors. These are among the most sensitive and specialized tactile organs found in any reptile. ISOs appear as tiny raised dark dots on the skin, typically measuring about half a millimeter to 1 millimeter in width. They're especially prominent on the snout. Each of these little dots is one.

They can also be found across almost the entire body, including the flanks, legs, and tail at a rate of about one per scale. Internally, each ISO contains a cluster of nerve endings connected to mechano receptors that respond to touch and pressure. So, when a crocodile sits motionless in the water, it will feel any vibration, any ripple, or any water disturbance caused by prey. and helping snatch their prey are their massive teeth. These teeth are conicle, non- serrated, and curved slightly backwards, which allows them to pierce and hold on to slippery prey like fish or struggling mammals. They are made of dentin covered

with enamel and have cementum at the base. Their teeth frequently get broken when capturing prey. So, crocodiles are polyiodons, meaning that they replace their teeth continuously throughout their lives. A single individual may go through 3,000 to 5,000 teeth over a lifetime. When its prey comes within range, the crocodile launches forward with astonishing speed, using its tail and limbs to lunge. It can run and swim

up to 18 mph or 29 km per hour, which is three times faster than the fastest human swimmer. This is kind of hard to see, but it's a saltwater crocodile swimming alongside a boat, sort of like a dolphin. It can even be seen lunging out of the water vertically, sometimes as much as nearly its entire body length. This is largely powered by their insanely strong tail muscles. It then snaps its jaws shut with a bite force exceeding 3,700 lb per square in, the strongest ever recorded of any living animal in a controlled setting. Great

whites and orcas are probably more, but no one's ever directly measured these. There's an anecdotal report of a Nile crocodile reaching 5,000 PSI, but this was on a TV show and not a peer-reviewed study. Much of the speed and power of a croc's snap is powered by a scissoring action performed by two muscle groups set more or less at a right angle to each other. Both the pseudo temporales muscle and the huge dorsal tergoid muscle originate deep within the skull. And the coordination between these muscles from opposite angles creates not only speed but an almost unstoppable closing force making escape nearly impossible for any prey caught in its jaws. But conversely, they are

relatively easy to keep closed. Duct tape is usually enough. And without that little feature, we probably would know next to nothing about these creatures. Once the prey is in its jaws, especially if it's too large to swallow whole or still struggling, the crocodile initiates the death roll. This is a baby alligator very closely related to crocodiles. It shows that this behavior

is instinctual within them from the very beginning of their lives. Unfortunately, I can't show the footage of the adults doing this because showing a crocodile hunting would almost guarantee that this video gets demonetized, and I can't afford to take that risk. So, to watch the uncensored version of this video, head over to Nebula, where you can see the breakdown of how the saltwater crocodile uses the death roll. In the Nebula version, I also explain how crocodiles employ incredible spatial memory while using the death roll. and their spatial memory goes even farther than this to an almost unbelievable degree with some upsetting implications. Sometimes a crocodile

becomes a problem croc, a crocodile that's attacked people or is believed to be an imminent risk to people or pets or livestock. It can also be a crocodile that's habituated to getting food from humans, which can lead to them becoming bolder or more aggressive. When this happens, historically, the crocodile is either killed, which sucks, or more humanely, it's relocated. They get scooped up in a helicopter and moved to some remote location, sometimes hundreds of miles away. But the problem is, they always come back. One study showed

exactly the extent of this. Researchers, including Steve Irwin, by the way, transllocated three large male saltwater crocodiles in northern Australia via helicopter between 56 and 126 km from their original capture sites. Satellite telemetry was used to monitor their locations after release. Croc A spent 13 days near its release site, then traveled 99 km back over the course of 15 days. Croc B lingered for about 2 weeks at his new spot and then swam 57 km back to his original spot over the course of 8 days. And Croc C did

something truly crazy. He had been flown overland due east 126 km away from his original spot across the Cape York Peninsula. He lingered in his new spot for 3 months. Then suddenly over a 20-day period, he traveled 411 km swimming up and around the peninsula to get back to his original spot. This means he swam 20 km per day. Each

crocodile returned to the exact spot where it had been captured. Are they using local landmarks to do this? Magnetic orientation like sea turtles do? Sun and celestial cues or oldactory cues? It's probably a mix of all of these, but we don't know for sure. And

overall, the study showed that relocating problem saltwater crocodiles far away probably isn't the best idea. Today, problem crocodiles are moved to a farm or a sanctuary or killed for their skin and meat. And it's not just this incredible homing ability that makes crocodiles so incredible. Crocodiles also possess a rich and complex system of communication, beginning in the nest and continuing into adulthood. All crocodilians have internal fertilization, lay eggs, and show complex reproductive behavior, including maternal care. In fact, their

reproductive anatomy and behavior is a lot more like that of birds than of other reptiles, and shows a sensitivity I never knew they were capable of. Crocodile communication begins even before hatching. Embryionic crocodiles vocalize from within the egg to signal readiness to hatch, prompting coordinated emergence and summoning their mother, who often digs them out and gently carries them to the water in her mouth. This is sort of the cutest thing I've ever seen, and not at all what I expected from the scariest predator on the planet. Hatchlings continue to call to each other and to their mother who may stay nearby for months to protect them. An uncommon

level of parental care among reptiles. And then once the crocodiles hatch, their vocabulary of sound really begins. >> So crocs make sounds in different ways. >> This is Sunny Flores, PhD candidate investigating acoustic communication and behavior in crocodilians at the University of the Sunshine Coast. So they make vocalizations, so produced with the throat like we think of them.

When they're babies, they'll make contact calls and distress calls. >> These sound like soft laser noises and can carry well through the dense vegetation around a nest or water's edge. >> But then when they get a bit bigger and become adults, they'll make growls and roars and grunts. And then they also make a respiratory sound. So with their nose they'll make an aarial geysers and nar aial kiss hisses and they sound a bit like a truck breaking and they blow bubbles as well which also creates a sound and they're also have visual signals too. So when

there's a spout of water crocodile can hear it but they can also see it. And then they have behavioral acoustic signals too. So they make the head flaps and jaw claps, which are those loud percussive sounds that you can hear from them sometimes where they like raise their head really high above the surface of the water, slam it down really hard, um, creating this really loud crack sound. This is certainly a lot of different sounds, but are they a sign of complex communication? Complex communication in animals generally refers to the use of signals that go beyond simple automatic responses. And

there's a few things scientists look for when deciding if communication is complex or not. If communication changes based on context, like using different signals for mating, courtship, aggression, or parenting, that's a point towards complexity. Another sign of complexity is audience awareness, where an animal adjusts its signals depending on who's nearby. Even more sophisticated is the presence of learning or cultural transmission. And at the highest level of complexity, some species use referential signals, which are signals that refer to specific things in the environment, almost like words, like when monkey species have specific alarm calls for different predators.

Some scientists have a hunch that crocodile communication could contain some of these characteristics. One of my collaborators, David White, has been observing these crocodiles for over 25 years, and he has noticed that there's these things happening with these crocodiles in more of a social sense that seems more intelligent than just defending their territory or just like courtship. >> However, to really find out, they need to pair behaviors with the signals that the crocs are making. So this is the project that Sunny is working on. Creating an auditory dictionary of the sounds saltwater crocodiles make and attempting to pair these sounds with specific behaviors.

So I have got video of the crocodiles like continuous video recording over 24 hours in a captive environment. So I can see what they're doing and then also look at the acoustic signaling that they're producing at that time in air and in the water. So this was captured at Australia Zoo. So we've got hundreds of hours of that data to go through. And then also David White, who I mentioned earlier, his videos here on the Dry River of Crocs interacting, will represent the wild crocodile population.

So I'll be able to see what sounds they're making, what behaviors they're doing at that same time, and see what sort of correlations there are. So, what looks like a fight is often actually a complicated courtship ritual. And it could be that some of the distress calls in baby crocodiles may be referential, communicating about a specific threat in the environment since they clearly prompt specific protective behaviors from adults. There's also some evidence that young crocodiles develop their vocal responses in part through early life interactions, suggesting learning or cultural transmission. We know that baby saltwater crocodiles can certainly learn in other ways and surprisingly even before they hatch. A cute and also

weird 2020 study demonstrated this unexpectedly with strawberry flavoring. When saltwater crocodile eggs were treated with strawberry food flavor when they hatched, they preferred meat that was also treated with strawberry. The scientists also made sure to test with other fruit flavors, but the crocs were clear. They wanted only strawberry. By becoming attuned to smells in their environment before hatching, crocodile embryos might be priming their senses to recognize important environmental cues right away. They also might be

developing a sort of familiarity bias that helps them respond faster to known food sources or environmental features. Is there any evidence for other examples of cultural transmission? So, I can't say 100%. Because it hasn't actually been studied, but our crocodilians, so the alligators, the crocodiles, the garioles, they're all the crocodilian group, right? It's considered that acoustic signaling and acoustic signaling behavior of this group is conserved, which means that it all evolved from a common ancestor. So, all

of the species of crocodiles make similar sounds. They might not make all of the range of the sounds or display all of the same behaviors, but generally speaking, they're they're very similar. So, given that it's thought that there isn't really that cultural variation, but because it hasn't actually been specifically studied, I definitely couldn't say for sure. and it is definitely something that would be really cool to look into. So, dialects is something that I'm looking into hopefully for my study as well, even if it just shows that they're definitely not there.

>> So, while the evidence is still being collected on the depth of complexity with crocodile communication, anecdotally, it does seem like there's more going on than meets the eye. And sometimes the communication even exists outside the realm of human perception. Humans can hear sound between approximately 20 and 20,000 hertz. Crocodiles can emit sounds below this in infrasound. We might not be able to hear this sound, but we can feel it. And sometimes we can

see it. The sounds are so powerful that they cause the water around the animals back to ripple, shimmer, or dance. These are Faraday waves, standing waves that appear on a liquid surface when it's vibrated at a specific frequency. This effect is enhanced when the crocodile arches its back, lifts its head and tail, and often vibrates its entire body. This behavior is more visible in American alligators, but saltwater crocs do it, too. It's mainly believed to be

used in courtship displays, but there could be other purposes, too. So in crocodilians in general, it's it's likely that a lot of these things relate to advertisements. So an advertisement of sex or an advertisement of body size. So straight up, we know that crocodiles need to be a certain size before they can do this. And that it's only really been observed in male crocodiles. So any

conspecifics around will be able to go, okay, well there's a big male, but then how big is that male? So, we don't really know whether that infrasound conveys how big it is, but it is likely because how they create that sound and the resonance of that actual sound of their body cavity will likely give that information cuz we know that it does in other species where they create similar sorts of sounds with resonance. So, another male nearby might go, "Oh, he's very big. I might not go near him." Or, "Oh, he's only small. I'm I'm going to

I'm going to take his spot. >> And another benefit of this super low frequency sound is that it can travel far like really far. In air, saltwater crocodiles can detect sounds from their con specifics around 150 m away. But underwater, they can detect this infrasound up to 1.5 km away. Infrasound

travels extremely well in the water and in the ground. The only other animals on Earth to create infrasound are giants like whales and elephants. Because of this, for a long time, scientists didn't think crocodiles would be capable of producing infrasound because it was believed that they just weren't big enough and lack the massive vocal organs and vocal tracks. We also just missed it for decades because our ears can't hear it. But a crocodiles can, though we think they do so in an unusual way.

Normally the way a crocodile hears sound is through vibrations that strike the eardrum behind its eyes and get transmitted via the middle earbone to the basler papula in the inner ear where sound is converted into nerve signals that the brain can interpret. But scientists don't think this system is sensitive enough for those super low frequency sounds. Instead, they think the saculus could be the way that the crocodiles hear them. Normally the saculus is considered to be a vestibular organ, something that uses hair cells to detect linear acceleration and gravitational forces. We have them too.

In many animals like us, it's used primarily for balance and spatial orientation. But in fish, the saculus is used as the primary mode of hearing. And in frogs, it plays a role in seismic sound detection. And with its little moving hairs, it's easy to see how deep vibrations could stimulate it in crocodiles. But if we also have this organ, doesn't that mean that we in theory should be able to detect such low vibrations, too? Well, maybe we can. The

scientists studying this in crocodilians believe that the saculus may have an auditory function in all vertebrates, including us. One researcher even said that it's possible that the appeal of loud thumping bass music might be because it stimulates our saculus, which triggers an ancient sexual instinct. So maybe dubstep really is just horny lizard music. It's also possible that crocodiles interpret this vibration through their ISOs. And we still don't know all of the reasons that crocodilians make this low frequency sound. partly because it's very hard to

study. >> These crocodiles are navigating these murky water environments and not bumping into each other all the time and not having these fights all the time. So, we can't hear or see what's actually going on. So, it makes sense that they would be creating some sort of low frequency sound under that water. But, it's just it's incredibly hard to isolate those low frequency sounds.

>> I assume you have to have very special instrumentation. Yeah. So things like low frequency hydrophones and it's there's so much sound in the water. Plants make sounds in there and fish and so you know there's there's so many things it could be. So if you can't actually see what the crocodile is doing, you can't say 100% that this sound is coming from the crocodile. Even

the bumping of the hydrophone against something like a wave will make a sound. So, it's very challenging. >> Because of this, we may be missing key parts of how these animals communicate. But even without a full understanding of their vocal or vibrational language, we're beginning to see evidence of sophisticated behavior like coordinated hunting. Coordinated hunting is exceedingly rare in vertebrates. It's only known in a few

species of primates like chimps, a few species of pack animals like wolves, a few types of hawks and corvids, and in things like dolphins and orcas. For a long time, few believed reptiles would be capable of it. Until recently, the only published observation of such a possibility was from a famous Russian biologist, Mcccluho Mcclai, in the 1890s. He described cooperative fishing in saltwater crocodiles shown to him by a local on the island of Papua. A larger crocodile repeatedly chased fish towards the shore with splashes of its tail while smaller crocodiles waited in the shallows ready to snatch the cornered fish. And while not solidified in the

scientific literature, there are dozens and dozens of anecdotal reports of many types of crocodiles hunting just like this. One scientist compiled these stories into a 2014 report. He documented 17 instances of cooperative hunting across multiple crocodile and alligator species. While rare, two cases clearly showed collaboration, involving role-based behavior, coordination, and planning. One dramatic case involved a giant saltwater crocodile hurting a pig into shallow water where smaller crocs lay in weight, suggesting that participants anticipated each other's actions, even without visual contact.

The crocodile that spooked the pig towards the other crocodiles didn't look like it was hunting and missed. It looked like it was intentionally just trying to scare it. The problem with these observations is that we can never know an animal's intentions, not scientifically. However, these behaviors were reported independently across different continents by both scientific observers and citizen naturalists, making it unlikely to be coincidence or misinterpretation. If valid, this places crocodilians in an exclusive club of apex predators. This

all opens up fascinating questions about what's going on inside the brains of crocodiles. Interestingly, the structure of a crocodile's brain shares striking similarities with that of birds, particularly in areas linked to perception and complex behavior. Given that birds are now widely recognized as intelligent animals, this evolutionary connection suggests crocodiles may be far smarter than we've historically given them credit for. But everything about crocodile intelligence is easy to overlook and hard to study. Unlike primates or dolphins, crocodiles don't solve puzzles with their hands or perform tricks on command. Their

intelligence is so different from ours that we largely don't even see it. And conversely, there are some instances where we ascribe perhaps too much intelligence or at least make grand assumptions about their behavior that are simply not true. Take the reaction to this viral video that circulated a while back. It shows a saltwater crocodile floating near the edge of the water with one of its front limbs raised slightly above the surface, almost as if it were waving or beckoning. People online began joking and in some cases seriously speculating that the crocodile was intentionally luring humans by mimicking a human hand gesture, pretending to be drowning and needing rescue. But that is not what's

happening. This one is probably sick or injured. And sometimes there are other reasons for a crocodile to stick its hands out of the water that have nothing to do with eating humans. So there is a crocodile fishing behavior where they put their arms out and they have their little fingers up and that allows them to feel any fish passing and then they will quickly put their head to the side to like grab that fish. So that that crucifix posture with their nails out where they have their little like jazz hands or their nails drying. None of

these behaviors are trying to lure people into the water or trying to suggest that they think that they're humans drowning or something like that is just utterly ridiculous. Crocodiles do not need humans and it's better if we just leave them alone. There are a few things about the incredible behavior of saltwater crocodiles that I couldn't show in this video due to the ongoing struggle I've been having with demonetization. It's something I have to deal with when talking about any predator. Recently, I showed lions eating their kill and the video got demonetized. This is

devastating to the channel and it's the same as flushing our money down the toilet. They give no explanation, no specific clip that was the problem, just a yellow dollar sign glaring you in the face, alerting you to their decision. I had to guess which clips might be the problem and tried to blur them out retroactively, but still never really got an answer. And now I just learned through one of my friends, it's not just predator videos that are at risk. The octopus lady recently showed geoduck clams and had her video demonetized for showing sexually explicit content. I

guess because it looked like some specific human body part. She told me she got the decision reversed but had to keep certain clips of the clams blurred. Few things are so equally hilarious and infuriating at the same time. So alls to say is we have to tread carefully. So, for this reason, I've made an uncensored version of this crocodile video, including a complete explanation of the crocodile death role that you can watch on Nebula. Nebula is the streaming

platform created by and for independent content creators, and it's a place that isn't concerned with the demands of corporate advertisers. It provides a space for us to share the best versions of our videos. And for viewers of Nebula, it's the best place for incredible original content that you can't get anywhere else. Like my Nebula original series, Becoming Human and Archaeology Quest, two shows about our ancient past. One serious, one silly.

There are so many amazing series and movies that push the boundaries on Nebula, like 17 pages, a featurelength documentary that unpacks one of the most dramatic scientific ethics cases of the 20th century. An event so explosive it was dubbed the scientific Watergate. Plus, it's a better viewing experience for everyone. There are no ads, lots of content that gets published to Nebula first before YouTube, and tons of exclusive content. Sometimes this is extended episodes or behind-the-scenes content, like the extended interview with Sunny Flores, the scientist from this video. And right now, we're

offering gift cards to Nebula for you to give to family members. This is a great lastminute gift idea. It's a totally digital instant gift that will give your friends and family so much original content without having to worry about yet another subscription. One year subscription is only $36. Or to give your friend or family member access to everything Nebula will ever have to offer, you can gift a lifetime subscription for $300.

Lifetime subscriptions, whether it's for yourself or as a gift, help fund original series. And if you've ever supported this channel back when our bundle deal was a thing, now's a great time to come back and support me directly through Nebula. So, for less than the price of a cup of coffee per month, you can get access to all of Nebula's originals along with the real science full catalog without any ads. You can also easily download videos to watch on the go, all for just $3 per month. And if you're like me and are growing increasingly sick of the encroachment of AI and corporate overlords eroding everything that is good in this world, Nebula is the place for you. It's a small company that

supports creators directly. A company that takes no VC funding, is not beholden to shareholders, and has no plans to try to take over the government. So, go to nebula.tv/realcience or click the link in the description to get 40% off a yearly subscription for the incredibly low price of $3 per month.