---
video_title: "The Top 6 Weirdest Anglerfish"
video_id: uw8j2FXhuTk
channel_name: "Real Science"
channel_id: UC176GAQozKKjhz62H8u9vQQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uw8j2FXhuTk
video_date: 2025-05-06
video_description: |

---
All deep sea anglerfish are super weird, but here are my top six weirdest anglerfish. Number six, the humpback anglerfish. This anglerfish simply looks like it was designed for a horror movie. It has a huge mouth with fang-like teeth. This is also the one that was seen swimming to the sun recently, giving us a closer look at just how freaky it is. Number five, the bulbous

dreamer. Okay, this one I did partially choose because of its name, but also because of its ultra black skin. Some angler fish have skin so black that they completely disappear in the ocean depths. It works like the material vant black. Number four, the whip-nosed anglerfish. Giganticus gargantua, a type

of whip-nosed angller, is the deepest angler fish ever found at 4,500 m below the surface. Its body is only around 30 cm, but its alysium is absurdly long, up to a meter. Number three, the wolf trap angler fish. This freaky fish has a lure shaped like a fishing rod with fleshy hooks, and it can move this lure independently like a puppet, which is a nightmare. Number two, the bearded sea devil. This one certainly sucks the

warmth out of the air. It has filaments under its chin as well as on top of its head along with that jet black color. Both the head lure and beard filaments glow, possibly to attract multiple prey types or to confuse predators. And number one, the hairy anglerfish. It's covered in long filaments that make it look like a tangled hair ball. These are not true

hairs, but skin filaments. They likely help detect vibrations in the dark. And it's not the only one to do this, but this is a good example of an angller who uses sexual parasetism. Here you can see the tiny male dangling off the female, slowly fusing to her. Eventually, he will become her balls.