---
video_title: "How do submarines know where they are?"
video_id: _1G8nrmBKeY
channel_name: "Veritasium"
channel_id: UCHnyfMqiRRG1u-2MsSQLbXA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_1G8nrmBKeY
video_date: 2026-08-06T13:00:34+00:00
video_description: |
  How does a submarine find its way 600m deep in the ocean?
  
  Surfacing is obviously the easiest way but not when you want to stay hidden.
  
  So how do a crew balance concealment and pathfinding?
---
Here's a question, how do submarines know where they are? I mean near the surface they can just stick out an antenna above the water to use GPS, but if the antenna is even a couple of centimeters below the surface, the GPS will stop working because it uses radio waves that are easily absorbed by sea water. So as an alternative, a submarine can actually use its sonar to map out the sea floor and then compare those maps to maps that were made in the past. But if you're trying to stay hidden in your submarine, blasting loud sonar waves probably isn't a good idea. So most submarines rely on something quieter. To work out which way the sub is pointing, they use something called a fiber optic gyroscope. What it does is it sends two beams of light around a fiber optic coil in opposite directions, and then when the submarine turns, the rotation is going to change the distance each beam has the travel, meaning they're going to return slightly out of phase and that tiny mismatch can be used to work out how much the submarine is rotating. And to work out how far a submarine has moved, they use an accelerometer. So a common design uses a tiny weight that is attached to this thin beam of crystalline quartz, which is kept constantly vibrating at its natural frequency. It's kind of like a guitar string. Then when the submarine accelerates, the weights inertia pulls or pushes on the beam, which puts it under tension or compression. And just like tightening a guitar string raises its pitch, that changes the frequency at which the quartz vibrates. And by measuring the tiny shift in frequency, the computer can work out the acceleration and from that the position and how far the submarine has moved.