---
video_title: "How An Infinite Hotel Ran Out Of Room"
video_id: OgFf_J1CP0g
channel_name: "Veritasium"
channel_id: UCHnyfMqiRRG1u-2MsSQLbXA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OgFf_J1CP0g
video_date: 20260528
video_description: |
  If there's a hotel with infinite rooms, could it ever be completely full? 
  
  Could you run out of space to put everyone? 
  
  The surprising answer is yes -- this is important to know if you're the manager of the Hilbert Hotel.
---
Imagine there's a hotel with infinite rooms. They're numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, and so on forever. This is the Hilbert Hotel, and you are the manager. Now, it might seem like you could accommodate anyone who ever shows up, but there is a limit. A way to exceed even the infinity of rooms at the Hilbert Hotel. To start, let's

say only one person is allowed in each room, and all the rooms are full. There are an infinite number of people in an infinite number of rooms. Then, someone new shows up, and they want a room. But, all the rooms are occupied. So, what should you do? You get on the PA, and

you tell all the guests to move down a room. So, the person in room one moves to room two, the one in room two moves to room three, and so on down the line. And now, you can put the new guest in room one. If a bus shows up with a hundred people, you know exactly what to do. Just move everyone down a hundred rooms, and put the new guests in their vacated rooms.

But now, say a bus shows up that is infinitely long, and it's carrying infinitely many people. You think about it for a minute, and then come up with a plan. You tell each of your existing guests to move to the room with double their room number. So, the person in room one moves to room two, room two moves to room four, room three to room six, and so on. And now, all of the odd-numbered rooms are available. And you know there are an

infinite number of odd numbers, so you can give each person on the infinite bus a unique odd-numbered room. And then, all of a sudden, more infinite buses show up. Not just one or two, but an infinite number of infinite buses. You pull out an infinite spreadsheet. You make a row for each bus, bus one, bus two, bus three, and so on, and a row at the top for all the people who are already in the hotel. The columns are

for the position each person occupies. So, you've got hotel room one, hotel room two, hotel room three, etc. And then, bus one seat one, bus one seat two, bus one seat three, and so on. So, each person gets a unique identifier, which is a combination of their vehicle and their position in it. So, how do you assign the rooms?

We'll start in the top left corner and draw a line that zigzags back and forth across the spreadsheet, going over each unique ID exactly once. Then, imagine you pull on the opposite ends of this line, straightening it out. So, we've gone from an infinite by infinite grid to a single infinite line. It's then pretty simple just to line up each person on that line with a unique room in the hotel. So, everyone fits, no problem.