---
video_title: "The Bizarre Behaviour Of Rotating Bodies"
video_id: BU5HwNyE4mk
channel_name: "Veritasium"
channel_id: UCHnyfMqiRRG1u-2MsSQLbXA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BU5HwNyE4mk
video_date: 20260402
video_description: |
  What you are looking at is known as the Dzhanibekov effect or the tennis racket theorem or the intermediate axis theorem.
  
  It involves arguably the best mathematician alive, Soviet era secrets, and the end of the world.
  
  So in 1985, cosmonaut Vladimir Dzhanibekov was tasked with saving the Soviet space station Salyut 7 which had completely shut down. The mission was so dramatic that the Russians made a movie out of it in 2017 and after rescuing the space station, Dzhanibekov unpacked supplies sent up from Earth which were locked down with a wing-nut and as the wing-nut spun off the bolt, he noticed something strange:
  
  The wing-nut maintained its orientation for a short time, and then it flipped, 180 degrees. And as he kept watching, it flipped back a few seconds later and it continued flipping back and forth at regular intervals.
  
  This motion wasn’t caused by forces or torques applied to the wing-nut: there were none. And yet it kept flipping. It was a strange and counterintuitive phenomenon. One that the Russians kept secret for 10 years.
---
What you were looking at is known as the Dzhanibekov effect or the tennis racket theorem [music] or the intermediate axis theorem. Now, you may have seen clips like this one before, but in this video, I will provide the best intuitive explanation of how this effect [music] works. So, in 1985, cosmonaut Vladimir Dzhanibekov was tasked with saving the Soviet space station Salyut 7, which had completely shut down. And after rescuing the space station, Dzhanibekov unpacked supplies sent up from Earth, which were locked down with a wing nut. And as the wing nut spun off the bolt, he noticed something strange. The wing nut

maintained its orientation [music] for a short time, and then it flipped 180° and as he kept [music] watching, it flipped back a few seconds later. And it continued flipping back and forth at regular intervals. It was a strange and counterintuitive phenomenon, one that the Russians kept secret for 10 years. Six years later, in 1991, a paper was published in the Journal of Dynamics and Differential Equations called The Twisting Tennis Racquet. And although it was related, it of course makes no mention of the secret Dzhanibekov effect. The paper says, "If you hold a

tennis racket facing you and then flip it in the air like this, it not only rotates the way you intend it to, it also makes a half turn around an axis that passes through its handle. So, the side that was originally facing you will be facing away when you catch it."