---
video_title: "From Finance to Data Engineering: Skills, Challenges & Career Strategies"
video_id: THaN7BErLrY
channel_name: "Dataquest"
channel_id: UC_lePY0Lm0E2-_IkYUWpI5A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=THaN7BErLrY
video_date: 2025-03-08
video_description: |
  ✅ In this episode of CareerQuest, Olawale Oikoni, Data Engineer at Munich Re, shares his journey from finance to data engineering, discussing the skills, challenges, and career strategies needed to thrive in the field. He emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning, technical adaptability, and business impact in building a successful data engineering career.
  
  Key Takeaways:
  ✅  Olawale’s Journey: Started in finance before transitioning into data engineering, following curiosity and hands-on learning.
  ✅  The Role of Data Engineers: They build and maintain data pipelines, ensuring efficient data flow for analytics and machine learning.
  ✅  Top Skills for Success: SQL, Python, cloud platforms (AWS, GCP, Azure), infrastructure automation, and strong problem-solving skills.
  ✅ Importance of Projects: Hands-on experience through personal projects accelerates learning and makes candidates stand out.
  ✅  Breaking into Data Engineering: Get your foot in the door—start in related roles, build a portfolio, and continuously learn new tools.
  ✅  Emerging Trends: With AI and ML adoption increasing, data engineers are more in demand to build scalable, secure, and efficient data systems.
  
  🔗 Resources & Links Mentioned:
  Sign up for a free Dataquest account: https://bit.ly/4hWtQ3P
  Connect with Womxn in Data Science: https://bit.ly/3ERyUbG
  
  
  👉 Subscribe to our channel for more expert insights on data careers!
---
Right. So, um today's conversation is going to be um uh uh a an interview um from Kishonna with uh Olawale uh who uh we're going to um his nickname is Wale. So, um the one of the things that you can also do is go ahead and start sharing your questions as the conversation starts in the Q&A. So, the chat is a great place for us to network and get to know one another. And then if you want a question answered live, please do put that in the Q&A.

So, all right. Um I'm going to go ahead and get started now, everyone. So, hello. Um welcome to Career Quest. Uh I'm Celeste Grobman. I'm the CEO of

Dataquest. Um we're an online experiential learning platform. We guide you step-by-step toward building technical and data skills. Um this is something that more than ever everyone needs foundational data and programming skills to succeed. Uh Career Quest is hosted in partnership with Kishonna Peck, CEO of Women in X in Data Science.

Kishonna is a true trailblazer in the data and AI industry. She has over a decade of experience leading data teams across nonprofits, fintech, and advertising. And is the founder of Canada's first conference for women in data. Uh she's got a new uh conference coming up actually on May 1st. Um the and we're thrilled to have Kishonna here sharing her insights and passion as the guide for this series. Um so, as I

mentioned today we're joined by Olawale Olatunji Aregbe Olatunji um a data engineer at Munich Re um who works on a team modernizing insurance. He previously worked at Aella and Sendwave where he automated AML processes, strengthened fraud detection, and collaborated with engineering and analytics teams to reduce financial risk. He's also the co-founder of Jopo Logic, platform that simplifies food delivery connecting customers with local restaurants as a master's candidate in analytics at Georgia Tech. Wale is further developing his experience in AI and machine learning outside of work. Wale enjoys exploring and writing about new technologies and mentoring aspiring data professionals. He has a passion for

travel and is an avid fan of Formula 1 and soccer. So, welcome both of you and yeah, I'll I'll hand the microphone over to you Kishana. Thank you for having us Celeste. You have to say when a bio makes you run out of breath, it's a good bio. So, I'm really excited to be talking to Wale today. Thanks for joining us Wale.

Thank you. Yeah, that was that was one one very great introduction. But yeah, I'm glad to be here. I'm excited for for the next hour, so. Could we start by you walking us through your journey from early career to your current role at Munich Re?

Oh yeah, for sure. Hi everyone. I'm glad you know to be here. So, so I'd say that my my I've had like an interesting journey and it is spanned a few years of I'd say trial and error, you know, trying different things and I know being excited about I'd say that my career has mostly been following my curiosity. I follow what makes me excited and I I follow it to the logical conclusion and then you know, if I see that I'm excited about something else, I try it and see. So, my

career started in finance interestingly. I started my career in finance doing advisory and a lot of like project advisory, you know, and doing a lot of PowerPoint and Excel work which is kind of good to do at a very early your career, right? And and there was this deal I was on like many years ago and I for a client we needed to sort of like pull data from some place and and that kind of like you know allowed me to do some kind of like um Excel SQL work and I thought hmm this this might actually be interesting you know and part of doing our work required me to be very hands-on you know sticking a lot of courses and then from there I decided you know what I think I might just read more on this and I started reading more getting more excited um getting more excited about tech generally you know building projects you know doing and I think back then I I was not really really focused on like you know what technology was stuck but I was just interested you know so I'm a supporter of doing like some front-end projects and back-end projects and data projects anything that works right and and then that kind of like led me to the next phase which was me getting into a startup incubator where I needed to like build a product and then at that point I was like okay you know what this might also be an opportunity for me to grow you know and for me to start of employing engineers for me to actually build stuff here and and I think that in that period I you know also went in and started building as well right building like a product back then you know building along with my co-founders and then you know after I was done with that phase of you know working on startups then I you know started I was you know and the startup kind of like made me go more into data because I was more focused on like the data bit of things and then and then I started working you know in the industry and I did a lot of work around around um um um my previous startups around like building up a data team building up a data warehouse data infrastructure and then working on AML and fraud detection type work and then now I work I work in mostly in data engineering. And that's because I I think my career kind of because of where my career started in finance, I've kind of like been very much involved in finance. So, in you know, over the years I've been very much in fintech. So,

fintech over the years and now I work in a relatively big company, but like still doing like very, you know, hands-on data engineering type work. So, yeah, that that is sort of my story. I feel like I could take another hour to go very in-depth with it, but yeah. I would say that is a journey. It sounds like It sounds like you have also found like the unique intersection of data, finance, technology. You dabbled in

different things. You've been in different worlds, larger companies, entrepreneurship. Um would you say that that first Excel um SQL project that you did is what sparked your in your interest in finding that intersection? Um yes. Um so, I would say that at the beginning I was I'm still very much excited about finance. Like, you know,

now I'm I'm kind of like the guy that tells my friends about like teaches my friends about like personal finance, you know, where to invest their money, ETFs. So, it's still very something I'm very much interested in. But I think back then I I was someone that was just excited about computers initially, you know, I was excited about computers, but it was like it's just one of those things. Um and then when I worked on the project back then, I was like, "Okay, this may actually be something that people do for work, you know? This is something that people actually do on a day-to-day, you know?" And then that

kind of now led me into it. And And then I think over the years I've always found how can I totally how can I work at the intersection of finance and tech? Like, I've always found that way to work at that intersection. Um and then um and and that's why I tell people, you know, what what are the two things If you're excited about tech, what else are you excited about? And just combine both of them. And then you're going to work at

the this So, I feel like that that initial project, I'm glad that, you know, I worked on it back then let me through this part. Mhm. And how would you say that entrepreneurship has influenced the way that you carry yourself in your data engineering career? Um I So, so it's it's very interesting because um I think about entrepreneurship as I I I think everyone has a bit of entrepreneur in them. Um depending on it only depends on how you show it, right? Um so, um right now

where I work, um there's a lot of um there's a lot of focus on, you know, being technical. But I think right now the way you grow in an organization is not just being technical, but also being valuing the business impact. And that's where like entrepreneurship um entrepreneurship shows us, you know, shows up, right? Um you're not just thinking about writing code, you're not just thinking about delivering your pipelines or, you know, writing tests, but you're you're thinking about the bigger picture, right? How does this How could this be more efficient? Or how

could How could a simple solution, you know, im- impact, you know, the bigger goal of the company? And when you start asking these questions, then you realize, okay, maybe uh my entrepreneurial journey could actually influence my, you know, how I think about my day-to-day job. And that's something that has influenced me a lot, right? I you know, sometimes when I'm when I'm thinking about solution, I my it just be the most simple the simplest might actually be what works because I'm thinking about how the company impacts the greater good or the the business at large. Mhm.

And pop quiz. So, some people may not understand exactly what data engineers do. Would you be able to um quickly summarize it and explain how it's different from like a data scientist or a data analyst role? I know there's some overlap, and I know sometimes these companies just write down whatever they want to on the job descriptions, but I like can you give us your your best? Okay. Um so the way I think about it is

um now you think about the entire stack like with AI LLM is so everything is all over the place. But um the way I think about the stack is um if I think of it end-to-end, um there's a part where like your data is raw in the raw form and in in not cleaned. And there's a place where your data is very accurate and ready for to use. And then everyone sits on one part of the stack, right? Um a data analyst sits at this end, right? Where they take

the clean data. They might also need to do some cleaning to be fair. Everyone does that, but um take the clean data, presents the dashboards, um you know, does a lot of presentation, dashboard, PowerPoint, um work. A bit of sequel here and there. Um to also like prepare your data. Um that that

does what I would class classify as a data analyst. So your tools key to be things like dashboarding Power BI, you know, Tableau, sequel, um some Python, you know, depending on the organization again. Uh um a data scientist does a lot of does a lot of data analyst work depending on the organization, but more, right? So they now do things like, you know, feature engineering, right? So um for for models. So they build models.

Depending on the company that you work for, you may be, you know, having like some maybe some machine learning model, you know, um supervised learning, unsupervised learning. Um and to to to to pass data into those models, you need to feature engineer those your data, right? So transformations and things like that. Those are what like um data scientists do. So they run the transformations and the uh feature engineerings that need to to be to be passed into the models. And that's what

the data scientist is. And then in my company, a lot of data scientists also give presentations, right? So, when you when your model is done, I think that's where a lot of people miss it. I think after your model is done, that is it. You need to You need to evaluate your model. You need to be sure that

there's no model drift. But also, you need to present your model to stakeholders, like your For example, in my company, underwriters don't know what you did, right? No one wants a black box. They want to know what you did in your model. So, you have to present to people. And a lot of data scientists do

that. Uh, now back Now, to the data engineers. Those are like the guys on the back end, right? They they deal with the raw data, right? Um, and um, a typical day in the life of a of a of a data engineer is someone who writes, for example, a Python script to get data from a traditional, um, uh, from a Postgres database, for example, into a data warehouse or a data lake. And while the data is moving,

there are some transformations that may need to be done. So, for example, if your data is name or something, you know, and then, you know, and like first name, last name, and then at this where the data analyst needs to use it, it's just you you need to do some transformation to make it full name, right? The data engineer does that, you know, transformation and takes the data to where it needs to be done. And then, while they do that, they also think about scalability. How can I make it on a schedule? If I wanted to do this every

day, you know, do can I do this every day without me going back to change the code? You know, can I run a schedule? Can I do this every hour? You know, so, there are tools to do those things. So, the tool for a data um, engineer will be things like Airflow, things like Python, Databricks, uh, for orchestration. And then, on the data

warehouse side, you know, there are data lakes and, um, BigQuery, you know, Redshift, things like that. So, um, just think of it as the If you think about it on an end-to-end scale, the data engineer brings in the data, um, the data scientist does some work, um, and then to to make it more to add more features to the data, and then in the data analyst prepares the presentation for the stakeholders. Mhm. I always say that data engineers are like the unsung heroes. They are the unsung heroes, yeah.

They're the unsung heroes. Give them Give them the credit that is due. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I agree. Give us that

credit. Um, and also with some companies with low data maturity, or even those that are looking to now, um, do AI, but they don't have proper data infrastructure, um, sometimes I would say, like even though there's like a slight decrease in like data analyst or data scientist role, I'm actually seeing more data data engineering roles pop up because those infrastructure builds are needed. Yes. Um, I I think that in the in the time where we are now, um, we may actually see data engineers being more required because, um, when you think about uh, when you think about even passing some kind of data into like an LLM, for example, right? Um, you think about like like even chunking your data, right? Or

even thinking about a vector database, right? Um, those kind of roles, just like thinking of If you're If you're passing a large, you know, text of data into a database, right? You need to You need some kind of like data engineering I mean, anyone can learn it, but those are like the core skills of a data engineer, um, and then managing your the vector databases and things like that are core skills of a data So, yeah, I think that data engineering is a very, uh, I think we might see more more people getting into it in the future. Another pop quiz. What would be top three skills you would think that a data engineer would need?

Hmm. Um I'll say that number one is um When is this When is this skills I I want to put it as um as not technologies, right? Because I would want to say like learn this technology and this technology. Because there's a lot of tech There's always going to be something else. Um but I'll say that the first thing I would I would say that I is be very hands-on. Hands-on learning.

Um so when I say hands-on learning, be the person who is able to prototype, like just you know, test out stuff, right? Uh be that person that can, you know, test out things. Um be able to be able to And I be based on my background, what got me into data engineering was the fact that I was not scared to to test out things. So, there's a time in the past where I was not on a data engineering role, but I still built APIs, right? I still I was not going to wait for the engineers to do my work for me. I was still doing it myself, right?

I was still like I would I had my own microservices that I maintained. I had my own infrastructure that I set up. You know, I was very much in the weeds, you know? Right now I'm working as a data engineer, but I still do some infrastructure work, right? I still provision infrastructure. I still

provision databases, servers, you know? I do Terraform work. So, um try to be that person who is able to basically, you know, learn quickly, you know? So that people can rely on you. Um Um so people can rely on you. And then

something else that that I would say um helps is pick up a lot of the basic skill sets, right? Um so for a data engineer, things like SQL should be kind of like a given. Things like Python it be a given. Uh then picker picker cloud whatever cloud, you know, AWS any cloud and kind of go deep in it, right? So, GCP if you pick GCP go deep into GCP if you pick pick it Azure go deep in but just pick one and go deep into it so that you can learn so that you can understand the ecosystem because each cloud I mean you can always move from Azure to GCP for example but you understanding the Azure ecosystem and understanding the AWS ecosystem helps a lot.

Um and and data house. And I think the third one I would say is be very actually with the business, right? Uh in tune with the business I should say. Um there's a a lot of time we are very technical and we don't think about okay how others this affect the business and and that's why in a lot of companies data engineers are seen as like back office type people because nobody the business people can't see our what we are doing um affects the business. Meanwhile, this quite very important because they're not going to see their numbers on Monday if we don't work, right? So, be very in

tune with the business um and do presentations like speak to share with stake stakeholders uh about what is happening on the back end so that you are also quite visible. Mhm. And for the audience GCP is Google Cloud. I'm not sure what the base for. Platform.

Platform. Um and the other one mentioned was Azure. Um So, so those cuz I I had to decode while you were talking. Oh that's fine. Cuz I had to be like GCP we're going too fast.

Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, so what are the GCP is Google, um Azure is Microsoft and AWS is Amazon. Okay, perfect. And what kind of Um, do you find yourself working on?

Yeah, um, okay, so I I tend to find myself working on different kinds of, you know, projects, but they tend to be they tend to be around the same thing, right? Um, ETL, moving data from one place to the other. Um, and when I say moving data, um, it could be um, an example is um, let's say we have product where, you know, a product where the customers use, right? And then, um, we have data, you know, usually when customers use the product, data data is stored in some, say, you know, SQL Server or Postgres. And then, there's some other party that needs that data for analytics but analytical purposes.

Um, usually we don't want them to go into the our live database to to go like play with it because, again, it's live, right? Customers use it. Um, and also, besides that, you know, there's also, um, the fact that the fact that, um, I mean, it's live and then we we we want it to be highly functional, right? Um, we don't want to run analytical workloads on that database. So, usually we try our best to So, so what we do is we move those that data from, you know, where it is, you know, to a separate place that's for analytical purposes. It's called an

OLAP, right? And that place is more in tune and is more in tune for analytical purposes. And we tend to now create like, you know, like daily jobs. Like right now on my team, we have like daily jobs that picks data from one place and takes it to a different place, right? So, say let's say, data from our from our transactional database, um, we do some transformations and when it comes to data modeling, right? We do

like, you know, I don't I don't know if a a of know about like data modeling and and architecture about the medallion architecture, which is transforming data to to different, you know, formats for for the key users, right? And and then we store it in a data data lake um and then so other people can use it as a consumers. So, um that is what my day-to-day looks like, but it could also it also differs, right? It could like sometimes we want data from a third party somewhere outside the organization and we want to find a way to bring that data in, right? So, how do we do that? And say their

their system is um maybe more modern database like Snowflake, right? So, you need to find a way to provision solutions so that you are able to pull data in into your ecosystem. So, um my day-to-day is kind of like that, but from time to time there are like interesting projects that kind of stretches you or makes it a bit different, you know, or or sometimes you also like have third-party data. Like in my industry we deal with a lot of third-party data, right? Um um um and you have to work with either an API from somewhere or do a lot of authentication to bring data in and build jobs. So, that that is sort of

like what my day-to-day tends to look like. Mhm. And I imagine as a data engineer you guys don't really get much credit for the work that you do that allows like the data analysts or the data scientists that are presenting um like the end products, um how do you maintain that motivation and the communication with other teams since you're kind of more back of house? Um that's an interesting question because I feel like Yeah. Cuz I feel like this is this is something that that is, you know, that's even present in organizations, right? Even in mine, right? Where I'm

like, you know, how do we get how do we get credit for this? Um and uh and I think I'll just say like some things that we're starting to implement, right? Um, and part of it is um, being visible, right? Being visible and sharing your work, right? Being visible means that presenting some of the things. Um, and a lot of things that

we do, we consider it not a much of a big deal, right? To us. But to others we're like, "Oh, wow." So, things like as simple things as simple as, you know, um, "Hey, we we built a pipe we built like a a job that, you know, that that reduced the time for us to get this information from 3 days to like 30 minutes. It's like for us it's like, "Oh, yeah, that that's good." High-fives

everyone. But it's like that is also something good to present to people because people can't see all this actually you thought a lot about the infrastructure, you thought about the underlining reason for this. And then, so presenting your work is quite important. Um, and internally and externally. And externally, going to conferences is something that I I started doing as well, all right? Um, and then when you

go to a conference that's related to your industry. So, for example, if you're working say banking, go to banking conference and present optimization that you did it with data, banking data. You're in insurance, go to insurance conference. And then so that also helps to share some of the optimization that you're doing within the industry. And and also, um, we in terms of when we work with other teams, right? We were able to get very,

you know, interviewing and getting to their their mode of work. And then when we present when they're presenting their work, we try to as much as possible to be there, right? Oh, we're we're all in the team together, we also helped you. And then so those are some of the things that we're starting to implement on my team so that we can be more visible to to the larger team. Yeah.

Mhm. And we may have some prospective or current data analysts or data scientists um, listening right now. what would you suggest them to do to be able to learn from and connect with the data engineers because um, there's like this myth of like a full stack like data scientist and that you wouldn't need data engineers. Um, but I I always, um, knew that was very important for my team to learn from the data engineers and know what they're doing. Um, so what are some tips you have for them?

Okay, so this is interesting because if you're currently a data analyst, then you kind of know what's going on, right? You know that, okay, I know that there's some guys who bring the data in. I know there's some guys who do like some more some, uh, some modeling and stuff like that. Um, so you want to figure out where you want to go next. If you're really excited about that type of stuff, then I'll say on your own, if you're in an organization, it may be easy to move, right? Um, is it to say, um, I want to

do more like, you know, data engineering type work, right? That's something you can tell your manager, um, tell your team lead, um, and if it's if they if they care about your growth, I think that's something that it can be orchestrated over a period of time. Um, another thing is working projects. Um, I think that's something that is very underrate underrated. Um, but try as much as possible to work on in personal projects on your own, but also projects within your team. So, for

example, if there's a small like little thing that may not be necessary data engineering, uh, but it could be something close. It could be provisioning some kind of infrastructure or whatever. Um, try to be that person that wants to do that that type of stuff so that you're moving more or less away from, because I think data data engineers are closer to like like, you know, the infrastructure and to, you know, the devops people than I think the data analysts. So, you want to move try to work on projects that moves you closer there. Um, and then yeah, and then pick up the tools, right?

Pick up, you know, the the tooling that you need. So, when you think about um So, something some things that you could do is now, you know, build projects and make it life, right? You know, think about uh like a airflow job that takes um I don't know, that takes an airflow job that takes like data like so that a lot of open data right now out there, right? Um, I was looking at something recently and it was like New York's um I think New York City's bike data or something like that. You could take that kind of data, you know, transform it and push it into somewhere else and make it a dashboard. And then that entire

process makes you learn a lot because when you're coding it, you have to provision an infrastructure. You have to think about, oh, what way I have to want to use? I want to use BigQuery, right? Do I want to use a dev I don't want to use BigQuery and GCP, right? And then do I want to optimize that? Do I want to

think about clustering, partitioning, you know? And then it makes you think about a lot more when you're working on even personal projects. Um, so I'll say that first, you know, feel confident in, you know, in the in some of these tools, right? You know, airflow, Python, you know, some SQL. Um, and then just build stuff. And then

eventually, I don't know. Uh and there are other tools like, you know, Kafka, like Spark, you know. Those things you learn as time goes on, but the basics kind of like I'll say that the basics just, you know, maybe you understand like just airflow, Python. And from there you just grow into like based on what you need to do. Like do I need do I need to stream?

Maybe I go learn Kafka, you know. Do I need to uh do I need like a distributed I am I working on distributed workload? I go learn Spark, right? But don't try to learn everything at once. Just pick like the basics and then just learn that and then build projects and then you go from there.

Mhm. Great advice. Um I had another question that was on the tip Oh, one of the things that we that didn't come up so far is um data engineers role in security. Because it seems like you guys are like the first line of defense for security and privacy as well. Um would you like to touch on that for us?

Oh yeah, for sure. Um So I So there's a lot of interesting cuz there's been a lot of conversations around security, privacy um recently and um we we come especially this is something that that I didn't was not very privy to until I worked, you know, at a separate kind of company. Um at a bigger company because um bigger companies are they, you know, there's they're more public, right? You know, they're more open to say like lawsuits and things like that. So there's a lot of implementation that that happens within the team that requires you to be very security focused. And and on a

company-wide level um there there's a concept called like there's a concept right now that's going around data governance that requires you to think about how your data is governed. How do you, you know, assign stewards stewardship to the data, right? So for example, um um there is, you know, in in a in a typical company there is like I don't know, like maybe 20 over over a lot of rows of data and a lot of sorry tables of data. And each of those tables needs to have, for example, a steward, right? Like who who who is in charge of, for example, who is the data steward? Who is in charge of the data?

And then something else that a lot of companies implement are starting to implement is things like data lineage, right? Um so um when you think of the a data pipeline or a workflow of data, data can come from say um a user clicking submit into a into a database to a dashboard, right? And it could have touched a lot of places before it gets to the dashboard. And um and a data a data lineage a a data, you know, lineage is able to show the traces of where the data moved. So they went to a storage container, from there it went to a data warehouse, from there it went to a data lake, from there it went to the dashboard. And this this helps so

that um there this helps two things. First, if there's some kind of break upstream, they're able to trace that quickly. But also you're able to see where um where, you know, owns what and then how your data is moving through the system because a lot of times you have a lot of data flows that you don't know where what is. So data governance is is a very important topic. And I'll tell you that like that is something that a lot of companies are really high on the front of, like. So if

if you're in they just don't want a data engineer, but they want someone who is actually very privy to data governance, right? So for example, right now there's a an open source tool called datahub. It's like a data is an open source data governance toolkit um for the for implementing um data governance within organizations. Um and there are like more there's like there are other tools that are not open source, but that's like one of the top open source tools that I've seen. Um so yeah, it's very interesting topic. I

think like that's something that a lot of people should um should look into and, you know, see how they can implement it in your company. So currently if you're working somewhere and and I think you can score really easy points just bringing a lot of this um things up, like, you know, are we thinking about row level security, column column level security, you know, things like that. So, um, yeah, those those are very interesting conversations to have, you know, Tim. Mhm. Yeah, I was like, I need to put another point into why you guys are the unsung heroes. There's so much you guys

like protect things, you ensure there's a flow, you're doing transformations in the back that no one really thinks about, improving processes, reducing time. There's a lot of things that data engineers do. Um, I see that you also do some mentoring of aspiring data professionals. How do you normally approach it? Because I'm sure there's I'm sure your LinkedIn is going to blow up after this with people asking you questions. So, how do you normally

approach it? Um, yeah, so so, a bit of story. Um, a few years ago, I I I was, you know, when I when I started when I worked in I worked in data for a few years and I wanted to I wanted to make my data friends, you know, and I wanted to uh well, yeah, all the people in the industry and I created a data um sort of like a a meetup type of thing um where like people just come, let people speak. And I don't do that anymore, but I think that I still have like a small community of people who from there I've met and uh we've grown into like, you know, data professionals over the years. And I'll say that my my way of, you know, mentoring is I feel like I've said this a little bit all over and all over again, but I I I think that you a lot of people may not I think first things first is you know what you excited about, right? I tell people

like, if you're not excited about this thing, you know, about this thing, find something else, you know. Um, people are more excited about like different things. And when you're excited about that thing, then you go deeper into it, right? Um, Um, and then so that's where it starts. And and that's how I work, right? I kind of

experiment. If I don't like this, I and I leave it. I experiment with what I like and then I just go deep, right? Because you need that depth. You need to go deeper into one thing for a period of time, right? Um, but don't go into many

things for a period of time. Kind of like spend like a short time experimenting and when you figure out, oh, I'm excited about this, then go deeper into it. And then when going in depth means like, you know, reading obviously, um, studying, but also building projects. I I'm a I'm I'm a fan of um, projects, real world projects because it helps you scale up your learning quickly. You're able to think through problems. You're going to

You're going to come into issues that you've not found before and then you try to solve it. Um, so an example of a project, for example, could be I just thought like, you know, um, a friend of mine, um, worked on a project where he he took her I think I think it it took um, a went out for time I think an open open data something for exchange rate. So he took the data, um, and then he posted it he created a job to post it on Twitter every day. So he took a job that takes data from somewhere, does some cleaning, and it posts and it tweets. You know, for it to tweet, obviously, you have to use like Twitter's You have to go through Twitter's authentication system. So that's some level of learning

that you also have to learn there, right? Taking the data, doing transformation, and making a tweet is is an interesting project. It looks simple, but you're going to learn a couple of things just doing that. And then now think about how do you automate it? How do you make it run every day? I mean,

maybe a cron job, right? But also maybe but maybe like an airflow instance, you know? Or maybe it could do different things to make it run every day. So that decision making just makes you learn a lot more. Um, so yeah, that that is something I'll tell people. And then,

yeah, like ask questions. Like, you know, interact with um like people like me, people a lot of people in the industry are happy to help. I think people fear from approaching people because they think that everyone is very willing to help. And I think I've not That's something I've done all my career. I just meet people, ask them questions, and I think you should do that, too.

Mhm. Um what are some common misconceptions that you help aspiring data engineers overcome? Uh okay. Um Yeah, so So, I think the one of the biggest miscon- misconceptions um is is the fact that um people think that it is First, people think anything can be odd, right? Uh but um when when people think about like the data, you know, ecosystem, people are like, "You know, I'm just going to be a data analyst, you know? I'm just going

to be a data sign, you know? Maybe I'll just be a data analyst. I'm fine there." Um but it's interesting because some there are some rules where data analysts may actually act as data engineers, you know? They might actually be pipelines.

So, I I think that people I think that when you're thinking about your your data career, don't decide that, you know what? "Oh, this is odd. I'm going to stick with the easier." Right? Because usually when you stick with the easier thing, except if you're really interested in that. If you if that's

what you're excited about, you're really excited about dashboarding and SQL, then do it. But if you if you try this other thing and thought, "Hm, I think this might be odd." Then maybe it's time to double down, you know, try to try as much as possible to get into it. And then, work on a project, work on something, you know, read more, you know? There are there are a lot of books. I'm I'm not saying a lot, but

there are books to to read to get you to the place on courses online, you know? The the the resources are there. Um so, try to don't shy away from, you know data engineering or it and it may not be data engineering it could be like software engineering devops whatever. But if you think it's odd try as much as possible to go deeper into it. And then you just realize that yeah I just guess this odd because you don't know it yet. You don't it's odd because

you've not you don't know it at that time. But it's going to get easy because eventually because you now know it. And it's the same with everything right? Um and like when we think about um the book Atomic Habits right? It's about small incremental progress because um oh I don't know this now but I I read and I know it. And it's the same way

like there was a time I didn't know what I knew right now. And there are tons of things I didn't know I don't know right now that I know that okay if I spend some time on it I'm going to learn it. So just have that I think it's also called a growth mindset. Just know that yeah um I'm not I've not learned the totality of all the things I'm going to learn in my life. So just keep going at it.

Mhm. And with the amount of changes that are happening now with machine learning and AI how does that impact data engineers trajectory and work? You know what? I don't know. I don't know. I

That's that's an interesting question because I don't know where it is going but you know what? I think that it will still need you know um If I check the team at OpenAI right now they still have engineers you know. Um there's there's there's still engineers that building a front end. There's still engineers that building a back end. There's still engineers that building the infrastructure. Um so in as much as

OpenAI is building like next level they're trying to build AGI. They also have like people in the house building those things. So I think that your inner skill whatever skill you have is still something that is not going to leave you right? Many years ago, like when we think about tech, right? Many years like I'm thinking about front end right now.

If a lot of people are familiar with front end, many years ago people were writing jQuery, you know? And then that left and then there was like Angular. Okay, that left and then there's now React and then things are going to evolve, right? Even with back end, right? Everyone is, you know, back end at some point a lot of people were writing Ruby on Rails, you know, at some point a lot of people were writing depending on the team you are, right? Technology is going to evolve,

but the the ability to learn new technologies is is sticks with you because you know you can learn, you can build new projects, you can, you know, acquire new skill set. So, technology is going to evolve, but you you're going to remain the same. So, your desire to learn and to build pick up new skill set. And then now there's LLMs, right? It's like what like have you something I've tried to do is I've tried to, you know, I've tried to build projects using that, right? I've I've,

you know, instead of just using ChatGPT, can I send can I look at, you know, you look at the API and then build a project look using that. And that's something you could do. That's something that anyone can do because the API is over there and then it's, you know, you can build a project, try things out, and then at some point just realize, okay, maybe maybe someone hire me to start using OpenAI's LLM, you know, things like that. So, just be excited about this new technology. Yeah, and then we don't know where it's going to lead us, but yeah, hopefully it lead us to a good place.

Mhm. And I like some themes that keep coming up are projects, like actually doing the thing. What is your last piece of advice for our audience if you had to just do like a quick closer to to leave them with. Something you want to leave them with, the last thought. Okay.

Um I'd say and I've saying a lot of so I'm going to say something else. Uh So, something that you should um a last thought is um avoid Uh and this is in all aspects of life, but um keep it simple, right? And keep it simple, right? Um I was going to say avoid over-engineering, but it's still the same thing, right? Um there there are a lot of things that that you can do even while looking for a job, right? Um there are a lot of things that

you can do to get a new role. There are a lot of projects you can do to get a job, but keep a lot of what you're doing simple. When I when I say this, I mean in terms of like, you know, the projects I'm working on. Like, instead of working on something that will take you to 1 month, work on like three different projects that'll take you a week, you know? Keep it very simple. You learn faster and more

excited by completing things, right? So, do something very small, right? Don't do like a large elaborate projects. Keep it small so that that feeling of that dopamine, right? You you get excited by, you know, working on things. So, work on

a small little project here and there, you know? Yeah, it could just be running on your local machine first, you know? Let it run and then you grow from there, but you know, don't try to do a big project because at some point you might get tired and you feel like you don't know it. Meanwhile, you're just working on a problem that may just be beyond you a bit. So, yeah, keep it simple.

Mhm. That's actually really aligned with like how adult learning is actually successful. Like, smaller doses is when you incrementally feel like you're getting the skills. Thank you so much, Wale. Um we have Celeste now with helping us with questions.

Hey, yeah. Well, I feel like you all have already gotten so many of these questions answered, but yeah, thank you so much. This is been great. Um and I think you were coming in and and talking about projects, and that was actually like where I was going to jump back in and say, "Hey, I've got a lot of students here as I'm reading through the Q&A. They're curious about projects.

Dataquest is all about projects." Um so yeah, I I would I want to like just go back into like real world. So, what are some simple projects that you think a beginner might um consider kind of tackling? Um what would what would those things be? And what have you seen people sort of share on their resumes um if for data engineering roles that are are projects?

Oh, yeah. Um yeah, that's interesting. Thanks for asking. So, uh so the way I think about it is um for people who are transitioning into from something to something else, um pick what you know. Like, what do you know? Like, what are you familiar with?

Um so, if you're familiar with if you're if you're in like skin if you like skin care, right? Can you work on some uh on a on a dashboard that shows like the best, you know, there's some free I'm sure there's some open-source skin care data out there, you know. Um can you get it from like some open-source API into a dashboard, right? That that that is that is a good interesting project. Um are you are you curious about um how about Formula 1 even? Like, how

about soccer? Like, soccer has a lot of data. Are you curious about fantasy football, right? Um that is what you are excited about or what you're curious about. And then you want to see, for example, the rate of like, say soccer, for example, um who who is who has scored the most goals in recent years or who has you know, any kind of question that you like, right?

There's a data out there. As a matter of fact, there's a lot of soccer data. So, um it is um you can build a simple pipeline, right? Like what the way I think about pipeline is, if you understand Python, right? Um think about, okay, what does it take for me to get data from this place? Does it Do I

need like to register? Do I need API keys, you know? Um and then get the data um what does what does the what does that that pipeline look like, you know? Do I need make effort It might just be a Python script, something that, you know, not complex. And then what does it need to ingest into this place?

Um so, BigQuery, for example, has like very free tier that free tier infrastructure data warehouse that you you probably don't even need to pay for, right? Um and also actually BigQuery has free data, open source data that you could use. Um so, there's a lot of They have like data that you can just go on BigQuery, you see a lot of uh open source data that they house. And then you can use just use it to test stuff out. Um some of the So, that that is a sample of project, right? Be follow your

curiosity, be be be curious about oh, like you know, whatever you're curious about, just look for open source, you know, something out there that you can take. Also, you can scrape. That That's a bit more, you know, advanced, right? But it's still it's still learning, right? At the end of the day. You can

scrape, for example, a a website that you're curious about. The there's there's something I did a few years ago where I I scraped a news website because um I was trying to I was comparing two different musical artists, and I wanted to know um I I I can't remember the question I was trying to answer, but I I was curious about two musical artists, and I scraped data from there, and then, you know, scripted um and then pushed it somewhere else. I think it was BigQuery. Um something else I I've done in the past was YouTube, right? I I've I've worked with um um YouTube as well. Um

being able to transcribe the data and then convert it to, you know, convert it to and then use I think I don't know what I did, but I think I did like some search thing or some NLP stuff on that data. Uh so, there is YouTube, there's, you know, there's a lot of information out there that I could There's a lot of places you can get free data. So, you don't need to Data is free available. So, yeah, I'll say like those are like very Those are places that you could get data from. So, follow your passion um and then think about, okay, what kinds of pipelines and things that I can create.

So, when we're thinking about building a portfolio for a data scientist or a data analyst, we're thinking about, here's my analysis, where a data engineer is, here's your playground, right? I I got it ready for you um and showcasing your ability to do that for others. Yeah. And for for like a data engineer, um the other part is showing your work, right? Um obviously, I've not mentioned things like GitHub, but obviously, you have like things like GitHub, you know, and then you're able to show your work. Um but also, you can

just something that's underrated that I used to do earlier is write, right? Like I I write about my projects on Medium, right? I write, okay, um how I did it did it did it, you know, and I write my project. And And then I At the bottom or at the top, I put my GitHub. So, that anyone that can read a project, find it interesting, and then click on the GitHub to go there. So, when you write a

pro When you do a project, you write about it. Tell a story, right? And then And then so people can think, oh, okay, actually, this person um could also contribute to my team. If, for example, someone's looking for a data engineer, but they're also looking for someone that can be also quite analytical, you know, but someone that may be business savvy can They can speak to stakeholders. So, those You've kind of like That's kind of It's called proof of work. You've proved proven that you

can do some of these things at your job. So, yeah, that that is that is things that I'll say you can do. I love that data storytelling because this is a definition that I think people have a very narrow understanding of, but the real definition is something different in my mind that really brings a lot of value here. And that is the data storytelling is what I did to give you this number. What this number comes from, where it is not what does this number mean, where I think that a lot of people want to jump to, what does this mean? Like, what should we sell more of?

What should we discount? But the data storytelling is that. So, yeah, give me give me a little bit more. How do you do that? How do you make sure stakeholders really understand what the limitations are of what you've built and where this data comes from.

Oh, yeah. So, when you say stakeholders, do you mean like whoever's reading, like whoever's Whoever's using the data, yeah, the consumer. Oh, yeah. So, so you mentioned something about the work that we did to get here, but also the data, right? So, usually when when you're presenting data to someone, like when you're telling the story, um a lot of times the story is the story I'm telling is And there's a book I read about like telling stories, right? Sometimes

stories come in like a format where you're trying to say that, oh, like, you know, it's like here was Johnny, right? I have a problem and I went through this many challenges and I have a solution. And that's that's usually almost when you think about a movie, that's how it is. And that's how you want to think about even your story as a person or the story you're telling. You don't You don't think about a Uh we had we had this problem and I we through the length and breadth of the world. I

went through the all the continents to come and to bring it to this place. And then you want to tell about the challenges we faced. Like, this were the challenges we faced. This was why we did what This was what we did to overcome those challenges. This were This were the We had to, you know, do this and do that. And then you had speaking about

those challenges. I'm saying, "Oh, yeah, at the end of the day you have this." But this The story is actually the the the journey is actually the story, the journey of getting there, right? And so So when you're telling the story, right? Um so usually when I'm presenting stuff at work, right?

Um there's Depending on your audience, right? There are some like audience where you want to like, you know, present, "Oh, yeah, like this is just what we have done." And usually those are like for, you know, upper level, you just want to go straight to the point. But at some point you also want to say this You want to give a brief understanding of what went into it, right? You want to say like, "Actually, you know, we did XYZ, right?" And that is the also part of the

story. And then when you want to show your work, so for example, if, you know, about writing an article, um you know, back in the days when I used to write like, you know, when I write articles now about, you know, some of the things I'm doing in my project, right? I'm not I'm not necessarily Like I have an hypothesis, right? Why does XYZ happen, right? And I'm writing about why all the things I did to get there. My hypothesis may, you know, I

may not actually prove, you know, my hypothesis may may not even make any sense, but is the journey that takes me through trying to understand the theory like understand the question that I had is what matters. And people are like, "Oh, okay, I understand that question now, you know." And then people resonate with that. So I think I think that's the asking the questions and telling me how I went through answering that question is very important and that's that's what people need to do. I love that. Kishana, do you have

anything to add there from your own personal experience? Um nothing to add. I feel I feel like Wale's answers are always so comprehensive. The um the and I've done the same thing that I always do. I got really involved in listening and now I don't know the next question that I'm going to ask.

The um There's a whole section there. The yeah, I you know, we have a a lot of folks who are asking about um applying for new roles and you know, getting your first role. So, I know it's been a little while since you've had your first data role. Um the what advice do you have for people getting started in the industry? Um being creative, um thinking about kind of that that first role whether it's starting in analytics and then moving to data engineering or or applying for a data engineering role.

Oh yeah, sure. I I love this question because there's no there's no one path. There's no there's no I'm sure that everyone got into the industry in different ways. Um but yeah, I agree like we need to you need to be creative. Uh but also um you need to show just you need to show that you've been you need to show like like I said before proof of work. You need to just show

that oh yeah, I I've been curious. I've been here, you know, I've been spending time understanding technologies. I've been spending time understanding stuff. And is is a mix of a lot of things I'll say. But I'll say that the first thing that that I would do right now is um work on my portfolio, you know, There are little things that kind of signals that you know, oh this person is interesting. Like you know, have a

personal website, you know, maybe write about some of the things you are doing because I know a lot of people, you know, uh like you know, you know, DataCamp, on DataQuest, on Udemy, on you everywhere, you know, there's a lot of learning that you've done, right? And those learning, write about it, you know, create a create a GitHub GitHub profile, and just share, right? And then usually when you do that, um you're trying to tell recruiters that or and a hiring manager that or I'm curious. I'm a very curious person. I'm trying to, you know, I've learned a lot of stuff. And then

something else that I would advise people to do now, is is just get in the door, right? Your first role may not be a data engineering role, you know, it may not be a data analyst It may not even be a data analyst role, right? It may be some role that you're using data, but the title may not be data analyst. But you're actually using data, right? So, get in the door and then be that person that's, you know, that does the data analyst work. Be that person that does the data

science work, right? Be that person that does the dashboards, you know, be that person that does because again, what happens is you get into a role, but a lot of the a lot of the tools that I use in my job, I may not have known them. Even right now, a lot of the tools I use in my job, I I did not know them before I joined. So, yeah, you're gaining you're gaining knowledge as you join. So, get in the door and then you just realize the day to day you're picking you're picking data bricks, you're picking Spark, you're picking and then at the end of the day you just realize, oh, I know all these things and then you're ready for the next role. Right? So, get

in the get in like if there's a business analyst role and then you know that, okay, I'm going to be doing some Excel, some SQL, right? You By the time you're done with that role, you're going to be really good at SQL because you're going to be doing it every day, right? And then while you're doing SQL, something might come up, Python. Okay, I'm going to get into that role. Now, I'm really good at SQL and I'm adding Python to it and then now I'm really good at SQL and Python. So, get in the

door first, get into that first job and then just start, you know, growing there from there. I love that. So, showcase your shirt curiosity. Don't just say it, but show it through your projects in your portfolio. Um I know you said this earlier, learn foundational skills. I know you said SQL

and Python. Any other foundational skills? Well, and cloud. Learn a learn a cloud uh tool. Um the Yeah, anything else to add to that list?

Um I'll say things like Excel. Um I Excel may maybe required or not. I don't know, depending on the role, but it's just good to have like You don't want to be that guy. Yeah, don't be that guy. that's the oldest thing ever, right?

Like Excel, who needs that anymore? It's still the most widely used tool in the world. Yeah. You don't want to be that person at the job that doesn't know Excel, all right? So, yeah, like learn some Excel and then some dashboarding. There's

There's a dashboard tool called Looker Studio that is, I think, open source. Um yeah, just create dashboards. Um and then usually depending on the role, you you may have to get deeper into learn like things like Terraform, you know, for for provisioning infrastructure. Things like, you know, um Databricks, things like Spark Spark, you know, things like Those tools uh you kind of build off of the foundation, right? You build on top of it. So, yeah.

And yeah, very important, like cloud. I think everyone is on the cloud now. You want to join a team and then be the guy that that understands like a lot of this cloud tooling, right? I think that that is That's very underrated, right? Learn, you know, try to use a lot of the cloud and then understand them very well, so that um yeah, just you know, even though you don't know like the foundation or understand like cloud. Um yeah.

Uh so, I know that um that's going to be really specific to whatever role you get at whatever company. Um for for a beginner, what cloud tool would you recommend starting with? Uh I recommend Just pick one. There there's no I'll say So so depends, right? Eve most most companies use AWS, I think.

Azure for more corporate. If you if you if you think they might get into like a big corporate like 4500 type players, then Azure most of them use Azure. But just if you if you if you're very much startup-y, maybe GCP and AWS. But I'll say that if you just want to get started, GCP has I think a $200 credit that allows you to play around with things without paying. So GCP might be the best place to go because you can just play around, turn on things, turn off things, and not pay for it at least for for for a bit. So play around with

GCP because it is free for at least up to $200, I think. Free is great. Free is great. Well, thank you so much. This has been wonderful. I know we shared in the chat

the the link for the feedback survey. I am sharing this again. Please let us know how this was helpful for you. And the um the yeah, share share additional questions for the future. And yeah, thank you both so much again. This has

been so informative and we're really grateful for your time today. Thanks so much for having us. Thank you so much.