---
video_title: "When PowerPoint Doesn't Work on Stage | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: MRqGlOqBDMM
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MRqGlOqBDMM
video_date: 2025-04-08
video_description: |
  FULL VIDEO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sZxtgzhO-E8
  
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #comedy #podcast #comedian #standupcomedy
---
How do they project on brick walls though? Is that tough? It it makes it makes it it makes the pictures a little bit fuzzy. But uh fair enough. Yeah. I've had to have like an

AV team, which was me uh everywhere I go. So I'm I'm I'm back doing AV for myself now. That's what it is. Do they ever go south on you? Oh, yeah. The

machine doesn't work or something. Oh, the best the best ever was PowerPoint had some kind of bug and all of a sudden I'd hit the clicker and the weirdest transitions would happen. like go to the next next thing and I didn't didn't know what was coming up next. So the crowd I let the crowd know and it got it it was very funny and then I I slammed power I slam Microsoft which everybody hates Microsoft. So I got a big chuckle. It

did. They laughed at my at my Do you remember when Microsoft they they launched I think it was Windows 3. I'm trying to remember now my nerd my nerd and they were at the demo and the it crashed the demo crashed and Bill Gates just about killed the guy on stage the tech guy on stage that was you don't you don't want to do that by the way I met Bill Gates huge nerd and I told a joke that almost got me fired oh from M well it was like a thousand people big Microsoft event I said Bill it's great to be here you clearly the most secure man on the face of the earths not because you're super rich because you don't care as a man that you're the head of a company called Micro soft. Think about that. Small end limp. Not a good

combination if you're a man. I know what you're talking about. See, if it's my company, I'm renaming it. I'm the CEO of Macro hard. Nice to meet you. Huge, satisfying company.

MacroArt, growing every day. Can he laugh? He laughed. He sn I swear he snorted. He went and then I looked at the side and my the HR people were like, "No, no, no, no, no. That we can't have that kind of

joke here at Microsoft." Then another Microsoft bet and this is absolutely I remember this so clearly to dead silence. I walked out, did three jokes and went, "Oh, wait. I have to I have to I have an update on my act I have to reboot." And I walked off the stage and came back on. Nobody laughed. Nobody

laughed at that joke. They do not have a sense of humor about their own products.