---
video_title: "Marketing vs Engineering | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: rBpRW5RF8nA
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBpRW5RF8nA
video_date: 20250930
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
---
I get it. The question I get a lot is you're an engineer. How do you think of jokes? Does how do they does engineers don't think of jokes. Actually, they do and here's why.

Uh engineers are problem solvers, right? And it turns out that Venn diagrams, although I joke about them, are an excellent way of thinking how a joke is structured. Cuz what's a joke? It's where you take one idea that's completely different than this other idea and when you put them together, that's the aha moment. That's the realization of the funny part of the joke and the overlap is like a Venn diagram. More it overlaps, the bigger

the laugh. So, that's how I kind of model my jokes. So, I'm going to tell you a joke and I'm going to show you and think Thank you very much for laughing at my concept alone, sir. So, I'm going to tell you a joke and I'm going to show you how I analyze jokes. So, this is a joke joke that I learned in college a long time ago. It was one

of my favorite joke jokes. It's about a marketing professor who gives his class an assignment which is to go measure this flagpole that's in the quad. And all he gives the class, and there's like 20 in the class, is a ruler. He says, "Go measure that flagpole. You got 20 minutes. Go."

So, the 20 marketing people stand around this huge flagpole going, "How are we going to measure this? It's God, it's 90 ft something high. I'm not going to climb up the flagpole even and if it's a windy day, it's not worth the grade." And the other guy goes, "Well, we can do that thing. We know the angle and we know 1 ft and sin theta and it's trigonometry and I don't know trigonometry cuz I'm in marketing."

So, nobody can figure out how to do it and finally, an engineer wanders by, says, "What's the problem?" He goes, "We're trying to measure this flagpole." And the engineer says, "Well, that's easy enough." So, he walks up to the flagpole, takes a plier and a wrench out of his cargo pants. Undoes the flagpole in about 5 seconds, lays it down, measures it from end to end in pieces, adds it up, says it's 96 ft 5 in tall and he walks off.

Then one marketing person looks at the other and goes, "How useless was he? We wanted the height, he gave us the width." It's a good joke. That's a good joke. That is a good joke.

That's a great joke. Why does that joke work? Here's my Venn diagram analysis. For that joke to work, you have to know the difference between height and width and know that marketing people don't. And that overlap turns out to be 82%.

That is a good joke.