---
video_title: "Proper Restroom Spacing Etiquette | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: AbvFvOrUMIA
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AbvFvOrUMIA
video_date: 2025-10-28T17:00:19+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian
---
Okay, here's something I analyzed. This is I dragged out a lot of my older stuff that I kind of I this is the way my brain works. I can't help it. But um there's men don't talk, okay? We just don't share. So nobody ever taught me

about where for example when I walk into a public restroom and I use the five urinal case because it's the most interesting. You'll see why. So when I walk in, that's me. I walk in and I spot this guy who I don't know standing over there. WHAT WHERE'S THE proper place to go?

See that guy immediately you immediately went there. Now did somebody tell you that or is that your just your opinion? >> My opinion. >> Your opinion. Yeah. I don't think

there's a class in this anyway. I don't I don't think at like Saddleback College you can study urinal placement. See he said here I don't think that's the correct and and what I did because this is how I I actually analyzed it. I looked at all the possibilities and here is what I found. Okay. First of all,

solution number one as my friend said is to go there. I don't think that's the best place. It's not a bad place, but it's not the best place because you are sending an unspoken message to that guy. Hey man, you're creepy. Like if you start far away from that guy, like I'm staying away as far away as you as I can cuz you are going to try to sneak a look. I know you. On the

other hand, you don't want to go here because well that's too close. That's that says I'm creepy. Right. That's that's uncomfortable when somebody does that. So we've eliminated that one and that one in my opinion. So

that leaves these two. Okay. Well, I think the best solution is to go there because not only is there a buffer zone here, but you are actually leaving guy room for the next guy to come in. So, he's as comfortable as you are. That is the best solution.

>> Yes. Yeah. Yeah. What's more interesting though is that solution cuz here, this is where you learn something. Cuz the next guy that comes in, he says, "Oh, I'm cuter than guy number one."

Or if you go there, "Oh, guy number one's cuter than me. And then the absolute worst solution is of course there. That's although I have always wanted to try that one. Hey, how's it going Marty? Nice to see you IN THE BATHROOM. SLIDE OVER.

You think this is a tankless urinal? I think the water and the heater are connected here cuz I'm I'm feeling some heat coming off this water. I'm feeling some NPF, baby. How' the show all become about Navian? You guys are okay.