---
video_title: "Engineers Week with Don McMillan at Rooster T. Feathers (Feb 18-20, Tues-Thurs)"
video_id: J2gowM76K6w
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J2gowM76K6w
video_date: 2025-02-09
video_description: |
  ENGINEERS WEEK in Silicon Valley with Don McMillan!
  3 shows with at Rooster T. Feathers in Sunnyvale
  Tues, Wed & Thurs -  Feb 18, 19 & 20
  
  Get your tickets NOW!
  www.RoosterTFeathers.com
  
  There is NO better Comedian to Celebrate all things Engineering than Don McMillan! His PowerPoint Comedy Show mines the World of Engineers and finds laughs you have not noticed - because you were too busy working! Data shows that Don's shows at Roosters are always in the top 10% of his shows every year! Don't miss this Amazing Week! 
  
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
---
but I just want to celebrate engineer how you know you're an engineer you know you're an engineer if if at the end of every weekend three things that were broken are now fixed but six things that we working are now broken it is so true it is so true isn't it true mechanical engineer guy yes I can't help myself like a perfect example in our bathroom there was a fan our fan was wobbling and I tried to fix it about a week ago and it no longer wobbles it doesn't work at all now but it doesn't wobble so technically I believe I fixed it uh you think dating is like buying a computer think about this it is dating is like buying a computer you look for features performance reliability compatibility and most of all no viruses