---
video_title: "How to Know If You're an Engineer | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: 6SWC0ViNK3E
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6SWC0ViNK3E
video_date: 2025-06-10
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian
---
So, how do you know you're an engineer? Some signs you're an engineer. You know you're an engineer if uh at the end of every weekend, three things that were broken are now fixed, but six things that were working are now broken. We can't help it. Even something's not quite like perfect example, the fan in our bathroom was wobbling. So, I decided I'd fix it and

it doesn't wobble anymore. It doesn't work at all anymore, but it does not wobble. So, technically, I think I fixed it. I fixed the problem I set out to fix. Uh, you know, you're an engineer if you don't know your son's age, but you know he's born three versions of Windows [Applause] ago. My son is an XP child. Anybody else

have an XP kid? They were good. That was a good You didn't want a Vista kid. You do not want a Vista child. They're very unstable. The Vista

kids. It's a pretty nerdy crowd. You get the Vista joke. It's interesting. You know, when you come first come out to meet a crowd, you're trying to judge where are they on that? I think you're about a 10.7 on the

scale of 1 to 10. That's what I'm just uh you know, you're an engineer. When it comes to formal wear, you consider formal wear uh cargo pants. Got my got my best cargo pants on for you people tonight. And if you're a really big nerd, it's cargo shorts, by the way. All year round. You don't care.

I love cargo pants. I love cargo pants. Cargo I have cargo underwear. I do. I have pockets in my underwear.

My poor wife is just mortified that I'm constantly wearing cargo pants everywhere we go. We went to a wedding. I wore cargo pants and a jacket. I'm sorry. It looked fine. I call it

engineering formal. That's what I called it. And I wanted to prove to her why cargo pants are superior because I believe they are superior. So, I did a cargo pant analysis. Okay. Here is a

regular pair of pants. That much is functional, but totally useless. From there down, there's nothing happening. That is just wasted material. It's just hanging down. Okay. That That is a great

pair of pants. Look at those p that you could carry everything you own in your pants. We We could live in our pants. We could cure homelessness. People can live in their pants. You could be ready for You could

keep an extra pair of pants in a pocket of your pants. That's prepared. Uh you know you're an engineer if uh you think dating, this is interesting. You think dating is like buying a computer. It is. Think about

it. You look for features, performance, comp reliability, compatibility, and most of all, no viruses. It is just like dating. Uh, you know, engineer, if uh people think you're so boring, you once had a near-deife experience. That's mean. Somebody said that to me once. You

had a near life experience. How'd it feel?