---
video_title: "Nerd or Geek? | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: Ne00i5n0Og0
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ne00i5n0Og0
video_date: 2025-05-20
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian #nerd #geek
---
But I am a nerd and uh and I I have to do this joke because if I don't do this joke, people get mad. So n by the way, this is the joke that uh I did this on America's Got Talent and Simon Cal did not like me and I believe it's because he did not understand this joke because I explained the difference between a nerd and a geek using ven diagrams and I don't think he understood what a ven diagram was. He didn't. He had no idea what a ven di like why are there balls? Is he going to juggle? What's he going to

do? So I tell you three things to be a nerd. You have to be smart, socially awkward, obsessed, and you're a nerd. Right there, the nerd region, smart, socially awkward, and obsessed. Geeks, on the other hand, we're just smart and obsessed, right? We're not socially

awkward. In fact, geeks are very social. They go to Star Trek conventions, comic book conventions, right? Those are geeks, man. They're very social. Now, no

nerd goes to convention because there's people there. I'm not going I'm not going anywhere unless you're paying me to hang out with people. No. At the top, if you're a smart and socially awkward, uh, you're a dork. And if you're socially awkward and obsessed, you're a stalker. That's how

that

works. So, I I realized this summer that John Ven, the inventor of the I People are now calling me the ven diagram comic. I don't I I didn't plan that. But I want to thank John Ven who invented the I don't think he invented the ven diagram and went, "Oh, this is going to be a great comedy tool." Honey, come here. I want to show

you a couple of funny things in my diagrams. And and people love ven diagrams and and John van that's him right there. Wouldn't that be weird if it wasn't him? Like who's that picture? That's some random guy. I'm just calling him John

Van. But he was born on August 4th, 1834, which I realized, man, it was 190th birthday this uh this year. And I made this chart in honor of John Vin's birthday. There's people who are 190 years old and people who are still alive. And uh

that's that is a very difficult joke. In fact, I'm going to explain that joke using a ven diagram. In order to get that joke, you have to understand ven diagrams, have a sense of humor, and there's people who get that there. Thank you, John Van. Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, John Van. So, I celebrate nerdom and I I'm sure there's nerds in this crowd. Binary high five 101. I invented the binary high five

several years ago and uh I want I want to see it sweep the nation. I want to see Kla Harris give a binary high five. I would be kind of cool if it just it's not going to happen. Um but it is cool to be a nerd. I'm going to prove to you why it's cool to be a nerd. Now, four

reasons it's cool to be a nerd. Uh number one, uh Elon Musk. Number two, Jeff Bezos. Number three, Bill Gates. number four mark huge nerds every one of them and uh the richest four men in the world and uh it is now cool to be a nerd and and look at that look it's just amazing to me what's interesting though is they are proof of something else and that is that money cannot buy everything and I'll take them one at a time it clearly can't and they prove it okay we'll start with Elon Musk he is worth $28 billion 28 is that enough money to make Twitter a goodbye no it is not cuz he's no longer worth 28 billion.

Now he's worth like uh$17. He's the second richest man in the world after he bought Twitter. So then we'll go to Jeff Bezos. He is worth $177 billion right there. Oh, by the way, this is enough to make him look like uh uh uh uh Willy Wonka. Thank

you. I forgot that was in there. You You should know what's going to come up when you click the little PowerPoint rule. So, let's go to Jeff Bezos. Oh, yeah. Okay. Okay.

$177 billion for Jeff Bez. Is that enough money to cure baldness? Uh, no. It is not. It is not. Clearly, it is

not. If anybody could get a head of hair with 100, he could buy a new head with 177. He could send himself a piece of hair in a separate box until he had a full head of hair. So, he can't cure baldness. That's clear. Then we got uh Zuckerberg. Is

that enough 108 billion to uh get a good haircut? No, it is not. What is that? A number five bowl? What is that?

And then my favorite is Mr. Bill Gates. $131 billion. Is that enough to cure uh fix your vision? No. He's still wearing

glasses. Look at that. He's got 131. He could buy his own Lasix machine and tune his eyes up every morning. Really? He can make the rest of

the world out of focus so it looked in focus only to him. We could just all wake up one day. Oh my god, everything's fuzzy. Freaking gays can see without his glass. So, people always ask me all the time, "What am I? What am I done? Am I a geek?

Am I a nerd? Am I a really big nerd?" And you can tell by the way you live your life. What you do every day? The products you choose give you away. Like,

when it comes to phones, I think geeks are iPhone people. Yeah. You iPhone people, you are very social. You get together. iPhone's out. Let's go camp

out at the phone. Let's go camp at the store. Get It's a freaking phone. Get over it. You recruit. It's like, oo, is

is that an Android? Has anybody talked to you about the iPhone? You're the Jehovah's Witnesses of the 21st century. Calm down. He's not coming back. Steve Jobs

is not coming back. Okay. So, without iPhone people, nerds, we're Androids. Like, we get in there, right? Nerds. Yeah, we get Yeah, we love

We get in there, we pop the back, void the warranty claim. We have no idea how that happened. And then really big nerds have several of both all in their belt. We We think we're Batman. When it comes to fitness, again, Apple products, the Apple Watch nerds, it's the uh Fitbit and uh big nerds.

There is no fitness for big nerds. My fingers work. I'm in shape. What are you talking about? Social media gigs are very social. They're on all the platforms.

Facebook, Instagram, Tik Tok, they're on all of them. They're very social. Nerd, you want to reach me? Email. That's it's email. and really big nerds are radio

telescope. I'd rather talk to aliens than humans. I'm sorry. That's the way I feel. Form aware. There is a thing

called geek chic. There truly is. Geeks geeks like dress cool, act cool. They have the hat going on there. They have style. They have style. Nerds, no style.

No, we care about one thing, which is functionality, which is why I love my cargo pants. Gota got to have pockets, man. Come on. You need storage in computers and pants. Come on. That's the

rule. I'd like Yeah. You got Oh, yeah. There we go. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Hey, you

got you got the uh the cargo underwear. I'm wearing the cargo underwear. I got pockets and everything. And by the way, big nerds, you have cargo shorts if you're a really big nerd. Or you have the zipper ones. Those

are the really big. Some people have those. And my wife, by the way, my wife, my poor wife, you know, my wife actually is somewhat cool. And I'm always wearing, you know, cargo pants. I went to a wedding in a jacket and cargo pants. I'm like, it's engineering

formal. Come on. But I defend cargo pants. I think they're functionally superior. I did a cargo pant analysis. Okay, here's a

regular pair of pants. That much is functional. That much totally useless part. There's nothing happening from here to there's Look at that. Is a great pair of pants. Look at

these. Dell should sell these pants right here. You could live in these. You don't need a home. I carry everything I own in my pants.

You could keep an extra pair of pants in a pocket of your pants. Contraception. Yes, contra. First of all, geeks have sex. So, they got to wear they can use every kind of contraception known to men. Nerds, it's

got to be the pill because I don't know when I'm having sex. It's not up to me. I never know. So, I'm not coming prepared. Really? No. You ladies, you better be

ready if it's a nerd. cuz we're like, "No, no, nobody wanted to do that with me before." And really big nerds, by the way, your personality. That is my birth control. I hate that people laugh at that joke. And yet they do. I pick on

pick on myself. Who do we look up to? Our I think geeks, they're icon. The first sexual Yeah. sexual icon of of geeks is Captain Kirk. James Tiberious

Kirk. Come on. They love And uh nerds, it's got to be Urkel. and really big nerds. Uh, me. I

have no idea why, but apparently me. I uh I think when it comes to to geek females, it's got to be Wonder Woman. Yeah, comic books. Galgado is great. You got to love Galado. And then uh nerds, I

think it's uh Velma from Scooby-Doo. Come on. I had a crush on Velma. Did you not love Velma? And really big nerds. Uh Alexa.

Oh, come on. I want to marry Alexa. Come on. She answers all my questions. Doesn't ask me any. She's the perfect

woman in my opinion.