---
video_title: "I Love Venn Diagrams | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: u2C9PjLeNGI
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u2C9PjLeNGI
video_date: 2025-10-07T17:01:12+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian
---
You know what you're going to get here if we love Venn diagrams. SO,

PEOPLE LOVE VENN DIAGRAMS. DO YOU LOVE VENN DIAGRAMS, SIR? YEAH. I just the one thing I've learned in my tour that people Every time I do a Venn diagram that I've already done that you want more Venn diagrams. And I have more. I have more.

And I decided since I I I I I I I'm going to do Venn diagrams. Some people may not, so I'm going to explain Venn diagrams with a Venn diagram.

Which might be impossible. But I'm going to try. What's a Venn diagram? Well, three things. They are circles, different colors, and they're overlapping, and that is a Venn diagram.

As opposed to if you have circles and they're overlapping, but they're not different colors, that's a different color. Uh they're circles in different colors, but they're they're not overlapping, they're Skittles. And if they're circles in different colors, but not overlapping, it's M&M's. M&M's. So, here's my Venn diagram. My My list I

did a couple weekends ago. I was home, and I wanted to go work around the house. My wife had stuff she wanted me to work on our house. So, this is the Venn diagram of how I like to do things. So, here's things I think my wife wanted me to do.

And here's things I wanted me to do. And that's things I got done. That's pretty good. That's pretty good. Unfortunately, there's things she actually wanted me to do.

That is not good whatsoever. I I had a Venn diagram I did last time about what it takes to be an engineer. This one's about what it takes to be a comedian. People are like, "What? I've I've been a comedian for like 20 years." Well, I

came up with this one actually. How many of you have been to the LA so takes three things to be a comedian. You have to be funny, which would make sense. You better be funny. I've never seen an unfunny stand-up comedian. That's

That They're called politicians. YOU GOT TO BE FUNNY, AND YOU GOT TO BE SOCIALLY AWKWARD. Trust me, every comedian is socially awkward. The reason we do comedy is because that's how we connect with people. We have to be funny cuz we don't know how to connect otherwise. You got funny, and that's how

we connect. But we're all free. We don't want to talk to people except for when they're laughing. [Music] And then you're not afraid of public speaking, which is Well, there's not a lot of comedians. You have to be socially awkward, but you have to be not afraid to speak in public. That's why there's not a lot.

So, what's interesting is what's around. So, if you're funny and you're not afraid to speak in public, BUT YOU'RE NOT SOCIALLY AWKWARD, but you're very confident and secure, you become a motivational speaker. You make millions of dollars showing people how to improve your lives. Up here, IF YOU'RE FUNNY AND you're socially awkward, but you're afraid to speak in public, you are a mime. And they are just ignoring you.

And if you're not afraid to speak in public and you're socially awkward, but you're not at all funny, you are you are lost. That's your life. [Applause]