---
video_title: "The Happiness Flow Chart | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: GStRJwi-eYQ
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GStRJwi-eYQ
video_date: 2025-03-26
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #comedy #comedian
---
I figured out if I could come up with a flowchart if I was unhappy I could follow the flowchart and become happy I really did this this is how my mind works so as I looked at it it was really hard I had so much going on in my life and here's how Engineers brains work I said I'll start with a simple model and then build from there so I looked at my son who was only one month old at the time and I said let's do his happiness flowchart okay here's happiness flowchart at one month three things you need you got food yes you slept yes you pooped yes you're happy that's it that's the key to happiness when you're one month old right parents yes yeah now here you are at 50 there's a lot more stuff going on I got to go fast I'm almost out of time okay first of all you need money which means of course you need to have a job and if you have your job you know you got to have vacation because you don't like your job everybody knows that and then you worry about your health as you get older and then there's all these acronyms the BMI your EKG your LDL your HDL and that made me think well I like sports then then I like the NHL and the NBA and the NFL which I watch on NBC where I was on AGT and streaming on peacock they're paying me to say that just want you to know that I put that in just for the money thank you I can't help and when I'm watching that on my TV but no you can't just have any TV no you have to have a smart TV in fact all your appliances have to be smart right you have to have a smart thermostat and a smart refrigerator and it's a smart everything's it's not going to be good it's every appliances are going to be talking you're going to walk up to your refrigerator one day it's going hey buddy I've been talking to the scale you are not getting in here bucko you are packing on the pounds there mister back on we've alerted the treadmill you do 10 more minutes come back in mayor we talk