---
video_title: "When Movies Get Science Wrong | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: U477LDPpnsI
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U477LDPpnsI
video_date: 2025-08-05
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedian #comedy
---
You know, you're an engineer. If uh when you watch, now this this is a new thing, but I I'm totally into this now. I'm totally into this. When you watch a movie, you must say something when they get the science wrong. Are you with me on this?

>> It It drives me crazy. And I a lot of them are movies I enjoy, but when they get the science wrong, I just go, "Oh god, why do I have to watch this movie now?" And I've been collecting them and I I and I I'll talk to somebody after and they'll give me another one because there's a billion of them. in G. Well, for example, uh any explosion in space, okay, there is no air in space. You

can't have fire and you can't have sound. That pisses me off. No, no, it's wrong. I love Star Wars, but they're wrong from the very beginning. Uh, okay. Armageddon. Okay, there's so

much wrong with this movie, but there's one scene. Okay, the space shuttle going to stop this meteor that's coming at Earth. Okay, it's flying towards the space shuttle. At one point, they go, "We're going to hit cut the engines." And it stops. That's not how science

works. If you cut the engines, they're going to keep going. You're going to crashing. No. Wrong.

You got to reverse the engines. Anything in a Fast and Furious movie. Sorry. Anything. Anything. No. You can't

jump at 90 miles an hour from a truck, a tank to a car. No. No. You can't drag a five ton vault behind you. You can't drop a car out of an airplane. And you

can't fight a nuclear sub with five. No. No. No. Five cars won't stop a nuclear sub. All wrong.

They're all wrong. They're all wrong. But the worst single scene in any Fast and Furious movies in Fast and Furious 6. And I watched them all. And I call it the uh runway uh chase scene.

>> Yeah. You know this one. It's a cool scene. I must say it's a cool scene. It goes on, by the way. I timed it. 13

minutes long. And that is the source of the problem. Cuz I'm watching the scene, I'm going, "My god, this is long." Cuz what happens in the scene, if you've never seen it, the car, this cargo plane, huge cargo plane, comes down, it hits the runway, the back door opens, a car, fearfest car, drives up the back of the ramp, gets into the plane, and the plane takes off again. Okay, that took 13 minutes.

Let's do the math. Let's do the math. All right, I did some research into aeronautical numbers. Okay. A plane coming into a landing goes between 172 and 115 mph. 115. Let's take the lower

number just to be safe. Okay. The scene I mentioned before is 13 minutes long. That's 0.22 hours. Do a simple

calculation. That means for that scene 115 mph that is 25 mile long runway. Well, not even close. Unless they turned around and came back the other way seven times. That scene is not happening in real time.

do not watch Fast and Furious 6. But the winner, the winner for the worst scene according to the laws of physics in any movie goes to 1994 speed, [Applause] I think, because we live in LA and we all know this intersection here. It's not far from here. And Keano Reeves, okay, I love Keano, but he's driving a what I think it's a 20 ton bus. It jumps 50 feet. Let's say

he takes off at five degrees, which he doesn't. It's like one degree, but I'll give him five. I did the count. At five, he's got to be going 306 mph, and the bus has to be filled with helium. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.

[Applause] Thank you. It's really just math and physics. That's all it is.