---
video_title: "When's the last time autocorrect did you wrong? | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: icaDbmoxUyE
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=icaDbmoxUyE
video_date: 20250922
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian
---
Auto correct. Auto auto screw me up. That's what it should be called because it's terri terrible. Perfect. My birthday this year, my wife sends me this. Happy birthday to you. Happy

birthday. Happy birthday, dead husband. Happy birthday to you. Did autocorrect just skip over that? Did it is it trying to kill me off? Is

that a correction or a miscorrection? So I texted her back. I said, "I assume you meant daring." She said, "Did I did I?" The insurance is paid off, isn't it?

I was working with this guy, Charlie. Said, "Hey, Charlie, can't talk right now. Let's huddle up later. Let's huddle up later." I'm a football fan. Let's

huddle up later. And apparently, Autocorrect changed that to to let's cuddle up later. Which is not what I meant to say to Charlie. I like him, but I don't want to spoon him. I'm sorry. And he texted me back,

"Uh, I'm reporting you to HR."

And this is where I realized that autocorrect can be valuable. It saved my marriage. You can get away with this one time. One time and only one time. Okay.

So, every year we rotate uh whose family we're spending Christmas with. We go to my wife's family one Christmas and my family next year. So, one year she couldn't remember. So, she texted me, "Hi, honey. I want to buy airline tickets for Christmas. Are we going to

my family's this year?" To which I responded, being the good husband, "Sure, I love your family." But apparently autocorrect changed that to I would rather cut my thumbs off.

And I explained to my wife, I would never say that. That damn autocorrect. And I saved my marriage.