---
video_title: "Traffic Math | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: FILh3XtqdU8
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FILh3XtqdU8
video_date: 2025-05-27
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian #traffic #math #nerd
---
And the traffic continues. I've done this bit for a long time and people if I don't do it, people get mad. So I figured out the LA OC math traffic math to the traffic. So if you take the traffic on the 10, add the traffic on the 60 plus traffic on the 5 plus traffic on the 57 plus traffic on the 55. Now we're in the traffic on the 90 plus the 91 plus traffic on the 15 plus the traffic on the 22, you get the traffic on the 405. Thank you. It's just

math. But there you go. It's just math. What's really funny is every now and then somebody go, "Hey, that doesn't add up." No, it does. I've had over a thousand crowds

check it. I know it adds up. It does. And it took me a long time to figure that out. And this week I realized I wanted I wanted to focus in on OC. So I realized

that the traffic in the orange in Orange County should be mathematically correct. So I think for example where the 22 right there in Garden Grove where that meets the 405 that should become the 427. See what I'm

saying? Okay. How about this? The 605 meets the 405. There should be the 1105.

Right here be an interesting one. Oh right there. I always hate this. I'm on the 73. I'm driving around. All of a

sudden it becomes a toll road. It should go the ch side should change to this. You are now paying to drive on this road. That was my idea. And where the five meets the 405, right over here, that should be called infinity because you can't get there.

Just turn around and go home. You're not making it. Go home. Come back tomorrow. This This is one of my new charts. This was in uh LA Times. This

was the traffic per hour on the 405. Per hour of the 405. And it makes perfect sense. Like here's rush hour, right? Gets down to below 10 miles an hour.

You're dabbl dead down here. Then you get to lunchtime, it gets a little better. Then you get past 8 9 at night, you can go fast. And I love you ever been on the 405 at like at like 2 a.m.

You can go like 90 like oh why isn't it like this in the middle of the day? It'd be so If you're doing 90, you get somebody coming up your ass doing 120. But this is and I'm like that is a great graph. The average speed by the way are to be about 32 miles an hour through the course of the day. Yeah. Now

I looked at this and I went wait a minute that's only one that's one case. Okay. That is zero act. If there is one accident that immediately drops to about 22 miles an hour, right? And there's always at least two accidents. So now

you're down to about 15 miles an hour. And if there's a road work, which there's always road work, okay, now you're down to 8 miles an hour. And if it's raining, forget it. You will actually go backwards. Look, see that? You can

actually you can end up ending up behind where you started at certain times.

And my latest thing to pick on, oh, by the way, that is 65. It's the same, but now it's uh feet per minute. I forgot that was in there. I'm one of the few comics who do a punch line just by changing units. I'm the only comic who can do that. That's pretty

amazing. I'm the unit comic. So, this is my other favorite thing because I flew out of LAX. Don't I will not fly out of LAX anymore. If if I have to fly to LAX, I live in Santa Clarita. I will actually

drive to Burbank and fly from Burbank to LAX because you don't know. You do not want to try to drive to LAX. I call it the horseshoe of hell. It is horrible. It is absolutely Don't go there. Don't

go there. Look at Look, just from an engineering point, there are three lanes that go into this horseshoe of hell and three lanes that come out. And I happen to look up. These are all real. 74,878 passengers every day. 34,000

74,8. And but okay, now look at this. This I got into the detail. If if 37,554 fly out, 37,324 fly in, there is a gap there. Look at that. That means 200 people

never make it out of the

airport. There are people just living in LAX. Don't go to LAX. That's my message.