---
video_title: "Accurate Store Names | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: vINIrgTtPyE
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vINIrgTtPyE
video_date: 2025-05-06
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedian
---
I think store names should accurately reflect uh the experience you're going to have in those stores. So, for example, for example, Olive Garden. Okay, fine restaurant. I go to Olive Garden. I don't go there for the olives.

It should be called uh Breadstick Garden. I go there. I have the bread sticks. I have the salad. Yeah, that's it. That's it. I'm

done. Uh Ross dresser. My wife came up with a Ros. It should be called Ross. Uh, cheap crap. By the way, notice that I match

the font. That's Not many comics will take the time. It's funnier. In-N-Out. In- and-out. I I've

never been In-N-Out. It should be called uh Get in Lineberger. No. No. God line. You ever been stuck in

traffic? Think you're in like you're trying to get on the 405? No. I'm in line at the In-N-Out Burger. I've been here for 45 minutes. I'll have a double

double. What the hell? And by the way, I'm an engineer. I don't order double double. I order a quad. I just thought of that. I got to

remember that joke later. Thank you. Uh Trader Joe's. I don't know about your Trader Joe's, but mine should be called uh Insufficient Parking Joe's. I think the Trader Joe's people find somewhere with no parking and go perfect place for a Trader Joe's. You have to

park over there and then make it through. If you make it through traffic alive, you can shop at Trader Joe's. Uh Coffee Bean and Tea Leaf should be called uh Coffee Bean and I couldn't find a Starbucks. Feel I feel bad about that joke, but I I find it's accurate. I'm sorry. Uh Spirit Airlines. Oh, Wonder

Fair. Could be. Yeah. Should be called spirit of a bus. That should be called.

And I I have a new symbol for them. That should be their symbol. I spend a lot of time on this crap. I should have been in marketing. I really should have been in marketing. Southwest. Southwest should

be called uh survival of the fittest seating. Uh Cole, this one's kind of mean, but I'm sorry. I was like, Cole should be called uh Amazon returns. That's Sorry. That's the only reason I go there. That's the only reason I go. I

got to go to Cole's. Why? Shopping. No, I got to return something from Amazon. CVS. This my CVS pharmacy. Now,

nobody knows what CVS stands for. I I've asked people. No, just change the letters. SFR for sixoot receipts. That's what it should be called.

I've sat there for like 30 minutes. It's still printing my receipt. I'm like, "Oh my god, that's 93 feet long. What is on there?" My hotel mortgage papers are all on there.