---
video_title: "Venn Diagrams About Venn Diagrams | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: IdqBcL0fZ8g
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IdqBcL0fZ8g
video_date: 2025-07-08
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #comedy #standup #comedian #nerd #geek #engineer #venndiagrams
---
you know, you're an engineer if uh we love ven diagrams. This I I I'm amazed through this year as I travel the country how many people like do more ven diagrams. Ven diagrams turns out are America's comedy sensation right now. So I've been trying to come up and and here's one thing I just realized a lot of people don't even know what a ven diagram ven diagram I'm going to show you a ven diagram about ven diagrams. So I I figure for those who don't know it I should explain. So they're

basically three things. They're circles. They're different colors and they're overlapping. That's a ven diagram. That's what they are. Now,

if you have circles and they're overlapping, but they're not different colors, uh, you're you have Olympic rings. Not a ven diagram. If they're different colors and they're overlapping, but there's not circles, it's stained glass. And if it's circles and it's different colors, but it's not overlapping, it's M&M's. So, that's a ven diagram explaining ven diagrams. What's interesting about this

is that all you got to do is change one of these and it completely changes the outcome of the ven diagram. Like instead of different colors, what if I put in crops circles crops and overlapping and now you have alien crop circles. Completely different result. Not a ven diagram. On the other hand, if you take crops and you substitute skin fungus, you get ringorm. That is not good.

Here's my latest ven diagram. I'm doing them all the time now because people are demanding I do ven diagrams. So, this was last weekend. I uh I had a weekend at home. I was supposed to do a lot of the chores around the house, stuff we had to fix the house up. So, here we go.

That is uh things I think my wife wanted me to do right there. That's right there. Then there's uh things I got done. I was celebrating that. I thought that was pretty good. That's like half

the chart. That's like But then there's uh things she actually wanted me to do. That's

That is not a good result right there. That's the couple of things I did do. She she I didn't I didn't even do somebody asked me the other day, can you do one? I was I was playing her and comedians. Do you have one about comedian? So, I came up with one. What

it takes to be a comedian because it's being a comedian is pretty you don't meet a lot of people who are comedians. It takes a certain set of skills. And the first one of course is got to be funny. Duh. You bet. If you're not funny

and you're a comedian, you're you're not a good one. But you have to be so you and I say socially challenged because I didn't know how to word it. Basically, the reason we tell jokes is because we didn't know where our place was. So, we had to get laughter to feel accepted. So, we were we we we're not great. We

we're we're we're damaged and but we're not afraid to speak in public. We speak in public all the time, which is kind of weird that you're socially challenged, but you're not afraid to speak in public. So, that's kind of what I think it narrows it down to comedian. Now, what's around comedian? This is where it gets interesting. If you're funny and you're

not afraid to speak in public, but you're not socially challenged, right? If you're confident, you become a motivational speaker. This is how you need to live your life. You'll never hear a comic say that. If you're funny and you're socially challenged and you're afraid to speak in public, uh, you're a mime. They're not

funny. And if you're socially challenged and not afraid to speak in public, but you're not at all funny, you are Elon Musk. That's who you are.

And this is where I have to pay tribute to the man who I I had. Yeah. This is John Vin, the inventor of the V. Give it up for John. Thank you. I I want to thank you from

John Vin's family because I'm sure when he invented the ven diagram, nobody went, "Wow." Because he invented them. Actually, he was 21 years old. I did some He's 20. He say 18 55. He invented the ven diagram.

And I don't think when he invented it, he looked at it and went, "Oh my god, comedians are going to love this someday." So for his birthday, I realized last year on his 190th birthday, he was born August 4th. I got to do his 191st this year. I'm going to change this joke. Come this August 4th. Here's a ven

diagram for John Ven's 190th birthday. There's uh people who are 190 years old and uh people who are still alive. And if you don't get that joke, you do not understand ven diagrams. So I'll explain it with a vend diagram. Okay. There's people who understand this

joke, people with a sense of humor and people who got the joke. That's a ven diagram joke about ven diagrams and John ven. That's it's a very difficult joke of just