---
video_title: "These Pharmacy Names Are Getting Out of Hand | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: HOjZH6anMpI
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HOjZH6anMpI
video_date: 2026-05-05T17:00:32+00:00
video_description: |
  COMING UP ON TOUR:
  Chicago, IL - May 12
  Milwaukee, WI - May 13
  Appleton, WI - May 14
  Minneapolis, MN - May 16
  Salt Lake City, UT - May 21
  
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian
---
And I just want to... the names alone drive me crazy. Okay? You got Vraylar and Mujaro and I'm like, are they drug names or are they something? Like Vraylar. Vraylar to me sounds like an alien billion on Star Trek. Kirk, we are coming from you. I am Vraylar. We are from a very depressed planet, but you will join us. Mujaro, that is the third moon of Jupiter. Did you know that? Lippertore, I believe that's a Godzilla monster, is it not? Godzilla has very high cholesterol. Lippertore will take care of him. You get breast-tree. I believe that was a former Russian leader. Does anybody remember breast-tree? Farricksa. I believe that's those bigger people on Star Trek. Remember this? I'm pretty sure that Skyrizzy, that is actually my rapper name. Did you know that? It sounds like a rapper. And then Shingrick's tracks, I believe that's a serial for old folks. Good old Shingrick's! I have a big bowl of Shringdrick's in the morning. And then if you listen carefully to the stupid disclaimers, they crack me up. These are actual drug warnings. This one, I do not take if you are allergic to Vraylar. Well, yeah, you idiot. Why would you say, you know, I'm allergic to Vraylar, but it didn't actually say that. So I'm taking... Really? How about this one? I love this one. Call your doctor if you have trouble breathing. Well, thank God you said that. Geez, I'm having trouble breathing, but nobody told me I should call it... This one, you hear all the time, and I just have one point to make about it. And the comics talk about this, but I have one point. Okay, okay. Seek immediate medical attention if you have an erection lasting more than four hours. So many things wrong with that, but what? It's three hours, would that be okay? Four hours is ridiculous! I think at 20 minutes I'd be going, there is something wrong here! That's my point. And then finally, I see this one may cause unexpected bowel leakage. Bowle leakage has been unexpected when do you expect bowel leakage? Urged to a clock, time for the bowel leakage! Don't have to call the doctor, it was right on time!