---
video_title: "Why Nerds Aren't Good at Jeopardy | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: RWiJiyazWD0
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RWiJiyazWD0
video_date: 2026-06-30T17:00:38+00:00
video_description: |
  Nerds are not good at Jeopardy. Here's why.
  
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian
---
And my wife, I said, oh, there are auditioning for Jeopardy. You should go on Jeopardy. And I went, no, I'm not going on Jeopardy. Because as engineers, we know a lot about some things, physics math. I know a lot about that. But there's other things I have chasms of non-knowledge. And I have this fear that if I ever went on Jeopardy, I would get the worst categories ever. This is like, this is my worst fear. I'd walk out and go, OK, Don, let's go to the categories for you. OK, we got fashion sports, romance language, just intimacy, heavy metal bands and poetry. I would just leave. I would walk off the set. I'd go, no, I'm going to owe money at the end of this round. No. But I would try my best. I would try my best. So let's go fashion for 100. Fashion for 100. And the answer is, this trend followed the mini skirt. And engineer would answer, what is the microscurt? Why, I can't believe that joke worked. That's the one. I put that first because I went, that's they're never going to laugh at that one. Followed by the nano skirt, does that joke work? We have some nano people in the crowd, all right? You're going to like this bit if you like that joke. OK, here we go. Sports for 200. Sports for 200. And the answer is, in hockey, in hockey, it's the difference between the red line and the blue line. An engineer would answer, what is the wavelength? I'm sorry, I believe that's correct. I should get credit for that one. They are not the same. Once like 600 nanometers, they have like 300. I'm at that point. Poetry for 300. Poetry for 300. Yeah. Poetry for 300. It's the end of the line that begins to be or not to be. What is basic binary? Not too many software people. OK, all right, we'll move on. Let's go heavy metal bands for 300 heavy metal bands for 300. And the answer is, oh, these two founded ACDC, who were Tesla and Edison. I wrote that joke. I went, nobody's going to get that joke. No, you cannot. Why would you have the answer? You got the teachers manual? Do you know the answer, sir? I have a funny thing to tell you about this joke. And I first did it, which was like a year ago now. I first did it. Apparently, I had these two founded ACDC, which is great. But I wrote Edison and Tesla. And some guy, that were you or a sir, when you got those backwards. Like that would ruin the joke. Now, you're going to short it out if you do Edison and Tesla. You don't want to mix the AC and the DC. Not going to. What's next? French language is for a romantic language is for a 100. And the answer is Victor Hugo wrote all his works in this language. What is C++? Not a big software crowd. OK. Intimacy. Intimacy. No. Did you hear that support woman went, oh, no. Are you an engineer or are you being intimate with one? Yeah. Because we're not good at intimacy. So let's just move. Let's get through this joke. OK. Emotionally, it's the closest. The closest two people can get. An engineer would answer, what is sharing passwords? I am not ready for that kind of commitment. Oh, yeah, I'll sleep with you. But you can't know. You can't get into my accounts. And then finally, heavy metal bands for 500. Heavy metal bands for 500. The answer is the first original four members of the first saving metal band who were led Mercury, Anne Kead mea man Zinc. Hey.