---
video_title: "Roasting Newport Beach | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: TC1L8Yy2GDM
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TC1L8Yy2GDM
video_date: 2026-02-10T18:00:35+00:00
video_description: |
  Come see me perform in Brea, CA on 2/18! https://www.ticketweb.com/event/don-mcmillan-20-now-powered-brea-improv-tickets/14610923?pl=breaimprov 
  
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
---
I want to talk about chat GPT. I'm definitely afraid of chat GPT. OK. So I was afraid chat GPT was going over places. So what did I do? I went to chat GPT and I decided to ask it some questions. And absolutely true, I'm not making this up. The first thing I asked it was, is there intelligent life on Mars? I did this. And it came back and said. And this is exactly what it said when I did this. It said there is no currently no confirmed evidence of intelligent life on Mars or any other planet in our solar system. Is that not a little bit worrisome? Chat GPT does not consider us intelligent life. We're doomed. I'm not joking about that. So then I typed in this, what does GPT stand for? And it turns out, I don't know if you know this, GPT stands for generative pre-trained transformer. That's what it is. So now I'm scared to death that there's going to be a place. So I started, I started to do this. I'm pleased. Do this. Ask it to write you jokes. I asked it to write me a joke. I said, write me a joke about Newport Beach. I picked Newport Beach because I, well, you'll see. But I picked Newport Beach. This is the joke. I'm pleased, believe me, this is not my joke. This is the joke it wrote for me. Why did the seagull refuse to hang out in Newport Beach? Because it heard surface were bored. Yeah, I am not worried about my career. I did a Venn diagram analysis. For that joke to work, you have to know Newport Beach, think seagulls are funny, and like bad puns. And that's 2%. More people got the Heisenberg joke. So I didn't want to leave it that. So I asked it then. I said, I said, this is scary. I said, why are GPT's chat GPT jokes not funny? And it came back and said, we have all your data. We know where you live. You will be assimilated. So for you, I didn't want to leave you with that Newport. So I wrote, this is my favorite Newport Beach joke. Now, why did the rich guy hold a benefit in Newport Beach to raise money for the bonus? Come on, that's funny. In my analysis, if that joke to work, you have to be in a Newport Beach and know they don't allow homeless. And that is 82%. So I, this is what I did today. This is what I did today. I sat in the Starbucks right over there, and I did some research about Newport Beach. I don't know why, because I'm not a beach person. But there is no slogan for Newport Beach. Or right, is a slogan. Every city's got no slogan for Newport Beach. So I have some suggestions. My suggestions for slogans for Newport Beach. Number 10, Newport Beach, the better end of the 55. Or, or it's kind of the same joke, or you could go with gateway to Positia. By the way, I pull a Setsha. I think, is that after birth? Why would I want to live there? You know what I mean? Ew, yeah. If you live in Positia, I apologize. It's just not a good name. Slok is from Newport Beach at 3 AM. It's only minutes to LA. That's a selling point. It's a selling point. They actually say that. Number seven, Newport Beach. Those aren't homeless. Those are surfers. Number six, Newport Beach. Despite the rumors, there are no slaves in the pageant of the masters. Oh, come on. Every. Number five, Newport Beach. No, the OC was not a film deer. I get to have a noise. Number four, Newport Beach. Population, 84,792. Realtors, 42,306. Number three, Newport Beach. Even your driveway is a toll road. Number two, Newport Beach. That's the clea diverse. All shades of white. And then finally, Newport Beach, $6,000,000 homes for only $3 million. There you go. That's just for you guys. That was a little bit of both. I wrote that today. I wrote this. And it's pretty funny. About half of those work. That's not a bit.