---
video_title: "Going Up Against AI in the Midwest | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: wMzFiW3gmiU
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wMzFiW3gmiU
video_date: 2026-07-14T17:00:37+00:00
video_description: |
  See me live! https://technicallyfunny.com/
  
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian #ai #artificialintelligence
---
First, I'm going to do an AI joke, I asked it several questions, then I'm going to do mine. We'll see who wins. It's kind of a man versus machine. Right, let me ask a completely original joke about Chicago. He came back and said, how can you tell Pope Leo is from Chicago? He has to be called the Pope. Thank you. This is how it's been doing. For that joke to be funny, you have to know Chicago, you know the Pope, and you love the bears. What's about the Pope? What's your favorite breed of dog for a clinical acceleration physicist, a Fermilab? I was going to be a Fermilab. I started to know Fermilab. I went, if it's funny, yeah, my crutch is going to know Fermilab. For that joke to work, you have to know Fermilab and store a protein, a fortune, I believe. This cramp is scoring above an average. You want to clearly hit the top 1% of your piss. How can you tell a bargaining person is from Chicago? How can you tell all his or her pie charts are a deep dish? That's it. Thank you very much. What do you call 2000 pounds of Granny Smith and Apple Tongue? I told you it writes puns. For that joke to work, if you know it's got some no apples, I'm like that joke, says about 2%. So, humor might be something it can't be asked you, but that was my dream. What do you get when you pee into blueberry? For that joke to work, you have to know Wisconsin, you know Green Bay, and you know it's hell when it's going to make me. I always know when I was in Iraq. I don't know if people are going to get that joke. So, when the Pope and the Packers have in common, they both can make anyone thousand people stand up and say, Jesus Christ! And that joke to work on the Packers fan, you can laugh about the Packers, and that's how many six percent? Right, they took the whole Wisconsin came back and said, came back and said, what do you call a person from Wisconsin who has a lot to say, a Milwaukee talkie? Yeah, thank you very much. I feel pretty good about tonight's competition. You know what a guy is from Milwaukee when he blames his poor sexual performance on the lake effect. Is that true? I hear a lot of females laughing right now. I don't hear men laughing. You know, I'm better if we're further in. You have to know Milwaukee, know the lake effect, and you can laugh about performance problems. This is a pretty confident crowd who did better than 22 percent. Milwaukee is the only time where you can get a sunburn rained on its note on in the same brewers game. Which goes perfectly with this joke, by the way. You know you're a Truman-Walkie and when, you will always call it Miller Park. You always call it Miller Park because a true American family drinks beer. That's why I got to do it. American family park? No. That joke, by the way. You have to be a brewers friend and you have a drinking problem. I'm trying to... This crowd is going higher, I'm way higher. I was trying to be nice, but apparently you're okay with this. Hey, I'm Joe. Not my joke. I asked right in the joke about Minnesota. I started very broadly. I said right in the joke about Minnesota. I came back and said, what is the downside of snow tires in Minnesota? A melt in the spring. Not my joke. You know what? I'm fairly pretty confident. I'm going to go with another nerdy one. Here we go. How do you know it gets really cold in Minnesota and the winter? They get the temperature in Kylvin. Really? I underestimated this crowd. That got a smattering of applause. That's a hard joke. For that joke to work, you have to know Minnesota winners and scored over 14 hundred in a row in a row. And you did weight better than 56%. Why is friendly? I wrote it's friendly joke. Why is friendly considered one of the best-named cities in America? Well, because compared to food wrappers, friendly is a fantastic name. We love the town of friendly. For that joke to work, you have to know friendly and you're not even comfortable saying friendly. And that is an 82%