---
video_title: "The Harshest Jokes I've Told at Corporate Events | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: y26VlrJLeXU
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y26VlrJLeXU
video_date: 2026-06-23T17:00:16+00:00
video_description: |
  I can't believe I told some of these jokes.
  
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #comedy #comedian #standup
---
But now as I'm getting older I'm finding that and I'm pretty secure now I Sometimes get hired by a company. I didn't particularly have a good experience with earlier in life And I want to treat them the way they have treated me Just to get a little even you know, so some of these I've done some of these I've actually done and a couple I want to do and kind of my dream. I'll tell you which is the first one. I actually did this one time-warner a specter cable hire Yeah, yeah, they said they had this big Awards program Friday night. Can you be here at eight o'clock? I said I'll be there between eight and eleven. How's that? Then I showed up at 1055 Where is everybody that guy did not think that was funny by the way Microsoft I really really really really really really did this one thought it was funny came out started telling my jokes One around the stage about five minutes into Mac. Oh wait. There's an update. I need to reboot and I walked off the stage When I came back out nobody was laughing nobody No, but no sense of humor apple if they ever hire me never work for apple and I know while I'm gonna come out Go I know I wrote all these jokes for you guys, but you're gonna need all new connectors American bars issues huge event. It's a big lawyer convention It's like 40,000 words if they ever hire me. I'm gonna come out do 10 minutes and build them for the entire hour. That's my dream Sorry, that's the way I do it Ikea I'm not gonna send them any jokes just the the setups and I haven't build the jokes themselves With no instructions just diagrams Starbox starbox I'm gonna start to show and go before I start how much of a tip do you want to give me? Walmart this this I thought this was funny. Okay. I thought this was funny. I came out and I went Neow jai zing zing down now journey I'm sorry all my jokes are from China. Is that a problem? Nobody left nobody left I Learned Chinese for the joke and nobody left American men have never played it huge corporate event like 20,000 doctors if they ever hire me I'm gonna have the 20,000 doctors waiting to lobby for at least an hour nap at least Every now and then I'm gonna walk out look around and walk back in Then I'm gonna have them come in and sit on a piece of wax paper for another hour and a half With no back support that's not feel Exxon mobile I did this one this guy thought this was funny actually. Let's just say they're gonna be made a thousand dollars He said no, no, I want you to pay me $9.99 99 cents. I Put it on the contract. I want that 9 cents You're United I'm just gonna start the show and then kick somebody out in the front row. We sorry we gave your seat to somebody else And then Southwest I'm just gonna cancel at the last second. Sorry And this was my favorite and I really did this one I really did this one. I did a show for ATT mobile and I'm telling my jokes and I'm walking around the stage It's going pretty well and every now and then I get to it And I'm like That's very interesting Not hear me over here I think you guys have a dead zone. I think this is a dead zone No, I'm pretty sure that this did not happen when I did the show for Verizon. This did not happen That was too far. That was too far