---
video_title: "Venn Diagrams For Every Day Life | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: SCTfiTkn8ns
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SCTfiTkn8ns
video_date: 2026-03-17T17:00:44+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #comedy #standupcomedy #standup #comedian
---
There's a lot of Venn diagrams in everyday life. Here's a master card logo, is a Venn diagram. It is. It's a Venn diagram. They just didn't label it. So I labeled it. So over here, this month's charges. And over here, we have past interests, and then we have this month's salaries. LAUGHTER Too painful, I'm sorry. Too painful. Too accurate. So I did one last year about what it takes to be an engineer. This year, my comedian, French, are like, well, do a Venn diagram about comedians. So what does it take to be comedians here? First of all, you better be funny. You better be funny, because if you're not funny and you're comedian, you're not going to be good one. Unless you use AI apparently. LAUGHTER You have to be socially awkward. This is an important part about being a comedian. I think comic I know is so slow. We are. Because how do we relate to people? We tell jokes, which is not normal. And we tell jokes at the wrong times. Like, my wife will have a serious conversation, then she'll like, one time. She says to me, you know, her dad was an echo. Right? I'm a comic. And she goes, and I'm reading to her dad. And she goes, if I'm in a coma, would you read to me? And I sit through her, I said, you know, they have books on tape. LAUGHTER I thought it was funny, apparently. That was the wrong time. We're socially awkward. Have I proved my case? I think I have. And, but we're not afraid to speak in public. Which is kind of weird. We're socially awkward, but we're not afraid to speak in public. Which is why there's not a lot of comedians. It's very unusual to happen. The what's around comedians. So if you're funny and you're not afraid to speak in public, but you're not socially awkward, you are a motivational speaker. You're very confident. You should live your life the way I tell you. No, I will never say that. At the top, if you're funny and socially awkward, but you're afraid to speak in public, you are a mind. Nobody likes them. And if you're socially awkward and not afraid to speak in public, but you're not at all funny, you are Elon Musk. There you go. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Thank you. Too Elon Musk does. This is an interesting one. I try to capture everyday life sometimes in some of my charts. And this is one couple weekends ago. I was home one the weekend and we had moved recently. And there was a lot of stuff to do in the warehouse. So I got to work, like some of the chores. So here's a set of things my wife wanted me to do. She had all these things I didn't want to be doing. And here's what I got done. I thought, ooh, that's a good weekend. And then she put this on chart. And I mean, she thinks she actually wanted me to do in that. We call that pathetic right there. I don't know what I'm doing about that. Why was that, sir? You just don't want me to talk about it to do this, do you, sir? I know what it's like to be married. Why was that, sir? I think his wife's just told him to shut up. I'm just guessing haven't been married for 30 years. I know what that, I know what that sudden said. Ah, keep going. I'm getting in trouble. Keep going.