---
video_title: "How Did We Survive the \"Good Old\" Days? | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: LsfTiaE-GgY
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LsfTiaE-GgY
video_date: 2026-06-09T17:00:08+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
---
I was born in 1915. We are now in the age of information. I call that the good old days. They call it the good old days. I actually was like, one month old in the 1950s. It was the 1950s, like the good old days. Like the good old days. Let's just take a look. How good are they? How good were they? Remember this? The good old. The classic cover furniture. Remember this shit? Anybody else remember this? You said, in a summer, you stuck to it. That was one of the great ideas from the good old days. That was this one, modern luggage. You noticed anything missing from this luggage? There's a long time. We figured out wheels, exactly. For years and years and years, we were loading furniture up on how can I move this heavy furniture. If there was just a wave, we had to get it to my car. That thing with wheels on it. But there's no way I can move this luggage. Wheel, wheels. We were idiots in the 1950s. That's what I was saying. Child safety. You noticed anything missing here? Help us. There were no helpmishes. No. I like this. Modern cars. There were no seat belts. We just, oh, you'll fly free. There were no, how do we survive? That's my question. Kind of toys. Remember the how to walk? That thing I got nailed by the lady. She started going in bunk. And no idea how it was. Clockers. You remember this thing? You know what that is? I was like, you got to go in. And you were basically a meaningful weapon. That's what they were. Here's your clockers for Christmas. It's good to on. Hope you don't injure your hatching budget. The slip and slide. How should I, there was the slip and break your neck? That's what that was called. Jarks. Hit. Woo. Hit. Woo. Of course shoes with a really sharp point on them. That's no idea. You from a wealthy family. Hey, members. I don't know how we survive. I don't know how we survive. And there were so many things. I got to get those things. Nutrition, for example. Check this out. Fruit loops. Fruit loops. They weren't even actual fruit though. Fruit loops. There was a fight in the donuts. No. No. These are count chocolate. Oh my god. I wish I had sugar. I got over another one. So I read count stuff. And then there's chocolate donuts. They start that baby. Look at it. It's a feature baby cola. Start them early. These are real eggs from the 50s. I'm not kidding. Check this one out. The chestro, my chestro. Oh. Yeah. No. I would rather die than take chestro. And if you got a scrape, anybody remember this? My file is. It was like pouring acid on there. There was no. These weren't the good old days. Say your eggs. Look. Everybody. Blow in her face and she'll follow you anywhere. Doctors recommend camels more than any other cigarettes. Detset, recommend cat, vice-friars. Okay. Santa was smoking. They weren't the middle of days, ladies and gentlemen. They weren't. They weren't that good. So how did we survive? Well, public health. And this is my favorite one. I forgot. Anybody remember the DGT clowns? Yeah. When I grew up in New Jersey. When I grew up in New Jersey, I was sure. When I grew up in New Jersey, when I grew up in New Jersey, I grew up in New Jersey, when I grew up in New Jersey, when I grew up in New Jersey. I grew up in New Jersey, when I grew up in New Jersey, when I grew up in New Jersey, when I grew up in New Jersey. Did it anyone around you available? Did you get your daily晶? Did you get my daily晶? I grew up in New Jersey, when I grew up in New Jersey, when I grew up in New Jersey, find a band of wooden printed dresses. Something like that when you come back back in New Jersey, find an interpreting therapist. Does there be somebody around you? Do you get the value? Choose the app. Choose the app. Choose the app. Choose a app. Find the scheduled ForRarch or the notifications. Use the app, like it is in New Jersey. styled brand name box. The app.