---
video_title: "You Know You're An Engineer If... (Part 1) | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: zJ8R7HITios
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zJ8R7HITios
video_date: 2026-03-03T18:01:08+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
---
So I just want to celebrate engineers for a minute and all you engineers are done. Thank you for what you do. Give it up for the engineers. Come on! We make the world proud. You never hear anybody thanking engineers. When something breaks they want to see an engineer otherwise they don't even want to hear from us. When we come and we fix something you never stop the thing. So next time you see an engineer hug him or hurt they won't like it but hug him anyway. But people don't even know what we do. So basically engineers again another man died. It's three things. We're into some kind of science right. Physics, chemistry, some kind of science. We solve problems right. We solve problems. That's what we do. And we got to do it quick and dirty. We got to make things gotta keep moving. The world's gotta keep moving. We got to come in. Fix it. Move on right. That's what we do. What's interesting is what's around engineering. Okay. If you're into science and you solve problems but it's not quick and dirty you win a Nobel Prize. If you solve one problem in 17 years here's your Nobel Prize Mr. McManage. You solve one problem in a week you get fired as an engineer. No engineer will ever win a Nobel Prize because they'll be duct tape involved in that. What will not win a Nobel Prize? But it will work. Over here if you're into science and it's quick and dirty but you're not solve problems. So science quick and dirty not solving problems. You are a real people. And if you solve problems and it's quick and dirty but there's no science involved you're a hook. So that's our sweet spot right there right? Nobel Prize winners drug doers and hokers. We fit in right there. That's... Anyway I'd love this wall. I'm actually in my presentation. So how do you know your engineer? A couple of science you're an engineer. I have some new one by the people of the team. I have some new ones. How do you know your engineer? At the end of every weekend three things that were broken are now fixed. But six things that were working are now broken. We're trying. Best example the fan in our bathroom was wobbling and I tried to get rid of the wobble and I did. It doesn't work anymore but it doesn't wobble. It just sits there. No wobble. Technically I fixed it. You know your engineer if you don't know your son's age but you know he's born three versions of windows ago. I'd love this crowd. That's a little test joke right there. Not ever. Like I have an X-P child. Anybody else with an X-P kid? That was a good generation of kids. You didn't want a Vista child. That was not good. Very unstable the Vista child. I told you I like this crowd. I don't go to the Vista library often. This one I could. You know your engineer if when you work at Starbucks you program the bathroom code to be 3.14159. That was a brand new joke I wrote that yesterday. I'm very proud of that. You can do that joke on Pi Day. You know your engineer if you know the link to your penis you know the link to your penis in inches and centimeters. Anybody else? I don't want to brag but I'm a solid nine but I'm not going to tell you the units. And there's a big difference. Ladies learn the metric system. That's all. I know that was a little bit racy but it's a good joke. I'm sorry. I wouldn't do that. I wouldn't let me do that. I just got down. Maybe they would. They're getting a little. They're getting a little. Well you know if you watch the show you know what you know your engineer if people think you're so boring you once had a near life experience. I hate that about people think we have no lives. We have lives. Engineers have lives. I keep up with that emoji so we can understand engineers. Okay see there's an engineer emoji is for engineers so that one. See that one right there. That one is happy engineer. That is a sad engineer. That's a good thing. All right that's mad. You got to be careful. I love confused, disgust, surprise, joy. And see that one right there. This one is key. That one is the project is finished. This is the best day right here. Right. And you can't ignore feedback when you're an engineer. When I was on America's Got Talent I said it was a really interesting journey and one of the things they told me when I was on the show was don't go to social media. People are so mean don't read the review and that's the last thing you tell an engineer don't because I immediately went because I wonder what people were saying. And 99.9% of it was good. And the other point 1% was horrible but it was hysterical. It made me laugh because it was so over the top. I'm like they just don't think of whatever. But I'm going to share some of these. These are real. Some of well I made like two up. Well when I did this bit originally I was like you might not be funny but I better put a couple of ones I think are funny. But I'll tell you which ones are real and which ones I probably. So there's actual feedback that makes you this was actually I didn't get it Simon Cal. That's what he said. Those were exactly where I didn't get it. That kind of makes me happy Simon. Thank you. This was real. This was real. Funniest engineer ever. Not sure that's a compliment. It's kind of like saying best looking wardhub. Not sure if that's happy about that. He's not as funny as he looks. That one fooled me. At first I thought it was good. I'm like wait a minute. That's like a double hit. It's like a very efficient cut down two cut downs one sentence. I laughed at seventy three point four percent of his jokes. That's two sigma above average for me. I might have made that one up. Nobody actually I wish somebody said that but it's funny. This one's real. This one I think I don't know because I don't know who posted by think. At one point I'm one of the shows I knocked out like a dog act and I think I like really some little girl was very upset with me. So she wrote he's old he will die soon. I'm not voting for him. And I kind of felt bad for him like well she's right too but by her relative timeframe I will die soon. So this one pisses me off. On slide fifteen if you add up the data on your bar choke it total one hundred fifty four percent please correct your data. First of all first of all he was counting the slides. Who counts the slide slide fifteen I have to send him this that's my fans right there. You had a slide you have to stake on slide fifteen and doubly pissed me off he was right. Here's the slide. This is from USA today it was an actual poll insuring off it's how you spend time on the internet and look at it does it adds up to one hundred fifty I'm like how did that happen and how did he notice it I was doing the jump for four years I never noticed that. And then I realized since it's not my chart it's right here I if you blow it up it actually says multiple answers were permitted so technically I was correct so take that whoever you are I don't know who you are. What was next he should go back to engineering that's my favorite one. That is my favorite one and that's how he's I didn't put it in red I put it in red. Uh she is not an attractive woman that would hurt. That one hurt I think I am an attractive woman. And then finally Simon Cowell's in a SUR funny that was that was a real one so there we go. What's next? No thank you. A smattering of clothes. A smattering of clothing. It comes in smatters only applause comes in smatters maybe jelly jelly comes in smatters. Uh you know you're an engineer you think dating is like buying a computer you look for performance features compatibility and most of all no viruses yes just like dating. It's just like dating I don't know I've never been on the date anybody. What lots of computers. Uh you're not an engineer if you saw Barbie and Oppenheimer on the same day I did anybody else you know anyway it was amazing don't do it don't don't do it it's not a good idea it's like saying it's like seeing shinlers list and dumb and dumb no not a good idea you will strip the gears into your brain it's not good but I saw them both on the same day and and I still found more flaws in Oppenheimer than in Barbie. Barbie seemed fine some of the physics would weigh off and you know you're an engineer if in Oppenheimer you think most of the physics was right but there is no way he hooked up with Florence Pugh. That buggy you still buggy I've got two jokes about it I'm like no no she did not go to engineering school for one no.