---
video_title: "Going Up Against AI in Ohio | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: CyHR9ny1XQw
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CyHR9ny1XQw
video_date: 2026-07-07T17:00:13+00:00
video_description: |
  See me live! https://technicallyfunny.com/
  
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian #ai #artificialintelligence
---
First, I'm going to do an AI joke, I asked it several questions, then I'm going to do mine. We'll see who wins. It's kind of a man versus machine. Please write me a complete original joke about Ohio. Just about a mile. So, here I can say, what are you calling Ohio optometrist who will fix your vision for a dollar? A Buckeye Doctor. Yeah, I'm not really intimidated by AI at this point. For that joke to work, you have to know what an optometrist does. Know that I, Ohio is a Buckeye state and like that joke, so that's about the opposite. Why is the Cincinnati airport... Guess what I landed today. That's when I wrote this joke. Is the Cincinnati airport in Kentucky? Well, the Bengal Stregidate for a draft vacant in the airport to be named. How can you tell if the Bengal Stregs must have short term memory issues? Well, they're always saying, you did. You did. Mr. Grant, father of Alzheimer's? No, he's a Bengal Span. That joke to work, you have to be a Bengal Span and you already forgotten his joke. Right now, I'm a original joke about massive. Right now, a little joke, but not my joke. Remember that. Not my joke. What do you call a crowd of 1 million that attends the Pope's Church Service? A massive human. Yeah. Here's the problem with that joke. For that joke, you have to know as a mess a lot, your cast like, and you can't spell. And that is 9% make. What's the difference between mass-loving and camping? Candid is the home of the pro football, football, football fame, and mass-loving is the home of the players that actually made it into the home. For that joke to work, you have to know the mass-loving and you're not a McKinley bulldog fan. I never heard of McKinley, that's all I've said. I'm sorry, but Jeff Pizzo scares me here. And I can prove it mathematically. Look at Jeff Pizzo's plus space travel, which he's doing now, and he has become God to me. AI-powered company. I asked, I said, right me a joke about Cleveland. I said, right me a joke about Cleveland. And it came back and said to me, this I did this today, the Guardians did not serve beer all last season. Why? They lost their opener. That actually was a better response than I thought it was going to get. Now, I used Vendiograms to analyze jokes. I thought that joke wasn't very funny. For that joke to be funny, you have to know the Guardians and like all jokes. And I thought that was about 6%. I think I actually nailed it. The first joke I wrote today. What are the four seasons in Cleveland? What are the four seasons in Cleveland? Almost winter, still winter, and searching for a new head coach for the brass. I thought that was a good joke. I'm so glad you didn't turn on me on that joke. I know I'm not here from here, but I feel your pain. For that joke to work, you have to know the weather in Ohio. You're a Browns fan, and you're not one of the former head coaches. Can it replace? Is that what I think we're worried about? Can it take my job? Can it do my job? Can it be a comedian? I went to AI first. I said, hey, you go first. I said to AI, you said I said, right here joke, battle fight. Yeah. Yeah. This is the answer. This is not my joke. This came back in a row. What do you call an Ohio optometrist who will fix your vision for a dollar, a buckly doctor? Oh, can you see the other one? Damn it. I'm not being so old. For that joke to be funny, you have to know what an optometrist does. No, no, I was the buckly doctor and my coach. And that was about to. And I underestimated AI discourse. Here you go. Down top. Why did the first slide lose name to City College? You know what? Because after leaving the league in the scene, like the New World. I'm not going to start with another funny one. Why do I have to joke about the New World? You have to know it. You know, Cleveland and New London was better. I know that George is going to do so well, but it would last because everything on that one is funny. So, I'm not going to start with the next slide. I'm not going to start with the next slide. I'm not going to start with the next slide.