---
video_title: "The Happiness Flow Chart | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: gKZ1Qj41VeI
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gKZ1Qj41VeI
video_date: 2026-01-06T18:00:52+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian #marriage #engineer
---
And uh we all want to be happy. That's what I realized as I travel. We all want to be happy. So here here's what I did several years ago. I didn't know if I was happy. I was in my 40s and I decided

what I would do is I would try to come up with a flowchart for happiness. So if I wasn't happy, I could follow the flowchart and become happy. This this is how my brain works. Okay? So I couldn't do it. I had too much going on in my

life. >> So what does engineers do? We find a simpler model. I looked at my son who was one month old at the time and I we'll start here and we'll grow the model from there. So I looked at here's your happiness flowchart at one month.

It's got three notes. Three. It's got uh you got food. Yes. You've slept. Yes.

You've pooped. Yes. You're happy. [laughter] That is the key to happiness for a one-month-old. Right. Now, I went from

here and I built on this. Here we are. Here we are at 50. Okay. I I don't have a lot of time. I got to

go quick here. Okay. So, of course, you got to have money. And if you want money, you got to have a job. And if you have a job, it's probably not going to be that great. So, you need vacation,

right? So, you got to have vacation. And then you got to worry about your health as you get older. And you got all the these these the these the TKIs to worry about. You got your BMI, your EKG, your LDL, your HDL. And when I hear HDL, I

think I'm a sports fan, so I think of the NHL and the NBA and the NFL, which I watch on NBC where I was on AGT and streaming on Peacock. I just made $100 by saying that right there. [cheering] [applause] And what do I watch that? I watch it on my TV. But no, no. FOR HAPPINESS, YOU

CAN'T just watch it on your TV, right? You have to have a smart TV and a smart thermostat and a smart refrigerator. And your whole home's got to be smart. All your appliances got to be talking TO EACH OTHER. IT'S NOT GOING TO BE GOOD.

YOU'RE GOING TO WALK UP TO your refrigerator one day. It's going to go, "Hey buddy, I've been talking to the scale. You are not getting in here, ass off.

You are packing on the pounds, buckle. Back off. I've alerted the treadmill. Go do 10 minutes. Come back and then we'll talk."

And it's not JUST YOUR APPLIANCES NOW. EVEN YOUR YOUR CLOTHES ARE SMART. THEY HAVE SMART SHOES. THEY HAVE SHOES with a chip in them. THEY HAVE SMART PANTS.

THEY HAVE SMART UNDERWEAR. WHAT? WHAT? NO. NO. What is your smart This is real.

THIS IS REAL. WHAT IS YOUR SMART UNDERWEAR GOING to tell you? Oh, it's two days. Change alert. Skid mark detected.

Pretty girl spotted. Pop-up locker activated. It's a good idea. It's a good idea. And then I REALIZED IF MY family's not happy, forget it. None of that other

stuff matter. My family's got to be happy. So, I started WITH MY DOG. I LOVE MY DOG. THERE'S HIS happiness flowchart for my dog. He's got to be walked every

day. He loves his stomach scratch and he likes to roll and poop. I don't know why, but it makes him happy. There's my son. I got a teenage son. Okay. What

makes a teenager happy? Nothing. Nothing makes a teenager happy. Nothing. But I know what makes them unhappy, man. You

take their phone away. They are very unhappy. And none of that matters if my wife's not happy. So where's my wife? And my wife's not happy. So there's my wife's

car right there. I don't even know where to start on this one. I have not begun to crack this one. Which brings me back to me. Am I happy?

I have no idea. But I do realize this. When you get to 90, you are right back here again.