---
video_title: "Roasting Companies | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: JwnXH-SPD-U
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JwnXH-SPD-U
video_date: 2026-03-31T17:00:15+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
---
I recently was contacted by a time-water cable spectrum to do a show. They said, we have an award ceremony. Can you be here at 8 o'clock on Friday? I said, I'd be there between 8 and 11. Then I showed up at 10.58. I'm here. Where is everybody? This is true. I really did this. I've done probably 20 shows from Microsoft though. It's such a big company. One of the times I came out and I really did this. I started telling jokes. I was like, 10 minutes into my act and I went, oh, wait! There's an update. I need to reboot and I walked off this stage. Nobody laughed. Nobody laughed. Not one of them laughed. Apple computer never hired me. But if they hired me, I'm going to come and go, oh, God, I have all these jokes. But you're going to need to buy new connectors. American Bar Association, if they ever hired me, never done it. I'm going to come out and do like seven minutes and charge them for the entire hour. Costco! I love Costco! Costco contacted me at night and they said, we have a show this Friday for our employees. They said, you come down and go, I'd like to, but I'm only available in packs of nine. ExxonMobil hired me and I said, how much is it going to cost? Let's just say a thousand. I said, a thousand dollars? No, it's actually going to be $9.99.99 and nine cents. American Medical Association, huge convention, huge, 20,000 doctors. It's like a corporate goal. It's like the highest paid corporate data out there. I've never done it. But if they ever hire me, I'm going to have, I'm going to show up. I'm going to have the 20,000 doctors wait in the lobby for at least an hour to end. Every now and then I'll come out, look around and then just go right back in the end. Then I'll finally have them come in and sit on a piece of wax paper for another 45 minutes. Then do a quick 15 minutes and go see you next time. United United, I'm just like five minutes in the show. I'm going to kick seven random people out. Sorry, we sold your seats to somebody else. Southwest, I'm just going to cancel. Sorry, sorry, cancel. And this is the one that started me on the kick. I really did this. I can't believe it. So I'm doing this 18t event and it was like 4,000 people. And I'm wandering in the stage. And I'm like, so yeah, it was really nice to be in an 18t. I think I'm not sure of it. I think you guys might have a dead zone right here. I'm sorry, sir, do you work for 18t? I'm sorry. I didn't know you were an 18t employee. I'm sorry. I'll switch from Verizon, really.