---
video_title: "Why this American chose to be Indian"
video_id: melKP_qgZOg
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=melKP_qgZOg
video_date: 2025-09-11T11:01:25+00:00
video_description: |
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on my Telegram channel: https://t.me/friendsofmax
  📌 Click the “JOIN” button or follow this link to become part of our community: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q/join
  🌏 The Backstage Circle: https://forms.gle/huwR6NQNz5A4XgC78
  
  Meet Jamie. Born and raised in India to American parents, he studied in the U.S., but when it came to passports he chose Indian over American. Some time later, Jamie left a corporate career to pursue journalism, acting, and YouTube. He shared why he chose India over America for life, what growing up white in India really felt like, and what shocked him most in America after living in India. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP:
  📷 Casual daily life on my Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  💰 Sponsorship-related requests: max@maxchernov.sg
  👥 If you have a guest suggestion for an interview, please reach out at max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST:
  ➢  on LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jamie-alter
  ➢  on YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/@JamieAlterIndian/
  
  WATCH NEXT:
  ► Why she is PROUD of INDIA after 20 years here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dolg3iX4siw
  ► Is India the Perfect Country for Foreigners?: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KcxmaidRfjI 
  ► Malay-speaking Foreigner About His 30 years in Malaysia: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K3puW7SPdFw
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  00:00 INTRO
  00:36 Speaking Hindi
  01:16 White People with Indian Citizenship
  03:31 How an American Became Indian
  07:14 Growing Up in India as a White Guy
  11:16 What Happens When He Speaks Hindi
  12:13 Living in the US After India
  14:50 Views on the US
  19:17 American Accent vs. Indian Accent
  21:15 Misconceptions about India
  24:12 Indian and American Personality 
  26:55 How to Understand India
  
  Hey! This channel bridges the gap between locals and foreigners all over the world. Join Max as he interviews expats, unraveling their unique stories and providing valuable insights into their lives in the vibrant places of Asia. Through engaging conversations, Max fosters understanding and appreciation between locals and the global community, focusing on cultural exchange.
  
  If you're a company seeking sponsorship opportunities to engage our upscale audience, contact us at maxchernovYT@gmail.com. With over 50% Singaporean viewers and a substantial number of foreign professionals (US, EU, Australia), our mature audience (35-54 years) boasts strong purchasing power and interests in an above-average lifestyle, travel, investment, and personal finance.
---
Here's this document called an American passport. I don't want it. I want to become an Indian citizen. >> Meet Jamie. Born and raised in India to American parents, he studied in the US.

But when it came to passports, he chose Indian over American. Sometime later, Jaime left a corporate career to pursue journalism, acting, and YouTube. He shared why he chose India over America for life, what growing up white in India really felt like, and what shocked him most in America after living in India. I'm Max Chernov, your insider to immigrant life. Choulture

easy decision. I just said as as a person who who understood to a certain level the American culture, having spent 6 years there, it was not that difficult for me to say goodbye to that life cuz I was going back to my the country of my birth, a country which I could identify with, the culture, the people, the food. So, it just made my life my decision very easy. >> Jamie, your story is like fascinating. It's very unique. I mean, do do you know

any any other like white people with Indian citizenship? There are literally two I can think of. But for the benefit of your audience, when my parents and my mother also spent a lot of time in India growing up when when they were growing up, it was actually not that uncommon as it is now because you understand a lot of a lot of missionaries, Americans, British, Australians, Canadians, New Zealanders, you name it, they were coming there. If maybe not all of them came as far back as as far back as my as my father's family did but if you imagine a lot of white people Americans, Brits, Canadians, Australians born in India speaking Hindi. So when they grew up uh my my mom and dad it was it was not that uncommon but yes definitely I don't know anybody else from that generation who stayed back and also who got Indian citizenship. My father was in

his mid20s I believe when he realized that look he he was unique as you've also pointed out and that uniqueness was that he could not identify he could not connect with the America of his family the America of which he knew things he had all his relatives there they would go back every 5 years for something called furlow but that inability to connect with his home country was what made him literally walk into the American consulate in Mumbai in the 70s and say here's this document called an American passport. I don't want it. I want to become an Indian citizen. I don't have proof Max but I would say he's probably the first American person to say you know here's here's an American passport and I don't want it. And then me being born here as well I also had a choice. I went for the Indian

passport. All of my relatives on my on my family side have at some point spent time in India. A lot of them were born here but nobody gave up their US citizenship. They all kept it. A lot of them still come every year. A lot of

them still spend half the years. Be it Goa, be it Msuri. But apart from my father and I, nobody actually has an Indian passport. So very unique indeed. >> Yeah, very unique. And you couldn't keep

both passports. >> No. Uh India still does not recognize dual citizenship with the US. And the way the US is going now under Donald Trump, I don't see it happening for for a long time to be to be honest with you. >> And by birth, you could choose either to become American on or Indian.

>> It's it's an interesting story. I'll I'll try and keep it as brief. So I was so when I was born in 1981, both my father and mother, first time parents didn't quite know what the situation was. So they asked around and they were told, "Look, the mother has an American passport. the father has relinquished the US passport. So he had an Indian

passport. Where do you see your son spending the next 18 years, you know, until he becomes um of legal age, where's he going to be? So they both said, "Yeah, well, we think it's going to be here." So So the advice given to them by people in the system and their and their inner circle was until Jamie turns 18, if you think he's going to be here, let him get the give him the Indian passport. It'll be easier for him for the next 18 years. He won't have to

go every few years and get a change and all that jazz. When he's 18 of legal age, he can opt for the American passport. It sounded so simple, Max, to these two naive firsttime parents. Fast forward to 1999 when I turned 18. We just assume, hey, this kid's going to become an American citizen. and so much.

So, so we walk into the American embassy here in New Delhi and the person behind the counter is like, "Yeah, you haven't heard that. That law was changed a few years ago and literally my mother's world just came crashing down. You know, there was no internet. How are you going to know unless somebody from the embassy calls you and says, "Hey, look, uh, Mrs. Alter, the law has changed." You're not

going to know. What was the law change? I'm I'm guessing you're wondering both parents. I mean, just get the absurdness of the situation. Both parents had to have spent a precise number of years, months, weeks, and days in the US in order for their kid to get American citizenship. And as you can imagine, my

father was so far behind cuz he hadn't lived there since he was a kid. And my mother was short by like literally 12 or 13 months. So that poor sweet lady had to give up her job for a year. She's a teacher in Mumbai, still is to this day. She had to go to the states, establish what they call doicile for 12 months in order to fulfill the criteria. As soon

as that was done, I could then apply not for American citizenship but for a green card. And when you apply for a green card, you yourself have to spend a minimum of 5 years, which I did. I spent 6 years. After the said 5 years, you then go through a whole process where if you're ellegible and the government feels you're the right candidate, then of course that green card at some point becomes American citizenship. But by that time I I was disillusioned with with with America under George W. Bush.

I like my father many years ago, I was homesick and I also felt that America was not perhaps the place for me. So in 2005 at the age of 24, I came back from from the US. I still had the green card but to keep it active max you have to go back every six months and I was not able to do that. So due to my own my own uh foolishness that also lapsed and I think to this day my mom is still she's made peace with the fact but I think she's a bit disappointed that at least I didn't have it but my younger sister is an American citizenship. She lives there.

She has no plans of coming back. She has two kids there. So my mom is happy that at least one person sort of sort of went down the American the American route. Yeah. Yeah.

>> How's you growing up in India? Do you remember a moment when you like oh why I look like different from other kids? >> Many many many many times. Um and it's and it's very very natural. Let's talk more about the uh the Missouri. Missouri

is a small hill station up in the Himalayas where there's a school called Woodstock School and that's the school where my parents my father almost all all his cousins his siblings my mother her two brothers they went there so like I mentioned a few minutes ago in fact it was very very common for that school to be full of white people speaking a mixture of English and Hindi so when I was growing up Max of course by the time I I was born and I was going to Woodstock things had changed all the missionaries had gone going back it was a more it was a global school but it was still a very Indian school so a lot more Indians were there so I didn't actually stand out as much as I would have had I gone to a traditional uh how do I say it Indian school so I didn't feel it so much growing up in Msuri but then when I came to Mumbai you know um a lot a lot less white people in our circle >> what age were you >> I did three stints at that school my first time I was in I was in grade one so I would have been what like five and then most and then uh second time in grade five and then middle school. So I think if we focus on middle school that's grades 6 7 8 which are the teenage years those were rough because I was like I sort of felt like I stood out more because yes this was an American school international school but there was nobody like me there was nobody else with my sensibilities. They were all white kids. They were all black kids. They were all Chinese kids, Korean kids, Middle Eastern kids. But

None of them really felt at home in India. And here I was, I I spoke Hindi, I I ate Indian food. But then when I rocked up Monday to Friday at that school, the same school, mind you, that my mother uh started, I got looks from people, you know, I got looks from the people who I who I sat with just because they're like, "But you look like us, but you're not." So I think had I got more of the looks from the average Indian on the road which I got but it was a very weird feeling to get looks from people who I was spending who I thought were my friends it wasn't necessarily like a bad thing but it was a weird thing and you know I mean we've all been teenagers I think that's the toughest years for everyone your body's changing you're changing hormones so those three years were really strange for me I remember I told my parents towards the end of middle school I said you know what just get me out of here just pay what you have to get me back to that boarding school in Missouri, get me back to Woodstock. I just felt less judged when I was there and they agreed. So, I spent

my last four years of school at Woodstock uh in an environment where I was I just felt at home, you know. But, of course, when I left the school campus, when I walked into the main market, the main bazaar to order food, to order a Coke, a Diet Pepsi, samosa, Chinese, whatever it is, and I speak in Hindi, I I was getting looks, you know, and I still do. So probably I mean if if I'm honest with you probably a day doesn't go by like like you've been to India you've seen the rise of um a lot of these online home delivery there's Swiggy there's Zamato you know so if I'm ordering groceries or I'm ordering food a couple times a week the guy who rings the bell he doesn't assume that the door is going to be opened by a white guy who says to him thank you very much have a good day you know so I get that a lot but it doesn't bother me nearly as as it did before like I said when I was a teenager and everything. I think everything seems to piss you off when you're a teenager. But definitely being stared at, being asked the question, oh, how do you speak Hindi? Are you actually

speaking Hindi? Nowadays, cuz we spend, and you know about this, we spend so much time in front of the camera making videos and it's the day of of AI. Lot of people actually believe that when they're seeing me in a real or in a YouTube video, this is AI. And I keep saying, look, AI is good, but AI cannot be this good, you know. So, yeah. when

you had like when you were a teenager you had this looks but then okay you start talking with people like with locals you start speaking Hindi and then the attitude would change I guess absolutely absolutely and it's so it's a very good question you've asked it changes immediately and it changes to one of familiarity acceptance you know I mean you've been to India you know India is extremely accepting on so many levels to foreigners but when They realize that this guy we're talking to, interacting with, he's actually not a foreigner. He's one of us. Boom. Whatever whatever awkwardness, whatever, it's not it's not hostility. It's it's it's just the awkwardness they had or the doubts they had about this guy, it falls. And then

it's like boom. And I keep saying, you see, you see, you see, but again, I have to understand I do look I look like you. I don't look like the average Indian. Right. So, I understand where that where that uh inquisitiveness came from from Indians. Yeah. And then when you finish

high school in India, you went to the US, right? >> I did a a three and a half year course there. And I'll tell you, it's it's it's nothing new. I've said this before to people. It was actually as bizarre as it was, you know, here because look, and this I I think this is what actually shaped Max, my decision to come back.

We've ticked off the fact that I'm unique, rare, whatever you want to say it, right? I had a choice. Do you want to be stared at? Do you want to be looked at? Do you want to be questioned in India where you were born and raised or do you want to be stared at, questioned, looked at, whatever in America, which has a lot of things going for it? It's the land of opportunity.

It's the land of milk and honey and all that good. I'm talking about, you know, 25 years ago. But you're going to stand out. And by stand out with my accent, you know, it's it's a strange one. It's not necessarily a full-blown Indian accent. It's definitely not American.

It's not British. But Indians can pick it up. The average American, I'm really sorry for making a judgment here. The average American match, they still can't figure me out. So, be it Starbucks, be it Panera Bread, be it any restaurant to this day when I go and I ask for a latte or I ask for a sandwich or I ask for anything, right? Sorry, what? Can you

say it again? So, can you imagine having to do this time and time again? You know, so I and I've been asked, are you Dutch? Are you Scandinavian? Are you Russian? Are you Scottish? Are you

British? And I just laugh because I know what a Russian accent sounds like. I know what a Dutch accent sounds like. I know what a Scottish accent sounds like. I know what an English accent sounds like. And I don't have that. You You're

talking to me. You know, I don't have any of those accents. But to hear this, you know, a dozen and a half times a week in the US, I you know what? Screw this. I'm going back to India. I can

explain myself in a much quicker time to the average Indian and they'll accept me within 3 minutes as compared to the US. So it was it was a fantastic fun 6 years. I had a lot of fun times. I worked there. I have a lot of great connections there. But I was like man

this is just this is a very strange place to be. So 24 not that old. I said I'm done. I'm going back to the country of my birth. Hey, I've launched this Telegram channel where I'll be sharing insights from my guests, travel tips around Asia, and also my thoughts about YouTube, marketing, business, and even life. It

will be cozy, personal, and free of charge. So, join me. Just scan this QR code in the screen or click the link in description, and I'll see you there. >> How was your like general feelings about about being in the US? The America that I said goodbye to in 2004 was was still an America which I could sort of connect like when I went there last year. I

mean, okay, Donald Trump had not been voted back in, but you could sense the election was coming. I I spoke to a lot of friends on the phone who I'd gone to college with. I'm talking about Indians, Pakistanis, Zimbabweans, some people from Nepal, the South the South Asians who unlike me had stayed on, you know, they were they were worried about what what was happening. A few of my relatives were like, you know, oh, it's it's not the America that we that we grew up in. Again, I'm giving you a glimpse. I was there for what, 5 days,

you know, but on the outside it's the same thing cuz you're flying into JFK, you're getting a cab, you're seeing all the same commercial things, you're seeing all the same consumerism aspects. Like my first meal is always a burger when I get there for obvious reason, you know. So, I was doing the same things, but I could sense that the America that I said goodbye to in in 2005 was not the one of 2024. But again, I was I was just in two states. I didn't travel much cuz I was there on work. I'm probably going

back there in a few months and spending two or three weeks with family. So maybe if this question were asked to me at the end of the year or the start of the new year, I could probably could probably give you a more nuance or detailed answer. this uh consumerism thing that you mentioned like I talked to my buddy he lived in Singapore before American guy uh my good friend then he moved to Dublin and then we talked recently and they they just came back from from the US and he said like it's so strange everything is you go to Walmart and you can buy anything anything possible like there are millions of sorts of anything so the consumerism is just in your face there you know That's a again I'll keep it very brief having the American connection match having gone to America every 3 4 years growing up I had a sense of that but I can tell you when I went back for college you know I was one of the few ones who had a car so I would take my Indian Pakistani Bangladeshi Sri Lankan Nepali friends to Walmart right if you've never seen a place like Walmart and I'm talking about Walmart of the American Midwest in like in the middle of nowhere Ohio okay they were blown blown away by exactly what you said. There's a frozen food section which then merges with the dry fruit section. You know where I'm going with this? Which then merges with the

hardware and the clothes and then the guns, you know? So, a father can be buying a gun and two aisles down he could be buying like a toy fish or a toy Superman for his kid. So, if you've not seen that, that sense of American consumerism can really blow your head. So, I'm glad I had had that awakening before cuz I would have been really not confused, but like maybe like, you know, it would have made me feel strange had I been 18, 19 for the first time seeing that. So, and I'm sure a lot of people still to this day. Look, it's it's

great. You can get everything under the one roof. So, you don't have to go to 10 shops. You get in your car, you go to Costco, you go to Walmart, you go to I don't know what's around nowadays, but it's a great thing about America, but it's also a very strange thing about America as well. I remember there I was I was there as a as a student when I was 20 years old came from Russia and I remember this huge cap of like Coke or Pepsi it's like 2 liter cap with a free refill and we were poor back then and we were like okay let's do like number of refills but like thinking about it is is actually how much sugar I consumed back back then you know I'm like I came I came from India I came from an Indian boarding school I was scrawny okay there's something there's something called the freshman 15 which is a common term because kids put on 15 lbs you know in the first in the first 6 months max the same thing and forget going to the to the to the movie like our campus the d like like the cafeteria would give you refill so there's cook there's Dr.

pepper, their spray. I'm this chronic. So I I put on 15 pounds in the first two months cuz I'm like ga, you know, so I so I had to work hard to lose I didn't lose that weight over the next 3 years, but it was just like, you know, oh, I get more. It's free, you know. So I totally get that what you're saying.

>> Did you pick up any like American American accent living there? >> Oh, I tried, man. I tried. I tried really hard and I thought I could do it, but I sounded like probably like some broken down robot, you know. I still get because since since the pandemic, I've done some acting now and then. I still

get roles where they they want me to play an American and somehow I might get very close Max in the audition, but let's say I'm on the set and it's not a good day. Cut cut cut cut. Sir, what what accent is this? And I'm like, oh, you know, so so it's it's I in my head I might sound like I'm from New York or Chicago or somewhere, but clearly to the guy in front and I'm not even talking about Americans. I'm talking about like Indian director saying, "Sir, what is this? My son, he's 11 because he spent

most of his life like watching YouTube. His American accent at the age of seven was so far better than anything I could try, you know." So it's Yeah. But I I to answer your question, I tried a lot to fit in, but yeah, not not very good. >> Some people think I just show up at the guest place, press record, and that's it. The video is done. But right now,

six people work full-time and two part-time on this project. It takes a lot of time, energy, and money. Some interviews takes months to secure, but we do it because we want to show the world that Asia is a modern, exciting, and inspiring place and to introduce you to the most interesting people out there. If that resonates with you, I'd love for you to become an even bigger part of this project. By clicking the join button below, you'll become an official member and supporter of this channel. You'll get a special page. I'll

see your comments first and you will know that you are helping us keep this going. Big hug to each of you. Thank you so much for your support and honestly you are the best YouTube community I could ever dream of. Thank you so much. When you are and were in the US like and talking to like westerners maybe who never been to India talking to Americans what do you think people don't get about the country don't get about India?

What's the biggest like misconceptions about the place? >> Oh man. so so so much. And I would love to put my hand on my heart and say that things have changed 20 years later, but I I my gut feeling it probably hasn't changed much. I'm not going to lie. Um,

grade five again. Grade five, what are you? You're 10 years old, so I get uh the innocence and the lack of exposure. But it goes back to being in grade five. Oh, you're from India. And I'm not

joking. You go to school on an elephant, you know. I'm like, uh, come on. Come. But no, it was it was an actual question. It's something I'd seen and

heard of in like in in Hollywood movies, but until you're asked that question, you're like, "What?" But it's okay cuz I mean the the kid asking me was 10 years old. But then when I went back when I went back to uh to the US, you know, for college, I have been with Americans who because it's a very insular country. Again, I'm making a a general statement here. Americans by and large don't travel as much as the Brits do, for example, or the Australians. They don't

know. The average American doesn't know too much about the world outside. You know, I picked up maps back in the day. Not on the phone, like an actual map and said, "Could you show me India?" And this one poor girl in the cafeteria, she pointed to to Paris. You know, now it's

it's it's just one person. But my point is the average Indian due to so many factors probably knows on a map where Chicago is smack in the middle where New York or the fact that New York and San Francisco are on two different uh sides of the continent. I mean so many factors you know uh the desire to ape America the desire to want to go to America Hollywood the influence of America on India is far more than the influence of India on America right you know what I'm saying so that's one reason um but then when I was working uh a few months before I quit my job in that financial company one of my seniors we were on the train together from work and I showed her a picture of my most recent trip it was the Himalayan mountain ranges with snow. And she's like, I thought all of India was like Rajasthan, just a desert. Now, she knew Rajasthan, but that's probably because all she'd seen in a movie or a TV show or on a postcard or on some documentary was five camels in the middle of of the desert. So for a

woman in her 40s in 2005 to to be shocked that India had greenery that India had mountains snow cap mountains that to me was like why is your view on the outside world so narrow but it is it is what it is right >> to your like um personality do you feel like 100% Indian or like it's I don't know 70% Indian and then 30% American because of your roots and because of your experience in the US >> I would say again I've never had to had to give it a percentage. I would say 70% Indian and the other 30% is because I don't I don't think in Hindi. I still think in in English. Now whether you want to call that American or whatever, I leave that to interpretation. But let's just say it's it's 70% Indian because of how I speak, the uh the people I'm interacting with, the kind of people that I make videos for, the kind of people that I've worked with when I was doing mainstream media. I would say

70% but still because of the upbringing because of the memories of of going to the US as a kid and you know McDonald's, Walmart, Toys R Us, all those big great greedy American things. Um so I think probably I would say se 7030 would be a safe a safe ratio to give you. Yeah, I have a lot of Indian friends who in many ways wanted to be more American than I did and they they went to America with a certain vision that they were not going to come back. They were going to pick up that American accent that you mentioned earlier. They were going to embrace the American culture. They were going to do

whatever it took because it's a big investment for the average Indian family to send a child to America for higher education. You don't just send them there, you know, hey, get a degree and come back. the average Indian dream of the parent is is that that kid stays on. So there are there are some of my really good Indian friends who were way more American and they spent unlike me they spent 18 19 20 years but for whatever reason they're now back in India I love asking them you know they're going through this culture shock and I'm talking about brownskinned brownkinned Indians unlike me whites and Indian you know who in many ways were more Indian than than me until a certain age but once they went to America or Australia they embraced that culture far more than I like their accents are actually American, but now they're back. It's their country of birth, but it's an alien nation for them. They've got kids

who don't know Hindi or don't know one of the regional languages where they're staying. So, when I ask them, they're like, man, it's crazy. They're not regretting it because they've made a choice and they're getting paid good bucks because their company sent them there, you know, and their wives have embraced the culture. But the things they say I'm like I wouldn't think twice you know but oh it's so hot here or or the pollution or this and that you know I'm like ah see it's because you've been away for so long. So it's almost like they're foreigners coming for the first time. So that always cracks me up.

>> What would be your advice to foreigners who want to understand India more overall? >> Embrace it. It's going to be tough. I think it's become easier having spoken to certain other foreigners who've come down in the last few years. India has opened up so many ways. You get a lot of

the western perks here. Um so it's it's not the India of 20 years ago where it would been more of a struggle for for Westerners. I would just say just be open. Easier said than done. Yes, the noise, the pollution, the poverty, the the opulence, the over-the-top aspects of Indian life are going to hit you in the face from the time you exit the plane pretty much. But if you're open to

things and I I would just say embrace it, which is why I've liked watching, you know, YouTubers like yourself and others who go around the world and and who come cuz I can assume the hardships or the shock that you're going to go through with. But the fact that so many of you just go for it, you know. Um, so I like to see things like that. And I wish anybody coming here, not someone who's just here for like a 3-day business conference cuz that, you know, they're going to be gone. They're going to be staying in a in a sevenstar hotel, but someone who's here to try and learn something. Someone who's here to travel.

definitely someone who's been sent here on a three-year post either as a teacher or in, you know, in the foreign service or in a banking or any aspect of life. If you're here for that duration, the sooner you open up your mind and shed your inhibitions, I'm telling you, it'll be a far more hospitable place to live and you'll have a fun time living here. [Music]