---
video_title: "Why this Malaysian millionaire chose Singapore over US and UK"
video_id: evmsd3h3YiA
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=evmsd3h3YiA
video_date: 2025-09-25T11:01:14+00:00
video_description: |
  📌 Join eCommerce Expo | DMEXCO Asia at Tech Week Singapore (October 8–9) → https://www.gevme.com/ECEA25/?promo=&source=partner_PaidMediaPartner_MaxChernov 
  📌 Click the “JOIN” button or follow this link to become part of our community: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q/join
  
  Meet VJ Anand, an award-winning marketer and entrepreneur. Born in Malaysia, he has worked across Europe, America, and Asia, and now runs his own company in Singapore. VJ shared what US and UK businesses don’t get about Asia, whether Singapore’s strictness holds back true creativity, and the biggest lessons he learned from working with the founders of Gojek and Gary Vee. Enjoy! 
  
  TO START AND GROW YOUTUBE:
  🎬 Online workshop "YouTube Fast-Track to Views & Passive Income". Book your spot: https://event.webinarjam.com/register/6/925q4ak
  🏆 12-month full-scale personally coached program ‘Side Hustle YouTube Mastery.’ Join us: https://www.shym.sg/
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP:
  📷 Casual daily life on my Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on my Telegram channel: https://t.me/friendsofmax
  💰 Sponsorship-related requests: max@maxchernov.sg
  👥 If you have a guest suggestion for an interview, please reach out at max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST:
  ➢  on LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/vjanand1978
  ➢  on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/vjanand1978/
  
  WATCH NEXT:
  ► Singapore’s multi-millionaire on China, America and AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tP7QksbJVQ 
  ► Wealth Strategies of American Multi-Millionaire in Singapore: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Nz74s44wsQ 
  ► Malay-speaking Foreigner About His 30 years in Malaysia: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K3puW7SPdFw
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  00:00 INTRO
  00:37 Is Singapore home now?
  01:33 Why Singapore?
  03:29 Singapore vs. London
  05:48 Why Asia is a trendsetter now
  06:29 Being street smart
  08:34 What unites and divides all Asians
  10:26 The “secret weapon” of Malaysians
  13:03 Is there a lack of creativity in Singapore?
  13:47 The story behind launching GoJack in Singapore
  14:56 How creativity is changing in Singapore
  15:57 Business vs. creativity
  18:35 Working in London’s creative industry
  21:19 Best marketing school
  23:04 Biggest lessons from founders
  26:47 Lessons after working with Gary Vee
  30:50 eCommerce Expo conference in Singapore
  34:24 Life principles
  38:36 The meaning of life
  
  Hey! This channel bridges the gap between locals and foreigners all over the world. Join Max as he interviews expats, unraveling their unique stories and providing valuable insights into their lives in the vibrant places of Asia. Through engaging conversations, Max fosters understanding and appreciation between locals and the global community, focusing on cultural exchange.
  
  If you're a company seeking sponsorship opportunities to engage our upscale audience, contact us at maxchernovYT@gmail.com. With over 50% Singaporean viewers and a substantial number of foreign professionals (US, EU, Australia), our mature audience (35-54 years) boasts strong purchasing power and interests in an above-average lifestyle, travel, investment, and personal finance.
---
America thinks America is the world. Europe doesn't as friendly as they are. So Asia has to become a force. Meet VJ Anand, an awardwinning marketer and entrepreneur. Born in Malaysia, he's worked across Europe, America, and Asia, and now runs his own company in Singapore. VJ shared what US and UK

businesses don't get about Asia, whether Singapore's strictness holds back true creativity, and the biggest lessons he learned from working with the founders of Gold Jack and Gary Vee. I'm Max Chernov, your insider to expert life. Let's go. Living in Singapore, like do you feel like home? It's very easy for you and very like kind of similar experience for you.

>> Living in Singapore has been amazing. I like one the safety. I didn't like London. Um I quickly ever since I got mugged I was like I want to go back to Singapore man. It's much safer here or even in like in Southeast Asia. I lived

in Southeast Asia for like 24 years or 23 years and I've never been mugged before. Nothing's ever happened. Maybe lucky touchwood. uh but going to London and you get it straight away but Singapore has become kind of like home um and it's easy to go back home home as well. place is just like a 45 minutes flight away an hour is so accessible and I feel Singapore is like the hub where if you want to move go to Bangkok to shoot something which I've been doing as well you want to go to Jakarta it's all so near super easy >> yeah super easy >> so you decided to start your business start your company in Singapore why is that >> I plan to open Singapore only because I feel it's a hub I mean I could have done it back home in Malaysia easily >> or Bangkok or Bangkok or in K or in Japan which they're looking for a lot of foreign investment to come in but I feel like Singapore is kind of like the hub in between that I can work across many places but in fact right now we're having clients from France from Europe uh from all over I think there's something about tapping okay one the Southeast Asian or the Asian work ethics where you work harder and the other one is you know us being here access being accessible and to talents from Malaysia Indonesia, Philippines where you know I think things have gotten really expensive in the US and UK. So having giving the job

to an agency in Singapore, a company in Singapore, but having to pay uh I would say I I don't look down on Asian prices but slightly cheaper than than Europe and US sometimes. And the talent out here is also crazy. It's amazing. I think some of the AI engineers or prompt engineers I'm working with some of the AI work we're doing is like world class and you're not paying like over uh price prices like you see in US sometimes or in UK or Europe sometimes. Um so I think the talent is here and I wanted to open the company here and my whole aim was to let's show the world that you know Southeast Asia, Asia, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand, we all have the talent that is world class and that was one of my aims to why I wanted to open the company after coming from a global role. I've

been doing stuff with like Charlie XX. I've been doing stuff like Olympics campaigns and stuff like that. But I feel like hey man, I can do this back home. I don't need to be in the US. I don't need to be in UK to kind of do that. I can do it from Singapore for the

world. >> If we compare life in and doing business in Singapore versus London like you already said like the the pace probably is higher faster here. What what else like in terms of the culture in terms of how people think, how people communicate? What are the the biggest differences you think? I don't know if this is controversial to say, but I feel in a lot of the cultures like America, just for America alone, they think America is the world.

>> Uh they do. >> Yeah. Which is true. I'm I'm just going to say things that I've observed over the years. It might piss some people off. It might not. But, you know,

America thinks America is the world. Uh Europe doesn't, as friendly as they are, sometimes they don't understand. I think they've still got a bit of that, you know, like let's go out and conquer. Back in the day, they used to invade all these countries and uh colonize all of us and they still got a bit of that hanging on still as nice as they are uh very very uh you know they have this whole British gentleman kind of vibe to them and stuff like that. They still don't understand the other cultures. uh

whereas us I think we're very open to learning new cultures to adopting and being friendly to other cultures and that translates in work as well. So for us when a when for me when a brand comes in with a brief and a global brief it is for example for US market or UK market or for Europe and we tend to understand the problem and the culture uh a lot faster than if me giving that global brief to American company >> or a UK company and then they struggle like oh what's happening in Vietnam I don't understand uh and we they will just think oh if this it works in our market it works in their market as well which is wrong And I've done global breeds like that. I've sat on both ends where I've sat in the local market and like the work comes from America or UK and you're like man these guys don't understand this. And I sat in the global role where it's like guys you Vietnam is very different to Pakistan and India. Uh you have to understand the local market for your concept to work across. You

can't just give them something and force them to adopt it to the adopt it to their market. It doesn't work that way. that used to be in the 80s and '90s but it's changed now I think local markets are getting stronger and we have more voice and more sales coming from Vietnam from I mean if you look at the number of people just in Southeast Asia is probably bigger than every part of or just Asia is bigger than the rest of the world so Asia has to become a force and we're not uh we used to be a a trend following market but now we are the trends setter um everything is coming from Yeah, all the trends are leading from here now and we've got to do the same with advertising marketing as well. >> Like uh no more translating from US and UK market. We should >> work together.

>> Yeah. >> Uh those are things that I believe in and yeah, you grew up in Malaysia. It's a bit more chaotic than Singapore. So you think you became more like street smart and then it helped you living in in London? >> I think in Singapore you learn to be very systematic. Everything works here

which I love. Which I love. And then Malaysia like you said being street smart is important. Uh I think you really got to be street smart in Malaysia. >> Do you remember any like examples or any cases?

>> I need to think of uh stories that I've that I've kind of but obviously when I went to London I wasn't very street smart when I got mugged. Uh but you know being in Jakarta you would think it would be more like cowboy than than Koala or not but Jakarta was just warm hearts, warm smile. >> Um everybody on the streets were friendly to me like I I was one of the rare kind of like foreigners in Jakarta to walk the streets. Usually everybody would take the car. Even if it's just the bar is just down there or the pub is there, they'll take the car. But I would

walk there and then they will be like, "Oh, are you sure you want to walk?" I said, "Yeah, yeah, I don't mind. I'm cool." You know, and the people in the streets that sometimes people just playing chess on the streets and stuff like they all they all know me. They like, "Oh, Pi J, how are you?" Yeah, we

all just became friends. And I learned that in Jakarta quite a bit. Uh in Bangkok was a total different culture, man. Like I couldn't speak. This was like 15 years ago or 13 years ago. They

didn't speak much English then. So, I had to quickly pick up. I remember I cried one day in my first month because I couldn't understand people and people couldn't understand me. It's not easy for someone to go to a foreign place where they don't speak your language, right? And you struggle quite a bit.

>> And Indonesia, it was easier because >> Malaysia Indonesia is >> Exactly. Exactly. Uh very similar. Although sometimes, you know, they would speak to me really fast like slow down, I need to understand this. But then when I spoke back in Basa, Malaysia, they would laugh at me because I sounded like a cartoon character that they all know from Malaysia called Upin and which is quite funny. But yeah, very different

cultures, very different. But yeah, your question, street smart. Yeah, >> Indonesia and Malaysia having always like been having this beef between each other >> because of food. >> Because of food, because of like, oh, Malaysia say, "Oh, it's from us." Indonesia says, "No, it's from us." Like

did you experience any anything or maybe some negative experience or >> I think it's funny you know because all our cultures even Singapore and Malaysia have some beef like this food is from us or this culture but if you look at it all of us are just the same we come from >> all this borrowed cultures all the cultures that kind of broke across borders like if you go to history a lot of people you know like there was migration from China and in India down to Southeast Asia and the the uh indigenous people who were there the cultures kind of mixed together and then when they cross border from Indones there was a lot of people from Indonesia who moved to Malaysia or Malaysia moving down to Singapore before the independence all of that they would bring their culture to all those places and it ends up being mixed and remixed so you would see some of the food sounds the same or the dishes sounds the same or they might sound different but they're the same ingredients because all our cultures we all just the Honestly, we all come from very borrowed mixed culture and we shouldn't I do I feel the fights are a bit funny and exaggerated sometimes, right? >> It is exaggerated. It is entertaining for >> um but I mean lately we know what's happening in Jakarta. It's been quite crazy and you see support from Malaysians from Singapore. A few days ago, uh, Malaysians, there was news that Malaysians were buying meals for just random people in Indonesia because they found a hack on the app to do that on Grabb, uh, which was an amazing thing.

You're just helping when they're having a tough time. We all just >> come together and help each other out. And that's the beauty of Southeast Asia, I feel. >> Yeah. >> What do you understand about yourself being Malaysian or being from this part of the world after living for 2 years in UK? I think Malaysians like me, not just

me, but I feel like in general, Malaysia because we've had, you know, Japan invaders, British colonizers, Portuguese colonizing some part of of Malaya and stuff like that. For us to, like I said, adopt the culture, I think it's our secret weapon. >> Uh, and I feel like when Malaysians go abroad, they do really well to assimilate and learn new cultures. M >> and I feel like so when I when I when I work in UK they're like oh wow you work like us or you understand us I say yeah because I grew up watching British shows and the British culture the food there's so many things that are still left behind that's part of our culture where else you don't understand our culture if someone from there comes here they'll be like oh you know like it's very different I I don't know this I can't take this but for us I think like so I think Malaysia has that or Malaysians have that ability to assimilate and become part of that culture very fast. I think that's our secret secret power.

>> So, it's like being mentally flexible and culturally flexible. >> Culturally flexible. >> Uh I think our like the empathy all of that the the EQ to other cultures is pretty good. And I feel like Singapore is the same as well, you know. >> You think so?

>> I think so. Because people say like >> uh because Singapore is also a mix of different cultures, but people say like Malaysia is more like easygoing, more maybe open, street smart, easygoing, you know, those kind of things. U there's a there's always this uh you know, there's a huge government Singapore push. If you've seen the last few uh maybe year or so, few months, they've been pushing anti-scam campaigns. >> Yes. because I feel like because of the

umbrella and the safety that Singapore provides, I think sometimes Singaporeans have lost the street smartness and the scam um the de data of people getting scammed in this country the numbers uh I think the highest in the world or second highest or third highest in the world and that's why the government is doing something to change that and I feel uh that was interesting your your country is so safe that you are sometimes the threat comes from abroad you know not from here. Uh and and the government is doing a good job in trying to counter that. But yeah, you're right. Coming from Malaysia, we're always worried about like we're street smart. We are easy goinging. We're friendly, but we're

also very street smart in that sense. >> You got to be careful every time. And we learned that when we small from the time you were small. >> Yeah. >> Yeah.

>> Also, I want to talk about like the creativity is like your main topic. Do you think there is a lack of creativity in Singapore? I think the culture and the country has been like I said it's very shielded at times and you're taught to to be safe and to not rock the boat. So creativity suffers when you don't rock the boat when you are trying to play it safe. And I think um this market for creative is interesting because it's not a very we in the industry kind of know this. It's not a very creative

creative market. It's a more it's a highly strategic market. So strategy does really well in Singapore because it's a highly strategic market. But then when you want to want to break the rules and you want to try to rock the boat, it is tougher. And I remember trying to do a campaign uh we were trying to launch Gojek in uh in Singapore.

>> And one of the ideas was >> what year was it? >> 7 years ago. >> Um and we were trying to do two things. one we wanted to because of Gojax the concept was because and I worked with an agency another agency here uh called blockj and we collaborated and we created wanted to create this campaign where we gave free coffee to all the grab staff >> uh because we would because of goj grab staff would have to work extra hard and we wanted to give free coffee and we wanted to put an ad outside the office where we had a crane carrying the billboard saying that we're really sorry uh that we have to open up here and we'll have to make you work harder. So, free coffee on us >> and we weren't given uh the per the permission to to do that because oh, you can't do that kind of advertising. So,

sometimes the creativity is stifled, but when there's rules and boxes, you try to find creative people will try to find a way to break out of that box um every time. So, I I feel like we can do that here. Although the box is really tight, there's a way to kind of play around with it. I feel like the situation is changing for for the best. I mean for like people became more like free to express their ideas. It's coming from

the the system the education system in Singapore is changing. I think every seven or eight years they kind of re review the system and it's now it's like more like liberalized more free speech and stuff compared to like 20 years ago 25 compared to before. >> Yeah. And also because like the Singapore cannot stay like Singapore need to be like connected to their to to the world basically because it's so small. >> I think they innovate as a country they innovate faster than a lot of others.

>> I think when you Yeah. It's tougher to do in like you know when there's countries where they you have rural areas and like Malaysia you have like you know other parts of it's not easily you can't change that easy. >> Yeah. uh with Singapore the the the size makes it easy to move fast and they have an appetite to innovate faster than everyone else >> which I like quite a bit but yeah you're right >> does creative person have to be commercially oriented as well or business oriented as well >> if you're a creative person who doesn't understand how to sell and the business of of uh the economics of it then you're an artist right usually people say that uh you do it for the arts you don't want you don't care about making money You don't care about you know like commercializing you just do it for the pure love of art which is not wrong which is fine. Uh and usually a lot of rich people end up doing that. They

become an artist or art collector or art uh uh buyer, seller, you know, like because you have the money to to forgo commercializing or selling up, right? So >> which I feel is wrong as well because if you are creative, you need to understand not just the creativity and the making part of it, how to market it, how to sell your product, how to sell your idea uh is very important. And I work in advertising uh and marketing. One of the most important things uh other than the idea, other than bringing it to life is to sell it. How and understanding the client's business as well. Like you

can't just come up with an idea which is crazy but it doesn't sell any product because your clients your ultimate job for marketing and advertising is to sell a product. If you have an idea that's crazy that doesn't sell a product, then it defeats the purpose of of advertising and marketing your ultimate goal. And sometimes I I feel like creative people over things and over produces our work. When people just want something simple, there's a way to do it simple. There's a way to sell things. Let's just sell it.

like you don't need to over create, over art direct, over whatever the the the because of social platforms people want it real raw uh much better than polished expensive. Um there are times to be that there are times to be real and raw when most of the time nowadays because of the platforms real and raw uh becomes more important than the polish and fake. example, you know, I I just started having a campaign with Taco Bell as a client and uh you know, you could have done so many things, but one of the promotions that they were having was $7.95 and $7.95 is half this Malaysian ring. Yeah. So, imagine it's only like

what uh two Singh dollars for a taco >> which is really cheap and sometimes you can overthink and over sometimes just need to say it's $7.95. And when we did that there were cues and lines of people buying the product and marketing works if you are smart to play with sometimes just being simple and real. How was your experience in the UK? So you came from the creative industry like being creative like working in media like do you think and London UK and London specifically well known is well known for the being like one of them the creative capitals in the world like how was your experience?

>> Oh man I would not trade the experience for anything. Uh, of course I told you I got mugged and all that. That's different. And I enjoyed like the culture, the gigs, um, um, everything else, the food and, uh, and and meeting friends and stuff like that. But creative culture in London, uh, man, it's the scene is crazy. Like London,

I've seen some the scene in Berlin, in Amsterdam, uh, London especially, the ads. Um, they know how to write copy. They know their craft, uh, the eye for beauty, art direction, for videography. It's amazing compared to, you know, we still got some things that we need to to fix up in terms of craft and stuff like that to to fight with London. But what I think that there is difference. I think

they've got the traditional craft, the art, the copy, uh even the ideas and stuff like that. But we've got the tech uh with AI with with social media uh with platforms, understanding platforms. So that's two things that I feel like uh we if we can learn from each other it's going to be really powerful and that's why I've also set up like a small or planning to set up like a small team in UK as well. I think just getting cross culture kind of work pollination I think can make the work better. But you're right London creativity like if you see the outdoor the billboards and stuff like that you can't beat some of them.

Um, some of the stuff that's done by Uber, KFC, um, they're all amazing outdoor pieces and some of the the most legendary agencies are out there in the UK as well. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So, I've learned a lot. I think the experience was great.

>> Some people think I just show up at the guest place, press record, and that's it. The video is done. But right now, six people work full-time and two part-time on this project. It takes a lot of time, energy, and money. Some interviews takes months to secure. But

we do it because we want to show the world that Asia is a modern, exciting, and inspiring place and to introduce you to the most interesting people out there. If that resonates with you, I'd love for you to become an even bigger part of this project. By clicking the join button below, you'll become an official member and supporter of this channel. You'll get a special page. I'll see your comments first and you will know that you are helping us keep this going. Big hug to each of you. Thank you

so much for your support and honestly you are the best YouTube community I could ever dream of. Thank you so much. >> I used to work in PNG in broken gamble. >> I was a brand manager for for Gucci perfumery. I don't know if you know but back then like 15 years ago Gucci and and the beauty business was owned by PNG.

>> Oh wow. >> Gucci Gabana La Costa Boss. >> So it was a portfolio of brands. It was never kind of revealed publicly but if you take the bottle of which you will see PNG manufactur it and >> well how long we there for me was 3 years and you guys have got good training usually PNG marketers are trained very well is like yeah it's like one of the best like marketing school >> schools yeah in the world I always like PNG marketers >> uh I think they're trained very well yeah you must be very good at marketing >> because we used to work a lot with like BBDO and Ogulv and I used to be in bib and as well >> some places I worked with but yeah the the classic agencies but honestly >> looking at how the industry is moving now everybody's letting go people and I I like to be honest and tell the the hard truth out there right everybody's going to be losing their jobs even more um all these big companies are not going to I think because one the rise of local market I mean one the economy is um then the rise of all these local markets is great as well so everybody's All the new small boutique agencies are popping up and they're doing better work than most of the big network guys and it's a threat. It's a threat for big companies.

So, there's going to be small pop-ups that are that are happening. And for me, I didn't I don't want to be one of the big guys, right? I set up to be a small shop and I because we'll work harder. We'll we'll we'll we'll do times 10x more than all of those guys, right? And and yeah, the industry is going to change or is already changing. Let's

talk a bit about your like your experience working with like this huge brands and like big names like you work with the founders in Gojack. What was the the most memorable like things that happened to you or maybe the biggest the biggest lessons that you learned from from the founders actually because they are like super smart guys. >> Very smart guys. Uh still keep in touch with them, still talk to them quite a bit. I think Kevin's been a bit of a mentor and someone I bounce off ideas as well. But things that I learned from

them, man, I really like um this whole It might seem very basic, but this whole let's just try it. Let's just try it. >> I don't care if we fail. At least we tried it and we can move on from there. If it works, great. If it fails, fine.

We'll just move on. So, I like that gung-hoess and the cowboyess of like just like it. Let's just do it and then see if it fails or not. And experimenting. And I try. I think in

advertising sometimes we are so scared of like oh we cannot because we lose customers or we'll like lose this and you know we lose and most of them are scared of losing their jobs more than anything >> and working with big brands you know they have a lot of guidelines correct and all that there was like man just bloody do it let's just experiment let's just try and and I like that um not a lot of marketers and brands are like that but in gojek I' I found that very interesting um Like at one time I remember I've got I've got a few stories to this right I I went to the the founders and I said like hey okay so they gave a brief we we're opening in Vietnam for the first time >> and uh we want to do an ad saying that oh goj is in Vietnam you know great and tell Indonesians that we are proud you know then I was like man everybody won't care about this ad right if I do it this way what if we took five of our early gojack drivers the guys who've been starting from the beginning and with us for for for a long time. >> Yes. >> And we give them an experience that someone's never given them. We make passports for them and we fly them to Vietnam. >> Fly them to Vietnam.

>> Yeah. And experience Vietnam for the first time. And these are like bike drivers, you know, like they never get the chance to go overseas or will ever get the chance to go overseas, you know. So, we did that and we filmed it for a week and man, those guys cried. They they they said they no no one would ever give them a chance to go overseas to travel in a plane for the first time. So

we documented everything. Them being in a plane for the first time, being in a hotel for the first time, having hotel food for the first time. We take all of these things for granted. >> Yes. >> And some people have never experienced it. And for me to document that was very

powerful. And it became it was a 10-minute long like mini documentary. But Google told us at that point it was one of the it was the best performing long form in Indonesia at that point. Uh, and people's drop off, you know, usually YouTube videos people drop off the first few seconds or minute, two minutes most people finish 85% or 90% of that film. Uh, which was crazy. And

then, you know, I I went to the founders Kevin and like, "Hey, I want to shoot this. I've got no storyboard. This is my idea." He was like, "How much do you need?" I was like, "Uh, 100,000 USD." He's like, "Yeah, okay.

>> Sounds like a good idea. Let's just do it, man." Yeah, >> let's just test and see instead of doing the ad. So, I' found that like just the positivity. Let's just try something.

Let's just keep trying it. >> An amazing thing that I try to bring into my work every time. Let's experiment. Never say no, you know. >> And Gary had the same vibe as well, like let's just try it. Let's just

experiment. I like founders. I like working with founders who have that, you know, gang owners, the balls to do it. Yeah. >> Okay. Uh Gary Vee, Gary Vee is a legend.

Gary Vanderch. Yeah, I mean I was a big fan like still a fan for many years because he's been there forever. >> He's been doing this like for many years. We discussed it also recently because I'm group I'm a part of this YouTubers community and there are like two trends now. One is like the old good old trend like hustle like grind do like work 24/7. But now there is another

trend like slow productivity is called and Gary is like the opposite of it. What I think of his style is it like too much always like go go go go go go go be everywhere >> starts right now that you don't have to worry about getting that job what you should do is go and travel and learn >> see I like okay I've got a balance between both worlds I feel there's times that you need to like let's go let's let's hustle let's do it fast but I know also that modern generation hustle culture is quite toxic for them like you said Right. It's very different. Two different school of thoughts, >> two very different. I think there is best of both worlds that he can learn from. First of all, I'll say, you know,

like being 5 years working with Gary, uh being on calls with him, having messages from him. Even a month ago, I had a message from him, uh saying that he he watched my travel virgin show and he really proud of me, you know, things like that. Uh one thing I learned about from that from him, well, a lot of things that I learned from him, right? I mean, the hustle, working working your ass off to build your company is important. Like, you can't just sometimes sit uh and and chill and and expect things to be uh great. You've got

to really go out there, sell yourself, sell your company, sell what you need to do. And I've learned that u from him. His style is always like push on LinkedIn and go hard, you know, like let and talk about what you do and clients will come in. And I believe in that as well. And for me, I built my company Ballsy on LinkedIn. Like I've never

built like everything from the time I came up with the idea from the time that I found all my first client, my current client is all via LinkedIn. >> And every time I post something on LinkedIn because I always remember I always have the voice of Gary in my head like put it up on LinkedIn to get some clients and I I I've learned that from him. So I mean there are times that I learn and many other things like man that guy is like at the for he knows which platforms what algorithm is uh what is algorithm pushing for different platforms he knows things before things happen like there's a funny story that not a lot of people know he invested in uh in pickle ball uh or is it >> yeah and this is one of I think what I think pickle is big in US >> so pickle he invested five six years before start to be a thing People laughed at him. It's like, who the hell invests in this stupid spot? And now the whole world is playing it. So he had a

video recently saying that, hey, the same thing. And I remember this like we all were like, oh, Gary's investing in pickle. What the hell is that? And then now we're like, holy this guy knows everything two 2 3 years before it's going to happen. He knows it. Uh,

so his ability to predict is that. But also sometimes the the hustle culture can get a bit toxic if you overdo it at times. Sometimes uh you still need that breather for you to like just calm down, recollect all your thoughts and then reconfigure or innovate. >> Uh sometimes the moving to innovate too fast, you're ahead of your time and it doesn't doesn't work. Sometimes it just uh you lose people along the way because it's just too fast pace. It's too crazy

>> for Gen Z >> for Gen Z's. So we had high turnovers, you know, things like that. uh but I think every company is facing that right now because the cultures the work culture is so different. You have the bosses who've been through that whole hustle uh culture and then you have the the up and cominging stars who are not used to that. So for me it's always a mix between those two. There are times

to hustle, there are times to >> relax, recollect uh and innovate. >> So you're speaking at this conference uh in October right in it's e-commerce expo. >> E-commerce expo. Yeah. It's on the October 8th.

>> October 8th. >> One day before my birthday. >> All right. So, what what what what's special about this cont? I know that there are like big brands that are participating like Puma, Toys R U, Shangrila and many others. So, um you

you're speaking about about what >> I was speaking. Okay. First of all, I want to say a lot of big brands are there. A lot of great speakers are there. Um I am speaking I've been asked to speak about storytelling in an age of you know e-commerce and AI coming in is storytelling important um in e-commerce and with AI uh I think it is um I think great storytellers like people like Gary Vee and you know uh so many other even you uh with your real rawness and your your stories that you tell are important for the world to see and to help products and brands sell. Um, I think

storytelling is so important and that's what I'm going to be speaking about. Can you break down to like what like subtopics you would you would be talking about? Being a storyteller, being someone who enjoys stories from different cultures and stuff like that. Uh, in an e-commerce world, people think sometimes a good promotion is enough to sell. People think sometimes uh a discount or being in in big platforms like Shopee and Lazada and stuff like that is going to help you sell. It's not

just that, right? You need to tell a story about your product. Uh example, look at liquid debt. Look at some of the Tik Tok uh live stream influencers who are selling even peanuts and making millions because they know how to sell it. They have they tell a good story.

>> Yeah. and they know how to hook people in. Sometimes the story is not a long when we think story storytelling is a long form. It's not. Sometimes you can do storytelling in 5 seconds. You can do

storytelling with five words, you know, like uh just all of those things is something that I want to talk about in this conference. So I I I think people get lost into the technicalities of e-commerce, AI, tech, but there's a human need for a good story to connect with your emotions and then through emotions to your wallet that people miss out on. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. For sure. It's like you need to

merge digital marketing, tech, e-commerce >> to emotions >> with emotions, which sometimes is not easy, but like professionals like you know how to do it. >> Yeah. That's where we come in. >> Yeah. And that's what is is going to be like your talk is going to be in in this conference. But it's there are like a

lot of like super cool speakers on there. I'm super excited to to to learn new things at this conference. This year as I understand and as I heard this year for this conference is special because of two things. Uh first it's a DMX co debut. >> Yeah. And the other one it's uh there

will be like different like streams dedicated for e-commerce for retail and for digital marketing right so it's like a quite a lot of knowledge to share and a lot of networking and I'm personally a big fan of uh like this kind of conferences cuz you you go there and you some people go for knowledge and for some new trends like AI storytelling in AI it's like wow it's it's pretty cool >> uh and then you go to meet people actually to meet speakers like yourself. >> Yeah. Marketing like networking and then you meet like other people in your industry which is like super super important to be uh in like to understand trends to understand what's going on. So it's it's actually it's it's a good way to learn and stay on top of the game >> in out in Asia. we don't have that many great conferences like this and I've been seeing you know DM expo uh you know in Berlin in uh other countries in Europe and stuff like that it's huge and having that here is exciting um like you said it's not just listening to some of these big brands and people like me speak but also to network with and having access to all these people coming in from all over I'm excited about that Yeah.

>> Yeah. >> Do you think it's more like a regional events or people from like the Europe, America also coming? >> I think especially for this reason because like I said earlier, we don't have we we we are hungry for this kind of content and we don't have that many we don't have access to that many conferences that are like this uh in this part of the world. So I feel like people from all over from Southeast Asia and Asia uh even China, Japan and stuff like that, they're going to come down for this and I'm excited about that. Right. I think yeah this this market

needs or this region needs something like this here. >> Yeah. No, for sure. I'm coming as well and >> yeah, we will leave a link to how to register, how to uh how to get tickets. >> Are you going to give a talk?

>> Unfortunately not. >> Oh man, I would love to but I would love to meet you. Yeah, but I I'd love to meet people there and like say hi to uh to my my viewers and so we will leave a link so you can get tickets and it's October 8th in in Singapore. So >> yeah, >> October 8th and October 9th. >> October 8th today's 2 days conference October 8th October 9th. So I hope to

see you there. We will leave a link for the tickets in description. >> Yeah, if you see me there, wish me happy birthday. My next day the next day is my birthday. >> Yeah. Are you speaking on on the 8th? on

the eight because I got to yeah leave on the ninth. >> If you analyze your career journey and your business journey, maybe one or two principles, the main principles that you can maybe you advise you or like someone in their 20s how to be like successful and how to be on top of the game. >> First of all, I don't know if I'm successful. Maybe I am. I don't know. I

always feel that I'm unfinished with this. So maybe that's a good trait to have like don't settle for anything like keep pushing, keep trying. It sounds basic but it's a interesting kind of like mindset to have like not being happy with one thing or two things or the product just keep pushing, keep innovating, keep trying. And my other one is just stay positive, man. Like like the world uh doesn't need to be negative >> and and uh people don't I this is one thing that I've always believed in like I only want to work with people who are positive and I only want to be around with people who are positive. So have

that positive attitude and and uh and do good for others and help other people out. Like for me in whichever stage in my career, I've always just helped people out and that's opened a lot of doors. But don't do it just to to get something like genuinely just do it to help people and it opens up a lot of doors and or it just gives you a satisfaction and for me just small things like that. Maybe I'm a small town person. I am very happy with a lot of and contended a lot of things >> but with business I'm like let's keep trying let's keep doing but stay positive don't be negative and just help people as much as you can >> that's my three things or I know you asked for two but that's my three things that I've just believed in >> yeah I guess you appreciate this kung spirit still >> yeah the kung spirit uh and just yeah being friendly being warm don't forget that but also be you know like hungry when you need to and strive and work hard when you need to and just being positive. I think that Kong spirit of

like you know things might be tough for you, things might be crazy uh for you but staying positive uh and then the world and the the work and the industry can kick you down but stay positive and and because when you are putting out positivity they'll come back to you. >> What's the meaning of life for you? Just being happy, man. Not being jealous of others. Just being happy with what we we have and uh and you know, just enjoy life. Like enjoy food. Look at me. And

I'm Malaysian. I enjoy my food. Uh and uh I just enjoy life, you know? >> Enjoy good music. I enjoy Yeah. Like I

said, just life, traveling, cultures, learning from other people. >> I enjoy listening to stories. Um, like everyone I meet, I'll try to get some stories out of them. I think maybe because I'm a storyteller, but I'm also just someone who loves stories. >> Yeah.

>> But yeah, >> I saw on your Instagram you you went to a concert, some big concert like recently. >> Couple months ago, I went for Oasis, >> man. Oasis is uh >> Yeah, >> they are I mean, one of my my favorite bands when I was in the '90s >> or like high school and stuff like that. And um I used to play in a band as well. So I used to sing one of the songs.

>> Oh wow. Okay, cool. We we'll talk about that after this. Uh but yeah, so man, Oasis is one of the the old like the >> one of the best rock bands ever existed. I feel um the concert some people were like, "Oh, it's a minus one. They can't

be that good now." I think sometimes when you're good, >> whatever age you are, um however long you've not done it, you're still good, you know. Um, so yeah, >> where was it? Houston London in London. >> So I went I went to London for some work and to set up uh Ballsy there, >> my company there, but I also uh got tickets with my friends to go and watch Yeah. Oasis.

>> So like I said, I I just enjoy life, enjoy good music, enjoy bands, enjoy going for live concerts, enjoy good food. Um Yeah. Just live your life, man. [Music]