---
video_title: "This Chinese Village Changed How I See China Forever"
video_id: LaE5M2KEI04
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LaE5M2KEI04
video_date: 2025-10-13T11:00:38+00:00
video_description: |
  Since I started visiting China a year ago, I’ve been fascinated by life there. But the country still puzzles me. The big cities look so polished and futuristic—but what if that’s just the exception? Western media claims the progress is a facade, that real life in small towns is poor, grey, and tightly controlled. No robots, EVs, or AI-powered smart cities—just people struggling to get by. I wanted to see for myself if that’s true.
  
  So I decided to go beyond the big cities, visit villages, and talk directly with locals—ask them if they make good money, whether they’ve ever thought about leaving China, and what they think about America. To make it happen, I asked a Chinese friend, to drive me to some villages.
  
  TO START AND GROW YOUTUBE:
  🎬 Online workshop "YouTube Fast-Track to Views & Passive Income". Join for free: https://www.shym.sg/workshop  
  🏆 12-month full-scale personally coached program ‘Side Hustle YouTube Mastery.’ Join us: https://www.shym.sg/
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP:
  📷 Casual daily life on my Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on my Telegram channel: https://t.me/friendsofmax
  💰 Sponsorship-related requests: max@maxchernov.sg
  👥 If you have a guest suggestion for an interview, please reach out at max@maxchernov.sg
  
  ➢  My friend Xim on TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@ximengxim
  
  WATCH NEXT:
  ► Honest view on China after 16 years (American POV): https://youtu.be/iqVlKItJYnk
  ► This walk with Brit in Guangzhou changed my view of China: https://youtu.be/R-ozoOKhUO4 
  ► Brit took me inside a Chinese Factory... I Didn’t Expect This: https://youtu.be/lzF3YrOkkyk 
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  00:00 INTRO
  01:12 Where Do We Go
  01:17 Paying by QR in Rural China
  02:05 Walking Around a Chinese Village
  03:47 The Guy Who Built a Fancy Chinese House
  05:07 What’s the Job of the Villager
  06:15 Drinking Tea with Local Chinese
  06:41 What Chinese Think About the U.S.
  08:30 Basement in a Chinese House
  10:39 Rude Grandma?
  11:45 Walking Around a Chinese Village
  13:02 Looking for the Real Side of China
  14:05 Restaurant in Rural China
  16:56 Do Chinese Villagers Watch the News?
  17:53 Eating Chinese Food
  19:20 Paying with Smart Glasses in a Village
  20:56 What Happens When Your EV Dies in Rural China
  24:08 American Brands in a Chinese Gas Station Shop
  25:28 Picking Grapes in the Village
  27:27 Going Back to the City
  
  Hey! This channel bridges the gap between locals and foreigners all over the world. Join Max as he interviews expats, unraveling their unique stories and providing valuable insights into their lives in the vibrant places of Asia. Through engaging conversations, Max fosters understanding and appreciation between locals and the global community, focusing on cultural exchange.
  
  If you're a company seeking sponsorship opportunities to engage our upscale audience, contact us at maxchernovYT@gmail.com. With over 50% Singaporean viewers and a substantial number of foreign professionals (US, EU, Australia), our mature audience (35-54 years) boasts strong purchasing power and interests in an above-average lifestyle, travel, investment, and personal finance.
---
Since I started visiting China a year ago, I've been fascinated by life there, but the country still puzzles me. The big cities look so polished and futuristic, but what if it's just the exception? Western media claims the progress is a facade. The real life in small towns is poor, gray, and tightly controlled. No robots, EVs, AI-powered smart cities, just people struggling to get by. And I wanted to see myself if

that's really true. So, I decided to go beyond the big cities, visit villages, and talk directly with locals, and ask them if they make good money, whether they have ever thought about leaving China, and what they think about America and Trump. To make it happen, I asked a Chinese friend who once lived in Canada to drive me to some villages. Okay, today we're doing something special. I'm meeting my friend, and he's a Chinese TikToker. He's a live streamer,

and he His audience is actually in the US. So, he's meeting me here. He just rented the car for our special trip. That's my boy. Hey, dude. What up? Nice car. This is

for you. Oh, thank you. No worries. We're going to a village in Conghua District. After more than 2 hours on the highway, we started seeing villages in the distance and decided it was time to pull over, explore, and talk to some locals. For our tolls, uh you

pay with a QR code only. Like you don't Like there's nobody working here. I'm not sure if it's the same in other countries.

You just need to throw the card in. And let's go. What if you miss? Just scan the code.

Woohoo! Nice. [Music]

Looks old.

Nice. I don't think you No, it's locked. Mhm. You can Yeah, you can smell it. Probably chicken How do you call it?

Chicken place. >> Chicken [ __ ] Chicken sh- Oh, there are chickens there. Hello. This is for for for the good luck, the Uh it's Chinese New Year. Like we would put stuff up. Why now? It's from there. I

think it's from Chinese New Year. >> From last year? Yeah. Wow. This also the old one. How old is it you

think the building? 50 years? 100 years? >> 30, 40 years. Could maybe 50. It's not

that old. It's actually very like clean and neat and like well organized. >> Uh look, if you want, you can like even go up there. I don't know what to expect, but >> Yeah. why not? This is like super well

organized, you know? Like This is a Super neat. water purifier. Yeah. And it's not like a lot of cables and like mess and dirt, so it's actually like look very neat.

Yeah, the kids are here to find you. Hi. Ni hao. Ni hao. Don't be shy.

Well, we'll be shy. I think somebody lives inside or no. Probably no. Hard to say. It's But it's not a Okay, if you want to do it, you do it.

I don't know what it is. I think it's just like a >> Like a storage. I think it's a storage. No, no, no. They're living inside for sure. Yeah, I think so. Yeah, they're

living inside for sure. Oh, because because of the Yeah, taking a break for sure. Okay. Okay. Okay, but we won't bother them.

Is this the temple or is a house? Oh, it's a house. They wouldn't have it like a random temple here. They might like have a like a family shrine. Oh, this is Like this is fancy, man.

This is fancy AF. Hi. Ni hao. You too. We were just walking around, not really knowing where we're going, when suddenly a Chinese guy appeared out of nowhere. And after just a short chat,

he invited us to his home. Wow, I didn't expect that. So, this is family, it's not temple. >> Yeah, this is family. This is not temple.

>> You can go in to take a look. >> Oh, wow. It's It's beautiful. Yeah. So, is it his house?

Yeah. Wow. You You built it yourself? He said no. Yeah? He built it?

>> Yeah. Wow. Wow, so cool. So, that's like that's spring water. Oh my god. How many years

it took to build the house? Oh, 10 years. >> The bricks are not from here, so they they shipped it from another province that is super far away.

What does he do for a living? Engineering. Engineering? Yeah. Ah, wow.

Like construction. He's in in charge of like construction work. Ah. Here in the village or in the city?

Most of the time in this district. Ah. Yeah, sometimes in Guangzhou as well, but like Ah. He is local, of course he would like, you know, Yeah. uh develop his career here instead. Does life here is

better than life in Guangzhou?

He's saying that here is better because like it's not allowed to build factories here. There is like a very famous river Uh-huh. in this area. Yeah. Oh, look, look. Oh my god.

Wow. So, here is better because more flexibility. Yeah, more flexibility. No, like because he's local. His family is here, right? Yeah. And you don't want to

step on that. You always like us. It's like a Yeah, like like it's it's it's not like polite. >> Yeah, it's it's forbidden. Forbidden?

Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. He's asking whether you want the tea. Yeah? Yeah.

>> Sure? Yeah. He said he said that he's very friendly and thanks for letting us drink a tea with him. Yes. We were random. We were just walking and

then he's like like Guangdong people is just nice. Yeah? Guangdong people is just nice. Yeah, like I'm surprised as well, you know, like how friendly everything is. He's looking for something. He's looking for Russia. For

Russia? Here. Yeah. Can you find America?

Yeah, he's pointing at Alaska, though. Yeah, this one is Alaska.

He's saying like uh Russia and uh China has good They have good relationship. >> Good relationship, yeah. What about China and America? It has good relationship or no?

Very bad. Whose fault is it? Yeah, America's fault or China's fault? Of course it's America. Of course America, yeah.

Yeah, like the tariffs earlier, it's like very shitty. Does he follow the news about America at all?

Uh in the morning and like in the evening he would like watch news. I think like most guys they would pay more attention to it. Yeah. But like like Yeah. Like women we're just like, "Nah, Yeah.

>> I don't really care." I think it's the same everywhere, not only not only like here. I think so. >> Yeah. Three things he know about America. Only one.

One thing. Oh, it's pretty hot. Cars. Cars.

[Laughter] Gun shooting movies. Gun shooting movies. Yeah. Yeah, China is safer. China is safer.

China is safer, yeah. Oh. Oh. Wow. >> There's a basement, man. This is

beautiful. They have a wine cellar. They also have like a wine cellar. Ooh! Woohoo!

Oh, very good. The toilet is over there. Yeah. How do I say very cool in Chinese? Like cool.

Niubi. Niubi? Yeah, niubi. Niubi? Niubi?

Niubi? Yeah, niubi. Niubi? This one. Uh they have like four layers of wine. I

don't know. This is not wine. This is like This is like This is like freaking uh like This is This is very strong. Very strong? >> Yeah, very strong. Like vodka. How How

strong? Like same as vodka? [Music] 50 plus. Ooh, that's strong. Even me, I'm I'm Russian, I cannot take 50 plus.

This is the one with the different That's like they have different like this is with honey. Yes, I can see. Honey

What's that? It's Chinese medicine. So, this is medicine? Medicine is alcohol medicine. No, no, no. Like

medicine alcohol. Like this is Chinese Chinese herbs inside. All alcohol? Yeah, that's passion fruit. Passion fruit?

>> Yeah, passion fruit. This one. This one. This is also medicine.

So, it's good for your health? This one? Come on. Drinking is not good for your health. But like you know, like this is what they like to believe. They build it

themselves. All of this. And the house. This is Wow, amazing. It's a branch of of a tree.

And this is for good luck, I guess. Like from Chinese New Year. Drying on the sun, I guess. Pigeon? Yeah, like here they eat pigeons. Yeah, why? Like to dry?

And they will roast it. Bye-bye. Have fun. Huh?

He realized that I can speak Cantonese last minute. The babushka, she just spoke Cantonese, yeah? Yeah, she's like, "Are you are you leaving?" But like It's like a very It's like not I wouldn't say it's a polite way. Uh. Yeah, like he's like, "Are you

What it's it's like to my understanding, it it sounds more like, "Are you getting the [ __ ] out of here?" But maybe maybe in in like because they also have different dialects. So, probably like this Yeah, this is actually the say like, "Yeah, like are you leaving?" How do you like the the the overall interview? Like is this something that you want? Yeah, yeah,

that's awesome, man. Yeah, I feel like we reached a point that you're You're running out of questions and he still kept pouring tea. [ __ ] I don't want to stay here for another 3 hours. Yeah, cuz for him it's probably kind of rude if I have empty cup. >> Yeah, yeah. It's kind of not acceptable.

It needs to be It's always like that. If you talk about business here with people, same same [ __ ] style. Yeah, like they will keep pour you tea. But it seems like they're having a good life here. I would say decent life.

>> I mean, they don't travel much, but this is looks very good. Yeah. You know? The thing is they don't probably they don't want to travel. Ni hao. That's the

thing. They don't want to travel. >> I think so. I think so. They don't really interested in traveling. He was

saying that they used to living like a like houses like this before. So, those are old. Those are old, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, for example, this one, I think this one is from the last time.

Like this is the old one. I don't think it's a good idea to live inside now. Probably it won't even hold like Yeah. the rain. Dude, this is so peaceful.

I want to live in the village. Oh, yeah. We did not The funny thing is we didn't plan to come here at all. Yeah. That was very random.

By the time I already had the feeling people would comment that the Communist Party of China paid for this video because the villages looked too nice and the man was too friendly. So, I decided to find more locals. Maybe ones who were less well-off and less happy because if you believe American media, it simply cannot be this good in China. Or can it? This is quite a rural.

Okay, now we start eating. All right. How hungry are you? Very hungry. So, this place they're famous for roasted chicken.

Nice. Yeah, it's just like over there somewhere. Little toilet. You know what about toilets? People think this is outdated, but it's actually not. It's the best way

to take a [ __ ] This kind of toilet if it's a public toilet, you know? Yeah, that's the best. Believe me. Try it yourself. Okay, what are they doing here?

They're drying some cabbage. Is it? That thing is pretty cool. This one? This thing for circle.

Nice. Ooh. They're chickens. I want to like about it, you see? It's like very rural.

But Yeah. That EV Xiaomi, BMW, uh Tesla and like what is it Buick or like some American one, right? Where is the old cars? He is local. Yeah. He is a local.

>> He ever thought He ever thought of going somewhere else to move to big city or somewhere else?

The air is not as good as here. So, I'm trying He's saying that the air in the village is better. Can you live a comfortable life running this business in a village? Yeah, as long as you like you have food to eat, it's okay. It's okay?

>> Yeah, it's okay. It doesn't matter if it's a lot of money like they can make a lot of money or no because It's rent free. As long as you don't need to go to different places to uh make a living. It's okay. Yeah, he's he's too old to do that now.

Yeah.

Yeah, if he wants to go outside of this place to to work, to seek job, nobody want nobody would hire him because he's already he's already too old. Uh How old is he? 60 63. 63? Wow. How many years they've

been together? From '87. From '87? >> Yeah. Oh, long time. 38. 38 years.

Is he a good husband? Is he a good husband?

Doesn't matter whether he's good or no. It's the way it is. It's the way it is. Okay, okay. It's very philosophical answer, actually. Can you ask her what's

the best for her about him? [Laughter] [Music] Kind. Kind? Kind. Very kind.

>> Very kind. Yeah. It's so vague. What's the What's the best thing for you about her? Yeah, pretty.

Pretty.

When when she was younger, it's okay to say that she's pretty, but not anymore.

Yeah, I guess as long as as as like the life is okay, it doesn't really matter anymore. Does he follow the news? Can you ask if he follow any any news about the world? No, not really. Al- almost no. Like they

don't really care. They don't really care. They live their life. Yeah, like it's just like he's a he's a villager here. What does he know about like America?

Any any views on America? Is it good? Is it bad? Anything? She's laughing.

He's saying like now it's only about peace, you know? Only only about peace, yeah. Yeah, nobody wants a war. Donald Trump is good or bad? Donald Trump?

[Music] He's talking about tariffs. Tariffs? Yeah, like it's he's not good because of the tariffs. Uh. Why why countries are not friendly to each other?

Thank you so much. Bye-bye. This is the chicken that the roasted chicken that they they cook outside. I'm just going to start with a drumstick. We're about to eat.

Let you guys eat it first. Is it good? Wow, so good. I'm eating with a like a YouTuber friend. Like the friend that I met in Thailand. Mhm, it's very

good. This is very good. >> Not spicy at all. Uh-uh. Mhm, cuz people think that Chinese food is always spicy, but not always.

Depends on the region. Well, thank you for the donuts, Muresic. I like suburbs. Chinese suburbs have the best food. Thank you for the Sunday bowl, Jey Love.

People are different in suburbs and the cities, you think? Yeah, mentality is pretty different. I would say like suburb people, they're like they're nicer. More friendly, yeah? More genuine. Yeah.

More open. So, the bones I supposed to put on the table, not on the plate, right? Uh the the plates are for the are for the bones. For the bones? Yeah, so like technically you need to put it here. Okay. It's pretty casual. You

don't like there are no right or wrong way doing it. Yeah, because I saw Chinese they do they just put bones on the table. Depends, I guess. It can be both. Oh.

Nice. That's the rice. That's the rice. That's the rib rice. Ooh, also good.

Very good. Cheers. Hello. Hello. That's soy sauce. If you

think like it's not like strong enough, you can add some. Yeah. You can add some soy sauce. The food is so freaking good, man. Mhm.

And it's funny that you don't need even in a rural area don't need cash at all. You use WeChat to pay for your food anywhere. Even at the stall on the street. I don't need my glasses now. Uh. Eat more. I

feel like for two guys we're not eating enough. Yeah, but you're busy and I'm I'm taking my time. Oh, you're taking your time. I'm not busy. I'm I'm I'm Like see? More bones. There are more

bones on my plate. That's true. That's true. That's called professionalism. What would be So, the price of of this?

Uh $20. I would like guess it could be it would be like 10 10 or 15. >> no no, like this is a restaurant still at the end of the day. >> Okay. >> So if you go to like if you go to the city, if you just get a bowl of noodles, $2. Yeah, but I can like maybe my

thinking was it's a village, so it's supposed to be like cheaper. Everything here is organic though. I'm not saying it's like it's just my expectation would be if we are like 2 hours away from the city, it's like super cheap, but it's like not super cheap, it's okay. We're in the middle of nowhere in the village and my friend seems going to pay with glasses. What are the glasses? It's

Xiaomi. Xiaomi? >> Yeah, everything is Xiaomi. Okay. Everything I use is Xiaomi. It can also

change the shade like a like if I Oh, that's cool. Oh, that's so convenient. Yeah, it's very convenient. It won't change like because of the like the sunlight. Yeah, but especially when you're driving, very convenient.

[Music] You're talking to it. Is it? Yeah.

Okay, time to head back to the big city life, but suddenly a problem came up. Oh [ __ ] I still need to charge the thing. How much left? Uh well, I can still like make it to to Guangzhou, but better do it like I won't have enough time to You're not from Guangzhou, right? >> From a city called Nanjing, which is not far away from Shanghai. I was sent to

boarding school when I was 12. >> And then after boarding school, you went to high school, you went to Canada. >> High school, yeah, then Canada. >> imagine that uh there were a lot of like Chinese students in Canada. But I majored in history, so most of them they would do like economics, they would do like math. History is very unusual for

Chinese, right? Yeah, most like most people they would do like science-related majors. Yeah. And uh I I I used to be called the the shame of Asians because I can't do math. Which is kind of true. Yeah, it's not

very Asian thing to >> Not very Asian thing to not good at math. Yeah, not not to be good at math. You automatically you're born Asian, you're automatically >> Yeah. supposed to be good at math. >> Otherwise you lose your citizenship.

Yes, exactly, yeah. Anything was shocking to you when you went to Canada to study? Like how cold Canada is and also like if you don't drive in Canada, like like waiting for buses is [ __ ] terrible. I don't I was shocked at how uh not developed their uh public transportation is. Uh-huh.

Okay.

This is perfect. Like a lot of a lot of a lot of drivers they suck at backing up their their vehicles and they don't need to worry about anything now. Yeah. I I I I'm not bad, but I I I I can't do it like perfectly every time. Yeah, yeah. It's like it's annoying.

Okay. How does it work? I've never done it before.

Oh, this is heavy, man. Yeah. [ __ ] You want me to hold this? >> Yes, thank you. Oh, I think now it's charging.

Let's go inside to use the toilet. Is it a typical like gas station in China? >> yeah, a lot of people like when I'm doing live stream they're like, "Shem, where are the where is your gas station? Why I've never seen a gas station." We don't really have gas station in the city.

No. Like it's either like on the highway or near the highway. I don't know. Like in like in Singapore well, Singapore is different. In Russia, do you see like gas stations in the in the city center?

Yeah, in the city, yeah. Yeah. >> Like in the city you can find them, but like not in the city center. Not like in the city center, yeah. Not in the center >> Not in the center center. Right. So they

have food like usually you can just like get get some fruits to eat here, get some expensive, but but that's the way it is. Let's see if they have any international brands there. Here? Probably not. They would have Coca-Cola. Yeah. They

have Magnum ice cream. This one is international, yeah. They have Nescafe. They have Nescafe. Starbucks.

>> Starbucks. Okay, Starbucks. Red Bull. Red Bull. Here we go.

Already four international brands. Safeguard, also international. This cup noodle is I don't know. >> Japanese. Japanese.

>> Yeah. >> Yeah, it's very famous, it's everywhere. Monster Energy, international. Budweiser. Budweiser. Tsingtao. Okay,

Red Bull already had. Snickers. Coke. Is it Coke or is it fake Coke? >> It's Coke and diet Coke. Is it

different? It's No, it's it's the same Coke. It's same Coke. It's Coca-Cola. Oh yeah, it's Coca-Cola. Pepsi, Sprite

No, not Sprite. >> Sprite, Sprite. Is it? Okay, Sprite. Monster. I don't think anything here

would be international. Those are like Chinese stuff. >> Yeah. Lays. If they have Lays, they might have Pringles.

Yeah. Pocky, also international. >> sure where it is where it is from. I'm not sure it's either >> be Japanese. Uh how to say?

Can be Japanese. Oreo. Oreo. International, okay. Pretty much it, but it's a lot like it's like 20 international brands.

Quite a lot. Okay, fully charged, we're ready to move on again. But before leaving the last village, we came across a very curious little place. So this is a grape plantation. >> Yeah. We're going to go take a look to

see what you can get. Do you want a hat? I want. It says Chinese dream. I will pass, I don't like hats. Chinese dream.

I like Chinese dream. I will die for Chinese dream and also it's pretty.

It's not good to be super tall, huh? Yeah, man. Okay. It's very hard job. A very hard job.

>> it would be a bit more challenging. No, it's not challenging enough. Okay. This one? Okay.

Here? Okay.

Wow, this is the super cool. Super easy. Super easy. I think we can get three. Yeah.

There you go. It's actually super good. Very sweet. I'm surprised that like they packed everything. Yeah.

She's choosing the best the best ones for us. Oh, this is the heaviest one. Wow. Mm, nice. Pretty good.

[Applause] [Music] Oh, not too heavy. You're a strong man. I'm a strong man from Russia. [Music] Wow, does she has many customer?

Uh over the weekend more people. More people, yeah? Yeah.

W- 120. Okay. It's 50 for per kilo. Is it expensive or okay? That's pretty cheap. Pretty cheap, yeah.

[Music] It was great, man. It was like [ __ ] fantastic, I would say. Thanks a lot. My pleasure. Yeah, you're you're more than welcome. Yeah, you're

the legend, man. Before this trip, I didn't know what to expect from Chinese villages. I imagined China could be a country of two extremes, futuristic cities and villages stuck in poverty. But what I found here was completely different. Western media often tries to convince you that the world outside of America and Europe is poor, undeveloped and hostile. But in

places like China, life feels very normal. People are friendly and honestly, they don't care much about America. They just want to live their lives, provide for their families, raise their children and take care of the elderly. Walking through these villages, seeing the homes, the people and their daily routines, I realized how far this image is from the one we're usually told. So it's truly eye-opening when you stop listening to official media with its agendas and start seeing everything with your own eyes.

[Music]