---
video_title: "Bali Real Estate Risks & Benefits"
video_id: ax3WBpfjfX8
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ax3WBpfjfX8
video_date: 2025-11-30T10:00:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Disclaimer:
  This video and the information presented about investment opportunities with Alex Villas in Bali are not targeted to residents of any specific country or jurisdiction. Investing in real estate involves risk, and the value of your investment can rise as well as fall. Before investing, you should carefully review the relevant offering memorandum or sales agreement for the specific property you are considering, including the section titled “Risk Factors”.
  All views expressed in this video should not be construed as investment advice and are provided for general informational or entertainment purposes only. The author of the video and the channel host are not liable for the information provided. This advertisement has not been reviewed by Singapore’s financial regulator or by any securities or real estate authority in other jurisdictions.
---
Why would I invest in Bali versus like other investment tools? >> Bali have the biggest ROI for now all over the world. You can have a villa here. You rent out it during the year and if you want to come on vacation, you can do it. >> What people should think about in terms of the risks if they want to make this decision. A lot of new developers come

here every year and not all of these developers will finish their project because they don't have experience to build in Bali because it's rather hard to build here. Second risk is that we have no scroll accounts like uh Dubai for example have but for example we in Alex Villas have something like a scroll account. So if you will come to us we will explain you how to make your risk lower. Knowing the risks is key and choosing the right developer helps you maximize returns. And if you want to learn more about Alex Vas, use the link below. And don't forget to do your own

research before any investment decision.