---
video_title: "Ex-Brit explains Singapore after 28 years living there"
video_id: 6qW6i9DYtT8
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6qW6i9DYtT8
video_date: 2025-11-28T11:00:21+00:00
video_description: |
  📌 Learn more about investing* in Bali with Alex Villas: https://info.alexvillasgroup.com/max_chernov/ 
  🌏 Apply for The Backstage Circle (incl. Phuket trip): https://forms.gle/huwR6NQNz5A4XgC78 
  
  *This video and the information presented about investment opportunities with Alex Villas in Bali are not targeted to residents of any specific country or jurisdiction. Investing in real estate involves risk, and the value of your investment can rise as well as fall. Before investing, you should carefully review the relevant offering memorandum or sales agreement for the specific property you are considering, including the section titled “Risk Factors”.
  All views expressed in this video should not be construed as investment advice and are provided for general informational or entertainment purposes only. The author of the video and the channel host are not liable for the information provided. This advertisement has not been reviewed by Singapore’s financial regulator or by any securities or real estate authority in other jurisdictions.
  
  Meet John Dykes, a renowned sports television host and journalist. Born in England, he grew up in Hong Kong and later moved to Singapore in the late 90s. After decades of working with major global TV networks and world-famous athletes, he became a Singaporean citizen three years ago. John shared what made him swap a UK passport for a Singaporean one, why leaving Singapore makes him love it even more, and what outsiders get completely wrong about the country. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP:
  📷 Casual daily life on my Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on my Telegram channel: https://t.me/friendsofmax
  💰 Sponsorship-related requests: max@maxchernov.sg
  👥 If you have a guest suggestion for an interview, please reach out at max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST:
  ➢  on LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/johndykesfc
  
  WATCH NEXT:
  ► Kumar about censorship, ignorant foreigners and stressed Singaporeans: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bHBqXlMlNek 
  ► Wealth Strategies of American Multi-Millionaire in Singapore: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Nz74s44wsQ 
  ► Singapore’s multi-millionaire on China, America and AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tP7QksbJVQ
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  00:00 INTRO
  00:37 Life-changing meeting with Lee Kuan Yew
  06:08 Becoming a Singapore citizen
  09:55 Troubles with a Singapore passport
  12:07 View on the UK after living in Singapore
  15:40 Permanent residency in Hong Kong vs Singapore
  19:45 Retirement in Singapore
  21:12 Investment strategy
  24:52 Hong Kong then and now
  31:14 The golden years of Singapore
  35:57 Police in Singapore
  38:03 Best thing about Singapore
  39:51 Being British in Hong Kong
  41:11 Hong Kong vs Singapore society
  47:55 Do foreigners have to assimilate in Singapore?
  49:45 Jokes about race in Singapore
  55:11 Common traits of successful people
  56:58 Lessons learned from successful people
  01:04:55 The meaning of life
  
  Hey! This channel bridges the gap between locals and foreigners all over the world. Join Max as he interviews expats, unraveling their unique stories and providing valuable insights into their lives in the vibrant places of Asia. Through engaging conversations, Max fosters understanding and appreciation between locals and the global community, focusing on cultural exchange.
  
  If you're a company seeking sponsorship opportunities to engage our upscale audience, contact us at maxchernovYT@gmail.com. With over 50% Singaporean viewers and a substantial number of foreign professionals (US, EU, Australia), our mature audience (35-54 years) boasts strong purchasing power and interests in an above-average lifestyle, travel, investment, and personal finance.
---
This is home. >> This is literally home because I'm now a Singaporean red passport holder and this is this is home. >> Meet John Dykes, [music] a renowned sports television host and journalist. Born in England, he grew up in Hong Kong and later moved to Singapore in the late '90s. After decades [music] of working with major global TV networks and one of famous athletes, he became a Singaporean citizen 3 years ago. John shared what

made him swap a UK passport for a Singaporean one. Why leaving Singapore [music] makes him love it even more and what outsiders get completely wrong about the country. I'm Max Chernov, [music] your insider to expert life. Let's go. Back in the days when we were really growing and booming as a Premier League broadcaster around Asia. The

British High Commissioner here used to sort of lean into my skills occasionally and get me to go and host events at at his residence or whenever they were doing promotional things. And one time he said to me, "Are you available for a dinner next week? Got a special dinner." And I said, "Yeah, sure." He said, "Bring your wife. Come to Eden Hall,

which is his fabulous residence on Nassim Road. I've got a special guest." And it turned out that I was there at a dinner and the guests were Mr. and Mrs. Lee, right? So, we went there and it was

meant to be like a best of British. I was supposedly the sort of the Premier League broadcasting guy was a guy from, you know, Rolls-Royce and other major British entities, banks and and companies. >> So, we stood there and my wife couldn't believe it. you know, as a Singaporean, you know, born and bred. We're going to be having dinner with Mr. Lee, you know,

the the visionary founder and of this country. >> So, we went to this place. >> We all lined up when Mr. and Mr. Lee arrived and, you know, as people will have told you, you know, physically quite an imposing guy, you know, and and and he walked across, shook everybody's hand. I was at the end of the row and

having met all these people, the high commissioner introduced him to me and said, "And this, of course, is John, who's our fabulously famous and successful broadcaster who shows the Premier League matches." And Mr. literally sort of shook my hand, you know, looked me in the eye and said, "Ah, yes, nice to meet you, John. Now, tell me, what do you do?" And I said, "Yeah, I'm the anchor and the presenter on a range of programming that shows football, mainly Premier League football." And they looked at me again,

he went, "Yes, but what do you do?" And my heart sort of, you know, skipped a beat. And I thought, "Oh my goodness, am I suddenly being questioned if you're not a banker, doctor, lawyer, engineer, are you in a sort of, you know, a genuinely productive, viable field?" But then I thought to myself, okay, maybe that's something that he asked everybody. I said, well, I guess in essence, what I do is I inform and I entertain. And he went, okay. And we sat

down. So I sat down at the table and we had a few moments when I sat there thinking, is this a problem? You know, do I need to sort of address this? And then I listened and and he was amazing. And he and he really engaged us all by sitting there and being very open and candid and and and laying out what he did in Singapore, why he did it, what his vision was. He gave us his world

view. and he was so precient. He spoke really about things that have subsequently become major issues in Western societies. And he he highlighted it and this is remember the early 2000s. And halfway through the meal, we'd been chatting about a few things and I said to him, "By the way," I said, "Um, I I was at the Istana the other day for an event with the the president and I noticed that you've got this beautiful golf course wrapped around the Estana."

>> Yeah. >> Path three golf course. And he said, "Oh, yeah." I said, "You play there?" He said, "I play there all the time." So

then I said, "Um, have you ever got a hole in one?" and he said, "Yeah, just the other day." And his eyes lit up. And he told me about how he used a wood to hit this ball and and it went in and and it was amazing. And I'm thinking to myself, "There you go. There's

vindication for what I do." >> He came alive because we were talking about sport and we use sport as a kind of a metaphor. And and and we we really sort of have a lovely conversation about it. So that was interesting. And the point I'm making long-windedly is that when he said to me, "What do you do?"

That was the first time I'd ever really looked in upon myself and said, "What do I do?" >> Yes. >> What's my purpose? What's my role? Where am I in this great sort of you know Rojack of society here? What am I what

am I bringing to it? And I think it's important that that that someone like him made you think about that. >> It's a very inspirational story. >> Oh, I hope so. Yes. It inspired me.

>> No, I mean that's the that's the powerful question like second time to ask you what do you do? >> Yeah. >> And it was funny like I said at the time [snorts] >> I could almost imperceptibly feel my wife next to me like t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t tensing up and but um but sometimes you need to ask yourself that. >> Yeah. In fact, we always need to ask ourel that we don't do it necessarily.

Sometimes we just get caught up in in doing what we do. And you know, it's it's it's it was good, blunt, and direct. But then, how do you think he got so much done? >> Yeah. >> I mean, his legacy is just extraordinary.

>> Yeah. >> Really? First time I was aware of him, I was in Hong Kong and I went to the foreign correspondents club and he was invited to speak there and the Hong Kong journalists particularly the western journalists relished the opportunity to rip into him to question him to try and try and really sort of undermine him and he destroyed them as he had a habit of doing but he destroyed them not not by being petty or vindictive or threatening to sue them. He just had a logic to him and a purpose and and I must confess because I'd been on the side of the Hong Kong journalist because I was a journalist and I thought a guys are really going to get after this guy from Singapore and I was like wo >> this guy really knows what he's doing >> and and I think you see it everywhere you look around. >> I read the book of Liquanu like the story of like how he built Singapore with his team but what I learned from the book he often question himself. So

for the public he was like super overconfident >> but internally he was like am I doing it right >> self-doubt and a lot of these things just people don't see it >> and I'm pretty sure with all these like high level super high level people they have doubts >> but they know what to do what the right thing to do >> you you've nailed it I spoke to you earlier about having the privilege the immense privilege of of of going to a dinner with Mr. Lee and I wasn't just there with Lee Guanu I was there with Mrs. as well his wife maybe the most intelligent and impressive woman I've ever met even in their advanced years they were both formidable but what I realized and I think what a lot of people have spoken about and written about and I think what he spoke about was that she was always there behind him offering advice perspective support helping develop the vision so perhaps when he questioned himself he had her there as well as others as well that that that supported and encouraged so you became a Singaporean citizen Uh how many years ago? >> About 3 years ago. >> 3 years ago. How did you make this

decision? Was it difficult for you like emotionally or it was like quite logical? >> Um there there are always two sides to this conversation. Uh it tends to be why do you want to be here and why do you want to reject something? Because of course you can't hold the dual citizenship >> to deal with the latter. It's not a

question in any way of rejecting uh Britishness or anything like that. It's just that actually through circumstances I grew up from as an adult in Hong Kong. Apart from the seven years when I was working for an international channel living in a kind of expati style way in in in Britain, I never really have lived there. Uh it's not sort of part of my my my my the fabric of me. And my father passed many years ago and even though my mother lives there, she would have she had no problem whatsoever with me not being British anymore. There was no I

was never raised to be like extremely patriotic. I'm not really into patriotism. I have sort of misgivings about that. I quite like the fact that we're all part of a melting pot. So, so I had no problem whatsoever with okay, if I have to surrender that passport, fine. It's not a statement or a judgment

in any way upon it. It's just that was what had to happen in the Singapore thing. It basically was a polariz not solidifying of all that I believed about Singapore. I had been affectionate towards Singapore all the time I'd been here. But when the time came and part of it is pragmatic to make that decision after I I I I stopped working full-time for a broadcaster here and I realized that industry was no longer going to be my sort of you know my means of income.

>> I had a big decision to make and amongst that big decision making was where am I going to be for the rest of my life? Am I going to be an expat who just pops from country to country with no sense of permanence or roots or shall I put my roots down here? the opportunity came along to become a Singaporean passport holder and I was able to say, "Right, no matter what happens professionally, no matter what happens elsewhere, I know where I'm going to be, and I love where I'm going to be, and I see this as being a place that's only getting better and better as every year goes by." So, it was a no-brainer for me to say, "This is where I'll nail my my colors and if Singapore wants me to give back in any way whatsoever, whether it's advising, whether it's volunteering, I'm more than happy to do so." >> Yeah. And just being part of of

Singapore is wonderful for me. >> Can you recall the day when you became Singaporean? When you got this physical passport and then you realized, oh, okay, that's something new. >> Yeah, I I remember that day very very proudly. >> Throughout my YouTube journey, I met so many interesting people like billionaires, politicians, celebrities with some we even became friends. Um,

some became my clients. And what's funny, I started all of this in Singapore from scratch. I didn't know anyone. My English was not perfect. Still not. I didn't have any like a

[music] fancy MBA degree or something. But step by step, I managed to reach out to people, get them interested, and [music] build real connections just by talking to them. I really believe that people around you shape your life more than anything. And good conversational skills make everything much easier. So, here's what I want to do. I'm putting

together a small group and bring everyone to Phuket [music] where we will spend a super productive and fun weekend probably around February [music] or March. We will work on your social and leadership skills, networking, [music] personal brands, and you will make friends with great people. I even arranged a couple of hours with a billionaire I interviewed before. I'm [music] sure this little getaway can boost your life, business, and career. And of course, we'll have a lot of fun together, [music] too. If you want to

join us, get on the waiting list and answer a few quick [music] questions so I can shape the program properly. So, scan this QR codes on the screen or click the link below. [music] See you in Phuket soon. Very often when you do things like this, it's a bit of a scramble. The bureaucratic work involved in in in signing up for one thing and surrendering another. It's not as

complicated maybe as my American friends and I know that you've interviewed Americans who've become people like Ron Corin who've become Singaporeans. It's a bit tricky for them and and they're given a little bit more of a guilt trip. I think they're actually made to sort of stand there like this and renounce [snorts] and all that. I think with the British experience, if anything else, it was just sloppy bureaucracy. My my sent off something and it disappeared into a into a void. Uh and I never heard back.

But the sing you know what made it really feel good to me was to accept the Singaporean thing to you you you have a little window, right? you book an appointment and you're supposed to go in and you're supposed to sort of sign up, but you're also supposed to take a certificate of pronunciation uh from your previous uh nationality. Mine just didn't come. Weeks and months later, I'm still waiting for this. So, I called up the people at in at the Singapore department I was dealing with and said, "Look, you know, you've okayed. You've

you've approved my citizenship, but I don't have this thing." And they went, "Relax. >> We've got your back. Come in and do it anyway, and when that thing does come, just upload it. We'll be cool. we we

know we know the situation. Yeah. >> And but what they were saying was look, we're efficient. We'll keep our end of the bargain. And you know, that just really just epitomized everything that I loved and and confirmed in my mind why I was doing it for the right reasons.

We've got your back. Welcome. We're so happy to have you. Don't worry about the details. They'll sort themselves out.

And and that was when I felt this real sense of pride. uh not just when I physically received the passport, but when the whole process and I was at that time I was working on a project that required me to travel to Indonesia almost every week to help a company there set up a Premier League channel that they were making. And so I had to say to the authorities here, look, I I I need to be traveling very very soon. So I know it normally takes a while to get the passport. Could I get it quickly?

And they literally looked at me across the camera and said, well, when do you want it? Tomorrow? This afternoon? Imagine that in another country. And I went, well, could I have it tomorrow?

Yeah. come back tomorrow morning. >> So those are the things >> in microcosm that that really epitomize why why we want to be here. This is home. >> This is literally home because I'm now a Singaporean red passport holder and this is this is home.

>> What's your thoughts on on when you go back to the UK or to London? What's your thoughts on the UK? What's going on with the country? >> Well, what happened was having not lived there. When I lived in Hong Kong, I had no need to go back to the UK cuz my parents were there. And then when when

dad retired, they went back. Uh and then very sadly, I lost my dad. He died far too soon after retiring. He died some 23 years ago. And >> it was a very sad thing. But my my mom,

you know, lives in England and she carried on. So we would go back and visit occasionally. But when I when the job came up in 2010 and we went back, it was an opportunity I couldn't pass up. You know, it's a fabulous job. An opportunity. And my wife had actually

been educated. She went to university in England as well. So she was very comfortable with the idea. of there. >> We took the girls with us who were at an age where we weren't sure if we were going to live in England forever. So, we

put them into an international school environment in England. We were there just with a view to perhaps being able to move again in the future, whether it was coming back here or going somewhere else. >> So, we had a very privileged life, very enjoyable, great job, but I said this earlier on, you need to leave Singapore and live overseas to fully appreciate Singapore. M things didn't work infrastructure wise anywhere near as well as you would have wanted. I didn't think that my tax pounds were being spent anywhere near as effectively as my tax dollars are spent here. I found too

many people getting dragged into endless debates about things that they had no control over. So I and the weather I you hear it a lot from Northern Europeans, but I have no problem with the Singapore weather. I am a put a tank top on, get out in the sunshine, and if you need to have a shower, have a shower kind of guy. I don't I I love it. I'd far rather be in this environment. I

find Singapore physically beautiful. I love the greens. I love the the blue skies. I love walking around and every day I see something that I just give thanks for. I just just see a you know, someone will build a flyover here with my tax dollars in a place. Yeah, that's

a great place to put a a pedestrian crossing. And then I drive by a few weeks later and it's covered in buganilia and it looks beautiful and I'm like well tax dollars at work there. So I like that. In in Britain I found the oppressive gray uh weather very depressing cuz I'm an outdoors guy and I felt cheated. You know it was dark in the morning when I went to work and it was dark when I came back and I did you know seasonal effective disorder is a thing. I I got depressed

>> uh with that and I didn't I didn't enjoy that very much. I was happy to leave and when I came back here it was an extraordinary feeling because you come home right from the minute you land again you can credit Mr. Leewanu for that. He said, "I want the experience of arriving in Singapore >> to set the tone from the speed with which we leave our amazing airport to that beautiful drive that you do along the ECP." >> You immediately, I'm sure you feel it, Max, whenever you travel, you're like, "Yeah, okay.

>> Things are working. It looks cool. I'm back. I know I'm going to be home in my lovely, comfortable environment soon." So, that's that's that kind of womblike experience. But beyond that, I found

myself giving thanks when I first got back here. the ease with which administration was done, visas, PR, citizenship, all of the things that might be complicated elsewhere, applying for licenses, getting stuff done around your apartment, getting things fixed, just the ease of life here, we take for granted >> and we get snitty about, oh, I have to pay a bit more for that or what about this or no, those things are really not that important in the grand scheme of things. But you we get caught up in it here cuz it's a small place and very intensely focused. Uh so you need to get away and have that biggest perspective on life I think. >> Yeah. If we compare with Hong Kong, Hong

Kong you stay in Hong Kong for 7 years, you apply for PR. It's kind of automatic if you didn't break the law. So you kind of will be granted with your PR. >> Is that still the case? >> It's still the case. Yeah. And then

after PR permit residence, you can apply for passport. And there is a like almost guaranteed procedure that that you will get a passport. In Singapore, it's not the case. It's more like a black box that there are like the system with kind of assessment system for PR but still a lot of people say in reality it's like a black box. So you don't know what exactly the criteras.

>> Yeah. >> Do you what's your takes on on this process? Like I >> I think you know earlier on we were talking about the if you will the sort of sliding scale the comparative scale between Singapore and Hong Kong in terms of where the country was in terms of its uh economic status in terms of the makeup of of of its of its u population. And I think there have been changes there. So for example, back in I I became a PR in in Singapore back in the year 2000. I applied for it shortly

after the birth of my first daughter thinking to myself, yeah, I love this place. I want to be here as long as I can. And back then my industry, which doesn't really exist today if you think about it. I was part of a multi- regional global quality broadcast sports broadcast entity, right? Broadcasting from Singapore.

uh back then Singapore was very keen to attract that kind of industry and as a result I think I think it took me when I applied for PR I got it within 28 days. Tell that to somebody first application first time 28 days but also remember the the size of the population was different. The um ethnic makeup I think was was different. So I think it was much easier for them to say yeah this guy's um in an industry that we want to support. Singapore was actively attracting major regional uh broadcast and media companies. uh the EDB was very

supportive of them in terms of the incentives that were given. So so I think it was very much a time to be here and then you you you look forward 25 years from then and it's as you say it's a completely different story here very hard to to get hold of it. Um I think the window has closed and closed and closed which is one of the reasons I was so very happy as soon as I you know I could once I came back from uh the UK and knew that this was going to be my home. I wanted to become a citizen and and and I went through the process and I became a citizen because I was very conscious that that things are changing here and it it's harder than it than it was. So I just think it's a product of the changing nature of the two countries. Hong Kong has found itself in

a situation where it wants to attract foreign talent. It wants to offer incentivized increased salaries, better bonuses and perks and the benefits of being a PR. So, so actually in a way it's a complete flip-flop to where we were all those years ago when maybe Hong Kong in in the late ' 80s, early '90s was far more desirable. It would have been harder for a non-brit, for example, to get in there and and and stay. Now, it's it's flipped around, but that's just a product of where the country is at this particular point. And you can

have your opinion on it. If you really want to get a PR status in Singapore, I'm not an expert, but I would imagine if you show willing, if you're rejected and you appeal again, apply again. If you demonstrate your investment in Singapore financially through paying tax or buying property or whatever it might be, I'd imagine that's the way to go. Just consistently say, >> I want this. >> Maybe that does it. Uh, but I don't want

to, you know, I don't want to annoy anyone out there, hang on a minute, I did that and it hasn't worked, you know, and I I but feel sorry because if someone really wants to I could fully understand the frustration of not being able to become a PR here. >> Yeah. I mean, it's not an easy topic. I think it's an open discussion like why some people like if you have a lot of money then you kind of almost automatically you can buy your PR if you invest the same >> um some amount of money into economy so you're kind of granted with PR. >> Yeah.

>> And yeah, but it's a topic of discussion. I think it's a demand supply thing as well. >> Yeah. Yeah. Totally. And and there is

that and you know things are changing. Um and and that thing you mentioned about buying in. Yeah. That's we've seen countries around the world where you you have to be a little bit careful about that because there's two ways of looking at one of them is buying into a retirement home, >> right? And then the other one is just buying in. Um and I think you have to be

a little bit careful. >> Yeah. I don't think the Singapore people buying it to to retire in Singapore. if you want to retire Singapore that you have all the benefits of like buying HDB and stuff like then it's a different level of money. So people who kind of buy your PR status they have like millions of tens of millions of dollars.

So it's a different story. >> Yeah. Yeah. That that's very very different. Very very different. But but

talking about retirement one thing I have noticed over the years and one of the reasons why I I'm really happy to be a citizen is that because you can live on different levels. You'll go and interview somebody with a mohawk who goes and has a a decent friend of mine who has a who has a champagne brunch every week and who does all this and what have you. You will interview others who live a a different kind of lifestyle. You can live whichever way you want. And and I think one of the the lovely things about here is okay, if you if you do work and if you have a little bit of money or retirement or CPF or whatever it is, you can probably sort of say, well, at least I have a healthare system that in my later years I can count on. I have a fabulous public

transport system that is going to get me around. >> I can go and wander around the gardens by the bay. I can go and do stuff for free all over town. I think it's a pretty attractive place. In the past, it was always, yeah, you can't retire here.

You got to go to Huahin or you've got to go somewhere else or that's how you retire. Now, I think more and more people are looking at it going, actually, hang on. If I can get the numbers right, and obviously property ownership is a huge part of it. If I can get the numbers right, this is not the worst place in the world to retire. you're actively like making money at this stage as well. What do you invest

in? What's do you have any strategy like what to invest in? Like it's a real estate or it's like something else. >> Well, first things first and and to my immense shame being the son of a very successful international banker. I've always been pretty much financially illiterate or maybe just lazy throughout my life. I've never planned anything

really financially. I've tended to be I'm not someone who goes and blows money on myself. Um, but I tend to just sort of spend money on on whatever I think is good for my family, whether it be education or or what have you. So, I I've never really had much of an investment strategy, apart from the fact that I think it tends to make more sense to own a property than to rent. That's the only kind of prerequisite. But this

is quite an expensive place to do that. So, you know, I've tended to have mortgages down down my life. And when you have mortgages, you know, they they they they leave you in a position where you got to keep paying them off. Doesn't leave you with an awful lot of money. and and if especially if you've had to pay for an international school education, it doesn't leave you with a lot of money to sort of go throwing into investment. So I given my given my sort

of lack of a uh a worldview in some ways, I find it quite nice not to be bothered if the US Fed does something or other and everyone else is running away go, "Oh my goodness, I don't even know about that. I don't care because I don't really worry about that. As long as I I can keep paying for a living environment and and as long as I can support my family, that's all I really care about. And I guess there will come a time in my life when the property that I have has a certain value attached to it. And if I want to slow down, I could always change the way I live.

>> But so you invested in real estate. >> Yeah, I've I've tended to own properties here. Properties a property uh whenever I've lived here. uh and and two very one of them I think I made money on. The other one I didn't make money on when I sold it. The one I'm in now is is one

that I'm very happy to live in and and you know happy to keep ticking over. >> Uh so I think I believe in that. I I think property is something you should own if you can. >> I'm in Singapore and people here often talk about investing in Bali real estate but there are a lot of doubts. So I call the team of Alex Vas, a full circle Bali developer with 11 years of experience and ask them all the tough questions and the guys handle everything from concrete production to property management. This

is our >> yard. So yeah, it's very beautiful. >> What's the minimum investments that I need to start with you guys? Now we have prices from $120 uh dollar $1,000 uh till1,500 million. >> Why would I invest in Bali versus like other investment tools?

>> Bali have uh the biggest ROI for now all over the world. You can have a villa here. You rent out it during the year and if you want to come on vacation, you can do it. what people should think about in terms of the risks if they want to make this decision. >> A lot of new developers come here every year and not all of these developers will finish their project because they don't have experience to build in Bali because it's uh it's rather hard to build here. Second risk is that we have

no scroll accounts like uh Dubai for example have. But for example, we in Alex Villas have something like a scroll account. So if you will come to us, we will explain you how to make your risk lower. >> Knowing the risks is key and choosing the right developer helps you maximize returns. And if you want to learn more about Alex Vas, use the link below. And

don't forget to do your own research before any investment decision. Singapore and Hong Kong has this rivalry for like for years. Um, how would you compare Singapore and Hong Kong before like in the '90s versus now? What what's the changes? There's been a big change.

I think um I was very blessed, very fortunate to be in Hong Kong from the early to mid 80s through to 1997, which I think most people who have been there for any length of time would say that was kind of peak Hong Kong. There was a sense that anything was possible. The whole world came to Hong Kong. There was a drive and an energy and a dynamism to it. Life was just amazing um in that in that period. And I think at that time

Singapore was still embarking on its growth journey because it was still only 20 years old. So it was still focusing on the building blocks of society which meant that there wasn't much room for the frills for the fun stuff for the cultural artistic sporting things that that that we now have. So as a result I think there was a clear gap between the two. When I came here though it was interesting. I came here and you talk about the rivalry. So when I first came

here, my editor in the uh entertainment section of the newspaper said, "We've got a a freebie for for you to go to Singapore to cover the Singapore International Film Festival. It's all paid for. Go and stay in a nice hotel. Go and cover the film festival." I said, "Okay." But he said, "That's not what we

really want. We've heard about this story about this guy called Michael Fay, this American kid who spray painted some cars. >> We want you to go down there and we want you to talk to the kids of Singapore, and we want you to tell us, are the kids revoling? Is there this sense of unquire and unrest? Oh, okay. So, what what I

what an assignment, right? So, what I did was I caught up a couple of guys I knew. One of them was a guy called Andrew Ing, who you might have come across. He's he's in the FNB and and and and uh hospitality business at the time he was working at Zuk, which at the time wasn't far from where we're doing this interview. It was a Jack Kim Road in this beautiful old goown. So, he said to

me, "Yeah, come on down." I said, "I've got to hang out in there and just interview a few kids." He said, "All right, I can do that." Yeah. >> And he and I said, "Where else should I go?" So he told me a couple of places to

go. So I came down to Singapore and apart from covering the films at the festival, I went to this place and I thought, "This is so cool. There was this kind of multithnic, diverse, multicultural group of kids. Um, there were these really cool people having fun." And I I failed in my assignment because I went and stood outside Nean City, for example, and like literally just stopped groups of kids wandering by on a Saturday afternoon, asked them a few questions. Most of them either

didn't know about the graffiti or they just went some expat kid acting out. And although I got the sense that no one really cared to talk too much about their society or their view of politics or the leadership, I also got the sense that everyone was pretty happy >> and that everyone was pretty focused on getting on with their lives. And I also noticed that the sun was shining and that people wore not black clothes, which I was used to in in Hong Kong. And maybe I was a little burned out and I was just ready for that kind of breath of fresh air. black cloth.

>> Hong Kong was a place where in those days everyone seemed to be wearing you Yamamoto and it was all very monochromatic. Uh whereas when I came to Singapore it was like an explosion of color. And also remember Hong Kong is a place certainly back then where every other building was always being knocked down and built up and you had this chorus of pile drivers. It was it was a deafening uh experience living in Hong Kong at that time. Whereas when I came here I noticed that they kept green lungs even then in the city that they paid an attention to heritage. So you

would see beautiful old shop houses juxtaposed with shiny new skyscrapers. And I like that they they did that. Hong Kong had a bad habit of pulling down some of the heritage buildings. And it only only later did they start to preserve some of that heritage before it was it was too late really before they started doing it. So it was a kaleidoscope for me. Uh Singapore it was

just what I needed. So I loved it. Made a note. Yeah. If I get a chance to ever go there I will. And sure enough when

the chance came up I I I I came. But to your point about the rivalry, what then happened, uh, Singapore was becoming cool when I got here, but it was still not that much different. But then Hong Kong suffered a couple of economic blows. You had SARS, you had the financial crisis, you had obviously 1997. And I purely coincidentally, I left just before the handover. It's just

my contract started in the beginning of May 1997, and I think the handover was end of June. So I happened to leave. I watched the handover with a lot of nostalgia and affection from a distance and, you know, wondered what would happen. I went back to Hong Kong regularly after I came to live here. So I I I witnessed changes there and I noticed that there was a a change. I

thought the division between the wealthy and the not so wealthy became too too great. When I lived in Hong Kong, I had a lot of um local friends who always felt that they had a chance in life. You know, if let's say let's say a car drove by, driven by one of the tycoons, you would never see them saying, "Oh, look at that guy, you know, swanning by." They would sort of go, "I want to be that guy." more like American dream kind of thing.

>> Yeah, there was a sense that yeah, if I work hard and if I take my chances, I can be that guy. But I think particularly maybe in the property market, it became obvious that that there was just this huge gulf that they couldn't leap because a lot of the wealth was concentrated in just a few hands. And I think I noticed society it became a little bit different. But I'm pleased to see that I've been back recently and I feel that there's a little bit of a drive and a buzz about it. It's never going to be the same as it was back then because that was a particular era that can never be recreated because of, you know, historical and and, you know, >> structural things, but but I think there's a good vibe to it because Hong Kong will always have that amazing energy and that drive and determination.

So, last couple of times I've been there, I've really enjoyed it. >> I was in Hong Kong a couple of weeks ago. I talked to locals and foreigners living there and they say, "Okay, the energy is kind of picking up after co after like 2022." So maybe last 1 2 years the energy kind of start building up again. >> It is it's a different energy and and and you can't ignore the fact that now there's a different demographic. There's

a different way of living because it's part of the the greater bay. So you know there's an exodus at the weekends and they go to Shenzhen or they go to Juhai or they go to wherever you know Guang Guangjo. So so yeah there's there's that but it feels good. Now back to the point at the same time of course then what happened was Singapore was was was on the rise. things were really taking off here and then the whole Marina Bay thing just became a game changer. But that

coincided with me just preparing to leave Singapore. Suddenly NBS opened up the Formula 1 and and it just exploded. Gardens by the Bay and everything else that happened here and and and Singapore kicked on to the next level. >> What's the golden years of Singapore? They passed already or they they in the future or they right now like what's your >> really really good question, Max. Um and

I don't think there's an easy answer to it. I would say the beauty of Singapore is that we are always evolving and that who knows may we're probably in our golden years or or they're yet to come. I don't know. But but but it's been a sustained period since about 20067 I think when Singapore has just enjoyed 20 years of becoming this incredible city that everyone around the world talks about everyone wants to be here and because we're so forwardlooking and thinking and we're so the we're so visionary here there's always something exciting new around the corner. So yeah, I think it's just an ongoing golden period right now. I I don't know whether

you would agree. >> I mean, I've been in Singapore for 7 years. So I don't have that much of overview though. I spent like half a year in Singapore in 2014. So I kind of Okay. My the time that I

can compare is probably like 10 11 years span. I feel like Singapore is quite liberalized now compared to 20 years ago. >> Yeah. But it still has this reputation of being like super strict country and like I have friends coming over and then I was like walking around in the around ACM museum with the friend and he was like oh can I step on the grass mate you can you can step on the grass no problem. >> It's it's a stereotype. It's a cultural

stereotype >> but it's a stereotype that still like a lot of people like thinking of like even if I ask like some Hong Konger friends they're like oh like what do you think of Singapore? Like oh it's orderly so like only rules only fines. Okay. Well, here's the thing. The perception of Singapore understandably from a way back was Yes. Okay. They're quite strict over

there, but we can understand it. I mean, the evolution of this country from from virtually zero to what it is now. I I don't know. I I I'm no expert on Egyptian civilization or anything like that, but I can't imagine there has ever been a a society and and a and a country, a nation that has evolved as rapidly as this. It's just incredible.

So yes, obviously there were these rules in place early on. What I find fascinating about the way people perceive Singapore is this, you know, you have these very worthy people in the west, for example, who talk about, you know, human rights or or try and wrap Singapore over the knuckles for this or that. But then I think to myself, okay, so you got a British person, I think it was Richard Branson, having a go at Singapore for for human rights, you know, and for for capital punishment. And then I thought to myself, okay, what do I consider personally to be a human right? And having lived in England, and and here's the point I would make. If

you want to really appreciate Singapore, leave it. Live somewhere else for a few years, then come back. >> And you absolutely fall in love with the place all over again. >> It reminds you why we love this place, what's good about it. And sometimes we lose sight of that. Sometimes we do get

bogged down in in petty little disagreements or or or grudges or beefs that we have. But to my point about say the sir Richard Branson thing right he he was trying to have a go at swing war for human rights and I thought to myself all right having lived in England and being the father of daughters I would consider it for example a basic human right for a woman to be able to walk home at night without fear of being attacked rape murder or whatever it might be. I would consider it a basic right to be able to walk down the street in the capital of of the of the country and not actually expect to have your phone violently snatched off you. I would expect it basic I would consider a human right basically for you to expect the uh police service to actually do something when when a crime has been committed and I don't think from my experience of being there for example that that was necessarily the case. So I think we all have to consider what's actually fundamentally important to us and that's why this place is special to me in that yes we say it's clean, it's green and it's safe and we trot that out quite glibly but if you actually analyze that and think about if you have these foundations in which you can count on the environment you're in to be supportive, nurturing, safe and productive, right? And if you can if you

can count on the authorities to pretty much generally have the best interest at heart to enact policies and to do things with your tax dollars that are for the betterment of you that's a good foundation and then the society is what you build upon it. >> Yeah, >> you can go in whichever way you want to go. And I always say I love living here because I think you can live the life you want to live. If you want to go out partying, you go out partying. You want to live a a healthy outdoors life, you can do that. You want to work hard,

short, by all means go and work hard >> because the fundamentals are in place to protect you. So when it comes down to this perception of Singapore, okay, it's a fine city. Haha, very good. Right, we all have stereotypical perceptions and they are perpetrated. But then someone comes here and they see it and unless they really are blinkered, they'll go, "Oh, yeah, it's pretty cool."

>> Yeah. What I like about Singapore, you don't you don't see the police presence here, right? >> And you don't have like as many CCTV actually that what people expect. You have you have quite a lot. But the thing is I just came from China. China is

fascinating. The progress that they making is fascinating. But the vibe is a bit different. You have like quite a lot of police, quite a lot of people like staff kind of watching you much more CCTV which I don't mind personally. If I you in a city environment I don't mind to be watched. But in Singapore you just

people kind of behave. So the culture was built somehow through this years. So people don't want to actually like break break the law kind of thing. >> That's right. It comes back to that business about what what what's our purpose. If our purpose as a community

is effectively to prosper and that's a very broad definition, not necessarily purely economically, right? >> To to to prosper, to enjoy our our lives, whichever way we we choose to do so. Again, you don't want to get dragged down by getting caught up in draining obsessive concerns that you can't really impact. You don't have any great amount of control of. If you can put your faith in the in in the leadership to sort of steer us in a direction that that's good for us broadly, then it enables you to not get too distracted, I think. So, so

that's why I think people are generally here now. I know it sounds very sort of twe and a bit sort of utopian and everything like that, but but I think it's a pretty good place to start. The China one's interesting. I first went to China in 1989 when it was just opening up. So, you know, I had a glimpse then of of of exactly what was going on then.

You talk about >> police presence. Yeah, it it works here. Generally speaking, people are are lawabiding. But then why why wouldn't you be you know it's a kind of a postmodern thing in the west isn't it to to to want to tear things down and why why would you do that I I came out of England I I came up in the late '7s I was very punky to an extent anti-establishment but not in a political sense just everything was like you know rebel against everything but I came out of England as somebody and very many you heard this about Brits a lot I think came out thinking our music's the best our films are the best our advertising is the best you know this kind of attitude and it was only when you go overseas that you realize wow there's whole world out there. And that's one of the things I love. I'm

sitting here talking to to a Russian guy, you know, who's been in Singapore for seven years. I've loved it ever since I was in Hong Kong that I would meet particularly in Hong Kong. Obviously, it's a Chinese society, but you would have, you know, I had Indian friends who'd lived there for generations who spoke fluent Cantonese, right? Uh I would meet expats of all all orders, and I've done the same here. But here, of course, you have a far more multicultural, you know, local community. I love that. I love the fact

that I'm meeting different people and learning all all the time here, every day here about I love the fact we celebrate everyone's festivals and and unique cultural identity. That's great. >> Yeah. Yeah. Singapore definitely feels more diverse compared to Hong Kong.

>> Yeah. >> And I guess it's different dynamic there. So it was like before it was like more British heavy like number of British people there. Still a lot of British there. Yes.

>> For example, you used to be able to go in. You see, what used to happen up until a certain point was you automatically got a visa if you were British. >> Some people think I just show up at the guest place, press record, and that's it. The video is done. But right now, six people work full-time and two part-time on this project. It takes a

lot of time, energy, and money. Some interviews takes months to secure, but we do it because we want to show the world that Asia is a modern, exciting, and inspiring place, and to introduce you to the most interesting people out there. If that resonates with you, I'd love for you to become an even bigger part of this project. By clicking the join button below, you'll become an official member and supporter of this channel. You'll get a special page. I'll

see your comments first and you will know that you are helping us keep this going. Big hug to each of you. Thank you so much for your support and honestly, you are the best YouTube community I could ever dream of. Thank you so much. Actually, I interviewed this guy named Mike Rouse. So, he actually brought um

Hong Kong Disneyland to it was the first Disneyland in Asia like amazing guy. He was uh he was working for Hong Kong invest. So, basically government organization and he said like back then in a he came in the 60s he didn't need any visa like any any work visa that's right >> to to work in Hong Kong. >> Yeah. So like Hong Kong is like British but also heavily Chinese especially now because of the kind of the border kind of don't really exist with Shenzhen so many like Chinese people going >> uh >> I mean Hong Kong's been subsumed into that.

>> Yeah >> and it's an interesting one. I mean part of it might have been a little bit of a slap right you're not special anymore so you're now part of this. But what it's done because it's uniquely Hong Kong is that it's now rediscovered its identity which I think is fantastic >> and it will always have that. There's always if you grew up in Hong Kong as I did professionally, >> you will have a work ethic unlike any other. >> You know, you you you worked whatever hours it took in whichever way to get the job done. Now, some people might

talk about work life balance or what have you, but we bought into it back then and recently I worked on a couple of projects in Hong Kong and it was really fascinating to work on those projects with local teams and realized that I felt that same drive and energy to to get the job done and and I think that's unique to to Hong Kong. The funny thing is if you ask like okay you go in Singapore you ask a local Singaporean what's the best best part about Singapore what what would they say apart of uh being clean green and what what would they say >> the food >> yes right >> that's really interesting isn't it yeah >> so they >> would you disagree with that >> I agree so the variety of food yeah but it's a big thing for Singaporeans especially who grew up born and grew up in Singapore like food is like >> everything in Hong Kong if you ask typical Well, foreigner and Hong Konger as well probably they say, "Oh, it's hiking and the weather." >> So, it's literally this was funny like so many people repeat this like hiking like mountain hiking and the weather. >> That was not my experience at all. >> But they start the hiking thing. It

depends who you speak to. >> Yes, of course you will find some expats and some local I mean hiking became big amongst the the the Chinese community. You know, you find Taiwanese and you find Hong Kongers who who get into hiking and all the celebrities did it. So, it became very popular. You know, you can go walking and meet, you know, one of the heavenly kings, the pop stars or or or a superstar like Jawan Fa or someone like what's interesting going back to your point about Singapore, isn't food a metaphor for Singapore?

>> When people say, >> think it through Rojac, right? So, we are a rojac society. The food is also available. It's something that brings us together as a community. It's something we can be internationally proud of.

So, so in a way when they say that I I kind of it also speaks to the fact that you might be a multi-millionaire but you will go to your favorite coffee shop or center what have you. So I think that that the role it plays in community is very very important here. Plus if you want we've also got Michelin stars and and all the fancy stuff. >> You mentioned that like okay the billionaires and celebrities can go to copy tam and have their like rojac salad or whatever. I guess also because it's so safe so you don't have to be protected from the outside world as the as someone with money you know and that's kind of >> kind of brings I don't say in Singapore there is no like gap between like people not so not so well off and like wealthy people I think it's also quite quite a huge gap because so many like super ultra rich people >> but it's it's it's widening I think we have to be a little bit careful because when when we talk about this you we get into migration and we talk into the sort of the the makeup of our uh societal demographic right now just in terms of ratios and what have you and we we're very conscious obviously there's there's there's a lot of new money I think senior minister spoke about that didn't he fairly recently about the need to assimilate >> and if you are going to come into Singapore particularly if you're going to come in with a lot of ostentatious wealth you [clears throat] know be aware of how we deal with this because I think Singapore as I said you know if you come from a multigenerational wealthy uh Singapore family, you will put on the singlet and put the shorts on and go to the copy jam as you say, right?

>> You are not necessarily going to drive up and down in your in your bling bling, your hideous by colored Bentley or something like that >> only eating uh malatang or what have you. So I think I think that's an area that people are a little bit resistant to right now and I understand that but it's happening all over the world. Look at we've had protests in Australia recently, you know, from sort of anti-immigration people. you see it. I think wherever you are in the world, I think it's important. And we are a world

that is incredibly mobile right now. I think you do have to assimilate. >> You have to show respect to the environment you're moving to. Thank it for everything it's giving you and and and try and assimilate into it. In my opinion, Singapore extends your longevity. When I was working in Hong

Kong, um it was a very much work hard, play hard society. I got I got into my early 30s in Hong Kong and I was starting to sort of maybe deteriorate physically because I just didn't pay enough attention to my to my physical well-being. I just didn't I didn't take enough care of myself. I was just working hard, playing hard. My metabolism slowed and when I arrived in Singapore, I was a lot heavier than I am now. I was frayed around the edges. I

was a little bit sort of, you know, run down. But once I got here, I realized particularly, you know, marrying and having kids quite quickly that I really needed to keep myself as and my wife's a little bit younger than me. I had young children and I was very galvanized thinking, right, I I'm going to stay healthy. I got to stay as strong as I can for them. My father passed away, which was a real shock to me. He hadn't

taken care of himself. He'd lived a great life, but he hadn't taken care of himself. And sadly, it it conspired to make him die way too young. >> So, that was a shock for me. So all these things added up. But also as I

made my way through my career, I realized working in the industry I was in where you work very long hours under for what for many would be stressful conditions. Live sport, live broadcasting is very stressful in many ways. You're juggling a lot of stuff. You got to be on top of the situation. I found that the more I focused on staying healthy and fit, the better I was at my job. If I could complete a heavy gym

workout, if I could get through a really intense circuit or complete something challenging, it bolstered me mentally as well as physically. And it meant that, okay, I've got a I've got a a 9hour shift on air dealing with three live Premier League matches, a big complicated pre-show analysis, a post show featuring elements in which I might have to get up to a touchcreen live and make things work or I've got to relay information. None of it with a script. None of it with a teleprompter or an auto cube. everything up here based off a extensive rehearsal. I found that the

the stronger and fitter I became, the better I became at my job. But also, the better I became at dealing with petty rivalries at work or bitchiness in my industry or criticism from audiences, you know, you got to learn to be tough and resilient. And then when my industry started to shift and there was insecurity, a lot of people were running around panicking and being very negative about things. So I felt there's no point in that. I'm just going to have to be the strongest I can be, be as positive as I can.

>> And then when the industry disintegrated entirely, and I found myself in my late 50s, mid to late 50s, 60s having to say, God, what do I do now? >> Again, I thought, well, if I go to the gym and if I make myself as strong and resilient as I possibly can. And Singapore, Singapore kind of, you know, we're a very healthy society. Everywhere I look, people are running around. They do NS which is great the men anyway which puts them in the best shape of their lives which means they know there's a benchmark for what they can be. We are outdoors a lot. I think we're

kind of encouraged to to try and keep fit which is great. And now the government is realizing that because of our amazing healthcare we're an aging society so longevity is quite important. We don't want to be a burden on the street by by by getting sick if we can avoid it. I know certain times you can't avoid it. So anyway, all of this goes towards me having this real belief now that Singapore has encouraged me and indulged me and supported me in trying to ignore my age. I was a guest at a couple of

local podcasts um like this year and that's actually like one of the the last one they actually asked like okay what do you think like is if you're foreigner in Singapore you came to Singapore do you have to assimilate do you have to integrate and like my answer was it's nice to integrate I mean it's kind of but it's on you Singapore kind of doesn't pushes pushes you doesn't push you to to integrate you can as I said before you can live like wherever you want and Singapore it's not like the the culture is not that heavy compared to like if you live in Spain or Italy where you will be dragged to you become Italian at some point, right? In Singapore, >> not really. You can live in a bubble if you want. >> That's a really good point that you make and I like that. Now, some people I think overcompensate.

assimilating into Singapore doesn't mean that you have to suddenly insist on on on on speaking in in singing English or or proving your uh uh local credentials by saying well I'll only live in an HDB and I'll do this because actually the beautiful thing about Singapore is that that everyone just accepts everybody and we will assimilate in whichever way to whichever degree we think is appropriate and it doesn't mean that we will have to conform to one you know I'm I'm going to become a working-class Singapore I I will never I can't become a working-class Singaporean. I might [clears throat] hold a red passport, but I've never served national service and I never will. So there and I didn't go through the local education system. So I can never pretend that I'm somehow the same as somebody who was born and bred here, you know, second or third generation. I can't pretend that. But I

can say that I'm proudly Singaporean because of all the things over the last 28 years that I've that I've absorbed that I've contributed to that has made me feel that Singapore is my home >> and that I have a sense of responsibility and duty and belonging to Singapore. So I think we have to accept that it's far more nuanced. >> Have you ever been to a stand-up comedy club in Singapore? >> Yes. Yeah. I know I know I know Rishi

Budrani quite well and and a few comedians here. quite u cute to my mind cuz Singapore is very harmonic society in terms of like the races and like my daughter she's in also in international school and like the variety of kids there if you open the chat the WhatsApp group of the of the class it's like maybe 15 flags or 18 flags or from different countries there so it's just amazing >> it's very funny >> how funny >> think about the different humor you learn and you hear from being in a multi cultural society. >> Yeah. >> Right. From Jack Neo style humor to other different cultural styles of humor here. I I love that. I I think you're

constantly bombarded. Sorry, you were saying about your daughter. >> Yeah. Yeah. Just but um uh going to standup comedy here. If you go there

like 50 plus% of the jokes are about race and like relationship between races. >> What Kuma does? I know you had Kumar here. >> Kumar does like Chinese, Indian, >> like Angmo versus the rest. It's like all kinds of dynamics. So people

actually like laughing hard on it. So it's not something that you discuss openly society. But that's the thing because of the so many races here, so many TCDs. So actually people laugh about it and probably talk about it behind the closed doors. >> Isn't that really funny, you know, Max?

because um one of the things that evolved organically here was that banter for one of a better term between different races and cultures but it's an affectionate one in the same way that we show interest oh what's vis day about oh okay what what's typusan what what's this you know there's also this kind of you know making gentle mocking humor about our cultural differences >> but but done in such a way that I think was never offensive until we started to look overseas where people were getting a little bit sort of uptight about stuff that should should we be doing this >> if it's done for the right reasons and if it's done positively organically affectionately >> I like that right my my best friend here for one of a better term and he calls himself it is probably an abang and I love spending time with him his priority his value system his raw sense of humor absolutely brilliant right by the same token my Indian friends or my Malay friends or what have you come come at it from a different angle and it enriches us all but then of course you get into the expat community and I've got friends from Scandinavia. I've got friends from South America. Everyone brings something different and it just enriches us >> and I was very lucky from a very early age. My father was a workingclass British guy from the north of of England. Moved south when he was young but then had this career that took him around the world as a banker. And he

raised us to say it's not all about Britain or even England. It's not all about us being best and our way being the only way. I've seen the world. There are these cool things that happen all over the world. get out and explore it.

And when we got a chance to go to Hong Kong and live that life, I saw exactly what he meant. And that's really colored the way I see the world, >> you know, just absorb everything from all sorts of different cultures and and accept and understand them for what they are. And that's another reason why this place is so cool. >> The humor is quite different like British humor like self what is it? Self-deprecating >> humor. Dark sometimes is

>> and also not taking anything seriously. There's a kind there's a kind of iconoclastic sense to British humor. >> Anyone dares put their head above the parapit, >> you chop them down. >> Yeah. >> Whereas in this part of the world, um there's far more respect for people and people's success. But the human

nonetheless is I think more day-to-day humor here. >> Yeah. No, it's like Kumar actually. He explained like his approach. You can be on the age. So you can be actually quite

mocking and like mocking other people, but >> first you need to make fun of yourself. So that's basically the first rule of any stand up comedian, not only in Singapore, like anywhere. >> But also you kind of need to feel when it can become offensive and then when to stop. >> Yeah, 100%. And you need to I like Jinx Yo. Have you seen his stuff for example?

He's really sharp and very on the money with some of the observations that he he he makes. Very very good. I like I like his comedy. I like his humor. And I think, you know, you get to a point where you are tiptoeing along a line a little bit, but I think that's quite cool. This is quite edgy here and it's

important, but again, you have to do it for the right reasons because we've we've constructed this very >> very healthy and robust multicultural society and and you have to be very careful not to undermine that. >> Yeah. >> Um and and I think and also you need to know your place. >> It's not for me to tell Singaporeans how they should believe, how they should live their life, what they should believe in. It's a bit like saying to people here, well, you're not a proper football fan. This is how you should be

a football fan. You need to No, no. The the Singapore support has organically evolved. Yeah. I I choose a Western football team for certain reasons. You

have certain people here who say, "Yeah, but you can't support an English or a European football team because you're from here and you must support that." Well, that's your perspective on it. Somebody here might choose to support that because that's what they see. It would be nice if they also are engaged in their local community, but you can't force them to be that way in the same way that you can't force your own western uh class values upon somebody, you know, you have to let it >> evolve organically. I think >> you came across so many like successful highlevel performers like sports sportsmen like businessmen >> uh business people like government officials especially sportsman right what are the common traits that you see are there any common traits or each success story is like very individual >> there are certain common traits I yes of course they're individual but I think there's one trait I would I would identify and that is the ability Let's face it, a lot of people have talent. A lot of people have potential.

And in the world of professional sport, there's unless you're an absolute phenom, a freak, a a Messi or um Show Otani or or a Tiger Woods, unless you're just like freakishly talented, the gap between the thousands and thousands of other professionals in your sport is very small. It's what you make of the talent. M >> so and I hear this time and time again from coaches from athletes. Yes, I've got access to all this this this funnel of talented kids, but the ones that actually recognize their ability, work hard on their ability and have a sense of what they can become, they're the ones who make it. So talent is nothing unless it's allied to to a sense of hard work and belief and purpose. And very

often you need to have the right people around you. So you put yourself into an environment. So the very successful people are those who have put surrounded themselves with the people who can best guide them towards their success. They're also the people who have a a largest [snorts] sense of what they're meant to be or what they can be the potential and how to how to exploit that. I've also come across the mavericks, the geniuses, the failures, the ones who are supremely talented but for one reason or another failed. And so

I think that teaches me a lot about the nature of of of high performance. speaking about the successful people that you met um along your life. What are the lessons if you I don't know if you ever like formalized it for you. What are the lessons that you learned from them like interacting so much with like super high level successful people? >> I I do since I've moved into this space now where I very often talk to corporates or I do keynote talks or or or I coach people, I've had to focus on this and I do and I've learned a number of things. Let's say for example, um,

Alex Ferguson, Manchester United, when I was in my my Premier League broadcasting era, he was like the man. Also the most terrifying interview you could ever do. Well, if you went to one of his press conferences, >> he was a very clever guy in many ways and that he all he cared about was winning and his club being successful. Everything else was extraneous. A bit like Mr. Lee in some ways. He wasn't

prepared to allow the media to influence what he did. So, he would slap them down. He would sort of basically say, "You're not really important to me. I'm not going to allow you to interfere with the work I'm doing here." Sir, Alex Ferguson, if you were in a press conference and you asked a question that actually was a legitimate question, but he just didn't want to go there, he would kind of maybe belittle you or mock you or put you down and in front of all the other journalists who were equally nervous, they would like laugh along with him as this poor person was like getting put down and humiliated. It was

kind of bullying in some ways, but I could see why he did it. I fully understood. His focus was just I want to win. I want to keep winning and I'm going to shut everything out. I'm going to protect my players and I'm not going to allow anyone to destabilize this.

Now, it's a brutal approach to doing things. But as I got to know him better, I realized he was actually a very impressive man, a very kind man in many ways. But he just he was very straightforward. His focus was on I will manage my players and my club in such a way that we will achieve our remit and I will defend them and protect them from anything that I think will damage that happening. It might mean that, for example, if he had a young player, he would keep him away from the media because he knew that they would play with his head. The David Beckham

situation, I know David fairly well, having worked with him down the years and stuff like that. What he did was interesting. The Ryan Gig situation, he knew that Ryan would be susceptible to being influenced by showers, stuff around him if he didn't keep him protected. So, he didn't allow Ryan to to interact with the media too much. So, anyway, focus from him on that focus.

Mourinho was somebody who came to prominence when I was doing my Premier League thing. Mourinho is a very interesting case in that he he's all about brand messaging to the exclusion of everything else. I am this. I am a special coach. Not the special one. He

never said that. He said I'm a special one. I'm a special coach. Uh I deliver. I deliver. I deliver. And even when the

evidence was to the contrary, when his clubs started not succeeding or when he fell out with clubs and he got sacked by them and he took away huge payoffs, his spin around him from all those people was always hire Mourinho. He will get you success. Hire Mourinho. So he he landed jobs at clubs that I was surprised he got, but not surprised because they were influenced by the messaging and the branding around Bran Marinho, which was always this guy will get you. Yes, he will get you success, but he'll make you spend a ton of money buying established players rather than maybe promoting from within and when he leaves your club, you're not in a very healthy situation because you got a you got very very big payroll uh and you haven't necessarily advanced that much as a club. But that's not my point. My

point is that the genius of him was it's us against the world. He did that at Chelsea. Everyone helps hates us. Everyone's out to get us, but I've got you guys. So he he he developed this spirit with his players that was second to none. They would run through brick

walls for him. They would win things for him because of the way he just said right our message is this. So, so I learned that from Mourinho >> and also like creating one part of it is like creating some external enemy which a lot of politician use actually. >> Politicians use it. Sports used it forever.

>> Even if it's flawed, they're all out to get us guys. They hate us. It builds a spirit and a spre that's that's a classic one. >> David Beckham was an interesting one for me. As I said, I' I' I've witnessed David Beckham's evolution as a broadcaster and then as an event host now. I work with him on stage a few

times and what I've learned about David is the power of reinvention, but the power of total faith and belief in your brand. So what happened was if you think about it, David Beckham hasn't kicked a ball for how long now? How long? When he finished up at, you know, PSG in Milan, right, those days he was he hasn't kicked a ball for ages, but his brand recognition is still incredibly strong. You see him everywhere all over the world popping up. So that means that

what's happened with him is until he appeared on Netflix in a piece of content which by the way he made he approved he edited right he had never ever given a whole bunch of interviews he always you couldn't get to to Beckham what you saw was brand Beckham the brand they wanted you to see and they were zealous in protecting that brand and passionate about projecting a certain image. Now there might people be people within the game or around the world who had whispers that tried to undermine him. But it's incredible to think how his brand survived everything and and I saw an example of that when I I was involved in the match that took into Miami to Hong Kong to play a match there and Messi didn't play. You remember this story, right? And for one reason or another it it was a mess with Messi because it had been sold too much on the fact that Messi was going to play. But

anyone who knows football knows that it's a preseason match. There might be an injury. They had an itinerary that took took them around. And you couldn't guarantee that just as you can't ever guarantee that a footballer is going to be fit to play in a football match. I think there were other reasons, but for whatever reason, I was the MC on the day standing on a football pitch with 40,000 people booing in the Hong Kong stadium.

>> Yeah. >> Because Messi hadn't played. And it was a horrible atmosphere. And you can understand it. You know, people had spent a lot of money to be in this stadium. They were very angry. They were

venting. So I'm standing there thinking, "What on earth are we going to do here?" And then David, to his credit, cuz he's he's the owner of the co-owner of the football club, said, "I'll come and have a chat." So he stepped onto the pitch and there's this image of me standing there. I've got the photograph of me standing alongside David and David's there. Everyone's booing. And every time

he raised the microphone to speak, they booed. I thought, "Oh my goodness, they're booing David Beckham." And swear only the Cantonese, you know, Cantonese foul language is quite vivid. throwing abuse at him and all that and I could understand it. I'm like, "Wa, okay." So,

I thought, "What's he going to do here?" >> Yeah. >> Is he is he going to apologize? Is he going to explain what happened? Is he going to talk about what they spent?

And eventually, when they simmered down enough, he got on the mic and he did none of the above. He basically said a very vanilla thing about, "It's always great to come to Hong Kong. Boo. Love you guys. Boo. Thanks for coming. Boo.

Hope to come back sometime soon. Boo. I thought that's interesting. So, off we walk and then I realized the genius of of of him. He got to the edge of the pitch and the same people who'd been booing it viferously from the stands all wanted a piece of him. Selfies,

pictures, signatures, what have you, just like that had never happened. He had obviously realized, look, I can't change the dynamic of what's happened here today. But one thing I'm not going to do is compromise on my brand. So he didn't make promises he couldn't deliver on. He didn't try and pate or anything like that. He said, "Hey, smile on his

face. Thanks for coming. Love you guys. Come back soon." He trusted in his brand. And when he got to the side of

the pitch, his brand was in full effect again. Now make of that what you will. But what I take from that is this single-minded approach towards, you know, this is our brand. This is our brand identity. We will evolve down the years in certain ways. reinvent but stay

true to this and that's why he's he's still so relevant >> all these years on. >> What's the meaning of life for you? [laughter] >> The meaning of you hit me with that one now. >> The meaning of life. >> It's still Tuesday morning, right?

>> Big question for Tuesday morning. >> The meaning of life. >> Does there have to be a meaning of life? >> I don't know. >> What do you think?

>> Okay. Well, that's getting existential here. >> Yeah. >> Meaning of my life. uh is doing the things that I want to do as long as they don't harm anybody. Avoiding doing the

things I don't like doing because that's just a negative activity. Supporting and loving the people that mean the most to me and that extends to communities as well as family. And above all trying to bring a positive contribution to life to the world that that is good for me and good for other people.