---
video_title: "American took me to China's most HIGH-TECH city.... Here’s What Happened"
video_id: 8CD0LKkoMzE
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8CD0LKkoMzE
video_date: 2025-10-23T12:36:05+00:00
video_description: |
  I'm in China, in a city called Shenzhen — often described as the most advanced city in the world. They say America and Europe are far behind, but we need to see if that’s really true. So I found a few Americans living here who’ll help me explore this fascinating place. Together, we’ll find out if Shenzhen truly is the most advanced, high-tech city in the world. Enjoy!
  
  TO START AND GROW YOUTUBE:
  🎬 Online workshop "YouTube Fast-Track to Views & Passive Income". Join for free: https://www.shym.sg/workshop
  
  🏆 12-month full-scale personally coached program ‘Side Hustle YouTube Mastery.’ Join us: https://www.shym.sg/
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP:
  📷 Casual daily life on my Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on my Telegram channel: https://t.me/friendsofmax
  💰 Sponsorship-related requests: [max@maxchernov.sg](mailto:max@maxchernov.sg)
  👥 If you have a guest suggestion for an interview, please reach out at [max@maxchernov.sg](mailto:max@maxchernov.sg)
  
  TODAY'S GUESTS:
  ➢ Joshua on LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jcwoodard/
  ➢ Sean on LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/china-going-global/
  ➢ Sergey on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/dr_afanasev
  
  WATCH NEXT:
  ► Honest view on China after 16 years (American POV): https://youtu.be/iqVlKItJYnk
  ► This walk with Brit in Guangzhou changed my view of China: https://youtu.be/R-ozoOKhUO4
  ► Brit took me inside a Chinese Factory... I Didn’t Expect This: https://youtu.be/lzF3YrOkkyk
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  00:00 INTRO
  00:49 Robot boom
  06:29 One of the most advanced metro stations in the world
  08:35 Shenzhen metro
  10:40 Pay by palm and life without cash
  12:58 Driverless taxi
  16:11 Robot barista
  18:38 Drone delivery
  20:48 Test-driving Chinese EVs
  26:02 Face scan doors and daily future-city living
  
  Hey! This channel bridges the gap between locals and foreigners all over the world. Join Max as he interviews expats, unraveling their unique stories and providing valuable insights into their lives in the vibrant places of Asia. Through engaging conversations, Max fosters understanding and appreciation between locals and the global community, focusing on cultural exchange.
  
  If you're a company seeking sponsorship opportunities to engage our upscale audience, contact us at [maxchernovYT@gmail.com](mailto:maxchernovYT@gmail.com). With over 50% Singaporean viewers and a substantial number of foreign professionals (US, EU, Australia), our mature audience (35-54 years) boasts strong purchasing power and interests in an above-average lifestyle, travel, investment, and personal finance.
---
Alright guys, I'm in China and this is called the most advanced city in the world and they say that America in Europe is well behind but we have to check if it's really the case or not so I got for you a few Americans living in China who will help me explore this beautiful place and then we're gonna find out if it's really the most advanced and high-tech place in the world I'm Max Chernov, Tau Pa! You can adjust speed and direction, you're very very advanced, you can adjust speed and direction, you're very... We are in the Silicon Valley of the East where tech and AI run the show. Robots everywhere you look. Reports say Chen has around 740,000 robotic-related companies. Chen Zhen is driving it forward. The future is being built right here. Is it me? Yeah, it's you. Okay, that's... It's imitating your... Your cost. And inside one of the leading robot companies in the world, founded in 2016 in Chen Zhen by young Chinese engineers, Poodoo Robotics now sells its robots across the globe, including the US and Europe. How strong is it? For example, can it break my arm? Maybe possible, I think. Possibly, yeah? We designed this to use in the hotel to deliver the package and the food. The robots can have an arm and hand to manipulate the elevator by itself. Also, it can press the button. Yes, you can do anything. One, two, one. Let's go. That's so cool, man. Okay. Wow. It's strong, you know? It's a powerful weight. Yes, very strong. Wow. Too tired. Already, yeah. Okay. Okay, thank you. Good doggy. Good doggy. Thank you. Thank you. Sese. Sese. In America, do they produce the own robots or not really? And they need to buy from China. Yeah, they have to buy. From China. They have to buy. They don't have technology on their own. They don't produce robots. They don't produce. This was sell at a huge number in Japan. And in Europe, yes. Yes, yes. In Europe as well. Yes, yes. You can see the idea. You can ask him to show you the food in the restaurant. Can you help me find mango? Unfortunately, I couldn't find information about mangoes here. Let me know if you need help with something else. Okay, what about chocolate? Ooh, take me there. Okay. Follow me, please. Follow me. Let's go. We are here. I can introduce any product features if you need. Okay, what is my chocolate? It's only a demonstration. It's just starting, right? Yes, it's just starting. Even we run this company for nine years. We still think it's just a start. But robots in China have already left the office, walls, and now freely walk around the streets. To avoid getting lost in the futuristic city, I met Josh. An MIT graduate and former Apple engineer. He's an American who's lived in China for seven years. Oh, well, it's beautiful. Xin Zhen. What's that? It's a delivery robot. Yeah, so basically the delivery joggers, delivery bikers rather when they have a package and you want to deliver it straight to your room. You can interact with this thing. Okay. He's operating a robot now. It has to go to room, chilling. Sun 703. So he put it in the room. He put the package on a top level. Told the robot to go. Now it's going to 703. It's pretty sick. How can we press the button? The elevator will know. It's got some other way of communicating. That's the thing. Existing, yes? I have never seen it. I think this wouldn't work in America. Why not? Because it's too close to the, like our personal bubble was bigger than America. I don't know if people accept this. Yeah, yeah. It's just trying to be in the center of the business. Yeah. I'm not sure about that. It's trying to be in the center of the business. Yeah. I'm not sure about that. It's a little bit too much. And it's a bit too much. It's a bit too much. It's a bit too much. It's an autonomous driving company in San Francisco. I'm forgetting the name. But, you know, they've been piloting it for years and years. Yeah. Okay, it's okay. Come on. Don't worry. Let me show you. Very cool. This one. The robot. It's a good job. Okay. Okay. It's a good job. Okay, okay. Good job, buddy. It's a good job. Very good job. Very good job. Guys, guys, check it out. Do you think that police have to be mean? No, not always. Sometimes, yeah, police like this. I'm not sure if I want to come closer to him. What if I be arrested? He looks so funny with this head. Okay, okay. Okay. He says no touch, but he's getting suspicious. Just stop. I don't know why. Okay, maybe let's not provoke him. Okay, bye-bye. Sorry. This has been built over the last 40 years, right? So they have the advantage of starting late and getting some of the latest and greatest infrastructures to build out their stations. I think that's what an advantage that China has. It's just like lots of concrete steel, metals, things, you know, aim towards the construction of very large projects like this. Uniquely positioned, I think, to create things like this. Oh, one of the slides in our business PowerPoint, but it's just kind of talking about the advantage of China manufacturing, right? I mean, global dependence on China. 80% of our mobile devices around a globe are coming from here. 70% of laptops and computers. 40% of PCB board assembly, but I think a higher percentage of consumer electronics is literally in Guangdong province. 90% of solar panels are renewables. You know, all EV batteries. 80% of EV batteries are coming from here. So like, there is still such a large alliance on what is China manufacturing, you know? So if your, for me, doesn't work, my face, but it's supposed to work if your Chinese national. Yeah. Wow, that's cool, man. This is pretty new. Yeah. For me, yes, I'm a foreigner. I do it all the old way. All school. Okay, that's the cool part. The modern temperatures, you have one and eight. So basically, it's one in the beginning, one at the end. And in the middle, that's the cooler temperature. So if you don't want to, like, get sick, so you go to one of these last cars. The police, I guess, didn't care if I'm filming. I never had anyone actually to tell me it's not a film. Let's go check out the temperature. Cooler temperature. So here's cooler. AC is working. It's cooler, but I guess I will feel it when the doors are closed. Okay, now it's warm again, because we are in the car number eight. It's cool. Oh, shit. It's really driverless. The guy is doing nothing. So I guess he's supposed to check when the passenger is coming in. And then when the straight starts running, then he will check the in front of the train. Also, one guy is checking outside, did you see it? And another guy. So actually, like, some people would think, always like, too controlled, too many people watching you, watching the behavior. But to be honest, like, in a city environment, I just feel well taken care of and feel safer. That I know that guys are trained to check that everything is going well. Okay, why are we going to fear all high? Because a friend told me that line 11 have business class. I want to check it out. I'm sure there are like much more people during the rush hour. It would like be a bit chaotic and busy. But right now, feel good here. This pathway looks like an Apple store. Not like a pathway in a metro. Oh yeah, this here. You see all business classes here. But how I get there? Oh my god. It's real. In real, it's business class. Oh my god. I have no idea how to buy tickets. Okay, well, try to see business class coach. Please have your card quality dates. Just before taking the business class coach. I think I need to have a card. Not my coin. And here is Sean. The guy who told me about the business class metro. He left America 15 years ago and now lives in Shenzhen. Where else he's going to show me in the city of the future? Sean will try to pay with his palm. Yeah? So, see if he could tap or pull looking over fire. Then you're so big on the jet. And it's connected to my reach out. So, we'll all not be doing that. That's it. And I get a notification on my reach out about the purchase. So, it's magic. Magic. It's that easy. Yeah. That easy. I can't imagine playing with my own hand. But it's real here in China. Sean said this isn't even the most advanced thing in Shenzhen. And took me to a park promising I'd be very surprised. I'm a little afraid of what might be waiting for me there. The funny thing is I never see actual money in China. The only time I actually see it is when we're going back to my wife's hometown or see relatives. Because then you have to put it in the envelope. You have to put it in the red envelope. But of course you have to have cash for that. Yeah. And then sometimes you see people taking cash back to the countryside for the new year. Even then I haven't seen that much recently. Yeah. She's playing golf with the robot. All right, the circle. If you don't have a partner to play golf, that's it. This is it. This is it. Wow. There's a number of companies that I think are doing robot taxis. It's not just in Shenzhen. They actually started at Wuhan. Yeah. That was when the road, when the initial roll-outs happened. And that was also when we initially saw pushback from like the local taxi driver to use. For sure, man. It's always like that. It was a huge pushback when it was over. It's like popping out. There's pushback with DDS China as well. And so obviously the Chinese government does kind of look more towards what the overall social good is and so they don't want to piss off the taxi drivers too much. They don't want to have to you know, any unrest or just, you know, people just being unhappy. So they try and balance it. Obviously they do have this very long-term vision in terms of how they're going to have a tech and AI be rolled out throughout the country. They have kids learning about AI from as young as 6 or 10. That's a new client at least. In firm. Seven companies. It's going to turn in here and then take us up right here. Oh man. I'm super excited. Oh, it's coming. There it is. It's the one. It's the one. Ooh, pretty fast. It's no one there. No one inside. I love kidding. I'm really like super excited. Freaking driverless car. So we actually pressed on the phone. It let's just unlock it. So unlock successfully. Ah. You're good. You're not going to believe it. All right, let's put our seat belts on. Let's go. We're about to start. Please make sure your seat belt is securely fastened. All right. Kevin AC is on. You can adjust speed and directions via rear vest bend. You can contact him when I have the gear to spot you. One of the safety productions they mentioned when I was in the office, they said that you're not allowed to sit in the front, which makes sense. They don't want any crazy people like grabbing the steering wheel or whatnot. Yeah, yeah, if they freaked out. So they just automatically tried to help. Yeah, it would not help. So they had the partition here so nobody can touch anything. They actually have a little stuffed animal. In the front seat. That's pretty cool. For like his Chinese people, like who I. Yeah, I like this fine attach. It's freaking cool. I absolutely love it. Do they have them in Singapore? No, no. I think they're testing driverless buses, like public buses. But I never seen yet. So, and taxi, not yet for sure. I definitely think I know why not that many people are using them because it goes much slower than rigged their taxis and dd's. Which I think is fine. No, it's fine if you're not in a rush. Most people are usually in a rush. Yeah, most people, especially in Chantan, right? Most people are in a rush. I think my wife would like it. It would only be because she gets cars like sometimes it would move too fast. Yeah, it actually gives you a sense of calmness and sense of stability, basically. Because it's not actually rating fast. It's very careful. Not not speeding. Actually, it feels more safe than with the human. It's not given the way. So, people crossing the road. Still a bit like dd driver. Very interesting. It was a green light just now. But the car starts stopping already. Start breaking. Because I think it knew like two seconds before the green light turned yellow. That it will turn yellow. Yeah, I mean, they track all the stop lights on you when you're in the city. So, it must have a certain thing where if it knows that at the very cautious speed it's driving, it can't make it through. So, it probably just says, let's not do that. Arrived. Please get off from the ride. Okay. Thank you so much. Bye-bye. See you. Nice. That was not a bad first experience. Yeah. Changing like three lanes in one go. Good one. Everything we just saw is parts of daily life on the streets of Shenzhen. Can you imagine the same in your country? All right. Before we go to the next secret spot Shont prepared for me, I decided to test a robot coffee machine on the street. Let's try to buy a coffee from a robot. Lemon juice. Haha. That's cool. Thanks buddy. Give it to me. Huh? You want to give it to me? It stopped. Oh, my drink. It stopped. It spoiled a lot. Oh no. It's coming. It's coming. It's coming. It's coming. It's pulling a bit. Okay. That's it? Thank you. Thank you. Nice. You waved at me. Haha. Here you go. Thanks buddy. What a nice of you. Thank you. Sit here. So many positive aspects about their innovation that the West really should learn from. When I was a while away, I was in Rengengfei. No matter what the US did to attack the company or to try and block their devices or to disrupt their partnerships, Rengengfei always told us managers and executives learn from the USA. There's so many pups. There's so many advantages they have. We have to learn from the USA. It doesn't matter if they're simply a competitor or an adversary, we have to learn from them. I really wish the USA would have that mindset when it comes to China. Not, I don't care if they say China's the enemy or China's an adversary. I really would wish the country would say, wow, China's doing all these positive things. We really need to learn from them if we want to have a chance of remaining at least number two in the future because with the current victory in fighting the roadblocks and technological development, I'm not even sure if they can remain at number two. Yeah, I know what's amazing. I like China's like super high tech place like a lot of technology, like skyscrapers and CBD and stuff, but still have a lot of greenery, a lot of parks. Yeah, it has... It's amazing man. I think 10,000 of parks and green spaces throughout the city. Yeah, it's very livable. I would say. It's extremely livable. Okay, here's the place Sean really wanted to show me. And it was the perfect moment for another coffee break. Unfortunately, there was no coffee shop around. So what if we call a drone to bring gas coffee? Hmm? All right, good. So we're going to go here and then we'll see what we're able to order. Want a coffee? Coffee would be fine. Yeah. It should arrive in the next 15, 10, 15 minutes. I think our drones coming. Let's take a look. Wah! Look at that. It's my coffee over there. Oh! All right, let's pick up our drone order. Here it is an elevator. All right, looks like it's fairly sturdy. I'm packing. And completely unspilled. Latte for you? Nice. Eist for me. See, we pulled this up. Okay. Wah! So it's also reusable. Cheers. Cheers. It's so cold. One main advantage of the Chinese political system, currently, over say the American system. I'm not saying China that I prefer the Chinese system or the democracy is bad. I'm simply saying that they're able to have one direction that they follow over the years, 10, 20, 30 years. And they don't have the type of political infying that we have that makes things flip-flop, flop back and forth. Now, I'm certain that the US could have a way of competing with China having better tech progression, even with a two-party system. The problem is, is they're not trying to do that. It's all about how do we store points. I think I want to talk too much politics. But there's too many people that try and say, oh no, China can't win in tech because of their government or because of something, but no. No matter how you feel about American democracy or the Chinese system, the Chinese system, in many respects, has allowed them to forge ahead to set directions to support their tech companies, which then, as we see, creates very positive environments. Things that are very efficient, very easy to use. I don't think the USA, I'm not sure about European countries, but I definitely don't think the USA has a plan to deal with that yet. Okay, we're at the Lis Siang store, the restaurant. It's even not in English, it's in Chinese, so it's quite local. And then we're going to test this car. One out of every three cars sold in China is now electric. BWD makes more EVs than Tesla and earns over $100 billion a year. With the industry this advanced, some of the cars I see on the street look super premium and futuristic. So I wanted to check if they're actually that good, or if it's just an overhyped image. I asked my Russian friends, Sergey, who's lived in China for 10 years, to help me. For everyone, checking the Lis Siang Iba, yeah, I ate. It looks nice actually, we will try to drive it. I swear, that it's better than German cars. People would argue, okay, yeah, it's like it's nice cars, it's good and it looks nice, but what about reliability? You don't need to be worried in China, because the service in China is perfect. Like, for example, I am owner of Lis Siang, L9. Yeah. And once I need to change oil, or change air-conditioned filter, or something, they just calling me, and they're asking me, I do have free time, like two or three hours. Oh shit, because they see it on the end. Yeah. Wow. So they just call me and ask me, like, do you need to change the, do you have like two or three hours, can we get your car? And I told them, yes, you can get it. And they come by themselves, pick up the car, change air-conditioned, wash it and bring it back. And it's like, you know, this is same, it's completely new world. I'm not used to it. I used to have a car in Moscow, in Russia, but I mean, you do it, or everything yourself. You need to check everything yourself. You have problems, so you pull some, but it's crazy. Two layers of air. Oh yeah. Wow. Oh, that's cool, man. Exactly, three hours. So it's, it's gonna be super silent inside. This is the massage. The main screen. It's supposed to be here. Here you can choose the mode. Yeah, and the sound. You can pick Chinese, right? Yeah, I can pick Chinese. You can really change, yeah. Mm-hmm. Nice. What you can find in this car that you cannot find in a typical, like European or American car, like what features? Uh, the first, it's how solid is this car. The materials, it's the very expensive materials, right, here inside. Everything was, what was in the luxury cars. They just put in the normal cars. Is this brand also exported to other countries? What about US? Does this car is... I guess they're not gonna allow this car. No, because it's too good. It's too good. Yeah, it's too good. So this car is 50 US, yeah. 50 KUSD. It's almost 50, not even 50. Yeah, less than 50. What would be the competitor for the same price? I can compare with the German market. It's like X3, the BMW X3. Yeah. X3 is like nothing inside, you know? So X3 is the same price, you know? Yes. Wow. And it's probably the basic configuration. It's basic configuration. It's an X5, it's almost like double more expensive than this one. Fridge, we didn't say about Fridge, right? That's the Fridge. The Fridge is here. What? It's not only Fridge, you can hit the foot here. What? Like, uh, you're joking. No, no, from zero to like 60 degrees, you can change the temperature. I don't know. That's a fucking Fridge on the microwave. Here is the... Wireless charging, right? So it's charging now. Yeah, it's charging now. So, I look at the charging, it's like 50 watts. 50 watts charge and so on. So fast, super fast. Yeah. So, let's start the so-drying. Yeah. Then, okay, after being... That's it. Ooh. You just decided to change the lane. Yeah. Because, uh, on the next intersection, we need to turn left. It's even going to the parking spot by itself. Might stop, yeah. Yeah. Because, uh, the car, knows the parking spot. So, we can pick up the hands and look at the interior rights. So, I just press the course button and it will park automatically. What? It's no one. Yeah. For people in Shenzhen, one of the most advanced cities on the planet, this is daily life. For most of the world, it still looks like the future. In just 50 years, China turned a small fishing village into a mega city of over 17 million people. Gross, that is hard to imagine in Europe or the United States. This is the apartment I live in, uh, apartment building. They're still rapidly constructing. I think this probably will be done like in the next year. But, you know, China's speed in terms of like building out infrastructure. apartment buildings is also insane. But, I mean, I'll just show you the lobby here. Yeah. Face recognition to open the door. Very, very China like here. So, some of the face, door is open. Bum, bum. Yeah. Yeah, this is, uh, the hall of the lobby. But, um, yeah, I think. Let's go to the bike. Ooh, I covered it. Yes. There she is. Nice. And now, gotta get my bike starter, right? So, I'm gonna go to my bike app. Yeah. Bike app. Well, there's my baby. Slides unlock. Now the bike is turning on. Press down a power button. Now my bike is on. Nice. I have my phone. I can unlock the back. I'll put in this power cord. Okay, so all controlled with your phone. All controlled on my phone. Put in the power cord. Done. Uh, and now, when I want to go somewhere, on my phone, I'm just gonna type in where I'm headed next. So, let's say, we're headed in the fabric. So, that's typed in. And now, my screen is showing exactly where I need to go. I'm a buttered in May, for about $1,000. Oh, really? Yeah. Oh, that's cheap. Yeah. And it's like, completely, you know, smart. In theory, it can go 70, 80 km on a single charge. But maybe I drive too fast, because it never gets there. It's just so convenient, man. We? It's a bit too short for me. Oh, I see. When I turn, I'm actually touching my leg. Oh, I see. But you're also pretty tall. Yeah. But probably your legs go under. Nice. Okay, man. That's the very, like, Chinese thing, especially, like, the cities. That's the, if you go to China, that's the first thing that you see. All the east quarters on the streets, on the sidewalk. So, it's pretty cool to try it, you know? Yeah, yeah. Oh. Living in Shenzhen means living in the center of the world's most advanced tech. And it's not just this city. China has built a network of mega cities where millions of people turn bold ideas into reality. But such progress has a price paid by people who built it. To see how the future machine works from the inside, I went to Guanzhou to work in a factory as an ordinary worker. You will see that in the next video. So, don't forget to subscribe and press the bell so you don't miss it. For now, on my way back from Guanzhou to Shenzhen, let me show you something else. Speed. Every 10 to 15 minutes, a high speed train leaves the station. It takes just 29 minutes to travel 130 kilometers, faster than a plane and smoother than a car. Look at that. Look at the scale of this thing. That's insane. Look at the scale. I got myself a business ticket, business class ticket. So it costs 40 US dollars and I'm going from Guanzhou to Shenzhen. So this is a high speed train. This is so freaking cool. I love the shape of it. I got some snack. So, now this is the snack. We're going to leave it. Different kind of little, dull, tiny, cute snacks. Sleepers. Bye bye Guanzhou. Let's light down like that. Okay. That's it. I literally can't sleep here. That's it. Even my long legs can't fit here. Every light. 246 now. Okay. Say something. Thank you. Say something. Bye bye. Bye bye. Bye bye. Super fast. It's the Shenzhen North Railway Station. This is huge. She's like, wow, the size of it. Look at that. Look at that. I like this one. It looks like a little, a bit like a teleport. You know? Let's check out some robots. What kind of robots is that? It's a cleaning machine. Yeah? It's called GreenDark. Okay. What's going on? What is that? It's an explanation how to be a robot. It's something about your phone. So you be, and then you do something. This one I don't know. The second step. The third step is probably an app. Like a B app on your phone or something. What the hell? If you guys know, what's that? Let me know. Driver on the way. The ride is roughly 30 minutes. And the cost is 10$, which is like 8 US$. And this is premium. So basically, if I order normal one, it would be 4 US$. 4 30 minutes. Right. Quite cheap, yeah? For the Silicon Valley of China. So the green plates, it's an EV. Yeah? All the green plates are EV. So is it? EV, EV, EV, EV, not EV. The blue color is like normal. So most of the cars actually, in the cities are EVs. This is my guy. Hello, Nihan. Oh, yeah! Yeah, okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Transan is not only futuristic, but it's also like very, very green. And surrounded by beautiful nature and mountains. It's the blue sky. If you thought the air quality in China everywhere is super bad, look at that. Clear blue sky. Another greenery, a lot of nature. Bye-bye. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. It's always like in China. In China, in small towns, you touch the car. And then, you don't need to press the lift anymore. I just need to touch the car. Let's go. Wow! Holy shit, it's so cool! It's beautiful. Look at the mountains. And we are in the Silicon Valley of China. You see this hotel? This is the throne. It's freaking awesome. And it costs just 80 US, 80. Why it's so cheap? What's the reason? It should be much more expensive. Curtain of... Curtain on. Toilet. Open up. Open. Can you? It's not automatic. How come it's not automatic? But then you have your butt cleaning options. Yeah. 40 degrees? I can choose even the degrees. Or a dryer as well. And the speed of the dryer. You clean your butt, then you dry your butt. I'll test it later. Bye bye. And you see this 40 degrees? Let's go explore Shenzhen. Guys, check it out. So, I'm using a map in China called A-map. You see how cool it is then? So, that's the place where I'm going. And there are three routes. One is... You see, 30 minutes? More major routes. 11 minutes? More shade. It even tells you about the shade. That's cool. After several days in Shenzhen, filming all the high-tech features for you. I was already pretty might blown. But there was still one thing I wanted to show you. The highest point in the city with the fastest lift, that would probably make me dizzy because of its crazy speed. Yeah. Okay, thank you. Thank you. I'll try to change the... Tristino English. Okay. QR code is everywhere. Let's go. Kisterov Shenzhen. We are going here, but it's supposed to be super fast. So, let's go to the hospital. Don't be too fast. The screen is not working. Let's go to the big hotel. Let's see if it's possible. My new friend. Yeah. YouTuber. Yeah, follow you. Sure. Don't... Yeah. It's on. Oh my god. It's so easy. Wow. I live in Singapore. Excellent. I made it with Audrey. I do my major in UK. What city are you living? London. They say it's like a lot of crime. I'm a graduate. I already graduated. I already graduated. Now you're here? Yeah. You're Shenzhen. Yeah, actually, I do my master here. My phone was stolen by someone else. Where? In London. In London. In London. Someone stole my phone. Someone took it from your... Yeah. They take plastic home. Yeah, and they wear black masks. I saw it. It's crazy. Tall. Yeah. Do you know me? It's your name. No, not Chinese. English. What's your name? My name is... Yeah. I mean, it's a bit male, isn't it? Yeah. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Just think about how many people, how many engineers and designers and construction workers, and then all kinds of people actually created this city. So that was the idea in the beginning and then now you see this. Now you see this. What's impressive for me is what humans can actually do. Like, what the human brain is capable of to design this, to create this in real life, in real world. In the beginning, in someone's mind, and then in real life. And it's happening in China right now. The future is in China at the moment.