---
video_title: "Is China replacing the US as global superpower? (American's POV)"
video_id: ueS59A9jsoU
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ueS59A9jsoU
video_date: 2025-09-08T11:01:37+00:00
video_description: |
  🎁 Learn Languages for 7 days FREE at Lingopie! https://learn.lingopie.com/max_chernov 
  📌 Click the “JOIN” button or follow this link to become part of our community: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q/join
  
  Meet Peter, an American who moved to China 30 years ago. For more than 20 years, he has run a prominent consulting firm in Shanghai. Peter explained whether China is trying to replace America globally, what Americans often get wrong about China, and who’s winning the “AI space race” — China or the U.S. Enjoy! 
  
  TO START AND GROW YOUTUBE:
  🎬 Online workshop "YouTube Fast-Track to Views & Passive Income". Book your spot: https://event.webinarjam.com/register/6/925q4ak
  🏆 12-month full-scale personally coached program ‘Side Hustle YouTube Mastery.’ Join us: https://www.shym.sg/
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP:
  📷 Casual daily life on my Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on my Telegram channel: https://t.me/friendsofmax
  💰 Sponsorship-related requests: max@maxchernov.sg
  👥 If you have a guest suggestion for an interview, please reach out at max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST:
  ➢  on LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/peter-alexander-97630910 
  
  WATCH NEXT:
  ► Honest view on China after 18 years living there: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EsVMMHpjdsU
  ► Best-Selling Economist Reveals Shocking SECRET About Tech War with China: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c0tMBMLl32o 
  ► Honest view on China after 35 years (Brit’s POV): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KikqN7qMkQA
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  00:00 INTRO
  00:30 “China Is My Home”
  01:33 Misconceptions About China
  03:32 Rules of Engagement in China
  09:36 What Chinese People Think About America
  12:42 China’s Goal
  16:01 Shanghai vs. New York
  20:38 Is China Collapsing?
  27:40 Fast Changes in China
  30:58 Differences in Communication
  34:25 Why the Chinese Economy Is Growing
  39:11 The Role of the US in the Next Decade
  42:06 AI Race Explained
  
  Hey! This channel bridges the gap between locals and foreigners all over the world. Join Max as he interviews expats, unraveling their unique stories and providing valuable insights into their lives in the vibrant places of Asia. Through engaging conversations, Max fosters understanding and appreciation between locals and the global community, focusing on cultural exchange.
  
  If you're a company seeking sponsorship opportunities to engage our upscale audience, contact us at maxchernovYT@gmail.com. With over 50% Singaporean viewers and a substantial number of foreign professionals (US, EU, Australia), our mature audience (35-54 years) boasts strong purchasing power and interests in an above-average lifestyle, travel, investment, and personal finance.
---
I believe that the United States right now has virtually the same degree of censorship that China has. >> Meet Peter, an American who moved to China 30 years ago, and for more than 20 years, he has run a prominent consulting firm in Shanghai. Peter explained whether China is trying to replace America globally, what Americans often get wrong about China, and who is winning the AI space race, China or the US. I'm Max Turn off your insider to global life.

So what I mean by that is originally it was there was the opportunity. I saw the opportunity. I could not resist it when I got here. Just it fit with me perfectly. But very quickly what I realized was over time without China there's no me.

And you know it's an appreciation it's humility that the the success the people that I've met all of it because I've been in China. And finally what I had said was there's a concept of uh uh laa meaning um your your family home where you grew up and you know I no longer view where I grew up as my home. I now view Shanghai not necessarily China but Shanghai as being my home. >> What are the biggest misconceptions that you that you see that that Americans have about China? >> First and foremost and and let me just speak to the American audience. Um the

biggest misconception is that China is the enemy. China is in some way, shape or form working aggressively through this monolithic communist party uh to dethrone the United States as the leader of the free world and the rules-based international order. Not true. China has no ambition to replace the United States on the global stage. Now, what are China's ambitions? uh just as a quick

aside, they are in my opinion looking for a sphere of influence, meaning they'd like to just be sort of, you know, the leader of Asia-Pacific, if you will. And even to the American policy makers, that is not acceptable. So, you take a very what I consider to be uh understandable position by the Chinese in Beijing, the policy makers of, hey, look, we're the big dog in Asia. We're the leader in Asia. We want to be the leader in Asia. If you want to be the

leader in Europe and a leader in North South America, that's fine. But the best way that I have seen that the what I call the beltway consensus, meaning the people that influence decision makers in Washington DC, is to just paint with a broad brush and call China the enemy. And this is permeated all discussions across America. And you know, you'll see things like, oh, it's unsafe to come to China. Nonsense. You know, there are

what I refer to as rules of engagement if you live in China. And those rules of engagement are different than what it is to live in work and what have you in the United States. Uh there is a tendency of taking an American lens of things and then overlaying that and saying if this is how we do things then this is the way the rest of the world needs to do things. Can you give us the rules of engagement? >> So the rules of engagement is I'm sitting here in Shanghai as I mentioned, right? And I'm going to talk to you,

let's say about Taiwan or Shinja or what's going on with Xi Jinping and there's nobody busting down my door to throw me in the back of throw me in the back of a van. >> Y Well, let's put it this way. Let's put let's put it this way. I've had these conversations for years and nobody has essentially come um and not even talked to me about it. Now I'll give you a classic example because there are and I will not name names. There are numerous

individuals who are out there today who at one point in time lived in China. Uh they had run businesses. They had a certain brand in China and they ended up running a fowl with the authorities. Some of whom even were thrown into jail. And now if you see them on social media or elsewhere, they are talking about you know the the evils of the communist party and so on and so >> so let me give you a very specific rule of engagement for China.

>> It's called the three knock theory and what that means is within the foreign community and and this is what I'm referring to. It's not necessarily broadly China but the foreign community. If you're doing something, if I'm doing something at work and I've decided to, I don't know, try something or maybe there's been a change in government here, whatever the case might be, if I'm doing something that is no longer viewed as being uh a reasonable activity any longer, somewhere in my circle of Chinese friends, I'm going to get pulled aside and say, you know, things have changed. Maybe it's not a good idea if you do this. It'll be pretty subtle, maybe too subtle. And what has happened

is certain individuals have said, "I know what I'm doing. I have all these friends in China. You don't know what you're talking about. I'm going to keep doing what I'm doing." Fast forward maybe another couple weeks or a month, you get the second knock. Someone sits

you down and says, "Look, things have changed or what you doing is no longer. You really need to stop." And I know of numerous occasions where these individuals again through pure hubris um said, "No, I've got, you know, I've got these people and they tell me everything's fine. I don't have to do I'm going to keep doing what I'm doing." The third knock is the bad knock. That's

when your door gets kicked in, the police come in, you get dragged out, you get put in a van, you know, you get put into jail, you get put on a show trial. It happens. But I can tell you anybody who is out there who has been in serious trouble with the Chinese authorities, if there's smoke, there's fire. There there are no innocent bystanders. No one has been, you know, taken away or any of those sorts of things because they were innocent. I have no idea what's going

on. So, that's just one very specific rule of engagement. Um, I think there's a lot of subtlety. I can give you a classic example for my company. you know, there was a there was a new service I wanted to put into place. Uh

we were going to do some like reviews of financial companies here in China and I went to the regulator and you know, a very informal meeting. I wasn't specifically looking to be told is this or is this sort of new business acceptable. I just told them what I was thinking of doing and uh you know, good conversation. At the end, they turn to me in Chinese and they're like

which is look, I think this opportunity is a really good opportunity, but maybe it's a little early right now. I'm like, okay, that's a no. >> So, you know, when you're when you're able to sort of, you know, try to push certain envelopes, you'll know if you're if you're if you're open and and having an understanding of what again these rules of engagement are, you're going to be fine. If you are, and this is what my business is, if you are a global institution that's looking to come to China and say, you know, look, Peter, we do this in Frankfurt, in Tokyo, in Hong Kong. This is how we do business and this is what we're going to do here in China. And I tell them all the time, I'm

like, I understand, but if if your decision is to take your business model globally and replicate it one for one in China, you will most likely fail. not because China's done anything but because you've not been able to adapt to these local rules of engagement and I see it all the time and you know it's a bit frustrating for me uh a little exasperating because there's enough case study right now to demonstrate how to succeed in China that anybody that comes in and fails well I'm sorry that's on you. When I was in China, I thought it would be amazing to learn the language. And as you know, Chinese is not easy. But with Lingapai, today's video sponsor, I can dive into the language just watching cool content.

>> Nice. >> How it works? Lingoay is the language learning platform that combines entertainment and education. I can watch videos in Chinese, play with words, and learn them at the same time. There are over 3,000 titles in 12 plus languages, also music, podcasts, and even Netflix integration. I started with the video

about Chinese food because I think the this topic is very important. There are interactive subtitles in the player. Every word is clickable, so I can see that translation right away and save it to my vocabulary. I can also watch with dual subtitles, Chinese and English, side by side. to practice new phrases.

Lingapai creates quizzes, flashcards, and sentence building games with words I added to my vocabulary, so it never feels boring. Watching videos instead of reading textbooks help me to learn real accents, slang, and culture. And I can start using Chinese faster in real life situations. Lingapai works on desktop, mobile, and even TV, which makes it easy to use whether you are a traveler, family learning together, or just someone curious about other cultures. So, if you want to start learning a new language, but in a fi and effective way, click the link down below. You will get

55% off your subscription. Go check it out. We kind of discussed like what's the view of America and Americans towards China but what about how do you think Chinese people see Americans like average Chinese what do they think about America are they threatened by America or they curious or they they don't care combination of the three uh not to sort of evade the question but no I mean here's here's the best way I try to explain it is you you see all of the the media headlines and you know it's very clear in the United States that you know China is living as we like to say like rentree in everybody's mind like this big bad evil empire >> and in China when you ask like hey you know America what do you think and they're like yeah people are too busy dealing with whatever they're having to deal with on a Wednesday you know it's just a day >> um you know there I think there's a there's a there's a fascination if you will of what's going on uh with uh the Trump administration and I'll get questions from time to time, but but ultimately we're talking about China that over the course of my 30 years, there have been some serious events that have taken place. Um, you know, I can tell you uh when I first got here after a couple of months was in March of 1996, Taiwan was having its first election and the Chinese started throwing bombs into the Taiwan Strait like to try and intimidate. And now keep in mind there was no internet then not in China. Like

we were like sitting around outside at a restaurant a bunch of us and the waitress came up in Chinese and asked us whether or not the United States and China were going to war. And we looked around like what is going on? So you know we've had it's called the third Taiwan crisis by the way. We had that issue. We had the Americans quote unquote accidentally bombing um the uh the Chinese embassy in Belgrade back in 1998. There was a spy a spy plane that

crashed in Hainan Island in 2001, you know. So, there has been flash points, if you will, in the relationship in the time that I've been here. >> But here's the most important difference, Max. Prior to 2015 or so, Americans didn't really care, didn't even think twice about China. Wasn't even in their mind. And all of a sudden

it just occurred to an increasing number of people in the United States. Oh my god, look at China right now. They're they're eating our lunch. You know, we need to do something about it. So for the Chinese over that same period of time, it's just been progress, progress, progress, progress. You know, I'm going

to I'm going to do what I have to do during the day. I'm going to take care of my family. I'm going to go to work. I'm going to try to make a bit more money. Very, I would say, basic human standards. they're not really involved

in the politics of it all. >> Interesting. That's what I heard from other people as well. So like sometimes we kind of it's overall I think it's in human nature. We sometimes exaggerate the role of ourselves and like how much other people think about us and it's also applied to the their countries I think.

>> Yeah. Absolutely. >> So you said before that China want to be a big guy in his playground which is Asia. If like some American like average American ask you like okay they first they control Asia and now they will they actually want like the global domination like what would what would you say? Well, the first question I ask is why?

There's empire and then there's I think just broad success. And I think if you look at I'll give you a classic example um that I would answer is say there is this 20th century very cold war mindset of you know we have the G7 and everybody's now talking about China and the United States is the G2. China wants none of that. you know, their their their outlook is not about you're either with us or against us. And I think it's fascinating where, you know, even Donald Trump said during the beginning of this whole trade war issue, you're going to have to pick. You're either with us or

with China. And China's mentality has always been, look, if if you're your allegiance is number one to the United States, that's fine. We we understand that. But just because you're aligned with the United States does not mean that you have to make us your enemy. like you can you can have it both ways.

The United States does not operate in that way. I would even argue in the previous empire that is the United Kingdom there was also a very similar call it really a scarcity mentality. The Chinese on the other hand their outlook is look we don't you know we don't need bases around the world you know we don't need to influence you know elections here there and everywhere. What China truly is looking for, and maybe this is not great either, is a much more mercantilist relationship with partners where they're saying, "Look, if we're going to sell to you or you're going to buy from us, we want it to be not about power, per se. We're just in it to try and make money. We're trying to build

our country. We're trying to provide for our society. And, you know, if if Italy if Italy wants us to come in and build a port for them, we're happy to do so. if it makes economic sense and then the United States comes in and says no Italy you can't do that you're part of NATO this is this is bad or you know a Hong Kong company that is deemed to be Chinese you know CK ports which own the ports in Panama you know the United States comes out and says this is a national security issue like okay China's always outlook saying yeah we're not here to try to stop commerce going through the Panama Canal We're doing it because we think we can make money off of it. Now, again, a mercantalist mentality isn't great, but I think it's also important to recognize that doesn't equal a a hegeimond in the making. A we take over Asia, then we

take over the world. I don't see any logic that supports that thinking. Unless you're an American and if you only understand that the world has been sort of run from Western powers using the hegeimon system, I don't know, for 5 600 years. Of course, you're going to think the next group is going to do the same thing. Doesn't necessarily need to be the case. China is a very different

animal. >> How would you compare life in Shanghai versus life in New York City? What's interesting about that is over the course of the time that I've been in China, I have periodically gone back to the US once at least maybe twice a year. And again, most of the time going back to the the Northeast to the New York area. And the reason why I think it's a fascinating um question to ask is it gave me the opportunity to sort of benchmark each year. And you could you I

could see I should shouldn't say you but I could see that there were changes underway that the best way I could sort of frame it is it was becoming more restrictive in terms of the opportunity set. You when I was there in the early 90s it was still a pretty cowboycentric environment in New York. If you put the time in um if you did the daily grind you know if you tried to network in bed you could you could do a lot. you could get a lot of opportunities. >> And then I keep I I kept finding through conversations and whatnot that you began to see gatekeepers were being put into place. Um you know, if you didn't know

the right people or didn't go to the right schools became increasingly difficult. So you the opportunity set as time went on became very apparent to me that it wasn't the same as it was back in the '90s. But then at the same time, people themselves, I don't want to say they gave up, but there was this, how do I define it? Um, a a reluctance to really put in the energy. Sort of a why even bother? Um, meanwhile, you know,

being, you know, 11 and a half months, let's say, out of the year in in China, none of that existed. Everybody was working aggressively, whatever they could do, wherever the opportunity existed. And it was just uh uh increasingly a night and day experience. >> Why do you think it's that? It's like the like the the bigger waves and the bigger trends that were happening in the US and in China or it's a cultural aspect into it as well. Like what do you

think? >> It's one of those answers that I think will depend on the individual. And for me, and again, I think it's important to keep in mind that throughout this whole period of time, I'm more the outsider looking into the United States um versus sort of being there. So, I've always been a little bit uh cautious when I'm trying to look at the United States and and try to ask myself the question, you know, what what happened? To give you to give you a bit of a a benchmark, I've always considered myself, and I think this is accurate, a child of Ronald Reagan. You know, my most formative

years were from 1980 to 1988. And at the time, the United States was, you know, call it more of a, you know, to use a more modern term, an abundance mentality. You could go out, you could do, you could create, you I mean, there was just opportunity galore. And I think that that continued well into the 1990s. But you know, you could make the point that at the at 9/11, at the turning point when the towers came down in New York, the United States shifted towards its war on terror. And I think that this

shifted a lot of the focus by uh especially the American decision makers in Washington in an area that I guess rightly at the time they viewed as being the most important priority. But during a 20-year period, call it from 2000 to 2020 or thereabouts, the United States was very preoccupied with sort of the the geopolitical priorities that they thought were critical. China on the other hand just got to work and you know they they looked at you know building they looked at creating um they you know spent an enormous amount on infrastructure. uh the individuals would go to college, they would try to get jobs. I mean it was a a very euphoric I think a period during China whereas for at least my perspective uh unfortunately the United States made the error in terms of its strategic outlook um and then ultimately let's call it 2015 or 16 with the ascension of Donald Trump the first time around it was the first time where all of a sudden you saw throughout America that China was in fact a rival a competitor and on a dime everything began to change at that point.

>> Speaking about like hustling and grinding culture in China through the last like 20 25 years when China's economy was rising is crazy. Is it still this spirit because like people say like Chinese economy is slowing down. Is this you you still feel like this energy as you've seen like 20 years ago? >> No, the the energy levels have certainly dropped off. Um and it's understandable given that you know if you if you look at the headlines right you know the Chinese economy is slowing and there's no there's no question about that. What

I find fascinating however is very rarely do you actually um encounter the question of why like why is the Chinese economy not as dynamic as it once was? the the simplistic answers are always oh the property market too much investment there or um there's been too much infrastructure spending and what have you and and those are certainly accurate but the one I think critical piece that's been missing from the overall analysis has been what the policy makers in Beijing especially when Xi Jinping came into power back in 2011 2012 what the approach taken there was And not to get too deep into politics, but you've seen, I'm sure, a ton of headlines talking about how Xi Jinping is now emperor for life and, you know, that he, you know, doesn't care about the people or care about the economy. I I completely disagree with that. And, you know, the reason why I say that is you've heard of recency bias, right? Um there's also there's also a concept called primacy bias which is you have a tendency of looking back in time at a at a point and believe oh that was that was fantastic that was the best period of time and you'll see this with a lot of the the individuals that are commenting on China today and they'll say you know back in 2010 you know that was the best time for China you know there all the opportunities all the energy and an absolutely accurate assessment what is missed however, is the fact that it was not sustainable and you know there was an insane amount of um investment across the board. Property was you know uh at a

point where there was no way that the price rises were going to be able to continue. So watching when Xi Jinping came into power and you know he could have if he wanted to done his two fiveyear terms sailed through for 10 years and said you know I'm good and you know left the problems to whoever came next and instead I think the choices that he made was to essentially just reccalibrate the economy and he made a very famous statement back in 2017 that the Chinese policy was going to center on an economic model that was about quality growth as opposed to growth at all costs. Now, the downside to all that is you have a restructuring that's required, a deleveraging that's required, and all of the steps that are that are needed to to go down this path mean your economic prospects are going to diminish at least for a short period of time. And that's what's been going on, I would say, since 2017, 2018. There's been progress. Um, but I will

not necessarily come out and say without a doubt, this is working. It's going to be fine. It still remains unclear. But let me let me finish this this this thought with the final comment. In the entire time that I've been here, I can't count how many predictions have been made about China's collapse. The

economic collapse has been predicted going all the way back to 2000. In fact, it has not occurred. I think it is in the best interest for those that are looking at the Chinese outlook to give the benefit of the doubt to the policy makers because up to this point they have been able to demonstrate a degree of capability to deliver. Now until that is shown to be in error and that the support that's should be provided should not be I think you have to give the benefit of the bout doubt to the the policy makers. Um, and they've continued to try and move forward and restructure the economy and we'll see how it plays out. China was at peak pessimism about a

year ago, summer of 24. >> Um, thing things were the economy was uncertain, really uncertain. A lot of people that we talked to, I talked to were concerned. There has been a 180 degree pivot in the last six, seven months. um a real a real kind of renaissance of sorts. Not that the

economy has improved uh materially. There's like I said there's still headwinds without question. But you know when I was talking before about you know Red Note and the Tik Tok refugees that was a point of pride for the Chinese. They kind of were like wow that's look they're coming and using our platform. Deepseek a point of pride with the Chinese. Super interesting this coming

weekend. Have you heard of a movie a Chinese movie called Na 2 cartoon? uh rings the bell. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

That's a cartoon. Yeah. >> Yeah. I know this. >> Um this movie came out uh I don't know four or five months ago. It's done $2

billion in revenue in China alone. >> Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. That Yeah, that's what I remember.

>> And it's And by the way, it is a phenomenal movie. And anybody that I I encourage everybody to go see it, but I also encourage everybody to go first watch Na the original Nja 1 beforehand. The story doesn't make sense without it. But the reason I bring it up is it was another sort of a soft power development that got the Chinese excited like wow we're like we're really feeling positive about the direction things are going. It's ephemeral. It's not something like

I have money in my pocket or I have a new job. It's it's a it's a feeling of of national worth. Not nationalism but national worth. And it's had a positive impact as I can see it in the engagements and conversations I've had with Chinese So, uh, yeah, things are things are moving in a positive direction. >> Some people think I just show up at the guest place, press record, and that's it. The video is done. But right now,

six people work full-time and two part-time on this project. It takes a lot of time, energy, and money. Some interviews takes months to secure, but we do it because we want to show the world that Asia is a modern, exciting, and inspiring place, and to introduce you to the most interesting people out there. If that resonates with you, I'd love for you to become an even bigger part of this project. By clicking the join button below, you'll become an official member and supporter of this channel. You'll get a special page. I'll

see your comments first and you will know that you are helping us keep this going. Big hug to each of you. Thank you so much for your support and honestly, you are the best YouTube community I could ever dream of. Thank you so much. People underestimate how things go fast in China like in two three years change things completely change like as you said like oh within the last like half a year basically the the mood changed I don't know for America but for like I don't know Europe for European countries would be like oh nothing nothing could be changed like in half a year or in a year or in three years even.

>> Yeah. No I mean I mean my my favorite example is the phone where again you've you've been here you would have seen it firsthand. I can't remember the last time I had cash in my pocket. You know, you don't stand on a street and wave a taxi cab down. If you don't go on the the local app to make a reservation for dinner, you're not getting a scene.

Like, every single thing is done on your phone. And you know, you can have, at least in the big cities, anything that you possibly could desire or want can be delivered to your door in 30 minutes. So, you know, I think back 30 years ago, and and I I'll share with you a pretty funny story. When I was talking to your producer, Dimmitri, he asked me a question like, "What's like one thing that pops in your mind of like China?" Wow. And it was when I first got here, I

was picked up at the airport and dropped off at the school I was teaching at and they gave me a bit of money and they said, "You need to buy a bicycle." I said, "Why do I need to buy a bicycle?" And they said, "Well, you're living at this campus, but you're teaching at a campus 5 kilometers away and you have to ride by bicycle to that class." I'm like, "Oh, okay." >> So, I buy the bicycle. I have to go to

class. I go out my very first day and when I say that there were more bicycles than I possibly have ever seen in my entire life, it was a sea of bicycles and I had to cross a pretty sizable um uh intersection. I just could not fathom it. And trying to get across it uh again there there were no real highways. There was one subway line.

There was no infrastructure whatsoever. And you fast forward to today, nobody's on bicycles, everybody drives an EV, everybody uses phones. China now has 18 subway lines. And in the time that the first >> in just in Shanghai, you can get anywhere. And if I look at if I look at, you know, and I know it's a cliche to say it, but if you look at trying to build infrastructure in the United States, highspeed train, let's say between LA and San Francisco, it can't get done. And it's not because there's

not a market demand or there's not, you know, support to do it. Regulations, like this goes to my point about competition, right? The one thing that I hope Donald Trump actually does is remove an enormous amount of the overregulated tendencies that exist in the United States. I had a house at one point. It was a family home that I had bought um after after my mother had passed away and I was looking to keep the home and do some renovations and I started looking into it and I mean permits, approvals, like all of the stuff that I was going to need to do even before I started doing renovation.

I was like this is not even worth it. I'm just going to sell the house. Here, if you want to do something, you do it. Like, you don't need to get permitted necessarily. Now, there's a difference between things like residential and commercial, what have you, but it's the regulations in the United States are out of control. I been to this speech of

INSEAD professor in France in contau and she explains about the difference in ways of communication for Americans and for Chinese like generalizing but the there is a there is a high context culture and like low con context communication culture. So in America if you do business so normally people say like especially if you're from New York people say okay this is good this is bad or they explain like clearly what you have to do or what you know supposed to do and in China is like more subtle it's more like you need to understand like what that what it actually means what they say to you so it's not always on the surface absolutely and I think you've hit on a really important point I share with clients all the time that with sort of especially like commercial engagements. You know, when you have a Chinese and American, the way that I describe it is Americans have what is called a high time preference mentality. They want to get stuff done. They're about transactions quick, quick, quick.

The Chinese have a very low time preference mentality, meaning they're looking at the longer term. They're looking at ways in which how is this going to impact me over the next 10 or 15 years. Now, it's a it's a cliche to say, "Oh, China thinks in decades and what have you." That's not exactly true, but they the Chinese certainly think much longer term than the Americans do. And I'll give you a I'll give you a classic example is look at um right now Apple. You know

Apple back 20 years ago when the current CEO Tim Cook was at that time the chief operating officer under Steve Jobs. His claim to fame was one recognizing that they were going to have a massive demand for their various consumer products and they needed to manufacture them somewhere at scale and they created this phenomenal supply chain throughout the entirety of China working with various partners and what have you. And from 2007 2006 I think it started with the iPod um all the way up until probably 2017 Apple made a killing. But Apple also, in my opinion, had entered into what's called the Fouian bargain. Meaning they recognized at the time the sheer benefit that they were going to gain commercially in making this relationship happen, building the entirety of their supply chain in China.

There was zero, I think, appreciation of the sustainability truly longer term of what that meant. And then in 2018 during the first Trump administration, this really came home and first really became apparent. And still to this day, Apple, no matter what the headlines say, they manufacture the vast majority of their products in China. So it's not that Tim Cook is a dumb man, he's very, very brilliant. The issue right now is Apple has no other option. There are no other

markets that they can go to that has the ability to build at scale, at quality, and at price like China. And Apple is just one of thousands of examples. So, you know, making sure that you understand what you're getting and what the longer term implications are. That latter part has been missed by a great number of uh organizations and individuals. But can you explain maybe in a simple words to someone who doesn't really know what's going on like in in in China with China's economy let's say the average American what were the pillars the main pillars why economy was growing what was the like the the shift why chrome economy started growing and what was the main pillars for for this growth within the last like 30 years and the second part is what uh the government is trying to do now to as you said like restructure the economy and like uh change the approach from just the growth to sustainable growth.

>> You know, the way that I've looked back on it now is that you know, use my 30 years of experience and break it into two blocks of 15 and 15. So through the first 15 years, uh the majority of the growth came essentially from infrastructure and housing just building what was needed to support, you know, all of the various provinces, all the cities. So, we're talking everything from highways, we're talking about airports, I mean, high-speed rail. I mean, you know, going from an an a an old decrepit rail system that I recall when I first got here where you would typically take uh an overnight train to go from city to city, you know, that now you take a high-speed train and it takes about 5 hours. >> So, that's one of the most fascinating things about China when I come there is like, what the hell? How come it's so

good? This uh this is just massive and it's fast and it's just unbelievably good. >> Yeah. And not only that, but I think and this will go to the second part I'll talk about in a second. There's the efficiency issue. So if you and I think

you have been on the highspeed rail here. Um it's not just about the rail, it's about how you buy your ticket, how you check in, right? How you get out. I mean the friction in transportation has been reduced by 90%. And there is a real productivity boost that you'll get from that because the the reduction in friction that I'm just alluding to here in terms of transportation you can see this across various industries and the way people do things throughout China.

But, you know, going going back to sort of the first 15 years of growth, you know, the other pillar was clearly housing. And it goes and it sort of ties into the issue of the infrastructure buildout. There just were not enough housing available for the populace. And when I first got here, there was a a concept called the iron rice bowl. And this was essentially most Chinese the housing was provided by their work unit wherever they worked. And then in I

think it was in 98 maybe 97 the then um I think he was vice premier maybe he'd been premier I can't recall Jurong Ji made a huge declaration where you know they broke the iron rice bowl and all of these public housing you know they were kind of sold to a certain extent to the individuals but at the same time it was just evident that more was needed. Now, that investment all went through. It created this massive boom, but clearly the pendulum swung far too in one direction where we're now left with sort of this glut of property that needs to be worked through. Again, as I was mentioning earlier, you could have to a certain extent, you know, kept that game playing throughout another 10-year period under Xi Jinping. I do give him a great great deal of credit for recognizing the instability of that model. So what you started to see were

new policies that began to get created from 2013 onwards. I think the most famous that people have heard of is the made in China 2025. This was the the move towards essentially a new industrial infrastructure buildout focusing on things like solar or broadly speaking new energy uh things like robotics, high-tech, even biioins uh just a a a slew of new industries and you know this is something that is going to just take time but we're starting to see some um benefits coming out of it. you know, talk about like AI, you know, there was the whole deepseek moment that everybody likes to focus on from earlier this year. Um, so right now we're in just this role where all of the uh the growth that was attributed to infrastructure and housing has been falling off at a rapid pace as the new growth engines on industrial are starting to move up. But again the

question is can these new drivers of growth take place at a pace that is able to match the deceleration in the growth engines elsewhere. >> What do you think will in this in this case what what will be the role of the United States in the next like 20 years for example? >> This gets to the core of what I try to do. Number one dialogue and collaboration. This is what I try to tell everybody. This is not about trying

to pass judgment on anybody or say what you're doing is wrong or any of that. If you look at the United States and you if you look at China, there has been an extremely beneficial relationship that's existed for 30 years. Now, the vast majority of Americans will say, "Yes, but it benefited the Chinese the most." Totally agree with that. But if you can now turn the tables and and again, you know, I don't agree with everything that Donald Trump has been doing, but I think some of what he's been doing is taking a page from the Chinese playbook. Case in

point, we want to bring in foreign direct investment. We want companies from around the world to invest in America. The one country that has not been invited to this party is China. So my outlook is why not invite BYD or NEO for example in the EV space. Tell them, "Look, we want you to come to Tennessee or North Carolina and we want you to build a plant. We're going to own 51%,

you're going to own 49%. And then you can learn by how it is that Chinese run a manufacturing business." And then you can do that with drones. You know, they're doing it with TMSC, the chip manufacturer from Taiwan. But I just can't see in this political environment a willingness to quote unquote allow the Chinese into the United States. Uh this is what the

Chinese did. This is one way in which they were able to accelerate their um their development was bringing in western companies and learning from how they did business. Uh now I just think for the United States there's no manufacturing. They're fiscally boxed in, meaning too much debt, uh too much government uh involved, a lot of regulations. What can the United States and the United States, I believe, can learn a great deal from China. There

needs to be, I think, a little bit of humility to come into that. I think it will happen. I think right now if I look at how the negotiations are ongoing between the Trump administration and Beijing, I'm I'm very pleased that we have continued dialogue, continued conversations. There's not a lot of um acrimony. It's fantastic. I hope this

continues having the United States recognize the benefits that can be taken from a a genuine relationship with China. I mean, ch look, China's not going anywhere. And also, let's try to be a little bit open and honest here. The world is a pretty big place that I think can really hold two great powers like China and the US. >> Probably AI like um race can be a solution to some extent like what's going to be with China and America and the world like in 10 years. I guess

they're competing like big time now. China like with with US in terms of AI. Before AI, I want to talk about competition. And this is I think this is the the reason why again red-blooded American. I think never never underestimate what the American the Americans the individual can achieve and as a society how they can how they can really persevere. And I do believe

that's still there. So what I've tried to to promote is the United States and China. Let's let's cut to the chase here. They have completely different forms of governance, different societies, different everything. By the way, China is not nuanced. People like

to say, "Oh, it's a nuance." No, it's not. China is different and you need to recognize the difference. So, my my solution to this is the United States needs to go back to the period of unbridled animal spirit competition. again, go back to the 80s, the early 90s, the the the country that built the internet, and be able to to just demonstrate to the world, it's a free, it's an open society. You you can say

whatever you want. I mean, I believe that the United States right now has virtually the same degree of censorship that China has. It might be different, >> but I Oh, god. Yeah. I mean, the I think there's been a bit of a change, but or the other issue is privacy. The Chinese

will laugh when you ask them about privacy. They're like, "We know the government knows everything that's going on with us. We know that they have all the information." But so the Americans have the same degree of of government oversight. You know, we see this with Facebook and Google and everything else, right? I mean, Snowden back in the day

made it very clear and that was 10, 15 years ago now. So I think it's always funny that the Americans to a certain extent have this um this errant belief that oh no we have our privacy and I'm like no you don't right you you have the you know maybe it's too strong a word but you have this diluted thinking that you have privacy but in reality you don't so you know if the United States were to unshackle itself you know things like regulatory arbitrage this is this drives me crazy which is companies no longer feel as though they want to compete on product on price on service. They want to go to Washington DC and say, "Hey, we need you to put in new laws to stop competition from coming after us. We want to create what's called a regulatory moat. You want unbridled competition. You want people

just building um you know providing great services, all of it. And if you have that system again, open free, you can talk about whatever you want and you compare that to China because China I do not believe is going to move in that direction. China is going to maintain its system where they believe stability is the most important element that's fine and stability requires that there is you know very strict guidelines in place for oversight and censorship and the likes. If you're able to bring these two systems and present them to the world and say we have very different views on the outlook of the world over the next 50 years and then let the entire world vote with their feet on which they support the United States could make things completely different than where they're basically the trajectory they're going now. And again, the best way that I will explain it in in the vernacular of today, America has moved from a abundance mentality when I was growing up to a scarcity mentality.

And they need to move away from that. We have to protect what we have by putting up walls and bar and barriers. Tear the walls down, open everything up, get rid of the tariffs, bring everybody, let everybody compete. And I think if you do that, America will have a much brighter future than the direction things are going right now. Look at the American AI platforms right now. They are creating

what are referred to as walled gardens, meaning if you want to use open AI, you have to use open AI, right? It's closed architecture. You just use it and you pay a fee for it. Um, you've got Clawude, you've got Gemini, you got all of these, but they're all silos, walled gardens, right? This was tried when the internet started back in the mid 90s. Do

you happen to remember America Online? >> America Online like AOL, >> correct? The one, >> right? >> Okay. >> Right.

>> Yeah. >> AOL. AOL was hugely popular in the beginning, but it was a walled garden. You went into that system and you could only operate within that system. >> Yahoo to a certain extent was the same way. What China has done, and I will

tell you this has been a pretty big shock to me, is they decided we're going to compete using open- source models. So when Deep Seek came out, it wasn't that China had a competitive AI model. It was that they had a competitive AI model that was open sourced, open weight. And what happened over the course of the next seven months? You know, you had Kimmy K2 the other week, you had Alibaba with Quinn. You know, you there are more

open-source platforms than I can keep track of these days, and each one is iterating over and over again off of the findings from the previous open source model. Now, two things that are important right now. First, China wants scale. And this is a very Chinese way of doing things >> that it's not it's not about profitability, right? So people always will say to me, you know, Peter, Chinese companies are very unprofitable, which they are for a lot of time for a lot of companies because that high time preference, longer time thinking. The Chinese want

market share. They want market share and then they can increase pricing. We see this right now in the EV market throughout China. They're doing the same thing with AI. They're they're creating very open models. They're going to focus

on the service side of it, the the user experience as it were, and China has the electrical grid to support it. The United States doesn't. So, you have all of these headwinds that are popping up in the United States. Meanwhile, China's saying, "We're going to bury you in scale. We're going to actually make these products useful for our enterprises." It's not just a a

replacement to Google or an ability to write a a you know a paper or come up with some I don't know some picture right it's actually useful so I believe right now it is a neckand-neck race but you know look even in the last 48 hours you've had Sam Alman come out saying China is a real competitor he's concerned about the direction of AI in the United States you know there's been hundreds of billions of dollars spent in the United States on chips and data centers and everything else. China has spent a fraction of that. They've used software to overcome the dependency on chips. There's a joke here that says never tell a Chinese what a problem is because if they know what the problem is, they're going to focus on it until they solve it. So, the minute you tell the Chinese, yeah, you have no access to high-end chips. Fine. We'll figure some

other way out and we're going to use software to do it. And they have. So um I think the United States both the commercial groups like an open AI and others plus Washington the beltway consensus if I had any single piece of advice to give them it would be this. Stop underestimating China. Learn to compete. Compete aggressively and

compete on your core competencies because that's what the Chinese are doing and they're and they're winning. Maybe they're maybe they're at the same level now in AI as an example, but you've seen all the headlines about EVs, right? China dominates E the EV market. Now, >> in five years, what China did to EVs, they're going to do to robotics. So, you know, the United States loves to say, "We have the greatest software. We have

the greatest minds." Nvidia doesn't build chips. They have that done in Taiwan. They come up with the plans. They come up with the designs. the

software your software is only as good as the hardware that has used it and all the hardware in the world is built where China so again this also goes back to my point about collaboration if you've got a great hardware and a great software sort of ecosystem bring the two together you know find ways to share the economics you can grow the pie or you can just have two different pies that are not as [Music]