---
video_title: "Honest view on China after 35 years (Brit’s POV)"
video_id: KikqN7qMkQA
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KikqN7qMkQA
video_date: 2025-09-04T11:00:41+00:00
video_description: |
  🤖 Unlock your proactive AI: https://proactor.ai/
  📌 Book your seat on my online workshop "YouTube Fast-Track to Views & Passive Income": https://event.webinarjam.com/register/6/925q4ak
  ☎️ Check out Fonus for Unlimited Global Data, Calls, and Texts: https://www.fonusmobile.com/ref/maxchernov/
  
  Meet Dominic Johnson-Hill, a Brit who has lived in China for over 35 years. He founded the renowned clothing brand Plastered 8, frequently appeared on Chinese TV, and even clashed with the government over his creativity. Dominic shared how Western media fuels myths about China, whether it’s really possible to protect your ideas and innovations there, and the one right way to solve problems in China. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP:
  📷 Casual daily life on my Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on my Telegram channel: https://t.me/friendsofmax
  💰 Sponsorship-related requests: max@maxchernov.sg
  👥 If you have a guest suggestion for an interview, please reach out at max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST:
  ➢  on LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/dominicjohnsonhill
  
  WATCH NEXT:
  ► Honest view on China after 18 years living there: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EsVMMHpjdsU
  ► Best-Selling Economist Reveals Shocking SECRET About Tech War with China: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c0tMBMLl32o 
  ► Brit took me inside a Chinese Factory... I Didn’t Expect This: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lzF3YrOkkyk
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  00:00 INTRO
  00:30 About life in Beijing (in Chinese)
  01:32 Chinese vs. Western Mindset
  03:41 Misconceptions About China
  06:05 Intellectual Property Rights in China
  09:23 Censorship Pressure in China
  13:06 What Happens When You Get in Trouble in China
  14:10 How Not to Get in Trouble in China
  17:02 Life in Beijing
  19:08 What China Was Like in 1993
  20:52 Learning Chinese with Locals
  22:43 Have Chinese People Changed?
  26:34 How China Changed This Brit
  28:03 Is It Easy to Succeed in China if You’re a Foreigner?
  31:29 The Meaning of Life
  
  Hey! This channel bridges the gap between locals and foreigners all over the world. Join Max as he interviews expats, unraveling their unique stories and providing valuable insights into their lives in the vibrant places of Asia. Through engaging conversations, Max fosters understanding and appreciation between locals and the global community, focusing on cultural exchange.
  
  If you're a company seeking sponsorship opportunities to engage our upscale audience, contact us at maxchernovYT@gmail.com. With over 50% Singaporean viewers and a substantial number of foreign professionals (US, EU, Australia), our mature audience (35-54 years) boasts strong purchasing power and interests in an above-average lifestyle, travel, investment, and personal finance.
---
Meet Dominic Johnson Hill, a breed who's lived in China for over 35 years. He founded the renowned clothing brand Plustered 8, frequently appeared on Chinese TV, and even clashed with the government over his creativity. Dominic shared how Western media fuels myths about China, whether it's really possible to protect your ideas and innovations there, and the one right way to solve problems in China. I'm Max. Turn up your insider to expert life to

What what was it? What what do you say? >> Um I said that that living in Beijing is a is a is a wonderful life. My my home was in the Hutong. It was also in an area called Herpingly. Uh I had great

community. I had great food to eat. Had great places to, you know, to to build my business. You're surrounded by culture. You're surrounded by history.

Um and uh I finished off with a Beijing kind of it's a bit rude but also kind of nice way of saying awesome which is newbie you know um it's just a way of Beijing way of saying awesome. Can you compare I guess it's a generalization but like how you compare how the Chinese the typical Chinese mindset and the typical western mindset I mean sweeping generalization but like are there any like because there is a a lot of miscommunication between like China and the west but what do you think on a how people think level uh what are the differences? >> You have to look at history you know like a mirror as they say. Um, and if I compare my own country, England, which would be my best comparison cuz I haven't really lived in other western countries, is that China has had a pretty chaotic 200 years um before opening up in reform. Uh to say pretty chaotic is actually downplaying it. It's

terribly chaotic. And that really is a a big important part of the Chinese mindset is that they're terrified of going back to that level of chaos. And so the mindset is really very pragmatic which is that you know I want to have a secure life. I want to be to have food on the table and I don't want to have chaos and I want to be able to save my money and and have some economic stability and freedom. Um and from that economic prosperity and you know saving money or that I I'll have a certain sense of independence and freedom. And

so in the west in the in the UK, you know, we have the NHS, we have government support, you have unemployment benefits, um you have the common law, and you have a a big kind of uh focus on on individuality. Uh you know, the the individual and that gives birth to the Rolling Stones, you know, the Beatles and uh David Hawkney. I love Britain for that. you know the the level of creativity that comes out of the individual is is or inspiring and so uh I say that is uh I guess is a very big difference but that of course is changing you know now the individual is really coming out in China and the creatives I work with a lot of creatives in China the creatives in China now are coming up to the same level as the creatives I work with in the UK um it's a it's a progression yeah so it's it's changing >> what are the other like misconceptions question that you came across like I don't know maybe from your friends back in the UK like something that people don't get about China >> you know what you were saying about population is very hard for people to understand what it's like to manage a population of 1.4 4 billion and thereby the different forms of governance that will come from that. Um I think a lot of

people didn't understand things policies like crazy policies that the Chinese government managed to enact like the one child policy. There's a lot of a lot of common misconceptions that are sort of based around the fact that people are terrified of a government that they see as communist as well um because they don't really understand how the Chinese sort of socialist government works. I don't know. I mean, I I I think generally, you know, people in Britain now are very, you know, I I saw the whole thing change in the '9s. I'd come back to my local pub and people like, "China, what what the hell are you doing in China?" And then and then in the

2000s, it was kind of like, "Oh, I've heard some stuff about China." Then the Olympics happens and they're kind of like, "Oh, you were really smart to move to China, >> you know." Um, and then, >> you know, different things happened and COVID happened and people like, you know, get out of China. Um, so a lot of their views are based on stuff that they read in whatever media they pick up, whether it's a Robert Murdoch paper or the Guardian or The Economist is kind of what what what bends their uh idea of the country. But there's a shitload of misconceptions. It's just like in China,

there's so many misconceptions about the UK. And at the beginning, nobody knew anything about what I mean, you know, I remember when when I was in a hairdresser in the '90s and a fly landed on the mirror and my hairdresser knew I was English. And she said to me, "Do you have flies in England?" I like, "Yeah, we got flies in England." You know, it was um and I remember she had watched the film and she said, "Do all English people wear hats when they go to bed?"

And and it's cuz she'd seen a film about it. You know, you get a lot of these misconceptions in China because, you know, they're learning about the world right now. You always hear this saying and you know, you foreigners are all like that because they put you all into one basket. Now, that's not them being racist. It's just like that that's their understanding of the world right now because they they haven't traveled or they haven't gone out and seen it their misconceptions. So I think at the end of

the day one has to be patient you know not get angry about these things. I just loved having conversations with your average Joe on the street about England because they just wanted to know about it. Chinese people are very curious. I guess it's one of the actually misconceptions of what people think about China that there is no like IP no rights on your brand and like Chinese just copy everything and that make their make it their their own product. So that's that's what people I know that many Americans think thinks this way about China. And what's crazy now is a

lot of that artwork that I created it's really in the sphere like you know people just know the artwork but they don't know anyone owns it. So now, you know, when I closed when I closed down my retail stores in China, I took all of my IP and moved it into a wholly owned private enterprise um a business and I license it, right? Because it's people want to license it. But on any given month, I can probably make more money from litigation than I do from licensing. And if you take the Chinese, I did a range of artwork which is based around peaking opera, you know, figures, like a pop artwork thing, and did an east west, sorry, an east meet west thing with it. I mean, uh, you if you

image search those those artworks on Tao, you'll find thousands of products. So, I make quite a lot of money from litigation. So, it's funny. A lot of people think there's no IP protection in China. Of course, it's a different level of IP protection in China than it is to the West. And there's good reasons for

that. But, you can also protect your IP and you can, you know, you find a good lawyer, you do a 50/50 split with them. You can make good money as well. When I started, the initial range of 20 t-shirts, only three or four sold well. And it was all iconography. It was like

the subway map, the subway, some old like metal mugs and stuff like that. Like the retro kind of uh you know, vintage um that hadn't given birth yet in China. They hadn't had retro yet in in 2006. I actually um copyrighted the subway ticket. So, as soon as it started to sell, well, I just went down the the the trademark office, filled out the certificate, paid my 420 R&B to file a, you know, a trademark, and I trademarked the subway ticket. So actually I still

own it because no one trademarked it in China. It's first come first serve. You know if you start a brand in China, you don't trademark it. Someone can come and trademark it, right? They can literally steal it from you. Um so you need to you

need to be first in. If you got an idea, trademark, you know, that stuff. So whenever I we produced artwork, you know, especially in the last 10 years, we would trademark it, copyright it before we even put it onto market, you know, quite often because we we wanted to protect it. Um, so actually there's a lot of old Chinese IP that nobody had trademarked and I ended up trademarking it myself. So, you know, that's uh a lot of those old icon iconography and images that I used from old metal bowls to subway tickets um I trademarked them or copyrighted them. Yeah.

>> To keep the best ideas from this interview, I'm using Proactor AI right now. It automatically transcribes the entire conversation and gives me key takeaways. It also creates a smart summary that I can share with my subscribers on other socials right away or just skip for later. Plus, it highlights the key facts and details you don't want to miss. So, everything stays clear and easy to use. I can ask any

questions about this interview in the chat and even get quick AI advice or use time codes to find the part I need to rewatch it. It's like having a producer who makes sure nothing important slips through. Of course, I still love re-watching the full conversation, but sometimes I just need the highlights and Proactor AI gives me those instantly. That way, I can just dive back into the interview. for you as a creative person like have you ever experienced any like um censorship or like creative pressure in terms of like so you're not supposed to do this, you're not supposed to think this because like it's not that common that you are in creative industry like from foreign country living in China. A

lot of the stuff we did within my brand was considered uh slightly subversive or let's say cheeky or naughty. I think as an artist in some ways it's kind of responsibility to to be naughty. >> I love it. I think since I was a as a as a child I love to be naughty. I still love to be naughty. I'm a very childish

person. But um yeah, I certainly uh I crossed the line a couple of times. Got in trouble. It was quite scary. >> Like what if you can say about it like what's any example like how you cross the line or how someone can cross the line >> with politics things shift and change right? Um, and some some issues become

very important and one day they're not so important, the next day they're very important and then you could be playing around with that. So, I give an example. In 2016, I had an idea. You know, my my branded was a, you know, a t-shirt brand or a streetear brand. I see it more just as an art brand, but um, my core product was t-shirts, but I would always interject products that I thought would be fun that probably wouldn't even sell.

And then one day, I was contacted online by a guy. He asked me if I'd do some product design for him. He was a Canadian guy who wanted to sell fresh air into China. And I thought, "This is such a product. You know, you buy a pressurized can of air, you're going to breathe it for less than 1% of any day. It's just a gimmick, right?"

Um, so I wrote back to him and said, "Um, you've given me an idea and I'm going to sell more than you." And he wrote, "Haha." And then I I I started selling canned Beijing air. At the time, Beijing's like air was the worst quality in the world. Everyone knew it. Um, and

so I thought, why not sell canned Beijing air and see if people would buy it? And so, you know, I found a factory in Shenzhen. It wasn't even in Beijing. I made 2,000 cans. It was the minimum order I could make. And I put them in

the store and then they start, you know, they started to sell like hot cakes. And then I made it into like the Daily Mail, into like all this crazy media. I was on French TV shows. It was it did exactly what I wanted to do which was I wanted just to create a marketing stir so people would talk about my brand and I thought okay what's the next thing and so the next thing was I created you know what a snow globe is right you shake it and it snows right so I uh it wasn't even my idea was a friend who told me the idea um guy called Mike Westerester he said why don't you make a pollution globe I'm like that's a genius idea can I use it he said go ahead so then I made a pollution globe and it's basically a snow globe but it had gray dust And in the middle was the CCTV tower, you know, the one that leans in Beijing. It's the head of the the China Central Television. Uh, and he shook it and it

was like polluted and then it would clear and it would like a polluted day or a clear day, right? Um, and then I made a viral like a video of a Beijing family living overseas and their kid couldn't sleep at night and so his dad was like, "When I can't sleep, I just shake my Beijing pollution globe, put it next to my bed and then I can sleep." Anyway, it's a great product. It was a great video. It went super viral and then one day the business bureau descended on my stores. Yeah, it was

pretty scary. I mean, they were all confiscated. Other products were confiscated. The canned air was confiscated. You know, I'd overstepped the mark. But having said that, you

know, dealing with the business bureau, they were very nice to me. They knew me because I do a lot of television in China. They like my business. You know, I pay all my taxes. So at the end of the day, you know, if you if you end up in trouble, they're just going to lift up the hood of of the bonnet of the business and look for an irregularity.

And if you got one, you're in big trouble. >> So for them, it was like a touchy subject, like sensitive topic about the pollution. Yeah. That's why >> Yeah. Yeah. It was a very important

subject to everyone in Beijing, >> you know. Um the pollution was terrible throughout, you know, 2012, I'd say, to 2018, 19. was really really bad. Um, and for me I thought it'd be fun to make light of it, but obviously um some people uh in government didn't think that that was you know particularly respectful so I got in trouble. You overstepped the mark. I mean, I got got

got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got got away with it and you know pe people were nice to me and I I I got a slap on the wrist and then it took a while you know um but uh yeah I got over it but you you learn as you go along with stuff like that and generally I always try to stay out of politics you know I didn't never want to upset the party I didn't want to be in politics anyway I don't really know how to talk about politics but I like to make fun of things you know I like like to you know make a joke or make a comment on certain things in in life but I I I try to stay out of politics but that particular case I would say I accidentally ended up in politics. >> Okay. Any advice for foreigners how to navigate China if you want to do anything basically in China? What how not to get in trouble and what you need to be aware of that's something not on a surface on the surface level or something like under the surface. >> I say it's quite hard to get in trouble in China generally. I think you know

whether they Yeah. I think people in China have always been extremely respectful of foreigners and they still are. A lot of foreigners say, "Oh, they don't respect us as much as they used to in the '9s or 2000s." That we were more interesting then. I would say in the '90s, we were almost above the law. You

could do anything. You'd never be, you know, given any trouble. But then it sort of became more of a level playing field. Chinese people love to sit down, have a meal. I say I I've solved a thousand problems over, you know, what they say, you know, just invite someone for a meal. I've managed to solve so

many problems over a lunch. Chinese people love food. Um, embrace the food culture. know that, you know, they're wonderful people. Uh, and they love to do business. They enjoy the hustle. I

would say, you know, when I built my retail brand in Beijing, it was all built around the community where I lived. And amazing how many people fell in to help me from local government. I mean, I joined local government. I must have been one of the first foreigners to be a member of local government for about seven or eight years in Beijing on Nagusang. I was a member of the Chamber of Commerce and they invited me in. Um,

in fact, they elected me in. It's just absolutely mind-blowing of just just how welcome you are in every facet. You know, I lived in a shared courtyard. So, I lived in old Beijing in a courtyard house which I shared with five families. Uh, and my family, so I have, you know, four children and then I shared it with five other families. My children grew up

in those those homes. They went to the local schools. I worked in local government. My business was on the Hutong on the street we lived in. You know, we were welcomed with open arms.

Of course, you're always perceived as a foreigner. You're never not going to be a foreigner. I'm never going to be Chinese. But they were incredibly open to me being a businessman there, being involved in local government in terms of policy of how to, you know, um, market and develop the street that we lived on into a commercial street. You can really get involved in China if you have an open mind, try your hardest to learn the language, the culture, treat people respectfully, you can do incredibly well, you know. I think uh, as long as

as long as as long as you're curious and you're open to it and things are going to be different, eating styles will be different. someone, you know, might light up a cigarette at the table and fart, but that's that's not an insult. That's just someone having a great time, you know. So, just just just be open to it all, you know, and uh then I think uh life is beautiful. Hey guys, just a quick announcement. Don't skip. I'll be

running a 3-day workshop called Fast Track to Views and Profits on YouTube. If you ever wanted to start your own channel, this is the best way to do it. You will learn how to choose the most profitable niche and how to beat the YouTube algorithm. You're going to love it. I promise. Link in description. So,

sign up if it's for you. And now, back to the video. I've heard from different people that Beijing is like Beijing is very different if you're in Beijing. Very different from your experience being like in in Shenzhen or in Ching. >> Beijing is like the the very unique in a way. It's like super old and like a lot

of like history and culture in your face. So I guess it's like it can be different in China for you, right? It's like life in Shenzhen versus life in in the village versus life in Beijing. It's like completely different experience, I guess. Actually, Beijing is not that old when you compare it to old Chinese cities, you know, uh like in her, like Hungan, something like that. It's like

3,000 years old. Beijing's not not really that old. It was kind of purposely built and it was built in a strange place because it doesn't really have any water, but it's the center of power, right? Jongai, you know, is where the government is and you feel it in Beijing. You feel that sense of of power of governance there. Yeah, for sure you

do. I like that. Um I think um you know it's a political center and through the '9s it became a very kind of liberal place because the embassies were there and so you know that's where we started doing you know the parties the party scene opened up there. you know, the the Beijing rock bands were, you know, were the were some of the best, you know, that's where and, you know, I don't know, there were so many, you know, great bands that came out of um of Beijing. Um, so yeah, it was uh in the '90s it was this kind of you felt like it was almost a revolution going on there, right? It was so exciting. But

then, you know, slowly that kind of started to dissipate somewhat and then it became, I would say, a little sterile compared to what it used to be like. you know, those were the wild days. And so, uh, Beijing has its own feel for sure. Beijing is a wonderful place without a doubt. It's it's my home. You know,

almost 30 years there, I I still feel like it's home. But, uh, it's very different to to a lot of Chinese, but every Chinese city you go to has its unique feel. You know, maybe sometimes on the exterior foreigners might feel a lot of cities can look quite similar, but as with any city, once you get to know his culture and his people, it's uh, everyone is very, very unique. 1993 I guess it was like very different China compared to now it's like two two two different countries basically. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Uh physically it looks

very different. I mean the people are you know certainly haven't changed that much. Uh the I love the country a lot but physically I mean I think when I arrived in Beijing the population was around 8 or 9 million. By the time I left it was 23 million. So I spent around 28 28 years in Beijing. Um you

know it was pretty much a flat city. There weren't really highrises or many highrises. At night, it was very dark. You know, as foreigners, we had our own money, you know, FEC, foreign exchange certificates. Um, you had to live in foreign areas, but, you know, I was, um, I was a backpacker when I arrived and I didn't have much money, so I um, you know, through some connections got to, you know, to live with a Chinese family that, you know, wanted to make a bit of extra money. And, um, it was incredible.

you know, the the family and that whole area had never had a foreigner live in it before in Beijing. That that's now the third ring road, but but then there was no third ring road. And the first morning I woke up in their house, they were standing over my bed watching me sleeping. Uh because, you know, there was so, you know, they they was they were so excited to have me there. And I just remember waking up at 6:00 and just seeing this old couple standing over me, looking at me, uh sleeping. And then

they kind of jumped to action and made me breakfast. But there was no privacy. In fact, there was no door on the toilet. So, uh, you know, I live with this couple and, you know, I very much lived with them. You know, we shared meals. I had no privacy. The the

petition between my bed and the place where we ate was a a bit of clear plastic, but it was a wonderful way to to learn Chinese and and it was a wonderful way to learn a lot about Chinese culture. So, it was a good good start. >> So, you learn to speak Chinese the hard way. So, basically from practicing. >> I think that's the easy way, isn't it?

For me, sitting in a classroom is a nightmare. I have no uh focus at all. You know, I'm a I'm a I'm a person that needs to learn on the go. Uh and so um Chinese is a very easy language to learn. I think grammatically it's very simple. So if you're if you've got you

know challenges like I have uh if it's a language with very little grammar and all you have to do is copy people. Uh you can learn it really really quickly. Um and you know forget about the reading and writing. I mean I can hardly read and write English let alone Chinese. I can read a little bit. But uh I um you

know I learned it on the fly and you know I I I started my first business in 1995 and that took me traveling to a lot of cities in the north of China um where there were no foreigners and certainly very few people that could speak English and so total immersion and um and also just driven by passion because I love people. I love talking to people. I love drumming up conversations and the power of of knowing a language is unbelievable. I mean, fast forward, you know, 28 years from that moment, I took my children. I have four daughters to go live in a village which in a in a farmer's house in Hunan. He had one ox

or or one shiny or like one um water buffalo to plow his, you know, six Chinese acres of rice. And we sat around the fire and he shared with us how he raised four children with this one buffalo and his six acres of rice and put them all through university. basically taking his whole family out of poverty in one generation. And my children all speak Chinese and they were able to understand that story and you know the power of language of moments like that that you can take your children traveling you know to the countryside of China and sit down and have conversations like that. It's very good for their empathy I would say and and very good for their sort of general understanding of the world.

>> You said that that the city changed Beijing changed big time but people didn't really change. Is it so? And do you miss anything from from that times? Maybe the simplicity of life or anything like from from from back then from the '9s. >> Yeah, I guess it's it would be a sweeping statement to say that people didn't change. Of course, people

changed. Um I think you know people changed physically as well. People, you know, they had access to more products. There was no milk products or anything when I was there. And suddenly people's bodies filled out. They became taller

and stronger. And so yeah, people changed for sure. And um you know with my second business which was a retail brand part of my concept was I only hired retired old ladies to run my stores and this is a streetear brand where I make t-shirts right so it's a kind of a core brand so it was a funny concept to have old people running those those shops but it was part of my sort of community concept but the reason I bring that up is that you know these ladies a lot of them I I source them because they all worked in Beijing's very first department store in Wuing in the '90s you It's a it's a funny story, right? They all worked in this basically it's an S so SOE, right? And they would always say, you know, I remember the quote from one of them, you know, she said to me in Chinese, she's like uh she's like, you know, when I was young, uh I would buy a tomato and you could smell it, you know, in Chinese be like, you were, you know, and he goes she she's like, now the tomatoes don't have any smell. You were. And she goes, and

people don't have any smell. that what she doesn't mean like people smell smelly, but your wor means like they've lost a certain sense of of being interesting or they've lost a certain uh sense of personality. Um and she said people have changed, you know, they're just not as interesting anymore. They're not they're not so uh I don't even know how to translate it, but it was a good analogy that yeah, people have changed because in that time obviously things became extremely competitive over time. In the early '90s, there was very few products. people were still getting to

grips with opening up and reform in China. It was, you know, opportunity everywhere. I mean, you know, the development through the '90s was much crazier than the development from 2000 to 2010. I don't know, you could think of any industry and you think, well, it hasn't been opened up yet. So, there's opportunity everywhere and very little regulation and law. You know, the the

Chinese saying is, you know, they were crossing the river and feeling the stones and that's what they were doing with opening up a reform. you know they opened up and they they were making regulation after industries had become you know mature rather than making up the regulation beforehand. So the '90s was that period of very little regulation, crazy amounts of opportunity, and then into the 2000s and then now, yeah, I mean, now it's um obviously quite a mature economy, especially, you know, in the cities. It's a lot harder for young people to find work. I guess in summary, yeah, people will have changed a lot over that 30-year period, so I take back everything I said. If you're a frequent

traveler or digital nomad tired of expensive roaming charges and constantly changing numbers, today's sponsor Phonus is worth checking out. With an EIM, you are online the moment your plane lands. I love it. I use EIMS all the time and it saves me a ton of time and stress while traveling. Phonus is a global wireless carrier. One simple plan gives

you unlimited data, calls, and texts in over 100 countries for a flat monthly rate. No roaming fees, no extra charges, just one plan that works everywhere. You can even get a physical SIM card. Uh just in case, Phonus gives you a local numbers in the UK, Hong Kong, and a few other countries. So, it's simple to use local apps and services when you travel.

And the best part is you can activate it anywhere in the world and stay abroad as long as you want. So if you want a simple mobile plan with no hidden fees, check out the link in description and take Phonus with you on your next trip. What about you? So you you you born in in Guilford in Britain. You grew up there like but then uh the most of your life you actually spend in China. How do

you think if you're if you thought about it, how it changed or shaped your personality the all these years in China? >> And when I speak in Chinese, I'm a lot more direct than when I when I'm back in England, I speak in English. you English people, you know, always kind of, you know, skirt around the important subjects quite often. There's a lot of hidden messages and the way English people, whereas when I'm in Beijing, it's totally direct. And sometimes I bring it over. I'll go back to England

and my mate like, oh, I've got a house. I'm how much you pay for it? You know, and they'd be like shocked that I asked them right up, how much did you pay for it, you know, or you know, what what kind of mortgage you get or you know, that car seems expensive, you know, I'll just like say in China was is where I sort of became an entrepreneur and I just saw opportunity everywhere. It's infectious. And you meet Chinese people, they love to talk about money.

They love to talk about opportunity and there's opportunity everywhere. You meet a neighbor and he'd be like, "Hey, I need a foreigner, you know, it's a guy who's like distributing drinks. I need a foreigner to come in and be at this banquet and, you know, just pretend to be part of my team for a while." I'm like, "Yeah, I'll do it." You know, I give you 800 R&B. Suddenly, you're

hustling every day and you're like, "Ah, this is fantastic. It's really infectious." Um and so yeah, you get this rebrand, you get this new language, you get this sort of natural conversation about business and money all the time, but very pragmatic in that respect. And then yeah, and then suddenly there's a new Dominic that certainly would not have been born in Guilford. >> When you launched Pluster 8, your brand, and then you you you're growing it. You

think some level of success was also attributed because it's unique in a way that you are a foreigner that launched a brand in the '90s right in in in Beijing in China. >> Is it is it the case? You think >> 100% 100%. You know, um it's important to find your sandbox in business, you know, the area that you can play better than anybody else. I of course I'm not that methodical. I didn't say what's my

sandbox. I just impulsively opened a t-shirt shop. And what I did was, you know, I came out with a range of 30 t-shirts and the ones that sold well were the iconography. So I took things that Chinese people kind of took for granted because I I'm a collector, right? I collect old things. So I took

some of these old things like old subway tickets and I put them on t-shirts and they they started to sell well and and and so I had an advantage in that I was a foreigner that that had witnessed all this development in China and then taken things that he collected and then started to celebrate and put them on t-shirts. And Chinese people were like, why would he think of putting that on a t-shirt? Well, from my perspective as a foreigner, it's fascinating. It's beautiful. It's a retro design. It's old

subway ticket. They they just took it for granted. So, I had that advantage there on a design side. And then as I grew the brand and and I started to put illustration and art into it, I was taking my western ideals and mixing them with what I had seen in China. So, there's my advantage and there's my sandbox. It's like Beijing was my

sandbox and Beijing iconography and art. And then my other advantage was that I speak Chinese and and I had a great story and story is everything in branding. It's just like I was living in a in a hutong house sharing with Chinese families. I had kids that spoke Chinese and I didn't even know I was good on TV. I just I opened the brand and suddenly one day someone comes into my store said, "Hey, can I do an interview?" I'm

like, "Sure." And then she gets camera out, does the interview, ends up on a ter on a television channel somewhere down the south of China. People saw it. I said, "Well, this guy's pretty good and he speaks Chinese. It was very interesting." So then I start being, you

know, I mean, I ended up just doing show after show after show. I ended up on China's Oprah Winfrey about a year after that just because, you know, I'm a foreigner who's, you know, I guess entertaining and I speak Chinese. I had this advantage and I had this story which was, you know, a foreigner living in the old hutong of Beijing and he was celebrating his love of the city with these with these t-shirts. It was kind of nationalistic. It was a celebration of East and West. And as I told the

story on TV shows, I started to notice what people picked up and what people liked. And I would repeat more of that, you know, like plays with the audience. And then I ended up hosting TV. And then I ended I mean my my biggest break was when I ended up as a judge on the sort of China's version of, you know, the Dragons Den or Shark Tank. And I was on that show for uh for 6 years. And it was

on TV twice a week. And this is really before people were on their phones that much. you know, people were still watching TV shows. And so, you know, I got projected into, you know, every household in in in China became my brand became, you know, known all over the country. It's it's a crazy story, but certainly, you know, going back to your question, that only happened because I was a foreigner. Um, but I had to apply

myself, you know, I had to apply myself as an entrepreneur. I had to apply myself as an entertainer. I had to apply myself as a storyteller. And that's, you know, where I found my success. But definitely that whole Dominic story in China would not have happened if I wasn't a foreigner. That's for sure.

>> What's the meaning of life for you? >> It probably just comes down to a broader term like adventure because that adventure is the common thread in every success and happiness that I found in life. You know, I met my amazing wife because she was an adventure. I was adventure. We went out to we both went out to China and we found each other there. you know,

>> she's from where? >> She's from Canada. I started my business out of just a sense of adventure. Um, I became an artist out of a sense of adventure. I didn't know I was an artist until I started this business doing t-shirts. It's so it's it's all to a

certain level tied to adventure. And I mean, what I mean by adventure is actually scaring the out of yourself sometimes. You know, I think the mornings that I wake up terrified are the days that I change my life. And it's very easy to embrace an easy life or a more certain life. and uh get a job that's going to pay you a salary and just tick along like that. But adventure

like true adventure, you know, it's not adventure until something goes wrong, basically is the saying, isn't it? Right. So for me, the meaning of life, it has to be adventure because uh looking back, that's what uh has given me the most wonderful life I could ever imagine. And looking forward, I still have to do that if I'm going to be able to continue to uh challenge myself and do uh incredible things and express myself.