---
video_title: "This walk with American in Shanghai changed my view of China"
video_id: rq6oo528Rr8
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rq6oo528Rr8
video_date: 2025-12-09T13:15:53+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Grab your seat to the 2-Day AI Mastermind: https://link.outskill.com/MAXDEC2
  (100% discount for the first 1000 people, Grab $5000 worth of Bonuses Completely Free)
  📌 Join my free online workshop "YouTube Fast-Track to Views & Passive Income": https://www.shym.sg/workshop
  📌 To join the Phuket trip with me, add your name here: https://forms.gle/fs7u4EG1DJRHS2kx6
  
  Meet Paul Ashton, an American who’s lived in China for eight years. He’s a content creator and entrepreneur who became globally famous for the “city, not city” meme. Paul shared why he chose Shanghai instead of moving back to America, whether Chinese people are kind to foreigners, and how living in China drastically changed his view of the US. Enjoy!
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP:
  📷 Casual daily life on my Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on my Telegram channel: https://t.me/friendsofmax
  💰 Sponsorship-related requests: max@maxchernov.sg
  👥 If you have a guest suggestion for an interview, please reach out at max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST:
  ➢  on YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/@baobaoxiongcity 
  ➢  on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/bao_bao_xiong_ 
  
  WATCH NEXT:
  ► American took me to China's most HIGH-TECH city.... I didn't expect this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8CD0LKkoMzE
  ► This walk with Brit in Guangzhou changed my view of China: https://youtu.be/R-ozoOKhUO4
  ► I Went Inside a Chinese Factory... I Didn’t Expect This: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Aj4HcbLtPVE
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  00:00 INTRO
  00:34 – American and Chinese mindsets
  02:23 – Chinese react to his Mandarin
  06:15 – First time in China
  09:35 – How to learn AI (+100% discount for my viewers) 
  11:11 – Living under cameras in China
  17:33 – Work and business before social media
  18:50 – Video success changes his work
  20:14 – The story of "city not city" meme
  24:48 – The secret of "city not city" meme
  25:39 – Turning views into income
  27:14 – What brands pay per video
  33:33 – Government control and daily life in China
  
  Hey! This channel bridges the gap between locals and foreigners all over the world. Join Max as he interviews expats, unraveling their unique stories and providing valuable insights into their lives in the vibrant places of Asia. Through engaging conversations, Max fosters understanding and appreciation between locals and the global community, focusing on cultural exchange.
  
  If you're a company seeking sponsorship opportunities to engage our upscale audience, contact us at maxchernovYT@gmail.com. With over 50% Singaporean viewers and a substantial number of foreign professionals (US, EU, Australia), our mature audience (35-54 years) boasts strong purchasing power and interests in an above-average lifestyle, travel, investment, and personal finance.
---
US loves to paint China as a villain. We want there to be the good guys and the bad guys and we want to be the good guys and that's just like not giving us the full picture of what's happening these days. >> I traveled to China to meet Paul Ashton, an American who's lived there for 8 years. He's a content creator and entrepreneur who became globally famous for the City Not City meme. Paul shared why he chose Shanghai instead of moving back to America, whether Chinese people are kind [music] to foreigners, and how living in China drastically changed his view of the US. I'm Max Charton, your

insider [music] to expat life. So far, do you think that the mindset-wise, Americans, and I'm generalizing, but like Americans and Chinese are kind of similar or like super far away so we're in the middle? I mean, I think that there are some really big cultural differences between the way that we think and act in the US and the way that people think and act here. Some of that has to do with culture, some of it has to do with just like education, trends, and education styles. Some of it has to do with like you know just like very differences in like big differences in environment, too. Like

>> One of the things that the US is very like we're very strong independents. I think like one of the things that we've gotten maybe a little too far down the road of is like we really have, you know, like told everybody in the US that their opinion and their like point of view and their lifestyle is like the center of their universe. Yeah. And I think that that in some ways can be really empowering and really good and in other ways I think it like prevents us from being willing to see other people's side or just occasionally like stepping back and saying like you know what this isn't the most important thing for us to do right now. >> [laughter] >> Like my worldview maybe isn't the most important part of this particular setting Yeah. or this particular

relationship. I think Chinese people in general, I think a lot of them are much or kind of like individual focus versus more community focused, right? And I think that that does stand up in some ways. Yeah. In the sense that I think in China there's a lot more people that are willing to kind of figure out what we have in common and what makes sense for us to kind of connect on in the environment that we're in and potentially avoid inflammatory discussions or like more uh conflict-oriented discussions. Yeah. Uh

in a way that like can be really healthy and really gratifying sometimes. Your Chinese level is is pretty high, I guess, yeah? You speak fluently, yeah? >> Yes, yeah. How people react when just random people on the street when you start speaking uh Chinese?

Um I mean there's kind of like this running joke about your kind of like initial conversation with 90% of Chinese people is just going to be complimenting your Chinese level no matter how much you've just said. Yeah. So it's kind of hard to get like a a real grasp sometimes because often times I think it's a kind of like a uh it's a it's like a politeness ritual, right? >> Nihao and they have already >> And it's like I I used to have a stand-up joke that it was like the phrase you learn in Chinese class, like the the initial dialogue is like Nihao, Nihao, wo haihou, nina, wo ye hao. Like how are you?

Uh like hello, hello, how are you? I'm fine, thanks, and you? I'm fine, right? And the actual dialogue often times is Nihao and then wow, your Chinese is amazing. And then you say how are you?

And the person says your Chinese is exactly like a Chinese person. >> [laughter] >> Uh so I think um typically speaking it's really weird because there's like two two realities. Like one is that I'm getting complimented for the stuff that I learned on the first day of Chinese class Yeah. and then people actually give me feedback on my Chinese maybe like when we've actually when they start to realize that I'm actually communicating in a more like natural and like approachable way. And then I start to get like genuine compliments and like surprise and I think the most gratifying moments there are when people are like this is like my first real conversation with a foreigner.

>> [laughter] >> And that's really amazing because it's like I'm getting an impression to like connect I'm like getting an opportunity to like connect culturally with somebody that is you know like just just I'm getting to be that bridge that I've always wanted to be, you know? And then there's this other thing that happens where I've been doing Chinese social media for like a year and a half now and people will tell me that they don't think I could they didn't think I could speak Chinese. >> [laughter] >> I mean I like the City Not City thing was definitely like a minimal amount of Chinese but I was always like I feel like there was enough for you to know that I could at least hold a conversation. So some people are like wow, your Chinese is so much better than I thought it would be. [laughter] Yeah, so yeah there's a very like large range. I

think there's this one guy on YouTube that is like everybody brings him up all the time. He's the guy in the US that like goes into Chinese restaurants and films people's reactions of him speaking Chinese. >> Oh yeah, yeah. I hate He's a big he's I hate that. >> [laughter] >> He has 10 million views. He has super

super popular. He's super well known. Everybody like so many people have brought him up to me before and I'm like what you guys don't realize is that you don't have to speak Chinese well to get that kind of reaction from Chinese people. Um yeah, so I mean people are I think it's more fun occasionally when Shanghai honestly there's enough people here that speak Chinese well that you don't often times get the same level of reaction they would if you were in if you're elsewhere and somebody speaks Chinese and then you suddenly like maybe they're like you're you're in Europe or something and there's like Chinese tourists and they're trying to figure something out and then all of a sudden you're like oh, I can help if you want and then that that that that's a very gratifying Yeah. shock response because they are not really expecting to see that outside [laughter] of China.

Something that happened really funny recently that's like only slightly related but it's just so funny was my sister and I were >> [laughter] >> my sister and I were in Beijing Yeah. and the the elevator door opens and this little kid, you know, usually like if you're in China like people be like oh my god like some some kids especially be like wow, waiguoren. Like oh my gosh, a foreigner, right? Yeah. The door opens up and the kid goes wow, Japanese.

>> [laughter] >> I just his mom or his his parent was like no. >> [laughter] >> Foreigner, not Japanese. You were like learning the language in the being in the US and then you came to China and it was like what you expected or it was like something very different? I think like on one end I did have an expectation because I'd studied abroad here before. The first time I came I had very little expectation and I was just like was blown away by like the food, the hospitality of the people, the friendliness of Chinese people, the enthusiasm of like you know you speak Chinese to people and people are like really excited to communicate you. I I'd

studied German in high school and like oh, German people are lovely but ultimately like so many German people speak English that it just didn't feel nearly as useful. Yeah. Whereas here it was like oh my gosh, not only am I learning a language that I'm really passionate about, am I like getting to meet people, I also like people really value this skill set and I can actually use it which is really cool, too. But I just I just loved it. I thought it was such an interesting place to be. It was so much like culturally

just like really invigorating and then I had visited Shanghai during my study abroad in Beijing. So when I came to Shanghai to live I had sort of an idea of what to expect and I kind of was strategic about choosing Shanghai as I felt like Shanghai felt a little bit more it's international so there's you can kind of find your little enclave. You know, you can you can be in China and and be a part of the culture and like really like engage but there's also a significant expat population. So I thought like if I was looking long-term that I'd probably be more suitable in Shanghai than I would in in Beijing. Yeah. Yeah. My experience with

Shanghai was like 11 years ago just for one day like very briefly. Like I came yesterday and was like whoa that's a big city. And it's actually like cuz I'm originally from I lived in Russia in Moscow. It actually reminds me of Moscow. Oh really? Interesting. Yeah,

huge cities like wide roads. People dressed up. People like everywhere. So it's kind of cool. It's like a real city, yeah? Yeah.

You know what I mean? Yeah, I mean you know China's China grows like has grown so fast and even people in Shanghai like I have friends that have been here for 20 years or so and they have seen so much change that's taken place here and how fast like you in in Shanghai you like you'll leave for 2 months and you'll come back and you'll real like you'll feel like you're in a completely different city sometimes. Or not not that extreme anymore but like you know, you might be like oh, there was nothing in that road before and suddenly you've got like three new restaurants that have opened, right? Or maybe a bar that you knew closed down and is now something completely different, right? But that's like you also see because of that that the rapidity of the change, I feel like China you'll see very different types of cities, some of which are um a little bit like that have kind of this like kind of like very well-rounded development and some that are like very developed in certain areas and then other areas you'll find to be like a little bit less of like a modern experience. But all of them change so

quickly, you know? >> and Shanghai is Shanghai I feel like the city center is very like very highly it it it is kind of what you would expect from like a global city, but then as soon as you like start hitting the outskirts you start to realize oh, wow, this is really where we're starting to see a lot of like distance between places or it's much more residentially focused. There's not as much like Yeah. you know, like maybe like lifestyle stuff that you would see in like Brooklyn if you were in New York City or Bushwick or something like that. According to the World Economic Forum, AI was one of the most in-demand skills in 2025. Yet most of us didn't learn it.

But don't rush to fear that robots will replace you. Let me tell you about the 2-day live AI Mastermind training by Outskill, the world's first AI-focused educational platform happening this Saturday and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. EST on both days. They're

running a year-end holiday offer right now, so you can join completely free instead of the usual $395. AltSchool is rated 4.9 out of five on Trustpilot. And this 16-hour live experience has been taken by 10 million worldwide professionals mentored directly by AI experts from companies like Microsoft and Nvidia. This training isn't just about learning tools, it's about changing the way you work. You learn how

to use AI to simplify your daily tasks, build AI agents that plan, create, and automate your workflows, gain ready-to-use AI systems, design AI automations that connect tools. Of course, knowing how to use AI isn't enough. You need to know how to monetize it. And AltSchool learners are already doing it. Many have built AI-powered businesses earning $4 to $5,000 a week.

To help you do the same, everyone who attends both days gets $5,000 worth of bonuses, including their Prompt Bible, the AI Monetization Roadmap, and personalized AI Toolkit. Seats are limited, so grab yours now via the link in description, and join the community WhatsApp group to stay updated. Some people say like, "Oh, like you have all the CCTV around the city or out in China, or you're watched like constantly." For me, it's fine. I mean, I think if if I'm in a public space, I kind of have to behave, I guess. What

about you? Do you feel like suppressed or feel restricted living in China? Mhm. No, not really. I mean, like actually, there was something interesting that I read at one point in time that like the most surveilled like the the like the place with the most surveillance globally was like a lot of people would have expected it to be China, but it was actually the UK. Yeah, London.

I don't know like honestly like to be fair >> But it doesn't help them. >> [laughter] >> Yeah, right. Yeah. I mean, it's like a lot of data. It's a lot of data. And so,

it's like I think that ultimately like you can collect as much data as you want, but it only ever becomes an issue if it's really an issue. If something happens, they can look it up, and they can find the data, but there's not somebody that's like watching you 24/7, you >> [laughter] >> At least as far as I assume that there's not somebody watch the the number of people that that would require to do and everything else. It's like most people are doing their job the same way we all do our jobs. Sometimes you work hard, and sometimes you do everything you can not to work hard, you know? >> [laughter] >> Like nowadays everywhere that you live, >> [clears throat] >> you're going to run into periods of time where you are frightened by realities that exist that may or may not actually impact you, right? Um currently, I'm

okay with facing those in China. I love my life here. There are so many amazing benefits to living here. I love the convenience. I love the design of the city. I love

the food. I love the people. I love the cultural exchange. I think there's also something really exciting about being somewhere that in this time period of the world is like super important globally. Like what China does and what happens in places like Shanghai and Beijing and um Shenzhen and Guangzhou are like actively shaping the future of the world, you know? And I'm seeing it

from a perspective that a lot of people don't get, which is of somebody that has experience here and can speak the language and has a certain level of cultural literacy, you know? So, I think all of those benefits outweigh any level, at least at this point in time, of concern or any sense of like non- like of danger, you know? And and and to be fair as well, like when I'm comparing that to the US where the danger is often times much more aligned with like violence and guns and like crime, I feel very safe here, you know? I don't worry about somebody attacking me in China, you know? So, yeah. I I wouldn't say that I like I

don't feel a sense of fear or anxiety that I feel is I think it's uh something that I would experience anywhere. Some of it cuz it's sometimes globally like sometimes it's more localized, but I think that those types of things, those feelings of like uncertainty or unfamiliarity or worry, they're going to happen wherever you live depending on that area, but also like the state of the world, you know? 100%. I love it like it's a Shanghai thing. Like so many so many characters on the streets.

>> [laughter] >> I love it. It's nice. It's it's a yeah, I love Shanghai. Because you know, in Nihao in Shenzhen, Guangzhou, it's uh it's different. It's more like business-oriented. Yeah, for sure.

>> I think it's business-oriented plus like culture, art, and all all all stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Yesterday night, I had a walk around like 11:00 p.m. Like some

drunk people on the street, but you don't feel like aggressiveness in the air, you know what I mean? I think that that kind of when it comes to like Americans, there's sometimes like that same sort of mentality sometimes I think encourages people to like get involved in other people's business Yeah. in a way that like freak my experience with a lot of Chinese people is that you're doing your thing, you do your thing. As long as it's not like in my like nuclear family, or if it's not potentially it's not like destructive or harmful to me, Yeah. then, you know, I will just you know, like you do it. I'm not I'm

I'm focused on me right now, you know? And I think you can even see that like one of the big cultural differences people mention often times is like the older generation in China tends to be a little bit like pushier when it comes to like the subway or like when it's like getting in line, you know, there's a little bit more like assertiveness or kind of like I'm just focused on me right now. Yeah. And as an American, like we would see that as kind of like a direct attack on our like on on respect or dignity, you know? Like but for Chinese people, it's often times just like you have the same right to do the same thing. I don't mean anything by

it, but you know, like we're we're just all trying to get what we want at the time that we need it, you know? And so, a lot of people would just be like, "Okay." You know, like I could have done that too if I wanted to, but I I just didn't, and they're just doing their thing, so you know, we'll we'll just let it slide and continue on with our lives. Yeah, actually someone explained me why it's like that with some older people because they still remember especially people in their 60s, 70s, they still remember the basically hunger, so lack of food. So, that's why they always feel this like FOMO, like they need to they need to be quick to Yeah. Yeah, it's like you know, like I

think it's hard for us as Americans to understand at least for Americans, you know, like I've said before like I feel like the people like what's happened in a hundred years in China maybe happened over like two hundred years in the US, where it's like you're talking like generations that exist today were living in a time period that no America like we're existing in like a lifestyle and a culture and like an environment that is much more culturally distant time-wise from any but any level of our generation in the US, you know? Um and so like it's important to kind of like contextualize that when you're dealing with people, and also recognize like so many of those people like you might get pushed, and then like the next moment if you strike up a conversation with you, that person is going to just be like super helpful. They're going to help you buy a ticket. They're going to like they're going to be super generous. Hey, hello. Nihao.

>> [laughter] >> Everyday. It depends where I'm walking and stuff. When people approach you, they they normally what? They ask for selfie, they say hi. Yeah, what what else? Uh

usually, I get like "Is that the City We City guy? Let's have a selfie." And then that's it. >> [laughter] >> Which is fine with me. I love that type of stuff, so.

Yeah, that's cool. Since this viral moment in 2024, you kind of stopped doing what you what you did before, and then focused on social media? Mhm. Yeah. Yeah. So, I had my own company, and I

basically had incorporated a lot of freelance I was doing into I was kind of like entertainment-focused, and also like kind of like event organization, event design as far as entertainment-related some travel-related work and consulting. Yeah. And then also did a good amount of like business trainings as they related to like leadership and kind of like performance acumen. It was a lot of like there would be periods of time that were really good, and then there'd be slow points, and it was kind of this like considerable like up and down, and that year I was starting to kind of invest more time into social media to just add like another track to the overall landscape. And then when that one kind of blew up, I was like, "All right, well, it doesn't really make sense for me to invest as much time in these other channels and make things happen. I can

kind of just cut back and focus exclusively on this one for a while." Which was great considering Yeah. would have been much harder if I had to balance that with other stuff.

For those who don't know this this meme, City We City, can you explain Yeah, sure. Throughout my YouTube journey, I met so many interesting people, like billionaires, politicians, celebrities. With some, we even became friends. Some became my clients. And what's funny, I started all of this in Singapore from scratch. I didn't know

anyone. My English was not perfect, still not. I didn't have any like fancy [music] MBA degree or something. But step by step, I managed to reach out to people, get them interested, and >> [music] >> build real connections just by talking to them. I really believe that people around you shape your life more than anything and good conversational skills make everything much easier. So, here's

what I want to do. I'm putting together a small group and bring everyone to Phuket where [music] we will spend a super productive and fun weekend probably around February or March. We'll work on your social and leadership skills, networking, personal brand and you will make friends with great people. I even arranged a couple of hours with a billionaire I interviewed before. I'm [music] sure this little getaway can boost your life, business and career and of course we'll have a lot of fun together [music] too. If you want to

join us, get on the waiting list and answer a few quick questions so I can shape the program properly. So, scan this QR code on the screen or click the link below. See you in Phuket soon. When I was preparing for this for this chat Mhm. I was like researching the So, this meme is like a local meme for China or it's went outside of China as well? I

mean it is largely China and but then you know like China and Chinese are like I would say it's like a Chinese language meme. >> Yeah. Because it did exist in like Malaysia and Taiwan and Hong Kong and like basically anywhere that there was like a large collection of uh Chinese speakers and then also for like Sinophiles that existed all over the world. People that had studied Chinese in the past or lived in China or um had an interest in China or maybe were like first or second generation abroad. So, it was really like I basically like I had done videos in the past where I kind of played this character where I was just like selfying and talking about how like basically I was just like riding off the vibes of like the happiness that Shanghai gives me. Yeah.

Um and I was talking about like oh it's just like it's so like so lovely to like live in the city and like it's so city here and like just like basically like talking dribble just like being silly and like um I said how city are and the the the the data was like for the video was okay and then I did another one on the bunt but neither of them blew up. It was just me by myself and they were okay but it wasn't like it wasn't astounding and then I had a friend that does social media here. He invited me to do a video with him and he wrote a script and in the script he had how city are in the script and I was thinking about filming another one using the phrase but I had not made any concrete plans. But he was like you know I think you should He kind of was his suggestion was like I think you should turn this into your slogan because it's got like a real ring to it. It's very fun.

>> Yeah. My sister was coming to town to visit that day and uh I basically did it with her and we kind of did it in this way that was like very goofy, very short but also had this sort of like addictive rhythm to it which is I think always like a Chinese social media really loves like uh a phrase or like um a like format that has a kind of like slightly off-kilter sort of like unreal quality to it or like doesn't 100% make sense. Uh-huh. Um and I think that it just so happened that it hit like [clears throat] a couple of notes at the same time. City walk had always already been like a big phrase within Chinese social media. Mhm. City city walk.

>> to go on a city walk is basically like there would be these different like maps of like here's our like Saturday city walk for Chengdu and it'd be like you take a photo here and you have a coffee here and then you get dinner here. Just basically you like weave your way through the city and like So like that word was kind of already like in the zeitgeist of Chinese social media and then at that point in time there was a lot of investment and like promotion of China travel. And so there was kind of like a hashtag that was already trending and [clears throat] I think that was probably heavily pushed from the official side. There was probably a lot of investment into like foreigners coming to China and doing China travel and so a lot of people thought I was a tourist initially. While my sister was I was not.

>> Mhm. Um and so we kind of also I think got a boost from that already kind of being happening as well. And then we were you know traveling all over China and doing it in different places and so we kind of had this like we were sort of like we kind of got lumped into that and then it started being copied by other people and you know for me like the phrase was just supposed to be like it was just like kind of like a silly thing. Um it did like express kind of like the excitement and happiness that I get from living in Shanghai and I love cities in general. So like when I travel I love going to metropolitan areas and getting a feel for what the city is like and but um you know I was never really expecting it to become this like big topic of conversation of like what really is city. Like it wasn't supposed [laughter]

to be like anything like that, you Yeah. What's the right way to to say your meme? Can you Can you show me? Uh so the the the classic format is I would say meme meme and then my little sister would pop up behind me. She goes ah Ah. Right. So she

she responds and then I say something city poo city ah which basically is like is this thing city or not city. Yeah. And before we used to actually say if it was city or not city. Now we just always say it's city. >> [laughter] >> And then she goes city ah and then I say cho she hen city da.

Right? She's like basically like Yeah. Yep. That's city. Uh and then we say together how city ah oh which is basically like Yeah. It's so

city. >> [laughter] >> It's so funny man. Like somehow it's very addictive. I don't know why. I don't either. I don't

either. >> I watched it many times but it's like I don't know. It's cool to watch and like you want to rewatch for some reason. I don't know. There's some magic around it.

>> There's some sort of like brain hack that we locked into that I don't know how it happened. I would love to know because if I could just do that for the rest of my life I would be set. But like >> [laughter] >> I mean it's like I've shown it to like people come like when I'll I'll tell people about like what happened and like what and they'll be like oh I want to see the video and I show it to them. They can't understand it and they like they laugh though. They like have a reaction that's like oh I love it.

So there is something about it. I don't I I don't know what we figured out but um it's crazy. How you monetize this virality that happens uh to you? My company focuses on mostly is basically people buy ad space from your like from your account. So basically you make a custom video for them or you [clears throat] add a product into your video and they will pay you for doing that. Okay.

On Douyin or other platforms as well? Douyin, Xiaohongshu, Red Note, um All three. You can actually honestly people will invest in number of different platforms. Sometimes uh quite the the the the ones that I'm on in China are Kuaishou which is Douyin's was Douyin's largest competitor now it's more Red Note. Mhm. Um then Douyin, Red Note,

Shipping Hao which is WeChat's channel and then Bilibili. Mhm. So basically all of those each of those will get ad requests. Mhm. But the majority of them come through Douyin or want Douyin or Red Note. Those

are kind of the two that are the biggest and those are also where my largest followings are. So >> What kind of money is that? For example for 1 million video on Douyin like how much you can charge for like insert inside the video? >> So um I my current rate for a roughly 60-second video um on Douyin and Red Note is 80,000 RMB. Which is in the US?

>> Uh USD roughly uh 11,000. Yeah. Um so it is quite a lucrative industry. Now I'm not usually that rate depends [clears throat] on the agency that you work with. It depends on I've signed with an MCN which is basically like a talent agency and what they do is they help me not only arrange and uh coordinate um the business side of things. They

also do negotiation etc. Um they help organization and to like kind of the admin related stuff, legal elements, contracts etc. And so essentially they take a cut of that. Yeah. >> The platform usually takes a cut of that and then usually there's another agency that's between the client and my agency Mhm. that helps with the kind of

client's social media marketing etc. And they often times take a cut as well. Mhm. So what I typically net is somewhere around like 30,000 to 40,000 RMB which is about >> Uh depending on the the agreement with the agency. Usually about 40 uh no about 50%.

>> About 50%? Yeah. Between 40 and 50% I will usually net after everything's said and done. Hey guys, just a quick announcement. Don't skip. I'll be

running a three-day workshop called Fast Track to Views and Profits on YouTube. If you ever wanted to start your own channel, this is the best way to do it. You will learn how to choose the most profitable niche and how to beat the YouTube algorithm. You're going to love it, I promise. Link in description so sign up if it's for you. And now back to

the video. I don't know if you can compare but for example Chinese in their 20s like would it be they'd be different from Americans in their 20s? And like Mhm. What what kind of people they are? Like what what what do they like? What

are they about if you ever thought about it? >> I think that like the whole thing that like kind of defines a generation is sort of like the kind of like environment that they grow up grow up in, right? And I think you know the problems that like the average US citizen faces and are kind of like people that are coming to age right now and sort of like young adults in the the what they're kind of like dealing with, and what young adults in China are dealing with, I think are very different. And so, I think that that's going to probably shape a lot of the perspective. But, I do think that there's like what what I think like does what there there is a a little like there one of the similarities I do think exists between those. I think that like we grew

up in an era in which we were told to like care about everything and try to solve every problem that existed. And and I'm not sure if that necessarily is as much the same for Chinese people in my demographic here. I think like Americans specifically were given like a very much like this kind of like savior complex. Like We have to go and fix the world's problems. And you can do anything and believe in yourself. You

know, like >> Yeah. Very American. Yes, it's very American, right? Cuz we were also I think like we had this kind of like really strong idealism about like what the internet would create and how it would solve problems and our interconnectedness and our global like we we were kind of like grow growing up with this like like the world is going to be this like beautiful perfect place in the future, you know? >> Yeah. Um

and I think Gen Z has kind of like seen what that's become in the US and have become like a lot less like they're a lot more disillusioned, I think, or a lot more realistic in some ways where they're like this is what I can do, this is what I can't do, this is what I care a lot about, but this is also like I feel like they're a little bit more like abstract and a little more surreal. And I think China's like younger generation is also similar in that way. Like they're a little bit more like balanced about what they can achieve, what the world looks like, what what is possible, and like how to kind of like find a balance when there's a lot of really unrealistic expectations, and a lot of exposure to problems that maybe like we can't solve as individuals, you know? Um we have like so much information at our fingertips now. Yeah. I feel like

the younger generations are a little bit more along the lines of like okay, like there's a lot happening out here, >> [laughter] >> and it's not like all my fault, you know? Like But, I don't know. I mean, like that's a very like I wouldn't say I'm like super in touch with the that demographic all the time. I think Yeah. Yeah. You also

do stand-up comedy shows? Um yeah, I used to do more. Nowadays, I don't have as many opportunities to do it. Um if you're going to do performance in China, there's a lot [snorts] of like uh you have to do a lot of licensing. Um and you also have to be kind of linked to a specific like your visa is supposed to be linked to whatever organization you're doing the comedy with. So, I'm still able to do improv is

kind of like one of my favorite hobbies. Uh improv comedy. So, that I will still do. But then, um sometimes some hosting stuff, sometimes hosting live streams, and then most of the time if I'm doing my stand-up more is just like trying to write funny stuff for social media nowadays. Yeah. Yeah.

Um do you have to like approve your jokes if you if you go to the stage? Uh you have to you have to basically submit your script. Uh-huh. Yeah. To the culture bureau. So, they will do a

run-through and they'll check to make sure there's nothing that they don't want to be published or or spoken about on stage. Yeah. Mhm. So, what kind of jokes would not work? Like about CCP? Um

you can't Yeah, politics is definitely a no-no. Um uh there is I mean, honestly, I think like of late there's been a lot more there's been a lot of additional restrictions. And I think that also there's a lot of a um there's a lot of gray areas, and I think that's partially from the government side trying to make sure that, you know, if you keep things a little bit less clear, I think it also I it drives people to self-censor a bit more as well. But, a lot of it has to do with like uh I mean, the big things for them like that's my understanding from the uh the my, you know, limited understanding of the government perspective is very much along the lines of like how can we minimize social unrest or like how can we like keep the peace as much as possible? So, for them often times it's like what can we what like what content do we need to keep from being said on stage to maintain a sense of order and a sense of like Yeah. calm. Yeah. Yeah. Does it

bother you as an American? Uh I mean, you know, it's a very different I like I recognize that I'm a guest here. Yeah. My personal perspective is that I think that there are ways in which the government could achieve their goals that don't alienate or oppress people as much. I think some of the ways in which they exercise control are maybe a bit short-sighted. But then, I'm also a

guest here. So, I have to respect like that it's not my job to uh be an activist here because it's it's that's that's not the way Chinese people deal with things. I am not a Chinese person, and I am not in the US. So, Yeah. [laughter] Um most of the time I kind of focus on sharing what I like about China to the rest of the world and doing it in ways that are playful and respect kind of my values. And I think

that ultimately like my hope [clears throat] is that I can offer more varied perspectives on a relatively like one-dimensional media landscape when it comes to China. You don't get a lot of information about China that focuses on anything more than the economy and the government or some like freak incident that happened or some way to kind of like paint China as the villain, you know? The US loves to paint China as a villain. >> [laughter] >> Yeah. We love our Disney stories. We

want there to be the good guys and the bad guys, and we want to be the good guys. And that's just like not giving us the full picture of what's happening these days, you know? Um and so, I hope that like people can recognize more about like what Chinese people have to offer, what Chinese culture has to offer, what Chinese history has to offer, you know? And so, I think that I don't know if I'm always going to be satisfied just doing that, you know? There might be a day where uh especially with the way the US is now, there's some things I would like to talk about more that's happening in the US um that wouldn't maybe necessarily be super relevant for my Chinese fan base.

But, um at the moment, my goal is more along the lines of like focusing on the stuff that is really good that I don't think people recognize in China or get a chance to see. Yeah. Yeah. Do you get accused being paid by CCP? I I Sometimes people in the comments like on my videos say like oh yeah, yeah, how much you You must Yeah, you must be You must be paid. I mean, like honestly,

>> [clears throat] >> maybe because my comment my content is so stupid, I don't get those accusations. >> [laughter] >> They're like there's no way they paid this guy to do that. I've had a couple people kind of like be suspicious or I mean, like to be fair, tourism boards have paid me to go and promote their area. How much control they want over the the footage, the video, the final product? Um I mean, I will It depends on the product, it depends on how much they're paying, and I guess it depends a little bit on how much I care about Yeah. what I'm delivering. Sometimes the

the client is willing to pay a lot of money, and they're just not going to budge on anything. And it's like okay, you know, like we're going to let you know that this probably isn't going to do so well, you know? >> [laughter] >> Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Typically speaking, I'm happy to like report on or talk about experiences or like discuss benefits of like a certain product or a certain experience. But, I won't say

something that I don't have knowledge of or something that I like don't like explicitly don't agree with, I won't say, Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Um and so, sometimes we'll have discussions with the client in that regard. There have been sometimes where somebody wants you to take a bit of a like a little bit more of like a national perspective on something or say something that's a little bit more like you know, like kind of hoping to get sort of like a political reaction or something. But, typically speaking, like our policy is kind of like we don't engage in those discussions. You know, like those are like we have a we're allowed to like step back from political side of things.

Um and so, we usually will if that ever comes up. But, honestly, too, there's not many instances in which that's happened. Do the people from from the US, like your friends from the US, ask you like why you're in China, why you're here? Like what's the attitude towards towards China from your friends and and why you're here? Well, some of them would be like oh, how's Japan?

>> [laughter] >> Or like wow, Singapore must be incredible, you know? >> [laughter] >> So, there's a little bit of that. Uh and then there's um some people that are genuinely like I have no idea why you would want to go there. Yeah. But, I think that was also I think that part of the beauty of social media is now that people can see my life here and the cool things that I do and how I live. I think a lot of that

perspective has changed. Um especially since I got here. I think like when I first moved here, there was a lot more of like why would you do that? Why would you go there? Etc.

And now it's more along the lines of like people are kind of more on on board. They sort of see what's going on, and they're starting to get like a more like robust perspective on what China is and what it has to offer. I think things have changed in that regard. But, it depends. I mean, honestly, during COVID, I was here for the full 3 years. And so, I think a lot of my US

friendships are not quite as strong as they were before. So, some of them still follow along, but I don't talk with them quite as frequently as I used to. So, Yeah. Do you go out to the US sometimes? Uh I'm usually there two times a year.

Yeah. Yeah, once uh Christmas is usually I'll go back for Christmas to spend time with the family, and then usually in the summertime I'll go back once for like a family trip as well. Yeah. What what's your thoughts and and feelings about the US when you're there? You know, I think um there was like a really big shift for me when I was here for COVID and I didn't leave China for 3 years. And so I think that

at that point in time I really kind of dug in to my life here and started focusing on kind of like it was even like a shift in my community. Like a lot before that there were a lot of like kind of like long-term expats. I kind of started shifting more towards friends with people that were Chinese that were living here and plan to stay here. And so now after I went back things kind of did shift significantly. Like after COVID where there was definitely like a change politically, there was a change economically.

And so I think since then I don't feel quite as home in the US as I used to. There's some things that I'm super comfortable with here that I don't think I'd access in the US. Public transport is one of them. Like convenience of food and the lifestyle costs are relatively low compared to like larger cities in the US. So Yeah. I think thinking about

going back I still like love a lot of things about the US and there's some really great things going on there. But yeah, I haven't thought about like going back is still like a big whether or not to like actually move back and live there is still like a hard thing to Yeah. It's like a hard thing to wrap my head around right now. Yeah. Living in China for 8 years and like doing social media business here. What

do you start to understand about you being from the US or you being American? Mhm. Or about your country after living abroad? I think you get a much better perspective. People in the US don't like to think that we're brainwashed at all.

And and and generally speaking like I would say that in the US our government doesn't put a lot of time into like putting out information that like people are supposed to take a certain way. Mhm. Um, or at least they used I guess now more more and more there is some stuff like that happening. But I think that one of the things that our level ours the nat nationalism that like Americans have I feel is very tends to be a little bit more like this is the best place to live. There's nowhere that could compare, you know? And I think that just

puts an immediate blind spot on the reality that like if you have not lived anywhere else you really don't know, you know? [laughter] Um, and so I think that living in China has given me a perspective on certain styles of life that are literally not even possible in the US. >> [laughter] >> Like when it comes to living in a city where you don't have to have a car, you know? We only have probably two or three cities in which that's manageable, you know? And having really up-to-date subway systems and train networks and even like infrastructure. Like having

up-to-date infrastructure the US doesn't do a great job of updating its infrastructure a lot of times. Because it's expensive and we already have stuff that like sort of works, right? I think it's really important to like recognize and adapt conceptually. Just like recognizing that the way that you think about the world, the way that your behavior is shaped and the like like there's a cultural relativism that you have to like put it into perspective, you know? I think it's so important to be able to be more willing to adopt a cultural relativism and like really fully try to be empathetic to the way somebody else thinks and how they were brought up and understand that in the context of where they are and what they've been through and like what they've been taught. And

so I think that like I'm really happy that I've been able to do what I have been able to do here and get so much of that education because I think that it just, you know, we we so rarely nowadays get to exist in isolation, you know? So I think it's really critical that we have an ability to fully understand and and recognize what somebody else is going through and why. I think being here you get an opportunity to like run into that regularly. How like to come to terms with the way that you were brought up as an American and what an American perspective looks like and how that differs from somebody else.