---
video_title: "Is it still worth moving to the UK?"
video_id: oXHvFPEpeRs
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oXHvFPEpeRs
video_date: 2026-01-20T11:01:35+00:00
video_description: |
  📌 Phuket trip with Max: https://apply.thebackstagecircle.com/phuket
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on my Telegram channel: https://t.me/friendsofmax 
  
  I went to England to meet Ellen Chew, a Singaporean who’s lived in London for 20 years. During that time, she opened more than a dozen restaurants, including Singapulah, a place serving authentic Singaporean food in London. Ellen shared the main lesson moving from Singapore to the UK taught her, how she sees Singapore now after many years in London, and how life abroad reshaped her Singaporean identity. Enjoy! 
  
  TO START AND GROW YOUTUBE
  🎬 Online workshop "YouTube Fast-Track to Views & Passive Income". Join for free: https://www.shym.sg/workshop  
  🏆 12-month full-scale personally coached program ‘Side Hustle YouTube Mastery.’ Join us: https://www.shym.sg/
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on my Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  💰 Sponsorship-related requests: max@maxchernov.sg
  👥 If you have a guest suggestion for an interview, please reach out at max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST
  ➢  Ellen's restaurant on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/singapulah_restaurant/ 
  
  WATCH NEXT
  ► Why it's so hard to be American abroad (UK): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zwv5kxuQGCw
  ► Singaporean left UK to become a multi-millionaire at home: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=81KqC4HlqYE 
  ► Why this American decided to live in Singapore: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pAzNdA5KihA
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 INTRO
  00:28 Why Ellen Posed as a Chinese Mafia
  07:42 How Life in London Changed This Singaporean
  08:34 Main Difference Between London and Singapore
  09:20 Is the UK Really Collapsing?
  11:48 What Does It Mean to Be a Singaporean?
  15:55 Plans to Go Back to Singapore
  17:58 Why Chinese People Succeed in the UK
  20:04 Things Singapore Has but London Doesn’t
  21:06 Is the UK Home for Ellen Now?
  22:08 Feelings About Going Back to Singapore
  25:14 How to Build a Successful Company
  28:59 The Lowest Moment in Ellen's Career
  31:40 “I Made It” Moment in Life
  33:34 Regrets in Life
  
  Hey! This channel bridges the gap between locals and foreigners all over the world. Join Max as he interviews expats, unraveling their unique stories and providing valuable insights into their lives in the vibrant places of Asia. Through engaging conversations, Max fosters understanding and appreciation between locals and the global community, focusing on cultural exchange.
  
  If you're a company seeking sponsorship opportunities to engage our upscale audience, contact us at maxchernovYT@gmail.com. With over 50% Singaporean viewers and a substantial number of foreign professionals (US, EU, Australia), our mature audience (35-54 years) boasts strong purchasing power and interests in an above-average lifestyle, travel, investment, and personal finance.
---
I went to England to meet Alan Chu, a Singaporean who's lived in London for 20 years. During that time, she opened more than a dozen restaurants, [music] including Singapula, a place serving authentic Singaporean food in London. Alan shared the main lesson [music] moving from Singapore to the UK taught her, how she sees Singapore after many years in London, and how life abroad reshaped her Singaporean identity. I'm Max Chernob, your insider to expert life. Let's go live. Going back to my

days in in here for 20 years, I I've experienced certain things that I would never imagine or never think about experiencing [clears throat] if I'm still in Singapore. When I first came here, started up my own business, took up a place where I wanted to open a restaurant, you know, a lease, I signed up a lease uh uh on a particular site in a very busy central London. And that place ended up being squatted. M squed. Oh my god. Wow.

>> Didn't know it was nearer to Christmas. >> Yeah. >> And I was I lock up the door. I got my key. Very excited. But the builders are

not doing their work yet because it's end of the year. So thinking of, you know, doing the building works after the after the new year. [clears throat] So was left there. And then I got a call from my agent and say, "Hey, uh, your place um, uh, it's supposed to be a food place, but uh, why are you renting out to someone else?" You know, selling at the time, the first one was selling what?

Selling, uh, bags. >> I was like, "No, I didn't sell bags. No." So, I went down to have a look and I was shocked that it was been squatted. I was like, "Holy what am I going to do? Someone just came into my shop

and just put hanging all the bags and trying to sell the bags as like part of part of their place. >> So, how are you going to deal with that? Nobody taught you how to deal with squatters in Singapore. I mean, there's no such thing as squatters in Singapore, >> right? I'm sure you never heard of any squatters in Singapore.

>> So, I don't know how to deal with it. I mean, nobody taught you how to deal with it. So we really have to go through that school of hard knocks to understand how you going to deal with circumstances like this. >> What do you do? You call Russian mafia [laughter] >> almost.

I didn't know any Russians back then. So when I realized that the place has been squatted um I actually was panicking. I was like okay Singapore first instant call the police. >> Yes. So I was like, I think I need to call the police because I don't know what to do. So I was talking to some of

my um friends, you know, uh who are running businesses in in London. I say, hey, you know, I have this problem. Um do I call the police and help ask me to help me set it up uh sort it out or what? And the first thing he said to me was no, don't call the police. And I said, why? Because if you call the

police, this is a civil matter. They were kind of you're kind of legalizing them to continue. Yeah. >> So it become like they can't deal with this. >> You cannot get them out. Probably also

>> you can't. So if you call the police, you're kind of legalizing. So they need to you need to get them out through the legal way. You need to apply to the court will take about at least 3 to 6 months before they can get out. So don't go that route. Alan he said then I said

how? He told me uh do you have some big guys? Do you have any guys that you know also who are big size? I said I know my builders who are he was where is he from? Uh Polish guys. Uh you have any B

anymore? How many do you have? How many how many do you see in the shop that was there? I said at the moment I only saw one guy that was in the shop right now. And he was like you know hanging up all the bags and all that stuff. So he said

okay get 10 guys to go in there and find all the guys if you can big size one 10 of them and throw him out. I said, "Are you serious?" He say, "Yes, do that. Don't call the police." And I did that.

And I actually rang my builders who were Polish builders who was doing another project of mine and they're quite big. Two of them for brothers. I got another guy who was my vegetable supplier who was name was Paul was a very big size as well. And then I got another um few of the Chinese contractors. He they are not as big but one of them looked quite scary actually >> tattoos and stuff.

>> No, he had a scar on his face. >> Okay. Okay. Even better. Even better.

>> He was like looks quite he doesn't talk much. Got a mustache and all that. So there's a few of them and I got um some of my chef one of my chef as well. So there are 10 of them. >> So we organized almost like a uh MI5 kind of you know thing. It's it may

sound funny but I was panicking. I had a friend >> I had a friend who was an American guy. Um he but he's a Egyptian American >> and he had some um what it call experience in the MI5. So he said let me help you to organize this. And then I said [clears throat] okay I'll go in he went in as a customer because the next day they open up the shop and selling bags. So he went in as a customer and

start telling the guy, "Oh, I was interested in that back and uh can I have a look at the back?" Because he was trying to get the guy out the counter. So the guy came on the counter, took the back out to show my friend. And then when he was out, my friend told him, "Well, um, you know, hey mate, I think, uh, you know, I came here because, uh, I know who you are. I know you're squatters. Uh but uh apparently you

squat at the wrong place because this place belongs to the Chinese mafia. It's like why you say that. So and he did this. He said when he do this all the 10 guys came into the shop and everyone was taking out the bags from the the the shelf and putting it outside the shop and say you know what uh you know there's no point for you to put up a fight because you're just working for your boss. You know, at the moment, what we want is just get back the place. So, you might as well just,

you know, leave nicely because we have all these guys down here. >> How many were there? >> There's only one. >> Only one guy. >> Yeah. Guy and we had 10. Yes.

>> So, very quickly, within 15 minutes, all the bags were outside the shop. >> And I have another maintenance guy that came as well. He was changing the lock back to our lock. You know, it was so dramatic, but it was so terrifying and it was so funny. So during this period of time, he knew that uh there's no point, you know, going head-on with us.

And there were cameras CCTV on Oxford Street at one of the shops in Oxford Street. We were I was quite scared cuz I'm scared that things will happen. But thank God he didn't resist. He didn't put up a fight. He actually, you know, accept that, you know, it happened. And

when the backs are out, the shelves are out and the lock has been changed. He very entrepreneurial start to sell his bags you know one for one is eviction sales. >> I was like this is hilarious but this happened you know and that's how I resolved the issue but am I going to do it again? No. Okay. It's terrifying.

Nobody taught me to do this um you know in back in Singapore but I wouldn't want to do that again. No. So these are things that I experienced that no Singaporean has ever experienced before. I was I would have imagined if if you're in Singapore. This is something that I I tell myself don't take things for granted.

>> Yeah. But it also kind of you kind of broadens your horizon what what is what exists in the world. You know what I mean? >> Yes. Yes. It definitely has. So being

who I am right now after 20 years here, I've seen things um a lot more than if I've been back in Singapore and I've stayed in Singapore only. I've seen a lot of things just like you travel so much that you've seen so much things and you learn that sometimes you don't apply things that's quite straight in Singapore when you were told to do a you when there's announcement and government announcement to help you oh there's a silver par support for this you know and and things are very straightforward you just follow the guidelines but here you question a lot you learn a lot you find out things you don't just take things as it is and it's not yours until it's been done. You know, in Singapore, we are so comfortable in everything we do. And uh a lot of um a lot of advice and a lot of things have been guided by the government as well. Over here, you just have to look out for yourself.

>> Yeah. Not that the government is not helping, but it's just that it's just too many people. So you just need to look out and and especially in London where majority of the people in London are not English. I think I would say 80% of the people in living in London are non-English. [clears throat] So therefore there's lots of people.

It's a cosmopolitan city. So therefore a lot of people from all parts of the world are in here. So you really need to understand who you're dealing with. >> Some people say oh like UK is dying. is like downfall of the UK and then London is like full of drug addicts and stuff.

What's your takes on it when when when people say it's like the negative trend here? because all these people they they get all this information obviously from online >> you know some news as well and and I tend to not believe in all this after a while because sometime news can be quite one-sided and yes we do see uh London especially as a city that is unsafe you know there's a lot of te I myself have experienced been robbed uh a few times so it's a few times. Yes. Once I was robbed off my car >> when I was driving. >> Oh my god.

>> That's terrible. [laughter] >> I mean, yeah. Um, I was literally robbed off my car and then they just robbed the car off for me. So, and then another time, right, they they took away my phone, which is quite common, you know, in in in London city, especially in central London. So um that part of it yes there's a lot of bad news bad rap about that but in all all things being equal there are also parts where London has its own beauty you know and like it or not you just learn from it that hey take care of yourself don't just be so what's the word called um you know you become so oblivious of things you need to be careful of what you do and London is the same I don't see this city going that way. But obviously there are also

some news about the politics as well, you know, of cost of living going up, blah blah blah. But in all cases, I think Singapore is the same. I mean, the cost of living is going up still. So, you know, but these people didn't really talk about it. It doesn't mean that it's not there. So, I felt that London has

still has its own charm. He has his own beauty and I don't see it falling you know and uh I still see opportunities during times like this even I come back to a very gloomy uh cold London but I appreciate that as well you know because you don't get to you know be cold in Singapore I just came back from a hot Singapore right so I appreciate that it's not that all that bad >> living abroad for such a long time. What do you understand about you being a Singaporean? Uh what does it mean for you to be a Singaporean? Because you have now this helicopter view, the view from >> not not from inside but from outside.

>> Being Singaporean is not just about food. It's not just about, you know, being clean in Singapore and all that. It's more on un adaptation of cultural as well because you know I we I'm quite we're quite lucky in Singapore where everything we don't see a lot of difference in income inequality where you know the we don't really see poverty as much you know being as Singaporean compared to other parts of Asia I would say like you know when you you're living in India or you're living in Philippine you probably or Indonesia you can see that difference a lot you know but in Singapore everything has just been quite you know uh equal but obviously there are some people who are richer than the others but you know education system is very much a big thing as well because if I were to put myself as what's what is it being a Singaporean I think our education system is actually quite good we have been studying in schools that is government schools, you know, but there are obviously some uh better schools, independent schools, but >> I don't see like a big difference of having a private school. I you would say that, you know, in that sense. So being the the system of the the um the education system is itself it's very much spells us as a Singaporean and uh I also think that you know as a Singaporean can see us as um the difference is obviously how we as a Singaporean we always takes things for granted sometimes >> and we always complain. [laughter]

So that's probably a little bit different from people who are here. You know, here we I've lived in London for 20 years. I've seen trains breaking down, tubes breaking down, and protest and stuff like that. I I don't take for granted anymore. It's it's just happened. But in Singapore, you tend to

complain a lot. If everything just doesn't work for that minute, you complain. >> So that's probably one of big difference as well. So I sometime I talk to my Singaporean friends and they were complaining about ah you know the the train breaks down it couldn't work for a whole morning. I say hey you know we have trains that don't work for many days not because it break down but because people doesn't want to work you know so what can you do about it so that's something that you just have to not take it for granted.

>> Hey guys. Hi from very cold London. Actually it's not London. It's a small town called Guilford, nearby London. And I actually making a video about life in London versus life in Singapore. I will

upload this video on this channel very soon. But I wanted to mention something. Remember I told you about this networking retreat in Phuket. So we actually tweaked the concept now is it's called the backstage circle because after [music] making interviews on YouTube for years what I realized that the most important conversations the most important decisions are made behind the closed doors and I want to bring a small group of very interesting highlevel people to cook. It's going to be very small group but highly like pre-selected and we're going to spend time together and we're going to have the most deep conversations in your [music] life. It's going to be a few

surprises along the way. It's going to be very very [music] interesting and unique experience not like a typical networking or business event. So we already have almost 200 [music] people in the waiting early bird list. Uh I will leave a link in description and also cure code on the screen. you can sign up and hopefully I'll see you in Kukat very soon. Bye.

>> Have you ever thought of like through this 20 years going back or like I'm tired. I want to go back to Singapore like to my comfortable life. I think I think in the beginning yes >> in the beginning when >> when I first came to um London when I was back in Singapore I was quite comfortable >> you know and I was working in a a food court giant for called Copitam >> Copam >> I've been working there for a number of years and I'm pretty quite comfortable and I like my job I like what I did I just something just still doesn't something is telling me to get out you know funnily you know to find something out there because it was too comfortable >> and that's what was one of the reason why I'm in the UK. >> So because Singapore is too small. So I was I love what I do before but when when you're here things in the first few years is struggling because you were so comfortable back home and everything doesn't work the same way and you attribute to the fact that hey you know why isn't everything the same you know why is it so difficult to get things done like uh 20 years back I was trying to get an internet and at that time forget about fiber in Singapore were already using fiber back then but there was no such thing as fiber you still using the dialin you know I was like gosh London UK I thought is so advanced but it's not so I struggle a bit when I'm in the UK >> especially doing a business in the UK is even harder because you can't get things done and you get frustrated >> and you're like why can't things be simpler you know when you have you want to do something but you just kind of got to get it done. So you get frustrated,

you get angry, you get you you're sad as well because you you miss the convenience in Singapore, you miss your family, you miss your friends. So that part in the initial years was really really hard. >> But at the same time, there are more opportunities for you here because it's a bigger market. >> Oh, definitely. If you compare that uh um that it's because as Asian as a Chinese um in Singapore naturally we are quite hardworking you know >> because we are also immigrants even if I'm a Singaporean because my forefather my father my grandfather come from China they work so hard so we kind of see that >> you know through our parents growing up.

>> Yeah. >> And naturally when you're here you want to work hard as well. you want to work extremely hard but people are not working the same way that you do. So therefore that part of difference in um in level that makes you even more frustrated. So >> you know and I I just felt that it's not that people are lazy here just a different culture I would say because they work very differently from Asian for for us we we we went all the way for example if you are um estate agent in Singapore I've never come across an estate agent in Singapore who doesn't work on weekends.

>> Yeah that's true. That's true. >> So when I'm here I was like looking for a flat to rent. And I was like calling for help to get um to rent a place and they don't work on weekends. I said if you don't work on weekends, it don't work at night. How am I going to see my

flat if I'm working? You know what I mean? So this is a very small but typical example of the differences that we have. >> Yeah. >> Uh yeah.

>> Yeah. I I get text from my agent. We just moved to a new place at 10 p.m. Like you're preparing the contract at 10 p.m. Yeah. It's normal.

>> That's Asia for you. >> That's Asia. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

>> So it's but also >> that disparity creates opportunities, >> right? That difference creates a lot of opportunity. Say, hey, if nobody wants to work on weekend, if I came here, if I'm didn't set up a restaurant, I would become an estate agent. I'll be working my ass off just to make sure that you know there are people who doesn't who wants to view but they couldn't. You know, this is examples >> what doesn't exist in UK compared to Singapore.

>> The breakfast >> because Yeah. breakfast because over here the breakfast is all about uh you know the English breakfast and all the stuff but over in Singapore when you wake up the first thing sometimes when you're in bed and you're thinking oh my god I need to have that chu I need to have that chich fun you know then sometimes even before you sleep I need to get in the morning so in the morning when you wake up zoom go to uh for a swim in the swimming pool because swimming is quite a norm thing in Singapore as well go for a swim grab your breakfast go back home and eat. So these are things that I miss so much and you don't have to think so much of the weather because Singapore is a tropical country so it's hot all year round and you can just grab your swimsuit and if you know in slippers and get out the house just like in a minute you don't have to think about what to wear in in the UK you Google what's the uh what's the weather like in the next few hours because things change right so Singapore no >> but here is home you feel like home home here. >> Um UK has never been a home home for me sadly because uh here is more like um a stop where it's a place that's thriving. You know, a lot of people were in here.

I met I made a lot of friends but it's never a place that I call it home purely because people come and go you know London is a city where people work here and uh stay here but not so much on continuing you know on staying for a long time I've seen a lot of friends of ours has come and go they work here for a while and they left so home home is still Singapore it's a place this place is a place that I work still very connected here with a lot of friends and business associates and all that. Uh but home home is still Singapore >> and I still want to retire to Singapore if I ever um when the retirement comes I will I'm thinking back about how to make our way back to Singapore or Asia for that matter. >> What do you feel when you go back to Singapore? Like what's your feelings and thoughts? >> Obviously when you step out from the Changi airport the first thing that hits me obviously is the heat, right? And

that's like it's a confirmation that oh wow I'm in Singapore you know. >> Yes. >> And uh when I'm back in Singapore it's very much I feel very natural like this is where I am. This is where I was born and this is very much my home. So I feel very connected straight away. I don't

feel that I kind of like have left there when I stepped into Singapore as much. So, I've still very much connected in every way. The way I speak, um the food that everybody else is um eating at the hawker center, people that I see, my family and all that. So, it's still very much Singapore. >> What's the first thing you do when you arrive Singapore?

>> Oh, not the first thing that I do. I've been thinking about it even on the plane. It's like, okay, what is the first thing that you eat? What is the first thing that you would do? So very much so obviously eating is part of um Singapore's favorite hobby you know. So

very much so that >> when I go back to Singapore the first thing is I will look for hawker food like you know my bi you know the typical thing that people will go back for but you can't get it outside Singapore. I'll be angry somebody say hey you know um let's meet up and bring you to a very good Italian place. say, "Hey, hey, >> I don't need [laughter] a dining place. >> I don't need that, you know. I want you go to a a typical hawker center that I can just find all kinds of food that I I I miss and I'll just eat then with my friends or even with my family."

>> So, uh that is the first thing that I would do. >> Yeah. Yeah. Still very Singaporean of you, right? >> Very much so. And there's a couple of

things that I do in the past uh in earlier days. One of the things that I always would love to do is to go for koke. Oh, really? Yes. >> Oh, okay.

>> Because I love carroing >> and in Singapore before I came, um, there were a lot of car joints. I love being in that environment where you can sing your heart out and you can't get it in the UK. So, every time I go back to Singapore, I'll book myself a car. Sometime with friends, sometime my mom in the bus and sometime with um myself. you know that this thing that I would do >> when I go back.

>> Uh and I always uh pop up a lot of those things that >> I can't find here like dried seafood, like paste, like food stuff. So my luggage bringing back to the UK is always full of food. >> Very quick heads up, I have a Telegram channel where I share my insights [music] after the interviews with billionaires, celebrities, politicians. also write there how I grow my YouTube channel. It's basically more raw and unfiltered [music] opinions because I cannot share everything on YouTube due to their platform regulations. So if you want to

follow me there, scan this QR code or click the link in description. What's your main principles in business? How to run a successful company or set of companies? >> M uh I think my all my businesses are food related. Uh I think the first thing is obviously um I was glad that it was something that I love. You know I love my job. I love

what I do. I don't wake up one day and drag my feet to work because I really love what I do. Even though before I was doing what I was doing in the UK, I was working for a company for my boss in Copitam. I never feel like I must drag my feet off, you know, to come to work. So that's a part that I enjoy. So yes,

the principle at the end is still very much uh engaging with your um because all this restaurants in this outlets doesn't happen with just me alone. It's a team of people that I have as well with uh in my office. So therefore they have been working with me for some of them since day one when I started about >> wow 18 years now some of them are 18 years some of them are 16 years. So it's been a long time. Yeah.

>> So I think it's important to persevere to you know to really if don't just give up on things when things doesn't work your way find another way. That's what I always believe in. And most importantly you don't treat your people that work with you as you know colleagues or or staff. They're actually your partners because they grow the business with you. So one of the principle that I have is whenever I have anything that I I like I always share with them be it food be it you know travel experiences mainly food I would say and this is very important as well just to have that um engagement with them >> it's it's so important that because it's not just about me it's about us as a team.

>> How many people you have total >> at the moment? Uh our head office is about 17 of them of us but the main core group there are about five of us. So we have the ops team which is a very core group and I have people that with me for such a long time even Jay which you met with me for about 10 years now. This are my core team. >> Yeah. And if you add the the restaurant

staff like >> if I add the restaurant staff wow maybe about 400 people. Yeah, >> I would say >> the very important part is to love what you do. You think to find this thing. I think one of the key thing is to really love your job because if you don't because you see this is about you know when you love what you do people can feel it >> you know when I just before you came I have um a chef she was cooking this dessert and one of my uh colleague actually brought back to the office and I open up I was like I almost cried because this that dessert I haven't had it for years >> and it's called tawaan in Singapore. Very very much um something that I love so much. So when I open I was like sh

this is something that I really love. So when I came to Singaporea first thing I went down to see her and I say you know what you just cooked me the dessert that I miss so much >> and this connections you can't just get rid of it. you you need to tell them you need to let them feel that this is all about you know um the connections about like these are the things that I love so she can feel it straight away so that's why I meant by you know having that um having what doing what you love but actually letting them know as well letting them feel it and that's key as well >> what was the lowest moment in in this 20 years >> the beginning >> the beginning >> beginning it's always the beginning because um when I first started Ed uh running my uh how to started getting a business. Well, it's it was not as rosy as you think. You know, you see people walking around. You see people there's

so many people there must be a lot of business, but it doesn't translate to business sometimes. >> You know, there could be transient crowd. It could be just people who are just not coming to a restaurant to eat or not spending. So the lowest moment is when I realize that what I have been thinking assuming um you know been driving and been doing it doesn't work out as what I intended it to be. So that's the time that I've been asking myself have I assume something wrong and you know is this something that I didn't look out for? Is this something that I

you just you didn't calculate that you didn't do that? There is times where you just felt so like have you done the right thing? And worst of all, why did you choose this way when you are so comfortable back in Singapore? That was the lowest moment of my life. And I was dealing with so many different nationalities here. I dealt with people

who are from u mainland China. And I've I've also dealt with people who are not even here. I never heard of the country before you know and you started to question like you know when you're dealing with them they are not the intention is not there are some people who never had the same just like when we when you offer a food to someone your intention was real like I would love you to try my food right but sometimes people don't receive that intention and they they think it differently >> they're not there to be a friend they're not there to become uh somebody who um can talk to they are just just to make the money from you. So there are a lot of people who are like that. So my first initial um engagement when I came is I met a lot of cowboys. Cowboys for

example renovation contractors they thought they were I thought they were renovation contractors. I thought they were experienced but they're just cowboys. So I've done I've learned my lessons. I've I couldn't believe that they are actually not renovation contractors. So in Singapore when you are a renovation contractor you have to be listed as a contractor you know it be but over here anybody can be one you can be a builder any time so that part I didn't understand and I got you know backfired so many times and I felt that sharks have I done the right thing so that those moments of the first few years was my worst of my life. Do

>> you remember the day when you said to yourself that you made it in life you made it in business? I didn't really think so much about I made it to business until someone told me >> really because when you are so involved in the business >> you just continue and continue and carry on and you didn't know that this is actually something that people were looking for people were um aspiring to what you you are um at that point it was more like make it happen make it break otherwise you know make it or break it you just keep going keep going so you didn't really think so much as me being successful in that sense. No. So, I only realized that, hey, you know, uh, wow, Ellen, you you you've done a great things. You open up a few restaurants.

Really, I think anybody can do that, you know. It's just a matter of um what you put in, you know, just like you make the dishes. Anybody can make any dishes whether it's good or not. you know, I've gone through things that I I wouldn't say that I was um very successful, but I have a little success in everything that I do. Uh especially those uh places that we open. But there are also moments

where it didn't work. So, you don't hear that part of it. But there are times that some places doesn't work. You just have to close it and move on. >> I think it's important to get this here.

>> You don't see it as a failure. You see it as an experience. >> Oh, I never see as a failure. If I've seen as a failure there's so much failure even before I come I've done a lot of uh businesses before I even came before I even work for the company I had two failures already >> so that doesn't stop me from uh um moving to the next level to learn some take it as a learning I always learn something and then I make sure that I don't repeat that mistake again >> so no uh didn't really think so much of a failure >> if I have and then I'll be very very sad Do you have any regrets in life? >> It's not so much in the regrets but I wish that in my journey in the earlier days I wish that someone there was a mentor >> but apparently there wasn't anyone there for me at that time. So I wish I had a

mentor and I hope that you know when I retire there are times when you know you have your time do I want to say to mentor somebody I would love to you know I would give all that I know of so that people don't make that mistake that I made uh and also share my experiences with so I uh so I saw so much of the regret that I wish I had a mentor that can help me then I wouldn't have to pay so much school fees >> [music]