---
video_title: "What Nobody Dares to Say About Thailand (American’s POV)"
video_id: 71HWdnyKsDo
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=71HWdnyKsDo
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  📌 Download your FREE report today: https://expatmoney.com/Max 
  🌏 Apply for The Backstage Circle: https://forms.gle/huwR6NQNz5A4XgC78 
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on Telegram: https://t.me/friendsofmax 
  
  Meet Eric David, an American who chose Thailand as his new home. After seven years in Bangkok, he has developed a deeper understanding of Thai culture and the unwritten rules that many foreigners miss. Today, Eric hosts a podcast where Thai locals and foreigners openly discuss dating, relationships, nightlife, and cultural differences. In our conversation, he explains why Western men often misread Thai women, what driving reveals about a hidden side of Thai culture, and why skin color can heavily affect your social status in Thailand. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  🎙 Listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts: https://open.spotify.com/show/1dktMfOBp11LNp52X3mkuR  or https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/max-chernov/id1875665593
  👥 Sponsorship requests / Guest suggestions: max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST
  ➢ Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ericdavid.official/
  ➢ Eric's Podcast: https://www.youtube.com/@OneNightinBangkok_
  
  WATCH NEXT
  ► Tech Multi-Millionaire Shares How He Built His Wealth Using AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O10NKwSJMek 
  ► Wealth Strategies of American Multi-Millionaire in Singapore: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Nz74s44wsQ 
  ► Singapore’s multi-millionaire on China, America and AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tP7QksbJVQ
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 Intro
  00:39 Lies About Thai People
  02:44 Why Western Men Misread Thai Women
  05:59 How to Tell If a Thai Woman Is Really Interested
  07:09 Dating Signals and Cultural Differences in Thailand
  08:49 How to Build an International Plan B
  09:56 Why Relationships Move Slower in Thailand
  10:41 Jealousy and Emotional Conflict in Thai Culture
  12:48 What His Podcast Revealed About Thailand
  13:31 Why Thai People Drive So Differently
  16:01 The Hidden Side of Thai Social Behavior
  17:34 A Motorcycle Crash That Changed His Perspective
  18:43 How Foreigners in Thailand Have Changed
  20:12 Invitation to The Backstage Circle
  22:37 Thailand’s Invisible Social Hierarchy
  24:01 Why Skin Color Matters in Thai Society
  25:00 How Speech and Clothing Reveal Social Class
  29:04 Wealth, Education and International Thai Families
  30:26 How 8 Years in Thailand Changed His Personality
  31:04 Unfiltered Opinions from My Interviews on Telegram
  31:30 Reverse Culture Shock When Returning to America
  32:40 How Bangkok Nightlife Really Works
  34:04 The Biggest Mistake Foreign Men Make in Thai Clubs
  35:44 How Thai People See Foreigners
  37:28 Why Eric Wants to Understand Thai Culture
  
  This channel features raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery.
  
  I sit down with founders, investors, operators, experts, and outliers navigating the biggest shifts of our time, many of them based in or connected to Asia. We talk about money, leverage, relocation, power, tradeoffs, and the real decisions shaping what’s next, not as theory, but from lived experience.
  
  Some conversations happen inside billionaire homes. Some happen remotely with experts shaping global systems. All of them focus on signal over noise. 
  
  If you care about where to build, where to live, how to make better decisions in uncertain times, and what the future demands, you’re in the right place.
---
She's being nice to me. She's smiling. She gave me her contact. That means, you know, she's intimate, right? But that's not how it works here.

>> Meet Eric David, an American who chose Thailand as his new home. After 7 years in Bangkok, he's developed a deeper understanding of Thai culture and the unwritten rules that many foreigners miss. Today, Eric hosts a podcast where Thai locals and foreigners openly discuss dating, relationships, night life, and cultural [music] difference. In our conversation, he explained why Western men often misread Thai women, what driving reveals about the hidden side of Thai culture, and why skin color can heavily affect your social status in Thailand. I'm Akernov. I host

conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery. >> What's the most annoying stereotypes that you hear and see about Thail people are extremely nice? [laughter] >> It's not. Here's the thing. It's a hard topic to talk about because it's not that it's not true. It's just There's a

lot of nuance in nuance to it that people don't really understand and it's hard to understand unless you've lived here for a while because it goes against a lot of the things in the west that we're used to. Where I am at now understanding this, >> it's not that Thai people are like nice in an altruistic way. Altruistic way like I think a lot of it comes from two things. The desire to preserve reputation of themselves and their family or where they work. Yeah.

>> And that sounds great on the surface, but as soon as there's some kind of issue, something goes ary, this is where it goes downhill fast because like it could be simple, something as simple as like you go to a restaurant and they get your order wrong. Like where I'm from, it's not a big deal. You just fix it. But here it it can become like a I don't want to say like a traumatizing thing, but this staff that works in restaurants, Thai people, they're they're very afraid of confrontation. So even something as simple as correcting a wrong order can make a Thai person potentially feel very bad, feel very negative about themselves. And this

makes parts of the culture difficult to navigate because what often happens is if someone has a problem with you or they don't want to say yes to you, they don't say no. They don't explain themselves. They just try to give you some polite excuse. They'll try to like see themselves out. Like if I ask you to help me with something and you don't want to, you won't say you don't want to. You'll just say, "Oh, I wish I

could. I'm I'm definitely going to help you next time, but I have to do this thing unfortunately with my mom." But people I think people normally don't say it even like in US or like in the western culture they wouldn't say I don't want to help you. They say oh yeah sure yeah yeah >> I think I think the difference is Thai people are much more believable the the lengths that they go to. Okay I'll give you a different example. One thing that

I hear from Thai women all the time is that it's difficult to talk to foreigner men because they'll get approached by foreign men all the time and foreigner men are very direct. >> Yeah. Whereas Thai people tend to be much less direct and the woman might not be interested, but they won't shut them down. Instead, from a westerner perspective, they'll act the same way they would as if they were interested because they don't want anyone to feel bad. They don't want an awkward situation. But this makes things worse

because then the guy thinks, "Oh, she's intimate." So they keep going and they keep going. Yeah. And eventually it ends in a train wreck, you know, a lot of the time because there's this like cultural friction. >> Yeah.

>> Where the the type person doesn't want to say no, doesn't want to be negative >> and but the other person isn't picking up on the the small signals. >> Can you give me an example? If something comes to your mind like maybe a conversation with the girl or something like >> Okay, sure. So dealing with like a landlord through a real estate agent. The landlord may not want to do something or the agent may not want to do something, some request you have, but they won't tell you no. They'll just

say, "Oh, we're going to check. Oh, we're going to work on this. Oh, but it'll never get done." >> And at first, you're like, "Okay, it's fine." But then it drives you insane because instead of just dealing with the problem headon, they keep kind of pushing it off, pushing it off.

>> Interesting. Like I wouldn't expect it like with the the communication with the girls, but I wouldn't expect it when you talk to your landlord or >> Oh yeah. No, I see it all around. I just use the the dating example because I think it's something a lot of foreigner men >> Yeah. >> experience when they come here. Maybe

you can give an example of like someone who like approach the girl or they like meet the girl somewhere in the club or wherever and then they use this like the western pattern that oh this girl is definitely into me or like probably into me but that was not the case and it turned out to be awkward situation or something. >> Yeah. So I've had many Thai females like express frustration when talking to Westerners especially it's usually guys that are here for less than a year. >> Yeah. because the guys don't really understand the the cultural dynamics. So

they maybe they approach a Thai woman whether it's like at a gym or at a bar or on the street or wherever. Thai women are very nice. They're very like soft personalitywise. Almost never will they be harsh towards you or like outright reject you. But a lot of Westerners will interpret that as like, oh, she's intimate. But really,

the the girl is rolling her eyes in her head and she can't wait to get away from the interaction. And I just I've had a lot of uh Thai women friends like not understand this and they think some people are they they interpret it as like the guy's being weird. But I understand for both sides because from the guy's point of view, it's like, "Oh, I came to talk to this girl. She's being nice to me. She's smiling. She gave me

her contact. That means, you know, she's intimate, right?" But that's not how it works here. You have to really read between the lines. And the the whole reading between the lines thing is one of the most frustrating parts about living here because as someone that's like from the US and from the northeast US where everything is very direct when you have to slow down and kind of evaluate what's really going on, it's frustrating.

>> Okay. So then let's try to explain like how to understand if the if the tie girl is really into you. >> Oh, okay. Yeah. Or like if she give you a number then it's kind of I I would assume like in the west the girl if you're still like persuading her and then she doesn't want to like give her a number he would she would just give a fake number or something >> if or maybe she is like say directly oh sorry you know but like how to read that's the interest is there. It's it's

it's very hard to explain because it's almost identical in in my perspective and that's why it's so hard. Okay. So, I would say if you're asking me for dating advice, not that I know anything, but I would say that like Thai women are a little more like cats. So, if you're a cat owner, if you're familiar with how cats behave, >> yeah, >> you might do well with Thai women. You need to let them you need to let them get comfortable and and come to you a little bit.

>> If you if you try to chase them, they'll run away. Based on your experience, what's the most like compared to I don't know if you had a previous dating experience in the US, but like if you can compare, what are the like nos and and yes, >> I'll give you some interesting anecdotes. So, one of the things that really shocked me not that long into my Thailand journey is I met this girl and we went out once and the second time we went out, we had to we were it's during the day, but we had to stop at my condo really quick so I could pick something up. I don't remember what it was. So, we just go in quick and when I came out of the bathroom, she was folding like the blanket on my couch and like basically like cleaning my room.

>> And I remember stopping and thinking that is so weird. >> Yeah. >> Like why is she doing that? >> Yeah. >> And what I learned over time is this is like culturally her way to just like show investment or like appreciation or something. You know, I'm

not saying I expect her to clean my apartment, but just that little nice little thing. I think it's just her way of saying like she's invested. I've seen a lot of small things like that. I also think that it's hard for and this is just my opinion, but I think it's hard sometimes for Thai people to say sorry or admit that they did something wrong. some stupid little things that I things that I would think are stupid and little. They may think are a huge weight

on them >> and they will go through leaps and bounds to not admit that they they messed up and just say sorry and move on. Instead, I I think that in Thailand, how someone feels about something is often more important than reality. Meaning, if something hurts somebody, >> it's more important to just pretend like it never happened or I never did this or you know this this never happened to you because the the emotions matter more. It's hard to explain because to me that's just sounds ridiculous like I live in the real world like it happened or it didn't. But here it's not how it is. You know, you don't have to build

your entire life in one country. And if you're watching this video, I bet you've already considered living somewhere else. Moving abroad is one thing, but having another residency, another banking option, or even passport gives you a very different kind of freedom. You just have more options and real backup if things change back home. And if you want to see what it may looks like for you, Expert Money is worth checking out. They help people choose

the right international options for them from second residences and citizenships to banking abroad. The company was founded by Miguel Toro, who has spent more than 26 years living, investing, and doing business around the world. and he also has traveled to more than 100 countries. So the advice behind Expert Money is based on a lot of firsthand experience. And right now Expert Money has put together a free report called Plan B residences and instant citizenships. It covers five ways to

obtain a second passport, the difference between residency and citizenship, what those routes can cost, and some of the common mistakes people make. If it sounds useful, you can download a free report at expatmoney.com/max. or you also find the link in description below. Does it take normally longer for people to open up? Doesn't matter if

it's like a dating relationship or it's like friends relationships, they need to actually take I don't know one year before like actually opening up and like being fragile. >> Maybe I I think it can depend on the person. Like I'm not saying I think another mistake people make is they assume every type person is the same which totally not. And again, the longer you're here, the more you see differences between different types of people, people that come from different backgrounds. Some people are culturally more like Asian, like East Asian. Some

people are culturally more Western. Depends on where you grew up and who you're around. So, I would just say though that in general here when it comes to relationships, it's like everything is a little bit slower and a little more subtle. There is a notion I heard that tigers are jealous. So they if they have you so that's they kind of will protect you from the outside. Is

that like true or it's also like a generalization? >> Extremely true. But I would go a step further and this is going to be a like a a little bit of a controversial take I think. >> So clip this. But I feel that Thai people have a difficult time regulating emotion from my perspective.

>> Okay. >> So meaning they might feel a certain way. They might it might be building up but they don't know how to express it. They don't know how to talk to you about it until something happens and they flip. And this could be with a jealous girlfriend, you know, going in a like a fit of rage or it could be something like uh you're at a bar and this foreigner's been doing something annoying all night and the security's just been dealing with it, dealing with it, but then when they cross the line now it's five of them, you know, beating him like mercilessly, like way beyond what is reasonable. Like I look at that

and I think it's strange but I see this pattern a lot here where it's like held in and then it's released all at once. >> Can the part of the reason be also the language barrier cuz like if they want to deal with fans they kind of not all tie people like can express their like emotions for example like in 100% English >> that could be in some situations. I've seen a lot of news stories just between Thai people where this kinds of stuff shows up. Like I see a lot of I don't want to say a lot but you know >> more than a few jealous boyfriends murdered the girlfriend and the the other the new boyfriend kind of thing >> like time boyfriend tie. Yeah.

>> Yeah. So it's basically it's not like it's not the girls only but it's overall >> Yeah. Yeah. I'm not saying it's a girl thing or a guy thing. I just think culturally and I'm not even saying necessarily it's a tie thing. It might

just be kind of like an East Asian thing or a Southeast Asian thing. I'm not exactly sure, but there is a strong difference with like the way people regulate emotion here, the way they confront conflict. And I'm not even saying I've got this exactly right. But just know that if you're coming here, it's not the same as where you're from. Probably >> you have to kind of you can't make assumptions about certain things. What

are the biggest revelation that you actually get to know from your guests like on your podcast? because you have a lot of like guys you should subscribe to the channel one night in Bangkok. It's like like it's a long form which I also like as I appreciate long form content but it's also because you have like a lot just from different walks of life like foreigners and locals as well and you try to go deeper to into understanding actually understand the culture and how things work. It's not a surface level content so you definitely have to check it out. >> Yeah. Um, I mean there's been so many

things like when you cuz the beauty of a long form discussion is you can really like get deep in a certain topic. >> And one of the things that always fascinated me was if you come to Thailand and you ride the BTS train, the sky train, it's so clean, people are so polite, they're quiet, it's totally [music] different than like New York City. New York City is a circus, >> you know? So, it was very strange to me when I started driving here that the way people act when they're driving is complete completely opposite the way [music] they ride the BTS train or the, you know, the subway. And I couldn't understand why because they're very aggressive and it's I I don't want to like exaggerate, but it's almost like they have no regard for anybody else's life, you know? It's like everybody's

out for themselves, so watch out. And this was very confusing to me cuz I I thought this was opposite like Thai culture, right? And what someone explained to me was, you know, a lot of the the uh the niceness is I'm not saying it's fake, but I'm just saying when it's more related to like reputation and social harmony. And then when you're in a car, it's like you're depersonalized. No one can see you really. Especially because in Thailand,

most of the cars have like highly tinted windows. Yes. So when you're driving around and you do something, nobody knows it's you. So I think people feel free to just act however they want. At least this is my interpretation.

So, if you drive in Bangkok, you'll know exactly what I mean. And I've even been with a girlfriend who's driving and we'll be pulling into a like a like a business driveway and there'll be someone crossing. And she doesn't care. She'll just plow him over. And this was like really shocking to me because this is like a nice sweet tie girl. Like why

would she mow this guy over? This poor Korean guy, you know, trying to cross cross the driveway. Why would she just not like stop and let him go? It's just a very interesting like psychological or sociological dynamic here. >> That's true. It's very interesting. Like

I I drive sometimes in Thailand either like a bike, motorbike, scooter or like a car. And then when I started it like few years ago when I first like rent a car and like started to drive when you either in Phuket I basically I never drove in Bangkok but for example in Phuket you try to let someone go and then you actually create like the dangerous situation on the road. >> Yeah, I know what you mean. Because you have like scooters from here, scooters from there and like no one expect you to actually let like pedestrians go and then basically you can be a cause of like someone like >> be bump you know died. >> Yeah.

>> Uh because of that. So and then you kind of need to okay switch to the mode. I need to mimic everyone else on the road. And pedestrians also they know how the car behave. >> You've probably also seen here how like at a red light >> Yeah.

>> all the time people just drive straight through. >> It's optional. >> Yeah. But that's really surprises me because someone will drive through a red light and risk everybody else's life to save 15 seconds. And it's so opposite of a lot of other things that you experience here. I'm trying not to

oversimplify it, but it looks like if someone is watching you, then you kind of behave and you need to save a a face and if no one if it's tinted windows or like you I don't know behind the screen behind your computer like anonymized then it's kind of you don't >> Yeah, >> you can like use a different part of your personality in this cases kind of thing. >> Yeah. >> I don't know. It's interesting because I have a theory that overall not like particularly about Thailand or like Singapore or whatever but like all of us have like different shades of us, different sides of us and it depends on the context we actually can be different and can like make different actions. For example, if you have like some like kind side of it like evil side and if you are sent to a war and then need to survive, you probably can like kill someone because you they put you in this situation or if you like I don't know in the session when you need to help people I don't know like work with children and stuff they will like your kind part will be revealed more and then if we put this to the like Thailand society how the Thailand society structured it's kind of maybe in different situations, people kind of react differently and show different sides of them.

>> Yeah. Um earlier when we were recording the podcast, you said that you drove a motorcycle and the Mahung loop, right? >> Yeah. >> So, I did that as well. And on the first day of this motorcycle trip in northern Thailand, I was coming down a mountain and the brakes failed on my bike.

>> And at about 60 km an hour, I went straight down the mountain and smashed into the back of a car. the car was moving forward and if it wasn't there I would have gone off the side of the mountain. The crazy thing was like it was a bad crash and I slid off the road and you know whatever but the car just took off. So I crashed into the back of a car and the car just took off. It it didn't stop. It didn't wait and I

destroyed the car. And I often thought like why would they do that? >> Yeah. >> And the reason that I think is because I think that they think they caused the accident even though that's not true. And I think they just didn't want to be responsible for the accident, so they left. That was wild to me. At the same

time, there was a nurse driving down the road that saw this happen that pulled over and and helped me. So, you kind of see like a whole variety of things here. It's like a big spectrum. Yeah. >> How do you think the profile of foreigners changed through the years?

>> Well, when I came here at the beginning of 2019, there were foreigners here, but the types of foreigners were different. They were, I would say, more like the stereotypical digital nomad of that time, which was like a blogger or like maybe someone trying to do some e-commerce thing. >> It wasn't crypto millionaires and it wasn't guys that were doing like AI startups and like all this stuff. Now, >> you know, I feel like a lot of people came to Southeast Asia back then because the lower cost of living allowed them to pursue some project. They they were on a tight budget, like a tight income, and it enabled them to be able to, you know, work on that dream.

>> Yeah. >> But now I think people are choosing Southeast Asia because it's just a better destination. Like they want to be here. They have the money. They could live wherever, but they want to be here.

So now I run into people all the time that, you know, they they do really well for themselves. >> And if they're not coming here because they need the economic arbitrage, >> they just enjoy Thailand. What I actually like about Thailand and specifically Bangkok, there are a lot of like unconventional people, entrepreneurs, a lot of foreigners u as well who maybe like less corporate compared to like I don't know Singapore, Hong Kong, they won't be based here because it's fun. It's a lot of things to do, but also some of them they run like huge businesses and they sell to like the rest to to the US or um cuz I go to Thailand often to Bangkok often. So I meet these people through my interviews and so we decided to like uh launch a project called the backstage circle. So basically we kind of combine

this the access to this people in the region particularly Singapore, Hong Kong and uh Thailand and especially Bangkok into like one like private membership and community. So it's for people who want to be surrounded with like the high level entrepreneurs and investors. We will leave a link in description. That's one of the things that I really appreciate about Bangkok. You don't see ever like a lack of interesting people here.

>> Yeah. >> And it's also like people who live here, who based here, but also people who come here. >> Yeah. It's it's a very dynamic place. >> Very. Yeah. Yeah. 100%. Because I meet

all of these like legendary, incredible founders, investors, unconventional people. I'll bring them to private meetups with the members of my the backstage circle, a project that I'm I'm building now. I'm so bullish on this project right now. It's a group of high level entrepreneurs and investors based in Singapore, Hong Kong, Thailand and few other places. We are super pre- selective with the people that we are accepting. We're going to have several

trips together every year and we we have small groups where we form this 7 to 10 people where members can share their challenges and problems, can [music] get advice from other members without judging. is like your safety groups of peers. Not like it's a psychotherapist or it's your friend or family members. Literally peers that operating at the same high level as others. [music] Cuz one problem that I realized like talking to many like successful people. When you

get higher, it start to be more lonely up there. You have less and less people who actually you can relate to and they relate to you. So that's why I'm actually building this together with like incredible people. I'll be involved in majority of the events and this actually rare for this private clubs or networks and communities when the founder is involved. I'll be involved.

It's a we're not optimizing for scale for quantity. The main value comes from the people that we actually pre-selected for this project. So if you want to join us, I'll leave a cure code on the screen. I'll leave a link below. It's a form. I'm checking all the forms, all

the answers myself and if there is a fit, you will know it. We will get in touch. How the the society is structured? What's the like the levels in the society? Other like some people say it's like cast or like different levels and then you cannot come from this level. It's very hard to get from

here to here like I don't know what what's your takes on on that? >> Yeah. So, first I would say like when you first come here this is like an invisible thing. You probably just look at Thai people and you say, "Oh, they're Thai people." >> You can't really tell the difference.

But the longer you're here, you start to notice clues. And it could be based on like the way they're dressed or like if they have tattoos or the color of their skin, like how they present themselves, their makeup, how they speak. Like all these things kind of give you clues as to like where they are in the society. >> Society. Yeah.

>> Ah, >> what can you give an example? For example, if they have tattoos, it's probably like a lower class perceived to be. >> So, yeah. I'm not saying this is my opinion, >> but and I'm not saying this is 100% across the board, >> but >> if I see somebody with a lot of tattoos, >> more than likely they are from a certain background and, you know, work in a certain part of society >> and they're probably not from a, you know, a higher income background. Yeah.

>> Yeah. Okay. I saw tattoos. >> This is a I'm going to say again, this is like a gross generalization. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's a general for sure.

Yeah. But uh what else you said? Like the skin color. >> So skin color is a really big thing here. You know, if you look at advertisements around Bangkok, I wouldn't even say 99% of the time. 100%

of the time, >> the Thai people in those advertisements in those advertisements will have like crystal clear, very white skin. And it's kind of sad because the more you travel around Thailand, you see that Thai people look very different. They're very diverse, but it's not represented in media that way. >> It's like there is a certain ideal and that's how it is. And I have friends that have Thai children that are mixed and they may have like slightly darker skin or even like my skin tone and I hear that they get bullied based on their skin tone.

>> Oh, my other local >> my other Thai kids. Yeah. >> Yeah. So, it it's it's definitely a a tough part of um the society here, I think, is like dealing with the skin color thing. >> Yeah.

>> Okay. Then how they talk, you mentioned like the difference. >> Uh this it's hard to explain and I'm not even saying that you need to understand Thai, but the words they use like the a effect they have like almost like the accent. I don't know how to explain and put it into words, but you just notice differences. >> Yeah.

>> Yeah. But like what I mean I guess it's not only for Thai people. I say if I go to some village, distant village in Russia, it would be like very simplified. >> It's the same. But I'm saying as a foreigner coming here, >> a lot of sukabl in between.

>> Okay. Yeah. I mean I could give you examples from America but you know I don't want to get cancelled so I'm not going to say that. But I'm just saying as a foreigner you come here you don't know the difference. They're all the same to you. So but this exists.

>> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Okay. What else? like how people dress, how they look, how they behave.

>> Okay. How they dress. So, one thing I was really surprised about when I came to Thailand is that Thai people actually dress very conservatively for the most part. If you ride in the BTS train, it's very rare. And I say the BTS train because the BTS by comparison is a it's like more expensive form of transportation here. It's like middle

class, more middle class people and above that are running the BTS. But you'll almost never see people wearing like shorts or like a tank top or something like that. And women will always be dressed very conservatively, like very covered. I'm not saying like, you know, like Muslim countries, but just like as I would put it like clothes you would wear to church, you know what I mean? Not to like a nightclub.

>> Uh whereas in America, the way people and I don't know about Europe, but in America, the way people walk around, especially women, is a lot more free, more liberal. So, if you see a Thai person, I guess a man or a woman, dressing in a way in public that's more provocative, I think it tells you a lot. >> But also, I don't know, I have limited experience, but like in the BTS probably, yes. But when people go out in fancy places, they they can be like look more provocative and like >> Well, yeah, but I think it's context dependent. So like what I mean is obviously if you go out to dinner someone's wearing a dress or something that could be different but I'm saying like on a normal afternoon like right now you won't see a girl wearing like super short shorts or like a very small like tank top belly shirt. Tai Thai

women do not dress this way normally or I I should say the vast majority don't. So if you see something like that but I would see that in America all the time. That's what I'm saying is like that's normal in the west in a lot of places but here it's it's culturally not aligned. So if you see it it it it gives you some information. >> Yeah. I think generally US maybe a

little bit on this on on this side compared to like I think Thailand is more maybe like Europe. So what I was shocked my first time in US when I was a student when I I used to work as a housekeeper in holiday in so basically clean the rooms >> you I used to have that job too. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> They used to clean rooms. Yeah.

>> Okay. And then like the part of the staff like there some like fellow there are Americans who work there as well. They like for example a girl I don't want to like be also cancelled. But I would put this way people don't care how they look. If they like really big and then they have some I don't know unattractive features. They don't care.

it can be like very like short shorts and stuff. So I was like, "Huh?" Like me as a Russian, I would be like like just shy to to show this part of my body, you know? Like if I'm somewhere, I don't know, in a small town and like go for a walk in a like forest or like swim in a in a river, then it's fine. But like in public, it's like a little bit thrown upon when it's like that. But I guess

that's the nature of like being American. You guys are very open. You're very you don't care like what other thing. >> Individuality in America is more celebrated where here it's kind of shunt. >> You want to in Thailand the goal is to blend in >> where that's what I guess they want you to think. Anyway, yeah.

>> You have Thai friends. >> Yeah. >> What part of the society they are from? >> Uh I would say a range >> honestly. Yeah. I have a whole spectrum

like people that have come from modest backgrounds and like have a business and done well. I know people that have come from very wealthy families and basically just given okay you're going to do this job family business here it is. >> I I have people that come from like more modest backgrounds that are still you know struggle. I guess with people with maybe they are from affiliates when these kids are sent to like abroad to study in like I don't know UK and the US and they come back so they have like more they carry more international mindset and background it's easier for you to also like communicate with them and yeah >> you know something that tells me a lot about the Thai person I'm meeting is what kind of Thai what kind of accent they have >> like if they're speaking English if I detect more of like a British English accent, then immediately what I connect is they're probably from a wealthy family. They probably either studied abroad or went to university or >> international school >> or or international school that that's a that actually happens to be a different accent. A lot of the time that's got its

own like accent or if I hear an American accent, then I know something. So, it's just funny how like some of these little things can tell you a lot once you start to notice them. >> Yeah. Do you think your personality like changed or shaped during this almost 8 years living here? >> Oh yeah, believe it or not. Like I am

well aware that I'm like seen as more of a like maybe aggressive or maybe some people would say rude. I understand why people would say that, >> but from where I'm from, it's just normal. >> It's just how everybody is. And um I actually have toned it down since I've been here. Like if I go back home, the way people interact is just like very different. It's very like direct,

aggressive, and if you like act that way here, people look at you like you're crazy. So I really had to like try to tone it down a little bit. Yeah. You know, there is a censorship on YouTube. So I cannot share all my raw opinions and thoughts and insights from meeting billionaires and like high level operators here on YouTube, but I can do it on Telegram. So, if you want to see

the backstage from my interviews and very [music] fresh raw opinions after most incredible people I meet and how I run this YouTube [music] business, join the Telegram channel, cure your code on the screen or link below. Do you uh go back home sometime to the US? I >> I haven't been back in 2 years. But yeah, >> like last time you went there, what is something like start to be like weird for you or you see like why it's that? So you observe something that how things are in the US and you're so used to the lifestyle here.

>> Yeah. Uh something that happened to me was I went to like a bakery shop like my first day back in the US. I I went to a bakery shop and I asked for like two different items like whatever like a bagel and a muffin. And uh the person made the order and I was like, "Oh, uh would you mind putting it in two bags, which I feel like is a very normal request." And the girl went and like turned around and walked away and stormed off. And that kind of thing

would never happen in Thailand. Like people here are so polite, especially in like a workplace environment. It just would be completely unacceptable. Yeah. >> Okay. Interesting. But then you kind of

after a few days there you feel like oh >> well you get used to it. Well that's the thing is when you're removed from that from a while you have to like re-calibrate >> recalibrate. Yeah. On a high level how the like nightife scene and like >> overall like FnB plus night life is different that you used to you were used to in the US versus Bangkok. >> Okay. So, a few of the key things is

when you go to a club or a bar in Thailand, a lot of times they have a lot of tables, a lot of these small standing tables. Now, in the West, at least where I come from, the format is a little bit different. Normally, a nightclub or a bar will be mostly general admission walking around with a few small percentage of like VIP tables. But here it's a lot of a lot of small standing tables and then still the same, you know, few bigger VIP tables. And if you go to a nightclub in Thailand or Bangkok with the idea of you're just going to go in and like buy a drink or buy a beer and walk around, I don't think it's going to be a great experience. I don't

want to be like too negative about it, but if you want to be out and meet people, I think you'll be a bit like socially ostracized. Whereas, if you just showed up and and booked a table for yourself, like got a even doesn't have to be that expensive, but got a bottle, split it with a friend, it's a lot easier to like make social connections. >> Yeah. Social connections with other tables, other guests. >> Yeah. Because people want to come and

drink with you, they'll invite you to come drink with them. But if you're the guy walking around with a beer, I don't want to say nobody wants to talk to you, but nobody's going to want to talk to you. >> Okay. Why? Why? Why? Why? Why?

>> I don't know. I I think uh I'm not even saying I agree with this. I'm just saying this is like what I observe. >> I I think um it's just some something about like the social fabric here. Another thing I noticed too is like a lot of westerners that come here, they'll go to a nightlife spot whether it's like a rooftop or a club or a bar and immediately they'll try to directly interact with like the females or other other people especially Thai people.

>> Yeah, >> this isn't this is a mistake. So, like I remember I was at a a nightclub here, a small nightclub, and it was all Thai people except for me and my friend. And whenever we're in a situation like this, we try to, you know, be on our best behavior because for sure I think they're looking at us like, you know, like what are these guys going to do? Because I I I know that like there's been other people in their experience that have probably not behaved the way they want. So, I try to like, you know, be on my best behavior. But we're at

this place and three foreigner guys, white guys come in. >> Yeah. >> And within five minutes of being in this place, they're going up to this girl. They're going up to this girl. They go up to another girl. And the, you know,

like the girls are so polite. And I would say within 10 minutes, security threw them out. And from the outside, like you might think, did they do anything wrong? They literally just went up and talked to some girls. But socially here, that's not really acceptable behavior.

What would have been better is if they came in, they got a bottle. If they minded their own business for the first hour, 2 hours, whatever, it gets later in the night, people get a little more loose and then maybe you can start mingling a little bit more. But to come in in the first 5 minutes go like boom boom boom. That might be okay and you know, wherever you're from, but here it's it's not really seen as like a great thing. Maybe it's also like the type people need to Yeah, exactly. They

had could have like a negative experience with some forangs [music] with some foreigners before but also probably they want to feel comfortable a little bit just observing you like how you behave and stuff. Yeah, it's like you know that's the that's the technique how to get the girl like you or even like how to sell someone something like a client. You need to get them used to you are so they need to see you for example like I don't know in elevator like be even familiar subconsciously familiar with your face or like so see you on social media and then you either like approach the girl or you make an offer to a client but they kind of need to subconsciously kind of feel comfortable or it's something familiar I recognize this person from before it's not a danger you know what I mean? >> Yeah. I think people just want to check you out for a little bit, see what you're like. Because like you have to

remember, you know what you're like. You know where what people from your country are like. But to Thai people, you're in their country. You don't know what their past experiences have been like. I love when Thai people tell me about what they see on Thai news and how it's reported because it's very interesting sometimes how they report stories that involve foreigners. You know, it kind of makes

me smile. Like what? More in a negative way. It's I find that a lot of times it's like exaggerated and oversimplified and a lot of times they really harp on like where this person is from. For sure if it's a person from a few select countries they're going to put that in the headline because you know so >> yeah generate clicks or like news like stereotyping it's actually it's not only Tai news using it. I think stereotyping

is a big thing in in media especially in news parts of it for sure. What makes you actually like try to understand like the culture and like a local habits? Cuz like many people to be honest, they they live in the bubble for years. They don't care. So they don't speak the language.

And um I'm just curious like it's not that like I I I learned to speak the language a little bit. I could learn a lot more for sure. But it's not even that like oh I want to be the best guest in the country. I'm just curious. Like I I like comparing how different people live. Um [music] Yeah.