---
video_title: "Kumar on dating issues, expensive life and unhappy Singaporeans"
video_id: 2A89vV6Jz_w
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2A89vV6Jz_w
video_date: 2026-05-06T11:00:09+00:00
video_description: |
  🌏 Apply for The Backstage Circle: https://forms.gle/huwR6NQNz5A4XgC78 
  📌 Go to https://venice.ai/maxchernov and enjoy private, uncensored AI. Use code maxchernov to get 20% off the Pro plan #sponsor 
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on Telegram: https://t.me/friendsofmax 
  
  Meet Kumar, Singapore’s comedy legend and one of Southeast Asia’s most iconic performing artists. He is one of the rare people who can say hard things about Singapore, while still standing by his country. Kumar shared why so many Singaporeans feel unhappy, what makes dating so difficult today, and how the rising cost of living is changing people’s lives. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  🎙 Listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts: https://open.spotify.com/show/1dktMfOBp11LNp52X3mkuR  or https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/max-chernov/id1875665593
  👥 Sponsorship requests / Guest suggestions: max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST
  ➢ Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/kumar_comedy
  ➢ Podcast: https://www.youtube.com/@kaoskumar 
  
  WATCH NEXT
  ► Tech Multi-Millionaire Shares How He Built His Wealth Using AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O10NKwSJMek 
  ► Wealth Strategies of American Multi-Millionaire in Singapore: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Nz74s44wsQ 
  ► Singapore’s multi-millionaire on China, America and AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tP7QksbJVQ
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 INTRO
  00:37 Why Singapore Is Pretending to Be First World?
  03:00 Finding Happiness Without Comparing Yourself
  03:58 Why Singapore Should Stop Comparing Itself to China
  06:49 Kumar’s Honest View on Singapore Today
  08:20 Why Too Much News Can Affect Mental Health
  09:10 Which Societies Feel Happier Than Singapore?
  10:31 Invitation to the Backstage Circle
  12:55 What Politicians Should Understand About HDB Life
  14:12 What's Wrong With Dating in Singapore
  16:15 The Loss of Human Interaction
  17:20 Why Modern Dating Feels Less Natural
  18:23 Why More People Are Choosing to Stay Alone
  20:20 Why People Are Breaking Rules More Often Now
  21:12 Parenting and Why Fewer People Want Kids
  22:58 Overthinking, Alcohol, and the Loss of Spontaneity
  24:46 Singapore’s Rising Cost of Living
  25:17 Private AI with special bonus for my viewers 
  26:36 Why Stereotyping Jokes Do Not Work Anymore
  28:31 Comedy, Red Lines and Self-Censorship
  31:04 Marriage, Divorce and Singapore’s Low Fertility Rate
  31:21 Is Stress a Part of Singaporean Identity?
  34:11 How to Balance Work Stress
  35:32 Why Kumar Only Performs Three Times a Week
  37:27 Join Max’s Telegram Channel
  37:53 How Kumar Keeps His Comedy Fresh
  39:18 What Max Thinks Singapore Is Missing
  40:52 Why Kumar Will Never Leave Singapore
  42:26 Why Men Need More Spaces to Talk
  44:50 What It Means to Be a Man in 2026
  46:15 Unhappy People in Singapore
  47:27 How Foreigners Are Changing Singapore’s Population
  48:11 Why Kumar Separates Stage Persona from Real Life
  50:52 Final Message: Be Grateful and Find Happiness
  
  This channel features raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery.
  
  I sit down with founders, investors, operators, experts, and outliers navigating the biggest shifts of our time, many of them based in or connected to Asia. We talk about money, leverage, relocation, power, tradeoffs, and the real decisions shaping what’s next, not as theory, but from lived experience.
  
  Some conversations happen inside billionaire homes. Some happen remotely with experts shaping global systems. All of them focus on signal over noise. 
  
  If you care about where to build, where to live, how to make better decisions in uncertain times, and what the future demands, you’re in the right place.
---
I think we are pretending to be the first world. Slow down Singapore. This is Kumar. Singapore's comedy legend and one of the Southeast Asia's most iconic performing artists. He is one of the rare people who can say hard things about Singapore while still standing by his country. I would not leave Singapore because I'm very proud to be a Singaporean no matter what happens. Kumar shared why so many Singaporeans feel unhappy, what makes dating so difficult today and how the rising cost of living is changing people's lives. That's a major problem in Singapore. We'll problem. I'm Mark Chernov, based in Singapore. I host rock conversations about wealth, global mobility and mastery. You know the TV channel, Asia Food Channel? No more, right? No more, no more. But it was like my friend, he and Goh, he's a founder of the channel. So he sold it like 10-11 years ago to some big TV network in the US. But like we had a conversation and we talked about Singapore and like his take was Singapore is pretending to be a capitalist but it's a socialist, like to to some extent. What do you think like based on your experience and you know the place very well, you know the audience? What Singapore pretends to be, which is not? Where is the biggest misconceptions? I think we are pretending to be the first world. I think in sub-eatert world, you know what I mean? How come? Because of everything that's around, you know like we are better now. We're trying to go on par with China. But China is going 20th or 8th already. Now they're having humanoid doing marathon. Singapore humanoid is a big lion dance. How far is that already? We cannot fight with China. They are going like fast. We are still 20 years back. Slow down Singapore. Slow down, think and enjoy life. Live for the moment, enjoy life. You know because I think we are not. We are all it's a it's a it's a chase. We're all chasing for the money, chasing for a better life, you know. I got my friend Sun who wants to have a condo by 29 years old. He wants to have this car by 29 years old. Then I ask him what happens if he don't get it. Commitry said. He never thought about that. But he's only 27. He's not doing very well. Why condo? I mean that's an old school thinking. Living in a condo, get a car. Yeah, 5c. 5c but now you get a car. Okay, let's say you get the car, you get the condo and you earn this amount of money. After paying everything off, you left $1,000 for the whole month. How is that going to sustain you to eat? You know, you need to go to work, take the public town's part, eat. How? Everyday eat instonoodle. That's so bad for you. They don't think like that. They just want to because the society is like that. Yeah, but it's contradicts with the whole the big idea of Singapore as it was like introduced by Lik Van Yui before and then like you need to, you never want to be like, what is it? Like satisfied with your life. Yeah, you need to strive for more. That's the whole concept and great into society I think. Now, yeah. So how you change it? You need to know what do you have. And gratefulness is very important. I think we have to be grateful for what we have and be happy what you have. Don't be jealous about what your friend has. Because a lot of people can afford because we see different professions can afford things easier. Because a lawyer, if you definitely afford a car any time, I mean I'm just saying or you can afford a condo. I mean because your money is higher. But if I just working in an office earning a $4,000 salary, it's different. You need to do your maths. You need to know what makes you happy and find your happiness because a lot of people are not happy. That's one thing I realize. A lot of people are not happy. They look happy. They think they're happy. But they say they're happy. They think they're up. Eventually they can do depression because they don't have what others have. But be happy what you have. I'm very happy why I have. Extremely and very happy. I have my Netflix. I'm very happy. It's interesting that you said like maybe compare Singapore to China is not the right thing to do. Like Singapore should stop compare itself with China. But what's the can you elaborate on that? So at least first world and the third world thinking. I think because like I said China is doing medicine for human rights. How will human rights are doing like in that? That's already a clear picture of where we stand. But people will say like the economy is very developed like this of the financial institutions are developed. So economy wise Singapore is on the top. Yeah I mean people will say. But what what what's like? I'm trying to understand. What's the way? What's lacking is I think what's lacking is us. We are not we are not thinking for ourselves. We're thinking for we want to be that person. I want to be that person. That's why scammers are always there because you're greedy. You know first you invest 800 you get three thousand dollars. Well little money to three thousand I guess six thousand and then six thousand then whole disappear. You know. That's why the scammers are always because you're really right. Can't be happy. What do you have? That's the major problem in Singapore. Real problem. So Singapore should like take a chill pill. Like if you like Singapore is a small place. So you probably need to compare Singapore with a Hong Kong or Dubai this like Hobbes. And then it's maybe natural for this type of places to be like like that's very stressful like working like you cannot compare Singapore to the Philippines or to Indonesia because it's different dynamic it's different size. Yeah different everything. Different populations. Different population. You can say don't compare. Don't compare. Yeah don't compare. Let them go. They will say how you stay competitive. Yeah. Yeah you know what they want to say. Because I mean we are trying to progress. I think we're progressing too fast. And yet we're also focusing on I don't know how they balance you get empathy. Let's feel sorry for these people. Let's have the disabled to be in the normals which is brilliant. Yeah. I think it's great for disabled to be integrated with the corporate world. Because I always felt that if you're autistic you are smarter somewhere. So I it is so hard. I see news everyday and it's just depressing. Just the wall going on and yeah. It's hard to say at the same like you say like China is progressing so well but Singapore at the same time maybe Singapore have to I don't know focus on art and culture and sports. Some additional layers. Yeah. Let's say they have the energy culture pass by. Apply for the pass and then you can go for the test shows but it's got to be local. They're trying to help. They're trying in many ways. The CDC voucher is coming in June. I thought it's a brand new voucher but no January one they bring forward. So like to wrap it up here like speaking of Singapore you are more positive or more negative or it's complicated. I think I'm on offense. All of us. I'm positive because I'm positive but I'm negative because the things are happening around. You know like a lot of crazy people in Singapore suddenly there's a uprise in mad people. More less rape. They are. That's a rise. Within family is that father raping the stepdaughter. More less is up. Actually we say we would learn or we should. The guy Indian guy was angry with the Malay neighbor because they have kids who are noisy. He painted their wall will luncheon me. Because it's pop. Why are you so angry? I explained to them your kids are noisy. Maybe he did and he lost it. But it's so wrong. That's basis. Yesterday one Indian boy stepped his girlfriend in Singapore and jumped. People are losing it. They're losing their plot. They're getting like like that. They don't think the consequences or whatever. They just do it. You see look at their k-pop problem. Which is everybody is doing it and people are still doing it. Why? The kind of drugs is so. I'm so happy that Singapore is very happy. Because it is the way to go. Some rules we do are really brilliant which are really a bit. And yet some I don't understand. Maybe like your perspective is because you're reading the news. It's your source of like inspiration and like how you create jokes and how you need to be like really really connected to what's going on. Maybe the way for most of the people maybe you detach a bit more from the news. Like because news are negative right? So you think actually it takes myself of the news? No you're not because it's your job. But for most of the people maybe it's like you don't have to read about Iran war like every day. Maybe it's too much for you for your mental health as well. Yeah yeah yeah yeah. Maybe everybody need to watch Kamenjari. A bit like balance. Maybe balance. Yeah yeah yeah. Not to be super detached not to like you move to Bali to Ubud and then you do nothing. But like be somewhere like more balance right? I never move to Bali. Yeah too many foreigners. Too many foreigners yeah. You travel like quite a lot. Which society that you see seems more happy to you. I don't know Australia or Indonesia or Malaysia. Happy yeah like happy something maybe Singapore should look up to. In terms of their happiness and mental health. No I think every country have their own share. Yeah. Yeah Australia I think they need to tap on Asians. Too many Asians. When I went to Sydney last year there were no Angmas. Yeah. Because the Angmas move with the suburb because they cannot deal with the Asians and I think they need to tap. Okay Malaysians 30% Singapore and 30% China 10% like that. They don't just come spend money. Yeah. And it's just so it's crazy. This is if Singapore don't watch it we're going to become like that and we have to watch it because we're a small country but we act like we're a very big country. Yeah. Yeah we reclaiming lands like crazy. East Coast reclaim land again. We claim we claim we claim land like what more you want to do. East land. Yeah I know but we're claiming we want to get bigger and bigger and bigger and like something suggest frustrating but no avenue. Only can talk like that let out. You can't go and talk with the government. I won't not that I'm scared. I just won't got my loose mind everything I had but it's just tough. In my interviews I always try to get people's real and polished opinions and that's why I never share a list of questions beforehand even if they ask. But interviews are still the public layer. The real layer is what happens off camera. The most valuable conversations and the most important decisions in life never take place in a public setup. They happen in small private rooms behind closed doors between people operating at a high level who actually trust each other. I recently brought a selected group of founders and investors to hook up. Very strong operators. One of them for example was he and Gau. Maybe you saw him on my channel before. Very well known BC who sold his previous business for $65 million. I spent a few days together in a private setting building real relationships and sharing experiences. One of those experiences was visiting Mohon Morghani at his house. A billionaire created the Tommy Hill figure brand. We spent several hours together with him talking about life, business and decisions in a completely private setting. And after the trip one participant is now about to invest $300,000 into another participants company. That's what happened when the room was right. But most people never get access to rooms like this. This stuck in surface level conversations, random networks and low signal environments. Okay this is important. The leverage is not more information. The leverage is being in the right room with right people. And that's what I'm building with the backstage circle. It's a private curated group of founders, investors and operators who want to level up their life, business and relationships surrounding themselves with right people. It's a closed door environment with real decisions about business, life philosophy, capital positioning, big ideas and next moves. No pitching, no shell networking, only people who are open, thoughtful and operating at a high level. A big part of the backstage circle is access. I'm bringing exceptional founders, investors and billionaires. I meet personally to join this private sessions and conversations. If you're already operating at a high level and making real decisions, you can join the waiting list. The number of seats in the group is very limited. And if it's a fit, you'll get the details. If like the government will approach you and say, like, Kumar, like, can you advise us on like, what's the biggest challenges in the society right now? What would be your like advice to them? I will tell them one month you're going to stay in HDB. Then you know what? Everyone is going through. All of them living in London. They don't see the issues that people living in the hard landers are going through. So, stay in HDB one month. And then you'll find it how hard it is to survive and how to live. Because even Vivian Balakrushan did ask me, what do you think we should do? I said, we live in HDB. Then you live like a normal hard lander. Then you see the struggle they are going through. Then maybe you'll are they send more and maybe you'll come up with more things for them. Because most people are suffering at the hard landers. Not because they don't want to come out. That's why a lot of lonely people were dying alone in the house. But what great initiatives Singapore hospital do is they send social worker to the houses that have people are staying alone to check on them. To whether they are okay, they find charity to help them with food and all that. Which is great brilliant. But I think they need to find out what's going on in people's mind. You are like a social barometer in Singapore because you're performing for so many barometers. Social, like you know, you feel all the waves, all the topics what's going on in society. You kind of feel it, right? Through this like 30 years that you're performing. What are the recent changes that you see in Singapore? Not like if you compare to 10 years ago. But if you compare to one year ago or two year ago. Like very recent changes that you see. Like what people are talking about at the moment. I think people are talking about dating is a problem now. Because dating ads are awful of scammers. Because it's very hard to date because what is the guideline? If I meet a guy, let's see, I meet a guy. I meet you. Do I meet you because of your income or because of your status or because of you know? Because for no. Until to be I know men still get intimidated by women who are earning more than them. You know? So with the Gen Z and the younger generation. I really don't know. What is their? What is your situation? And the relationship. And so a lot of them have left the dating app and when to do the afternoon parties, you know, the coffee parties. So that they can meet someone there. Yeah. And I know I'll call. So it's only coffee. Yeah. Right. And there's a DJ playing in the All Dancing. Yeah. Till about 8 PM, sometime 10 PM and they all go home. But they still don't get to meet anyone because dating app is filtered. You don't get to see the real person face. I mean the gay one, you know. Until today ever since COVID, I've been trying to find a date. Nothing has happened. And it's just got worse with dating now. And last time people were most relationship works when a friend introduces you to her. Exactly. Yeah. He's always about that because he knows you and he knows her. Otherwise, it is very hard just to be dating app or it's more on the street and say hello. I mean those days was very excited. People have met in bus talks. They met in MRT. People's parents have met in Apple. Now Apple nobody cocks. Nobody even smiles at each other. You may have found them at and they have another big problem with the phone. The addition to the phone is so bad that it's just the people they are iceberg because people don't interact anymore. You know, the human character is out. People don't talk. People don't communicate. Everything is what's sad or I email you and I'm so heated. Also because like Gen Z, if you talk about Gen Z, they drink less. And also this trend like people drinking less on average. And then if you finish the party at 8 pm and then you don't go party more. So for many people it's hard to open up because of the like the shot. Because they forget that when you drink you lose it up a bit. You lose it up a bit. Then you're a bit more relaxed. A bit more maybe flirtatious. Just a little bit. Because by drinking coffee you'll just alert all the time. You don't have to. Yeah, your coffee flirtatious about the world. Yeah, that's just what it is. And it's so hard. It's just getting harder and harder but I'm very positive about what happened one day. Yeah, it's funny. We talk exactly about it with my wife yesterday. Like talking about like it's harder than before to date to find a date. But before like for my case, most of my ex-girlfriends they were either from work or from study or from like friends or friends. So like self-sumbers the party and you meet someone. And I think it's a more healthy way because if it's like a same social circle or same group of friends, kind of there is a high chance they will be common interest. Yeah, yeah. It's very important but because nowadays it's all about Gen Z's the want of relationship because they want the money for themselves. They want to work hard. They want to travel. They want to do that. But you need to have a partner. You need someone to share things with. Do you have to? I think so. Yeah. It's a partner to share, to go home. There's someone there for you. You know, you can't go home to an empty house. I mean, of course, I have dogs. But this is this much they can give you. Yeah. You know, but there's still a gap. So, but people think they can be alone. I mean, a lot of people are very comfortable being alone. You know, they can go to the cinema alone. They can go out alone. They can eat alone. I can eat but I can't go to the cinema alone. Do you think they're comfortable or it's just what it is? I think they are comfortable with themselves. Yeah, I think it's good for them. But it's not good for the people who want to date. You know, because if you don't have conversations like this, how would I know you better? You block straight away because I'm like that. I want my money for myself. I want to work hard. I want to travel. I don't want their relationship. But the time you actually nowadays, people buy them they get married. They actually for free. And then it's so hard to have children because you have so many doubts. Yeah, yeah. And then even if you're a kid, they come out or stay or they come out, down syndrome. Because with the food we are taking, it is so horrible. Everything goes so fast. How far you go from not possess food? It's very hard. That sounds expensive. If you go for healthy food, it's expensive. It's so expensive. Oh my god, I can't. So, what I do to myself is I don't eat late night. I don't eat fast food. I don't watch what I eat. But I'm very careful. Yeah. Like, you know, of course, once in a while you have to enjoy a meal because if you eat too healthy, yeah. Where's the happiness? Exactly. Once in a while. Once in a while, you can quit out. Yeah, yeah. All those unhealthy ones in a while. Balance your happiness. But people go straight into the back vegan vegetarian. I'm like, okay, I'm happy for you. But you're frustrated inside. You don't admit it because you think this is the way it is. But you're afraid because you're you're thankful for not the happiness. You only eat ice cream. You don't eat your butt. Sure, but this you want to eat something that makes you happy. I'm not asking you to finish your whole top. Maybe a scoop of ice cream that keeps you that few seconds of happiness. Good enough. But then you need to be present. You need to live in the moment. Yeah, you need to enjoy this two scoop of ice cream. Yeah, of course. Okay, so dating scene is hard. What else do you see? I think people are not scared anymore. They're doing things that they want to do like drink driving. Now China has a big problem of drink cycling. Drink cycling? Yeah. Drunk cycling. Okay, okay. So today, or yesterday, they put down a law saying you cannot do that as well. Yeah. But there's a lot of drinking driving, killing people. I mean, the people coming out fighting. People are on the schedule. They don't require new time. Everyone is scared. To do anything wrong. Like if you see our people cross the road. Now people, Jay walk all the time. Everywhere on Singapore. And they're walking and Jay walking with their kids. You're teaching them the wrong thing. Traffic light is like maybe 10 steps away. Go and do that because you're teaching kids the wrong thing and the parents don't understand. But that's all easy. Sorry, sorry. Easy way. You are feeling so big. Sorry. Okay, so I'm told. I think parenting is another problem now. It's so hard to be a parent because we can't be with our kids. How are you? Our parents taught us. Our parents wrecked us. Beat us up all the time. We do a mistake. Now you can't beat your kids. You've got to explain to them because that's what Angmo's do. White people do. They for a longer time, they explain to the kids, but it's right. What's wrong? That's what we are living now. But a lot of kids don't understand that like school bullying is coming from home. It's not coming from anywhere else. It's coming from home because you're bullied at home. So you come out and bully someone. You know. But you mean you said Angmo on teach their kids how to because they see. Asia not like that. You mean like we're generalizing but what do you mean by like Angmo's are okay. For example, we see a Hollywood movie. Yeah. When they have kids, they actually communicate with them and tell them this ride. What did they explain? Explained. And now Asian parents have to do that because you can't slap your kid. It's family violence. Yeah, yeah. Not anymore. We are even a punishment-connaged family violence. So you have to communicate with your kids and it's hard because kids are stubborn and kids rebel retaliate. Talk back. That's what irritates you. So there's a lot of people that don't have any kids. They rather have a dog or a cat or a mouse or something because it's so hard to bring up kids. But there's also a little bit like a vicious circle. If you logically think about having kids or not, like you would, why would you have kids? I mean there are much more pros not to have kids. Yeah. So if you put a lot of like decision-making pros into it, you would never like logical you wouldn't have it. But if you have kids, it's like, you know, I have two kids. I love them. I think it's the super-wide decision to have them. And it's just if you're 40-year-old, you're comfortable, you have your salary or whatever, like you maybe have a partner. If you overthinking it, you would never go for it. Yeah. That's another problem we have now overthinking. People are not going with the flow. They're overthinking. Like why should I go there? Like you see, let's say we go to a bar, you know, because I don't club anymore. So let's say we go to a bar. And then we used to bar hot. Now people don't because I think maybe financially they're tired or they don't need the reason to go into another bar. Like and last year Singapore lost millions of dollars on alcohol tax. Like you said, the young people stopped making. Yeah. And everybody's drinking from home because of the fact that it happened after Covid, all the house party. Even I do that, my friends come over, we hold a stay at home and drink and watch a movie or she checked talk rubbish. I love talking rubbish. Yeah, really? And yeah, this one, this one part. 90% of my friends are straight. So to talk to them and then they're married or they're not single or they're very sad. It's like, you just talk rubbish. I love talking rubbish. You know, like when you're in a... You cheap see a little bit, you talk rubbish. That's the best. No, yeah. That's when you didn't get rubbish. And then we ask questions, my wife is a favourite destination and tell us, we ask questions and it's so, I'm so happy because it's human interaction and we are making an effort and my friends are all different walks of life, you know. So I'm very happy where it is now for me. A lot of people cannot say that because they don't do that, you know, they need to have a purpose to go there. Okay, that's some of a goal to try this new restaurant and then, yeah, with Agenda, so they have human, they come Agenda. Yeah, yeah, yeah, they're massive Agenda, like they go there, eat restaurant. Yeah. Then what is next? What are we doing? Why are we here? You know, but it's not. Why do you just go? What with the flow? There's no harm in trying something new or something different and Singapore also be coming very expensive. That's what people say, but you can live simply if you want to because Grap Food is very expensive. I ordered porridge the other day, seven dollars, delivery to 25. Oh, you know, am I so wronged thereby and come back, you know, so it's crazy. I mean, sometimes it's okay, I'm just ridiculous. So people, my son tells me that order more. I say order more, I'm alone and do what? He's keeping the fridge like the helper eat tomorrow. Yeah. And my helper is like your vegetarian. I mean, she doesn't eat meat at all. Have you ever asked AI something and it refuses to answer? Or you avoided asking a personal question because you were not sure who could see it. I have experienced this myself many times and I'm sure you too. That's why I want to tell you about an interesting discovery, Venus AI, which is kindly supporting today's video. Venus is a private AI platform that lets you use leading AI models anonymously. It sends requests for you, so they aren't connected to your identity. Your chats are staying crypted on your device, reducing the risk of your data being accessed or used for profit. And that matters because the biggest AI platforms are becoming incredibly powerful. And for some people that raises concerns about privacy and how these technologies might be shaped in the future. I tried it while preparing for interviews on complex topics and it gave me deeper answers and more freedom to explore the issues. It can also help you review medical documents or contracts when the information is very sensitive. If you want to use AI and feel more secure about it, scan the QR code or click the link below to get 20% of a pro plan at venys.ai slash max channel. With the code maxcherno. If you're going to use AI anyway, you might as well use it privately. So give it a try. What else do you see? For example, when you're performing, some jokes stop working. Yeah, compared to a month or two years ago. Like if you can even... Asking people, stereotyping. My stereotyping jokes are not working anymore. Not working anymore. I mean, not working, but less. Less because you have to be a certain age group to understand that. Like what? Sort of like the Chinese mainly in them. Because people don't see that anymore. The younger generation don't see that anymore as a racist thing. So we do the racist joke. The older generation are laughing, the younger generation are just staring at you because they don't care. Don't blame them because my audience are getting younger now. A lot of Gen Z's are coming. Which I'm very happy. But they need to be the old school Gen Z. You know the one that... Old school Gen Z for example, they like to listen to BG's. I'm a friend's child who listen to BG's. Beatles. But the new Gen Z, they didn't know anything out of BTS. So I have... You have this spectrum of Gen Z who old school and the Gen Z they're just new. So this Gen Z don't understand. Older ones of course, the old school or the older generation coming watching. Some of them must be really old already. So it's different and some jokes don't go down because of like I said, they don't know. They don't know. Or they're not. They don't know that racism existed. Many years back. And it still is in some places sometimes, but it's not so bad anymore. Yeah, maybe it's less for them. So they don't see it's funny. Because sometimes when he's working on an office, like I have an Indian friend working in an office, he always get a basis in the market. And he cannot handle it. And he's only 25. He cannot handle it. So what he did was he put on the video then hold his phone up. Like they say any basis in the market. But it's not videoing. But they think it's videoing. So they all stop. Good plan. Yeah. Because you will always be there in a different form. In a different form. Yeah. Yeah. When you performing, like you're committing. The red lines, the things that you can't talk about and you cannot talk about, is that these red lines are more flexible now than before or... I think because mine is no closed door. So be really don't mind. I'm not standing in speakers corner talking bad about the government. Yeah. I'm doing it within. I'm not talking bad about the government. I'm talking bad about the policies here there. Like some policies don't make sense to me. Like why? Because I stay in London. I lose all my rebates. So you say, oh you cannot rebate because you move to London. Yeah. You need to stay in HDB to have a break. And you cannot rent up because you're renting it out. Yes. Yes. Yes. And my property taxes are high. And I'm like, okay, why? I didn't move because I got more money. I moved because I cannot afford dogs in HDB. So I moved because of them. And then I don't get all the, you know, it's quite sad. And you cannot fight it. Yeah. There's a relief with it. So the red lines, like you think that you can talk about anything basically or there are some. You can't. I, I, I generally talk about anything but I turn on the boat deep deep into it. Like I will just touch and go. Like I will just talk about like tell us which game and they gave her 12 million per show, right? So she won't perform any bands in Asia. Lady Gaga, they say never give her any money. It's her choice. Olico for me. Singapore. I don't believe. But there's no proof. It's only something I can stay on stage. And then if you're not anything, they're angry and say, oh, you know, you're lying. So you're even the giver CDC voucher. You know that guy. But if you compare now, you think it's more like what you can talk about in Singapore. Molybarylized or less liberalized through you know, liberalized. Yeah. Molybarylized. I think a lot of comedians, I mean like me, I censor myself. Like you know, I, because I can talk about men and women, you know, because I know my friends are going through problems with the marriages, you know, the, the sleep divorce. You know, it's a sleep divorce. Sleep divorce? No, what's that? That means because the husband's knowing they both sleep in different rooms. Oh, okay, okay. Yeah. So they call sleep divorce. Okay. Kids one room, husband one room, wife one room. Yeah. Molybaryl sleeping time. Sorry. But they're ways to go and get a cure for snoring, you know. Yeah. I mean, they make it sound like before you were married and never had sex like that. You know, and then you never slept in one room and then it was always snoring what? That way you still get married. You know, I mean, like, I don't understand the law. I mean, the marriage is a issue now. Our divorce rate is very high. Pertility rate is very low. Yeah, yeah. That's the recent news, right? Yeah. A couple of months ago, then I was the last year, it was like all time low, yeah. Yeah. The fortune rate. Because people don't have children. Yeah. They need to distribute all for for the same. Everybody blame it on money. You have to have a kid. You need a lot of money. Yeah. And you work on it long. Not to do that one million, then you have to think of having a kid. No. Yeah. You can talk about more things. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. I can. I mean, you can because you're like, you have some special. Yeah. I have. I've been through long in the business. Because so long, yeah. They know you. Yeah. And I think the younger comedians cannot. Cannot. Because they don't have their kind of experience. Maybe they afraid like self-selfish. Yeah, maybe because some of them don't know. They can't talk about them and now I can talk about them and now. Yeah. You know, I can compare last time with your phone. Live was simpler. 1990s at the best music. As the best live band you go clubbing. You're so happy. So happiness is gone. People are doing it because everybody's doing it. It's not because I want to do it. Oh, everybody. Oh, all the Gen Z. They're okay. Let's go. We also Gen Z. We lost it. That part that happiness. I have a take on it. Maybe like before life was tougher. Yeah. Like when you time 80s, 90s. Yeah. Was tougher, but it maybe it was more like not predictable, but everybody has had the same share, the same goal, like future goal. It was like in a communist year or in the Soviet Union. People were like really poor, but the big idea was distributed to people. Like I went to Dubai in January. In Dubai, people are really like, it's a bit different vibe because people are thinking on how the government is planning the life in Dubai for the next like 20 years. So have this big vision. But in Singapore, I think it's kind of, I don't see the big vision. I'm a foreigner here. I'm like, I'm no local. But I think maybe what's lost and maybe why happiness is not here because people afraid of future or they don't know where the future is going. No, there's no future. That's sad. That's sad part. So it's just live for the day. Live the day. Live every day. I'm living day to day. I don't even think about it. It's hard for people. I know. I know it's hard for people, but you have to psych yourself up and think of like, okay, live for the day, live for the day. Because with the world now, a lot of people are not waking up. The heart attack is gone up. People don't wake up from their sleep because everyone is so stressed. They're stressed. Because Singaporeans love stress. We cannot live without stress. First of the identity. So people need to do something. People say, I'm very frustrated at work. Then I feel, okay, then go and pick up a hobby. Pick up pickleball. Pick up something that makes you happy. Food ball. Whatever, do some outdoor activity. That makes you happy to balance this frustration at work and do something that makes you happy. Do something. At least your stress. Yet, you're also healthy. Yeah. Because exercise is so important. So I think people, I tell my friends, go pick up something that you like to do. Don't always complain to me about work. You go something you like to do. Besides drinking and partying, like something a bit more active. Pickleball. Food ball. Basketball. Badminton. Whatever that you think your interest is, go for it. At least you balance that. Acting. Because so many classes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Anteca Pcao's got a lot of skills future money you had there. Yeah. Yeah. Or baking skills you check and you're baking. Baking, yeah. Because people do. Because they're always saying that after work, I'm so tired. I don't know time. Make time. I'm telling you pick up pickleball now. Look, paddle. Not a paddle. It's not paddle. It's paddle. It's paddle. A paddle. Okay. Yeah. Because, yeah, I've got my girlfriend, Tony, let's go into pickleball. I say, okay. So we try to find somewhere in the centralized between my girlfriend and my house. Summer tackle. So we're still finding. I think walking is really good. Yeah. You know, you walk and you think about things and maybe you balance that. People say, oh, so hot. Cannot. We're always finding excuses. You know what I mean? Everything must be indoor. You know, I think the biggest enemy for us is handphone. Handphone. Really? Biggest enemy. Yeah. How often do you perform these days? Maximum three times a week. Three times a week. Like this week, I'm not performing because I live it to KL on Thursday. Yeah. Makes you a perform Tuesday when it's a Thursday. And it's like three times is like optimal for you or you want more or less. No, okay. It's good. Yeah. Three times. Because I, yeah, I'm not greedy. I mean, I don't want to do work for the sake of working, you know. I mean, I'm not that I'm rich, but I'm happy doing three times a week because it gives me enough money to pay my rent to have my lifestyle and and yeah, and be happy. Do be. We don't, don't have a one million in the bank. You can find happiness with $10,000. But so it's okay for me to pay my rent and eat what I like to eat. Feed my baby's because dog food is very expensive now. Yeah, food alone is like thousand plus a month. So you love to, I've to sustain all that. So I work towards that. I like doing shows overseas. Yeah. Because you get to understand the culture, the how they are. And I like it. I mean, I've been enjoying it. I've been doing 24. Enjoying a lot. Do you still like progressing with your skill, with your art? Still, I don't think progressing is a word. I think it's more like, you know, like when I'm at when I mean when I do shows here, right? Nowadays, when I do a lot of current affairs, like do sex people, I'm like, give me a break. You know, but it's all people are. When they came for what they want to hear. For sure. Yeah. So I give them at the end. But initially, I'll talk about issues and policies. But people don't hear that because people are like, okay, we already heard that. We didn't come here for that. We should understand. But let me give my opinion. I'm not talking about him. I'm giving you my opinion. I could be wrong or I could be right. But that's my opinion. Don't use it against me. You know, there is a censorship on YouTube. So I cannot share all my raw opinions and thoughts and insights from meeting billionaires and like high level operators here on YouTube. But I can do it on Telegram. So if you want to see the backstage from my interviews and very fresh raw opinions after most incredible people I meet and how I run this YouTube business, join the Telegram channel, your call to the screen or link below. I guess you do like, do some like tackle on some serious problems. But then you need to oil it with like the joke. So people don't talk about it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Do you read any books that help you, for example, to like get better? Oh, now it's more or less. It's like you're already super professional. It's more or less automatic. Automatic. Automatic. Automatic. But I read this book from Jay Shetty. Yeah. Motivation of books called Think Like A Man. It's really, really good book. It really helps you to think about your, you have to think about being grateful, happiness. And I do, I read a second book is about trying to help you to live alone. Enjoy your solidarity. But it doesn't make sense to me. You know, enjoy being alone. But it's more like the mindset girls, not like the skilled art. Oh, no, no, nothing to do. I'm set. You're set. Yeah. I'm set. This is it. I'm already 50 plus. Yes. You can, you can't make it any higher or can't make any lower. But you cannot be complacent. So I'm having the big show in MBS this year again. Okay. What date? June 24th to July 12th. That's called Kumar God Balls and writing script. After this, I've got meeting with the script actor. Okay. After you. We've got to finalize and go to send their script I'm the for approval. Yeah. Do you like Singapore? Me? For sure. Yeah. I've been here for almost eight years. What do you think the problem is? Yeah. The problems. It's hard to say because like my bubble is probably probably different from other bubbles. I, I have friends, entrepreneurs, like very active, very passionate about like doing business and Singapore, this kind of stuff. I think maybe and people are generally like very nice to me, maybe also like it. But do you think people are living in a bubble? I think all people living in the bubble. All people. Yeah. I think maybe they mean I don't know it's a problem or not, but like taking more risks and be more like okay, I will not be a lawyer. I'll go like try to do art career or something like this. So maybe like more variations and be more don't be afraid to try new things. Yeah. Different passes. Like when this don't follow the don't follow one one route. There are different routes in life. Like for me it's when you're young. Yeah. You can take a lot more risk but when you're older it's difficult. Yeah. Yeah. When you're young, go if you can work abroad. Go to work abroad and then save the money. Come back. There's a lot of a lot of opportunities when you're younger. And I think for Singaporeans especially because like still the Singaporean dollar is much stronger than like PASO or like the ringgit. Yeah. So basically you can from here you can go to the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, live cheaply, try something new. Like people from the Philippines from the village they cannot go to anywhere because they don't have like any. Yeah. Yeah. But a lot of people have left Singapore. Singaporeans have left to a for sure cheaper like Vietnam, Cambodia. Yeah. They have actually left because they want to leave. I mean retire like Chiang Mai. Retire? Yeah. Many retirees yeah around in Thailand. Chiang Mai. Chiang Mai. Chiang Mai. But you need to you need to appreciate that boring life. Yeah. But only Chiang Mai is super boring. Yeah. Because it's just grass, grass, grass, grass, grass. Yeah. Nature. Nature. Yeah. And I'm not an extra person. And yeah. So I would not leave Singapore because I'm very proud to be a Singaporean no matter what happens. Yeah. So yeah. So I'm trying to live within Singapore, within this thing. So that. You can live, you can work and you can sustain your lifestyle. That's most important. Don't leave out of your means. You know, don't leave like that because that means good. Yeah. Eventually because then that's going to be a very difficult lot of people are doing that. You're doing all of their means. Boro from here. Banglone. Banglone. At the end, the highest depth is in Singapore, Gen Z. Because they're taking all the kind of loans they can take. And at the end of the month you pay, pay, pay, pay, pay. Credit card is your big because the anime. Let's say a debit card. Credit card you can sign, sign, sign. Because I've been through the credit card phase. Yeah. And we get to this so much. I ended up going bank $20,000,000. No more debit card. You have what you spend. Am I very real? You launched your podcast. Yeah, yeah, I did recently. Yeah, recently. Yeah. Are you in the first episode you said, always people say it's very late but it's better to launch it. Yeah, I don't do that all. Yeah. Because I've been thinking about I'm doing back. Back and forth with this whole podcast for about four years. Yeah. After COVID. Because I feel it's very unfair to let just man deal with their shit. Yeah. It's cold, man, enough. So it's basically the main concept is around like man. Man. Yeah. About the problems they go through. Yes. And anything they can talk about. I mean, I'm interviewing a migrant worker few days later on Wednesday. And I'm interviewing a Indian guy who lost this glory trench and then he went down here and then picked himself up. You know, because come and talk to me. I mean, you might find answers and or you might get people approach you to help you. You know, so by talking is so important. You know, you need to talk. That's how you solve a lot of problems. Yeah. And people who are sitting there as friends who are listening, don't advise. Just let the person talk. Because we are not experts and the therapy in Singapore is very expensive. And a lot of women have got a lot of help. Generally, women got more help in Singapore. Yeah, even content wise. There are more podcasts, content about mental health for. Yeah. I think you're right. Yeah. It's more help for women than men. So I want to do for men only. Yeah. So I want to do with men who have aged like 70 and they have erectile dysfunction. Yeah. Can come up and talk about how they went to find help because a lot of men are very shy to talk about their sex life. So if it's going, if you're having erectile dysfunction, I can introduce you to doctors who can help you. Because I think it's important because then is the ego, the facade, you know, and they always think they have to be the backbone. This is so 1980s mentality. There's no such thing. You can also cry. You can also say what you don't like. What do you like? There's no such thing as you have to live like. You can share the load with the wife. You know, everybody has a helper now, I mean generally. Yeah. And I think men should come out and talk. More. More. Yeah. What does it mean to be a man in 2026 in general? What obligations you have like? What's... I think men also overthink like they need the obligation like, I mean, marriage is out of the world. I think a lot of people living for the society, a lot of men are living for the... I mean, they're the... Is it men? I know friends were shy about what they do for living. I mean, at least you're working. Even if you're driving grab, you're still working. Instead of staying at home and living off your wife or whatever, you mean the effort to go in work? Yeah. Like society pressures. Yeah. Oh, because of... I'm that, you know, I can't do... I... I... I... I will not tell. Yeah. It's... it's very sad. I think men are also very... I must be like that. I must be... Now men... I mean, before men, I even was. My father was the ego and the manliness and... We... that's close. Yeah, for you. That's... That's me. Yeah. Was that a crew? No, right? No. Pinchants, I think. You see, the funny other countries having a war and Singapore is killing crows. You see the... the whole different... the way... Don't be a bigger problem. So I'm like, okay, you find your killing crows... crows are attacking. Okay, lah? But that's a sight-line. That should be the main story. You know? Yeah. It means a lot of unhappy people. You're unhappy families, unhappy men, unhappy single people, unhappy married couple. You have to do that. Like, you have to... like, they did a survey and found out. That's a good point of famous for survey, right? That 70% of married women are faking orgasms. Yeah, the statistics, yeah. Yeah, but my point is... not that 70%, how did they find out? Yeah, how? That's a good question. Yeah. But they go door to door, is it? I don't know. So it's... it's crazy, like, we do... We always do survey, survey, survey. You see, our public bus, the ugly green... that who know who choose the color? Singaporean. People. People. No, they voted. Netizens. They chose the green color. So I'm saying that we're always doing survey to find out what I don't know. But the faking orgasm was too much for me. And who is in charge of fertility rate? Which minister, you know? I don't know. Who? In Dhani Rajah. How would she be encouraging because she's single? No children. Not married. Yeah. You know what I mean? Yeah. They just throw it at you because you're so free. Yeah, maybe the... not the biggest priority for them. Yeah, I don't know that I can mention any but... make sense, lad. Should they import more foreigners to cover this gap? They're already doing it my dear. Yeah. They're already inviting all the new citizens to all foreigners. Yeah, all foreigners. Because to bring the population up on... At least keep a stable, right? Yeah, the new citizens is a fair share of Indians and China. The great rebuke that it took was from Hong Kong as a new citizen. Okay, interesting. And I said you can still drive grab. You see, he took his license before COVID. Okay. So it's now... We cannot have a foreigner driving a grab. But then if you apply for it and got it, it just takes a license. It doesn't get evoked. So he's lucky. Last time we had the conversation exactly one year ago. People like appreciate that you were very casual. And then you're like persona on stage. It's kind of different from your life. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Normal like daily life persona. I learned to draw the line. Yeah, we draw the line. We talk about it over time as well. I mean, you go crazy. Yeah. Yeah, you need to draw the line. Otherwise it does not work. People can. Yeah. I got people who cannot. Yeah. They are the same people on it off. They only switch off when they go home. And you can't be like that. Then you won't have a mental health. It's so bad when you be like that all the time. But people have asked me in public, how come I don't smile? Yeah. I think if I'm smiling all the time, I'll be in IMH. Yeah. You know something's wrong when they don't understand. And people like they're expecting to be smiling up on stage and funny. And they're trying to be funny all the time. It's not fair. They shouldn't realize that it's work. Yeah. And when you say hi to me, I'm gonna tell you a joke is it? No, a vending machine. Yeah. So I don't get it. Yeah. People don't want to understand about that's how humans are. I guess some people they so they drag this like being famous or like playing their role on stage or wherever in the office drag it to their personal life. Yeah. It's for them. It's like they cannot just let it go when they're home. Right? Yeah. That's a lot of Hollywood actors. When what they do is after a movie, they actually change their look. They have a hair color to say that, okay, we are done with this. I'm done with this. Just a lady got that. I'm done with this. So my next face, I'm gonna change my color. So that I leave that part. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Very good move. I think you're because you said like you like Singapore you never live Singapore. Thank you all actually in Singapore, one of the roles. You make it more human. Even if it's a progress is going, mobile, transforms and stuff. You see like you playing all school and you keep in the more human. I mean, I choose it to be like that. Yeah. Yeah. Because I can't leave that robotic life. I still want to have to be a person like that. I mean, very soon people are being sex with toys. That's where the robots are going, right? Yeah, maybe in 20 years time. Yeah. For sure. Now it's hard to imagine but 20 years time will be different world. Well, they can start realising now having sex with kens. Teen kens. Yeah. Start practicing now. Yeah, that was not so bad 20 years you ready? Because you already know the feeling. It's not going to surprise you. So it's scary, right? Is the human touch I need to. Yeah. Yeah. Is there anything that you want to leave our audience with any like last impression or anything? What is your audience? All expect. No? Mostly Singaporeans actually. Okay. Like 70% Singaporeans maybe 20, 30% X-pass. Okay. I think I'll live with the old with happiness. Find your happiness. Happiness is not a place of direction. Remember don't be greedy. Be grateful. Be kind. Be happy. Everyday you wake up and you just be grateful that you're alive. Thank you.