---
video_title: "Brit built a Billion-Dollar Brand and moved to Thailand | Simon Woodroffe YOTEL"
video_id: e1wTPzJH06Q
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e1wTPzJH06Q
video_date: 2026-05-20T11:00:48+00:00
video_description: |
  🌏 Apply for The Backstage Circle: https://forms.gle/huwR6NQNz5A4XgC78
  🇹🇭 Learn* more about Layan Verde in Phuket here: https://links.layanverde.com/maxchernov Or contact the sales office directly on WhatsApp: https://links.layanverde.com/layanverdewachernov Mention me to get the best offer from the team
  🤝 Thanks to Saga Metals Corp for supporting** today's video. You can get their latest presentation here on their website: https://saga-presentation.com/max-chernov
  ✈️ Go to https://holafly.sjv.io/B5PbQL and use code MAXCHERNOV to get 10% on Holafly plans for the first 12 months or 5% off on any other Holfafly eSIM
  
  *DISCLAIMER. This video includes a paid promotional integration for Layan Verde, a real estate development project in Phuket, Thailand. The host received fixed compensation and also personally owns property developed by the same developer group. This content is for informational and entertainment purposes only and is not investment advice, a recommendation, solicitation, or offer to purchase property. Real estate investment involves risk, including loss of capital, delays, developer default, currency fluctuation, and no guaranteed returns. This paid promotion has not been reviewed or approved by any financial or regulatory authority. 
  
  **DISCLAIMER. PAID ADVERTISEMENT / SPONSORED CONTENT
  This video was produced on behalf of Saga Metals Corp. (TSXV: SAGA | OTCQB: SAGMF) and paid for by a third-party marketing agency. The host received financial compensation.
  This content is not targeted to residents of any specific country or jurisdiction and is for informational and entertainment purposes only. It is not investment advice, a recommendation, solicitation, endorsement, or offer to buy or sell securities. The host and author are not responsible for investment decisions made based on this video.
  Mining and small-cap stocks involve significant risk, so viewers should review official filings, technical reports, disclosures, and risk factors before investing. Forward-looking statements are speculative. No NI 43-101 compliant mineral resource estimate has been established. This ad has not been reviewed or approved by any securities regulator.
  
  Meet Simon Woodroffe, the Brit who built YO! Sushi and YOTEL into global hospitality brands worth over a billion dollars. Now Simon lives in Thailand, in a house he built in the middle of the jungle. He shared how he turned one risky idea into a global empire and what it really feels like to start from scratch at 47. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  🎙 Listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts: https://open.spotify.com/show/1dktMfOBp11LNp52X3mkuR  or https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/max-chernov/id1875665593
  👥 Sponsorship requests / Guest suggestions: max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST
  ➢ Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/yosimonwoodroffe/ 
  ➢ Simon's book: https://www.amazon.co.uk/YO-MAN-Robots-Reinventing-British/dp/1918191301
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 INTRO
  00:43 Why Thailand Feels Like Home
  01:41 Why Simon Chose Thailand for Life
  02:11 Inside Simon’s Jungle Home
  02:57 Honest View on The UK
  06:05 Simon’s Many Lives Before Success
  07:47 Starting Over With His Last £200,000
  09:18 Why Starting Late Can Be an Advantage
  11:32 How to Stay Young at 74
  12:18 How the Right Network Changes Everything
  14:42 What Experience Helped Him Build YO! Sushi
  17:38 Building the House and the Skywalk
  18:51 Crazy Ideas vs Real Business Ideas
  23:00 How to Believe in a Big Idea
  28:38 How Business Class Inspired YOTEL
  33:06 Why More Entrepreneurs Are Looking at Phuket
  34:45 Why Royalties Changed Simon's Life
  38:52 Why Ambitious Entrepreneurs Need Protection From Themselves
  40:31 How to Choose Potential Partners
  45:18 Why Simon Wrote His New Book
  45:57 What Dragon’s Den Taught Simon About Pitching
  47:25 Why Critical Minerals Matter Now
  50:26 The Best Way to Pitch an Idea
  54:18 How to Build a Strong Brand
  1:00:39 Why Some Ventures Failed
  1:02:07 The Hardest Moments in Simon's Career
  1:04:30 Simon’s Three Rules for Life
  1:05:55 A Simple Way to Stay Connected Abroad
  1:07:06 People Who Changed How Simon Thinks
  1:12:01 What It Feels Like to Be 74
  1:16:09 Would He Trade Wealth to Be Younger
  1:19:23 The Meaning of Life
  
  This channel features raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery.
  
  I sit down with founders, investors, operators, experts, and outliers navigating the biggest shifts of our time, many of them based in or connected to Asia. We talk about money, leverage, relocation, power, tradeoffs, and the real decisions shaping what’s next, not as theory, but from lived experience.
  
  Some conversations happen inside billionaire homes. Some happen remotely with experts shaping global systems. All of them focus on signal over noise. 
  
  If you care about where to build, where to live, how to make better decisions in uncertain times, and what the future demands, you’re in the right place.
---
He needs Simon Woodrow, a Brit who built Yosushi and Yotel into global hospitality brands worth over a billion dollars. Raised in Singapore, he has lived around the world from Los Angeles to Jamaica. But now Simon is based in Thailand, in the house he built in the middle of the jungle. Simon shared why Thailand may be one of the best places on earth. How he turned one risqué idea into a global empire? I put everything into it and it was a big risk really. And what it really feels like to start from scratch at 47. There was shit terror I think here. I must be completely delusional. I'm actually not. I host rock conversations about wealth, global mobility and mastery. I've always felt that Asia is kind of, I feel like home in a way. And I think that's where it comes from. And I've been to lots of places around the world and really, I never took Thailand too seriously because of some of the reputational things it has. But actually Thailand is the best place I've ever lived. Really I suppose because of the culture, the Buddhist culture, the ancient culture, it's never been invaded other than the little few spats with Burma or Myanmar. It's a very nice place to live. The people are nice. And even the whole political system works very well like Singapore. I wake up every day and I feel good. It's that simple. You don't have to analyze it any further than that. I feel good most days. I mean life has its ups and downs for everybody. Me included. But I feel good and I like it here. So it's home now. It's home. But technically you could choose to live anywhere. I could choose to live anywhere. And I've looked at Jamaica. I've looked at São Paulo. I looked at Uruguay. I lived in Tahiti in the South Pacific. I had a big cataromba there for several years. I sailed across the Pacific actually. And I've looked at Italy and Portugal and all of those places. But I always end up coming back here. So this is home. This is home. This is where a lot of the ideas for new things happen. Just sitting around here. That's the idea. Looking at the thing. We got a lot of birds here. We got horn bills. It's a very beautiful nature place. And this is a fast-throwing river. You built this house? We built all of this here. When we came here, this was jungle. Literally it was like this. We had no idea what we were buying. We just bought it. And then we kept it away. And this is a golf course. Well, I say it's a golf course. It's a slight exaggeration. It's a one-hole golf course. And we're just now growing. This is the core of the growing. That's very cool. So that's going to be pretty, very pretty when we do it. So what's your thoughts on the UK right now? I don't want to be like over political and stuff, but like because it's the country where... I'll be political. I think that in the UK and in most Western countries, it is almost... It will become realized that it is almost impossible to govern with top heavy governments who want to regulate everything. In Britain, for example, the politicians are deciding what children learn in schools. They're deciding exactly what hospitals should be doing. You cannot do it. It's too complex. And actually, where you're from, Max Singapore, that is one of my great models because you have 40 people who run the executively make implement the will of the people. You know, policies, ideas, ideas we've had them since Eve first met Adam, but take it from me, executions the key. And that is what how I think we'll run countries in the future. Switzerland's the same, but having a thousand people in a parliament which most of these countries do, arguing with each other all day is extremely time wasting. And really, and I think that what will happen, this is my prediction, is that when digital voting arrives in the West, and we vote digitally, like we do everything else digitally, not some piece of paper at all in school playgrounds, when that happens, everybody will realize that people can vote on issues of the day, not on political parties and people. And what we need is a neutral executive, very well paid, like you have in Singapore, to execute the will of the people. So that is what I think. And right now, UK is not an easy place to live in for all sorts of reasons. It's a beautiful place because it has so much history. And, you know, I'm a fan of the Royal family and how we've had that around. And you know, the British, although I say it myself, the British are very popular around the world. People like the British, they like the sense of humour, they like the fair legal system, they like the history. So we're very popular. And one of the complaints you hear about in Britain is all the millionaires are leaving. I say let them leave, let them go out and spread the word, like they did in the olden days, around the world, so we can have British all over the world. We're building a resort just down the road, but two kilometres. But we go kayaking, there's a river here, and this is a very fast-flowing river. And we've, my guys, have cut away all the river so that we can, we've got 25 kilometres of fast river with rapids and everything. It's absolutely fantastic. We're very, very lucky. I have no idea that that was there. Well, I mean, like you guys cutting the... We're cutting back all the jungle where it comes over the river. Not way. So, yeah, so we did 25 kilometres we did with the guys. So, so... So, all there, yeah. Yeah, that's all there and there. So, your life, like, had different stages, yeah? Different parts. Can you give me how many of this mini-life did you have before coming to town? So, I was... I lived... I grew up in Singapore. I went to school to English, privileged school in... Mulbra in England. I left when I was 16, just when Sergeant Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club band came out and we did peace signs and long hair and all the things we did in those days. I got put in prison for three months for selling drugs in the very early days that I was not a big drug dealer. I was tiny and they made an example of me. It taught me never to break the law, that's for sure. I was a roadie, working with bands for everybody from the Rolling Stones and Rod Stewart and Elton John and Geoffrey O'Tillow, all the bands of those days putting up lights in the early days. I then became a stage designer and my big break was a Rod Stewart show and I designed stages for lots of rock shows right through to live aid our studio designed all the shows for that big event. And then I got lost again. I'd been lost several times in my life and I was in the television business selling television rights of rock shows around the world. I knew the managers of the groups and then I made extreme sports films before Red Bull got in on the action. I was going to be in the extreme sports business. And so I had a creative business and then in a creative world I really am not more of a creative than a businessman. And but I also understood contractual law and deals and people and how to do things internationally. And that was when I went, got divorced, fell to my knees, thought I'd go and live in Chammily and the French Alps and go climbing and skiing and I had to hell with ambition. And I was running out of money. I was down to my last 200,000 pounds in the world. What did you do? I was 45, 43. Okay. So yeah, 43. Yeah. And my had a young daughter and I thought I'm going to give it all up and I spent three years there. And then living on very little I thought I was just going to rent my apartment. So I was like an Airbnb before Airbnb or I visited before the internet. And I came back to London and I thought, right, I'm going to have another go. And I was going to do indoor climbing walls originally. I'm glad I didn't. And then I met the guy who told me about conveyor belt sushi and Yo started. And at the age of 47 I started that late starter. So any of your viewers are older and thinking about starting over, you can. How do you come up with this? This? This idea? When I go down to the gym, you can just come like this. Oh, no way. Hey, come and join me. There he is. There he is. I can see the fear on his face. I'm a squint. So here he goes. What the hell? There he is. That's actually a file. That's right. In England, they call it a fireman's pole because in England, the fire guys are in the house and they come down. Or goals bustle. The notion is like, especially now that you have to like make your first million like early. Especially in places like Singapore where you kind of, okay, you are 25, where is your condo? Where you're sorry? And you're not married and you don't have like a million pants. Yeah, 5C, this concept great card, condo, private club, et cetera. So you kind of, and many people I think because of social media, they kind of feel missing out in life. So starting the project that became like super big at 45. Back then, did you feel that you are starting very late? Did you feel this fear of missing out? Yeah, I thought I was running out of time. And actually that feeling of I'm running out of time is a real call to action. But I was lucky because I've always had these small businesses along the way. I had a lighting company along the way and a design company and a film company. So I always had these very small businesses that just aren't near living without making any proper money. Never had anything I could build to sell. So I was lucky I had that background. So I was ready when you came along as a project. I was ready. And I focused and I put everything into it. And it was a big risk really. I put everything I had in the world and the rest into it. And if it hadn't worked, I don't know what would have happened if it hadn't worked at 45. You know, would I have been able to pick myself up, start again? I have to say I hope I would have done. And I'm very proud of the young man who started you and did all of that all those years ago. But I don't know what would have happened. And by the same token part of your question, I don't know what would have happened if I started you when I was 25. You know, would I have been Richard Branson, which is always my ambition? But I'm not. I've had some hits. And I'm very, very happy with my life and my life's work. But who knows what would have happened if I started younger. But I think it is difficult for people. And you only live once in this life. So you know, I think if I can do it at 45, with just 200,000 pounds, and all this just happened for me, then anybody can do it. So this is the games room. This is the gym. So at the moment, I'm training. So I've just started climbing a game. I'm a rock climber and a mountaineer. And I've just started climbing again. So I've been a 100 of these every day. So you know that's the. Wow. You're in a great shape. You're all a 60, 74. 74. You know when you're getting older, when you're proud of your age and people say you look younger. Then you know you're older. You exercise every day? Yeah, I do actually. Yeah, we kayak. Climb, play golf. So our climbing gear. In my interviews, I always try to get people's real unpolished opinions. And that's why I never share a list of questions beforehand, even if they ask. But interviews are still the public layer. The real layer is what happens off camera. The most valuable conversations and the most important decisions in life never take place in a public setup. They happen in small private rooms behind closed doors between people operating in the high level, who actually trust each other. I recently brought a selected group of founders and investors to Puket. Very strong operators. One of them, for example, was he and Go. Maybe you saw him on my channel before. Variable known VC who sold his previous business for $65 million. And we spent a few days together in a private setting, building real relationships and sharing experiences. One of those experiences was visiting Mohan Morghani at his house, a billionaire who created the Tomahel figure brand. We spent several hours together with him talking about life, business and decisions in a completely private setting. And after the trip, one participant is now about to invest $300,000 into another participants company. That's what happened when the room is right. But most people never get access to rooms like this. This stuck in surface level conversations, random networks, and low signal environments. Okay, this is important. The leverage is not more information. The leverage is being in the right room with right people. And that's what I'm building with the backstage circle. It's a private curated group of founders, investors and operators who want to level up their life, business and relationships, surrounding themselves with the right people. It's a closed-door environment with real decisions about business, life philosophy, capital positioning, big ideas and next moves. No pitching, no shell networking, only people who are open, thoughtful and operating at a high level. A big part of the backstage circle is access. I'm bringing exceptional founders, investors and billionaires. I'm personally to join these private sessions and conversations. If you're already operating at a high level and making real decisions, you can join the waiting list. The number of seats in the group is very limited. And if it's a fit, you'll get the details. What baggage and what experience turn out to be very useful at 45 when you start doing your business? That you didn't expect that you needed from your previous life and ventures and businesses. Well, the things that were useful to me is the creativity I had by leaving school early. So it wasn't educated out of me, that creativity that kids have. That creativity and all those stages that I built and all of that stuff, when I opened you, I was able to draw and I draw everything myself. I knew how to get things built and I could build it cheaply myself. So that was very useful. But also I had run small businesses and I knew the secret of running a small business is not to run out of money. So I was very financially acute. I had very strong antenna financially. And I also had great enthusiasm. And I think that's probably been my thing is that I got people because I was able to talk like this when I was confident anyway later on. I could suck people into my world and show them my dream and my vision. But they saw that I was practical. You know, that I could actually make things happen. So it was a marriage between creative and ideas and big ambition. The desire to make it work before I ran out of money is a lot of venture capitalists, for example, so that people in their 40s are very investable if they've had experience. And I think I was very investable in that sense. As it happened and I'll tell you the story, I never needed the investment because I'd put everything I had in. I own 90% of the business. And one of the things that had that I'd learned from my TV world was to get sponsorship. You know, and everybody talks about sponsorship and nobody ever gets it. So what I did was I went and asked people for some things for free, but I didn't ask them for very much. So I asked Sony for four cheap old box television sets and they gave them to me after much hassling and all their porn airlines upgraded to me once when I flew to Japan. That's all they did is give me an upgrade and the days when you could get upgrades and all their porn airlines lent me one delivery motorbike and I made them my sponsors. And when I opened the first restaurant, I hadn't planned it this way. They were all over everything. They were on the menus on the front. So Sony, Honda, all different areas. Everybody thought that we were backed by Sony, Honda, and all their porn airlines. So I could get credit from everybody. And in fact, I never needed any investors. They were queuing up by the time we opened the first year of Sushi because we had a queue down the block. And I told the investors go, well, I didn't need it. I had credit. So that was serendipity. That was probably the best thing I loved. Come on out here. Go back up on the skywalk. Watch your head. I love it. When did you build it? When you start? This, this, we built, took us a year and a half to build this. And we only moved in here. We've been living in Chiang Mai. We only moved in here. We were down here all the time when we were building. We only moved in here about a year ago. Okay. So we've only been here for a year. So before it was Chiang Mai. Yes, right. We built these houses. And then our builder said, you don't want to go downstairs every day. So we built the skywalk. And the skywalk has been the best thing about living here. It's really cool. So Singapore, it's pirate. Yeah. We have many. They have the skywalks in Singapore. A lot. This is the guest, the guest rooms. So, but the big thing about the guest, the guest houses, we make sure that they have their own kitchens. So we don't have to entertain all the time. People can be independent. They can be independent. Yeah, we got two guest houses. Oh, you feel the space. Yeah. It's a lot of space. It is. We're a long way from everyone. Another guest house here. Did you actually expect that level of attention on this idea of like selling basically the idea of robots and the new future? Like, did you anticipate that before opening? I think I had an instinct of about how to be an interesting interviewee. I think that's something I've developed over the years because it's much more interesting to tell stories and to have to share your dreams and to be the person who you really are is much even if it's your valuable sometimes. Valuable ability with dignity can be very attractive. Yeah, I think all of those things kind of work. But no, I never really planned it out. It wasn't like an agency. I know you were in marketing and as an agency one guy. And maybe your process driven guy, I don't know you well enough to know. But I think you go and gut feeling an instinct as well. And a lot of the things I've done, I've done and I've tried to do the best and tried to do lots of things. And then I see something that works and I follow it rather than making a plan like you do in an advertising agency. What do you care? What do you care? My friends live across the way. They live at the top of there, which is how I found this place. Oh, okay. And a lot of the staff live on the other side of the river. So we have this graph. And of course when it's a fast flowing river, and that's the river crossing, that's how we cross the river. Isn't that good? That's my pride and joy. Two like install this thing, do you need like to do any paperwork? No, it's okay for a good thought. You just do it. Which you want. That's a great thing about that's the tie way. You can do it. But everybody loves it and we just put this in. And when it's flowing fast and it's very clear whether you can see the bottom, full up comes right up to here. A lovely place to swim. Don't need a swimming pool. What is the fine line between like having this revolutionally revolutionary idea and being delusional? Because many people like they come up with like ideas, but they're just not realistic and they wouldn't work. That's the thing. You hit the nail on the head. I mean that creativity can be, you know, people come to me with just fantasy stuff. Most of the people who come to me with ideas, they are dreamers. Luckily, there's a few of us who've got a mix of sensableness and what's practical and what can actually work. And have their dreams still intact. Now I'm not saying that to be successful in this world, you have to have a great big vision and a great big dream. You can open a corner shop and make a big success of it by getting the detail absolutely right. You can take somebody over and revamp it. Just doesn't happen to me. My thing is always been to do something really interesting that people go, oh, this is the future. I can see, oh, look. Or what I call the magic words, which I got from the hotels. If I'd done market research on the hotels and said, would you like to sleep in 10, 7 square meter rooms, our small rooms with no natural light? People would not have said, yes. Or if I'd said, would you like to eat raw fish off conveyor belts with robots serving the drinks? They're not going to say, oh, yes, I'll have that. But when they open, people say, this is so obvious. Why didn't somebody do this before? And those are the magic words for me. And what I want to do, something really interesting and then get massive publicity around the world. And that's how I feel safe. But you don't have to do that to be successful. It just happens to be my way. Yeah. Which is why I'm here talking to you. Yeah. These are the stables. We're going to have horses here. Oh, cool. Stables are just being built for the horses. Is it like a vessel of yours? Yeah, it's something I do. Always right. I learnt to ride in Singapore at the Polo Club, my father played Polo. He was five-girl Polo player. In the 1950s, here is a wonderful place to ride up in the hills early morning when it's cool. Yeah. What are the horses now? We haven't got them yet. OK, just the first. Yeah. OK, when you launched the Yosushi, did you have to educate the market after you started riding in the business? Sure. Sure. I mean, in those days, you know, I'd seen sushi in America in California. And it was really big and I absolutely loved it. That was all my market research was. And in the UK, it really, it really haven't taken off at all. People didn't even know what it was. You know, raw fish, we've got our awful. And there were some very expensive Japanese restaurants. And there was no internet to sort of educate you about all that sort of stuff. Japan was the last great mystery of the Easter really. Nobody had been there because it was very expensive. Nobody could speak English in those days. Yeah. So yes, did we educate people? No, I think we just did something which was very entertaining. And when people walked in, they were, we'll try it. You know, I think whatever your product is today is so much competition out there. It's got to be great, great, great, great, great, great, great. But you've got to wave a flag or do something interesting so that people come in and have the courage to try what you're doing if you're going to do something new. So the secret is like, maybe to come up with a few ideas. And they can be like crazy ideas and then to test and see. What sticks? I don't know if I ever really tested it. When I got, when I saw you, when I, when Mr. Ulehara, the Japanese television executive, famously taught, said to me, he said, what you should do, Simon, is convey a belt sushi bar with girls in black PVC mini skirts, which were his words. You know, we'd never heard of anything like that before. And I went away and researched it. When he said that, I don't think I had the whole thing. I was just trying another idea at that moment in that sentence. I thought to myself, that is what I'm going to do. And I absolutely focused, sell out to do that and open within one year. And at the end of one year, I lost my first sight. And I thought the whole thing was over. And I picked myself up, dusted myself off. And we got the site back a year later. And I opened it. If I had opened the year earlier, it wouldn't have been the same thing. All the things happened. The robots and the everything that made it a big deal when it opened and the size of the place. People said you should try out a little one just to test if it works. But a test, a try out a little restaurant, a street corner with a conveyor belt and a sushi, is no test for trying out an enormous place that sits 200 people. And there's an atmosphere in there. You know, it's hard rock cafe. Hard rock cafe didn't start with one little hamburger giant in the corner. Oh, that works. So we're going to do pretty big ones all over the world. They went, nicely. Yes, the guy who started it said, I know that rock and roll works and I know that hamburgers work. I'm going to put the two things together and he took it out all over the world. And that was my inspiration. Really was that hard rock cafe. And you've got to believe in your project and you've got to be like super professional to about it. Yeah, I think, you know, I am in that period leading up to opening a year. I did believe it. I really did believe it for 90% of a time. And for 5% of a time there was this sort of wasn't quite sure. And for the 5% of a time there was sheer terror. I think here I must be completely delusional. I was like one of those delusional people, but mostly I believed it. And when the thing is if you can really get to believe something yourself and you walk into a room to talk to other people about it and try to get them on board. If you really believe it and you can talk naturally, not hiding behind a business plan or a desk or all of that or research. If you can just talk like this, even if people doubt you a little bit, they think he could be right. He could be right. It's worth a chance. And I think that's the area to get. And you only get to really believe in something. If you really research it well and you've really done the work, not just a dream, but you've really done it and you know it in yourself. All the doubts you had, all those little voice in the back of your head is just going to go wrong. This is going to work. And when you put that together and you believe it, you become a very powerful force. You do. You need to persuade yourself first, but not persuade yourself like based on your imagination. You need to put some work on the researching. And then kind of you need to get the numbers right and then believe yourself and then translate this belief to the outside world. And the realism of something that can actually work, if you can visually imagine that place full and the money coming in and all of that, and why wouldn't somebody do that? If you can really imagine and believe that, it becomes a very, very strong force. So how many, like, rice do you have? I think here we have about six to seven, right? You know, quite sure because this isn't, the river isn't belong to us. There's six, seven rice. So I said, we said about five acres. And then we have another, we have the same again down the way. About two kilometers up the river. But as I say, this is dry at the moment. This is the very dry season. And this happens every year. And we have big water tanks. Because the other thing we have here is we have a farmer here that grows durian. Oh. So we have 126 durian trees here. And everybody in Thailand is durian mad. You're tell. So like, can you briefly tell the story how you come up with this idea when you flew, when they upgraded to you to a business class? Well, three, four years into Yosushi. I had hard operations manager. I still thought we'd better get some people who actually know how to run restaurants. Because we'd go up to three, four, five, six restaurants. And I got in this guy, Robyn Rowland. And I was running the business up until then. So the money was rolling in. But I was running it. So there was a new idea every week and the money was rolling out. And Robyn put the systems in place to make it happen. And he said, I remember him saying to me, him and Alison, who was one of the senior people, they said, you know, you're a real inspiration Simon, we could never have done what you've done. But actually you change your mind all the time and you're going to get into big trouble and this you can really focus. And we know what we're doing, which is a fairly a very convincing thing to hear. And I said, okay, well, if you think you can do it better, I think they might have even said, and if you go on changing your mind like this, we're going to go and get another job. That's even more convincing. I said, if you think you can do it better, you run it. And they didn't believe me. And I called to myself, I'll show them. I'll show them. And I closed the door and I let them run it and three months later, you know, it wobbled and they took it on. And I suddenly realized that they were going to do a good job. And they decided not to go and do these big restaurants around the world, which is what I wanted to do, like hard rock. They were going to shopping malls in the UK. I mean, boring, boring. But that's what they did. And they were right. And that was how we built your sushi up to 120 restaurants at one point. So the main idea is, at start, a kind of implement execute, maybe it's a little bit crazy, more creativity. And big planship. Yeah. But at some point, you have to delegate to more structural professionals. Absolutely. That's right. So that's what happened. And then I was left with nothing to do. So what do you do? And we'd Robin then took us into a venture capital deal where we, a venture capital scheme in with very big money for us to roll the thing out. I diluted my shareholding from a controlling 90% to a non-controlling 25% and actually that 25% was where I made my money eventually. That's the royalty that I have to this day. And what I had done in that venture capital deal is I split you off. I'd kept the yo brand for myself. And I'd sold the right for your sushi to do food and beverage. So I couldn't do food and beverage on its own. But I had the rest of everything a bit like virgin. I could have gone into anything, car, car, or anything. And I thought hotels were the next thing to do. So I sat around, as I always do with a piece of paper and a sketchbook and a pencil. And I started drawing what a hotel could look like, because the brand values were innovation, good value, radical cheeky, all of those things. And I came up with the hotel and I got a guy to draw it up. And then we actually built a polystyrene mock-up of a very small hotel room with windows that looked onto the corridor. So we could go into places that other hotels couldn't go into, which is how we started your hotel. And we walked into it and everybody went, wow, we could make it even smaller. And that was the magic. And then we built a full-size prototype. Before we'd got any money, we built a full-size prototype and took it to a major design exhibition. And that's where we met British airport authorities. And we opened Gatwick and Heathrow airports hotels. And with these very small rooms. And actually, that's actually what happened and Gerard who'd come on board to be the MD, really, to run it was in Dubai actually. And he met a Kuwaiti group over there and pulled metaphorically, pulled our business plan out of his back pocket. And the next thing we knew a few months later and a long negotiation later, we'd raised $13 million. And that's what we used to set your hotel up based on the fact that your sushi would be so successful, because obviously they'd traveled the senior sushi around the world. So that's actually how your hotel got off the ground. Yeah. This conversation with Simon made me think about one of the best investments I've ever made. I bought two apartments in Pouquet in a project built by my old friend Vadim. And his development company, Villa Cartel. Vadim has been a real estate for over 20 years, has lived in Thailand for more than 13 years and is now developing a half a billion dollar mini-city in Pouquet called Lian Verda. He's located in Banq Tao, one of the most desirable and fast-growing areas in Pouquet. Lian Verda is a 7.5 hectare complex with 200,000 square meters of nature-inspired architecture. It was designed by an international studio with 40 years of experience with large green areas created by one of the Thailand's leading landscape studios. Inside there are panoramic C-view apartments and more than 65 top-level facilities. It's also designed to use up to 35% less energy than a standard building, offers a hotel-style management and has a team of more than 400 professionals behind this project. Pouquet is no longer justification destination. More entrepreneurs and families are now looking at it as a place to live and invest. So, if you are thinking about it, I would take a closer look at Lian Verda. Of course, this is not a financial advice and always do your own research before making any investment decision. I bought properties in the current Vadim's projects myself and I know him personally, he's a great guy and I believe in Pouquet long-term and that's why I think Lian Verda is worth looking at. Scan this QR code or follow the link below to learn more about the project and the investment details. Also, don't forget to mention max to get the best deal from the guys. And yeah, maybe we'll become neighbors someday. Here's a durian and they grow like this straight out of the branch. Okay. So there they are. And the good tree, you have 40 of these on a good tree. But these are, this is a young one. Some of them are a bit more mature. When you sold your share in your sushi business, was it like the first substantial amount of money that you made in your life? Yeah, when I sold, I had 90% of your sushi and this was 30 years ago now nearly and I got two million quid, which is what, I don't know, $57 million in those days. And I remember thinking it was not that much money at the time, you know, considering what everybody thought I wasn't considering. I was soon to be a big sort of TV star, giving money after all sorts of people, you know. So it wasn't so much. But what I did do when I did that first deal and I got that money and I mean, first of all, it was a big relief to get the money in because those small businesses are like those cards, those houses, those houses you build out of playing cards when you're a kid, you know, you blow only fall over. And so it was a big relief to have that money. And, you know, and that's, and it went from there, really. Yeah. And the royalty deal is what actually made you... That's long term. That made you... But what I get a 1% royalty from both of those businesses. It's slightly changes in different places, but that's basically what made it. And it was a good deal that because it was a very small royalty. Yeah. Under 1%, like it wasn't the 0.9 or 0.7, some of it was. You know, so people think, oh, it's not that big a deal. Yeah. But when the business grows very big, it's a fabulous deal. Yeah. So that was what was clever about it. So, royalties are good. And I'd seen royalties. Of course, I'd seen them in the music business. Yeah. And so I, that's where I understood royalties from an artist, you know, in those days when they sold records, they just sat there and one record. I remember meeting that guy, it was a singer called Mungo Jerry, who had the famous song in the summertime. In the summer term when the wind is there. So every summer they played that song. And he was earning $100,000 a year. And he, that's the only song he ever wrote. And he does $100,000 a year for the rest of his life just from one song. Mm. You know, so I saw what royalties could do. And very few businesses actually have a royalty structure like that. So that, that was a clever structure for me. Interesting. So that's actually what probably brought you from your previous life and experience, understanding royalty business. And that's why you did it with your... And as it happened, does it turn out, it saved my life because, you know, I sold you a sushi the first time for two million. And then I sold it again. The rest of the shares I sold later for another 10 million. But I would have only had 12 million pounds, maybe 20 to 25 million dollars by the day standards. And actually, I've made so many mistakes since going into other businesses that probably most of that would have disappeared. So I've spent a lot, but actually because I had the royalty, just carried on topping it up. And, you know, the power of compound interest. Da-da-da-da-da-da-da. So I was very lucky. Because when you first make money, especially if you're ambitious like I am or I was, certainly then. And you've got ideas. You're always thinking, I've got some money in the bank. I can do that idea. I can make it happen. I don't have to go and ask or raise money. I can just do it. So that's what I used to do. And that was my model. It's get something up and running. And then license it and get other people to go and do it. But I made lots of mistakes. You know, I tried to do yo-homes. I didn't get a lot of the ground. Fortunately, Yo-Tel did them. I tried all sorts of different things. Fashion and all sorts. And I didn't, wasn't good. But, you know, so I've lost a lot of money along with, yes, but it's the royalty that saved my life a longer way. Yeah. So it's like you need to protect yourself from yourself. If you are like ambitious entrepreneur, sometimes. I think so. I think I've been, what's the expression, my own worst enemy, you know. I'm actually a student. I don't want to waste money. But I love ideas. And I love to see things. I can imagine how things could be. Yeah. And I like helping people. And I like getting people involved. And, you know, and I've helped other people as well. And, you know, and actually people are the difficult part. You know, when people's backs are against the wall, people behave badly. That's true. That's actually my concept of how I see people. It really depends on the context. If you put yourself in a war situation, you will behave differently versus if you're like sitting here. So, because all of us has like more evil side and more like kind side and a bright side. And then depends how you, how you use it. It's actually... We have a dark and I have a dark side for sure. And I think everybody does. Yeah. I'm just repeating what you've said, really, which is exactly right, which is that, you know, our human beings fundamentally good or fundamentally bad. They have both... Most people have both things in them. And the more people confess that they're really, really good, they probably have a hidden part that they... A lot of people don't even know about. But in business, when money is involved, which is security and your safety in the world, and, you know, all of that, and people's backs are against the wall. They'll behave badly. Yeah. So, you know, trying to read people and who can behave badly under pressure. Not so many people can behave well under pressure. Is it any like specific tactics that you use? Like how to assess like potential business partners or potential? You know, I always thought I had a good instinct for who was good and how to behave with people. And as I've gone on, I've been surprised. I think the only thing I know is that the better I behave and the more generous I am, not just giving money out, but generous in spirit and forgiving of people, the better results I get. I've forgiven people who've done me bad. Life and business, life is difficult and that is one of the great truths to realize because the day that you stopped complaining and you stopped moaning, that somebody did me bad and they did this and I got ripped off for this and, you know, none of that, that is normal. That is normal. And if you can just accept that people are like that and forgive them and move on and not judge, you won't go and deal with them again, you're much better off than if you sit around thinking, feeling hurt or, you know, I'm a forgive, I'm a real forgiveer of everybody. You know, it's a tough old world. Does it contradict a bit with them, what you said, to be good with people, then they probably will get back the same level of the attitude from them. But when you just start to know it, you're a bit like a... Make a maniac. Exactly. Exactly, yeah. So you don't care much about people, but you care about your idea and... And the business. Like the business. That's right. I mean, I think in a lot of countries, employment law, there's got a lot to answer for. In America, I think it's very good because you can fire people. And by firing somebody, you make room for somebody else. And it also means that you want to employ people. But today, in most of the European countries, that people's jobs are so protected. And, you know, there are bad companies who treat people badly, but all the modern, the new generation, your generation below, are building businesses where people are more... I think the people who work in your organization are then more important than the customers. Because if you treat them right, the customers will be treated right. I guess it comes down to your own personality. I mean, you can build on your features, your organic features. If you are more like gentle, more kind, probably you should run like your organization, like that. If you are not very gentle, you are straightforward, you are pushing. Probably you have to utilize this qualities and both could work. Well, I was... I was overpushy, over-controlling, selfish, probably. I'm exaggerating to make my point. And I had to learn to be a bit gentler. I mean, for example, people would come into the office on a Monday morning and say, how is your weekend? And I think to myself, what has that got to do with the war we're in today? You know, what our mission of what we're doing? Yeah. And so I've had to make amends by today. I always ask everybody how their weekend was. I don't really want to know. But I definitely... Well, I do want to know more now. But I've learnt you can change. You can change. And I think if you're just overkind and just always... It's a way... You know, you don't get anywhere. So you've got to toughen up and be tough. So I think we can all learn and we can change. Most people go, oh, that's just how I am. I can't change. But we learn. I think you've got a kind of interesting mix because you've got to kind of kind of side to you. But I think you've probably... My guess is just reading you is that you've learnt to make decisions. And so, right, this is what we're going to do. And you can bring people to people like your personality. So that's your little trick is you bring them in. And you can bring them along with you. But we all have to learn how to do that. Yeah, I think so. I mean, I can be very pushing in business. But I think that's exactly what you mentioned. And I'm naturally more relaxed and more kind. Not kind, even more gentle. But like starting doing businesses around 12 years ago. The success of the project becomes sometimes more important than the relationships. And then you need to navigate and... And you have to be willing to... You know, people who are embarrassed to sell what they've got. But I'm not embarrassed. And there you can learn an awful lot from my new book, Yo Man. I got one. I got a book. You got one. Very good. So, you know, the point is that I'm willing to actually subsave. This is what I do at the moment. This is what I want you to read. And I want you to read it twice. Once for the sheer entertainment value of a rock and rolling story. And once to learn from it and steal from me and steal my ideas. There you go. We'll put the link in description so you can check out. It's coming out in June. June, yeah. In June, yeah. I was on everywhere. Everywhere, yeah. Everywhere. Dragons then. I wanted to talk about this one as well. Like, so, how many years you... I just did the first series of Dragons then. And Dragons Benz, I think it's now in seventh or eighth year. But I was one of the original Dragons. Yeah. So, what's there, like, based on what you see in the show. What's the best way to pitch your idea, to pitch your project? I think the best way to pitch a... There's a few things involved. First of all, I would say people going on Dragons Benz, they say, give me your advice Simon these days. And I say, well, the thing you've got to remember, there's this five dragons sitting there. And they're not sitting there thinking, I'm looking for a good investment. They're thinking, I hope my performance is going to be good on this TV show. We're talking show business here. And so, the best way to deal with Dragons Benz, yes, you might get an investment. You might get somebody to put some money in. But the real thing is to get publicity for what you're doing. And to have the confidence to go on and pitch in, that's where you're pitching to the audience, not just to the dragons. And if they don't pick up what you're doing, bad luck to them. That's the attitude to take. But really, it's show business. If you want really good investments in this world, third party investments, probably the BBC is not the people to go to. There are good investments out there. Recently on the channel, I talk about Saga Metals, a critical mineral company trading as SagaMeth in the US and Saga in Canada. Since then, Saga has announced new drilling progress, fresh financing and additional project growth. What they've done in less than six months has changed the scale of this company. And less than 48 hours ago, Saga reported what they described as a hundred percent drill success rate across all 57 drill holes all ahead of schedule. And that's just the beginning. The company added $10 million to its bank account from a successful financing round dedicated entirely to drilling. Adding serious fuel to an already accelerating program. When you step back and look at what Saga has achieved in less than six months, the pace is hard to ignore. According to the company, its recent updates include air 100% heat rate across all drilling at the radar project and area being positioned as a potential host to one of the largest titanium systems ever identified in North America. A strategic titanium acquisition scooped from under $100 billion mining giant Rio Tinto located in the same district at the largest titanium mine in the world. And just last month, the acquisition of the Wolverine project and that project sits along the same billion dollar cost at the Vousie Bay Discovery, one of the most significant mineral discoveries in history. How can all this be achieved in such a short space of the time? The reason is simple. America's defense supply chain depends on titanium. That's why Washington has already committed $12 billion through project vault alongside additional federal support aimed at securing domestic and allied supply. In less than 12 months, the US has taken a series of major steps to rebuild and secure critical mineral supply chains, including executive order 14241, the launch of project vault and the state department ministerial bringing together 50 fine foreign ministers focused directly on critical minerals. As the US and its allies move to secure the future, Saga metals is positioned itself directly where the money, the mandates and the momentum are flowing. They're exploring the exact materials that sit at the foundation of advanced airspace, neck generation weapon systems and stealth technology, the unseen backbone of modern defense. And the reality is increasingly clear. North America needs what it does not currently have and that direction of travel from Washington is becoming more defined. Onshore it, secured, funded, mined. I'll leave you with this. One of the standout aspects of Saga metal achievements over the past six months is scooping another titanium project from Under Rio Tinto, a company roughly 3,500 times larger by market value. This takes skill, patience and execution. If you want to learn more about the critical minerals story, check out the link in description. And thanks to Saga metals for supporting today's video. So, you need to, first you need to be, people need to understand your product probably. And you need to make, make sense fast. You don't have like. I've never really believed in elevator pictures. No. No. I think the way to entrant somebody into something is to get to know them over a period of time. Because people are very intelligent, especially five dragons, for example. So, if I was pitching something to five dragons, I would be extremely short in what I tell them. I wouldn't tell them too much at all. And I'd come over as a really good character and not tell them how great it was, but just to tell them what it was, and then shut up. And wait for them to say the famous words, which tell me more. And when somebody says, tell me more, then they want to hear. And tell me more, tell me more. Okay. So, first, you got to be likable. And the second one, you need to provoke this thought process in their own way. You necessarily got to be like the ball, but you've got to be extremely capable. And to really know your subjects and know what you're doing. And not to oversell yourself. I've never tried to, I've always tried to undersell what I'm doing and talk about, and then let people say, tell me more. What is the best thing you can hear? Most people talk too much. And don't listen enough. Yeah, otherwise you become to desperate. People say desperate. It's desperation and it's that awful thing you people say, oh, there's one thing I've forgotten to say. Is this? Because they want it all to add up. But I've done it in my time. I've done a lot of public speaking for corporates and all over the world on television and all of that. And I know that mostly people don't remember what you say. What they really remember is the spirit of what you're saying and what they think they can take from it to add to their life. Because when you're talking about this sort of stuff, most of you sitting at home now watching this podcast, you know what you're actually doing is kind of figuring, well, it's interesting to listen to this guy, but how does that affect me? How do I relate to that? Yes. And that's what people take away from something like this. So I say, big, borrow or steal anything you like from me and Max. Because that's the way to learn. Yeah. Sometimes I see in sales what works when you kind of, you do your pitch and then you have a list of things that can be interested for, that people can be interested in, for example, like five things. And you just, you do it and then you see like some people would ask about this one, some people would ask about this one. So you never know like what exactly will stick. Yes, sure. And what, and what? Well, they don't want to force yourself on other people. Yeah. You want them to rely on to pull things out of you. A bit of technical question, out of curiosity. So dragons then, is it similar to Shark Tank? Yeah. Same thing. Exactly. Yes, exactly. Yes, same thing. Well, the, Dragon's Den was originally a Japanese format, which was nothing like the one that the BBC developed. And I often said to the BBC, I don't know why you ever paid Sony who owned the format rights any money, because what you did was so completely different from Shope from Dragon's Den in Japan. And then the BBC developed it and then Shark Tank. I think would have been a licensed steal from Sony or from the BBC, from Sony probably. You created like very famous brands. What's your, if you can like verbalize, what's the three main, like the most important, the ways to build a very strong brand? I think there are lots of different ways to build a very strong brand, but I think that, you know, first of all, I think really strong brands, you know, the Virgin's or the Apples or the Amazons. They often have charisma, love and more hate them. They often have very charismatic leaders who are able to talk about them. And a brand should reflect the personality of that leader. And indeed, in Apple's case, the personality of the people who work within that organisation. So then you have a sort of a sense of authenticity. I remember in the early Apple products, the Fordi Internet, really was art, there was always manuals. And if you rid the manuals, you could go to bed and enjoy reading them, because there were pictures and other this and they were short and they were beautifully written. So, you know, it's that sense that you're drawn into, you know, actually loving that brand. And then obviously, the brand is only as good as the product you deliver and the quality with which you deliver it, you know. You know, again, love and more hate them. But Donald's absolutely brilliant at delivering the same product, the same high quality product. You may not like it, or you may not think it's good for you. But the quality they deliver all over the world is absolutely fantastic. And I know those guys and they say that 90% of their job is to be a servant to their licensees and their managers around the world. And only 5 or 10% to be a policeman. So, they've got their policeman and they have very, very strong rules, but 90%. They'll put a plane with Donald's, if somebody's got a problem, they'll put somebody on a plane and go see them the next day. That's the way they work. So, they're very, very good. They've done has to do it subway the same. Okay, so, to build a brand, to have a charismatic leader in the first place, then to be predictable, as a... Well, to have a very good, systemized delivery system. Okay. So, to be very... And I think, for me, it's not the same for everybody, I call it can-i, constant and never-ending innovation. You know, to continue to innovate, because, you know, if something becomes successful, there's lots of people going to copy you. So, you can only stay ahead, unless you've got something that is patentable and very few things are patentable, unless you've got something that's patentable, then you've got to stay ahead by constantly introducing new things and bringing your customers with you, say, you stay ahead of the game. And so, consistency, and for my business, there's got to be, when I was in the theatre and rock and roll, and show business, they always used to say, it was a bit of annoying. They'd say, there's a ziz in showbiz, and there's got to be a bit of ziz in every business in the world. You know, look at Tesla, for example, you know, but you've got to have that ziz that people want to write about, people like you who are broadcasters want to talk about our brands. These is what, there's like the emotion that people, like, feel when they kind of touch the brand. And the emotion can be anything or like, it should be positive. It's an interesting question, I'm just trying to think. Yes, I guess people should feel a positive warmth and trust and theatre brand, but then on the other hand, maybe not. I mean, for example, where do you book your flights? Directly at the websites of the website. Well, I use Google flights, and I've used it for years, and the reason I've used it and I probably won't change is that I know how it works. And so something like that, once you know how something works, if you can entice somebody into your lair, and then they know how the system works, so people come to you as sushi, they know how it works, they know how to do it, and then after there'd be several times, they don't want to go somewhere else. Look, Donald's the same, Google flights the same, I'm not going to go somewhere else, because I know how it works. If I get a bad experience and let me down, then I'll go through the pain of making the change and learning somebody else's way. Yeah, so it's basically, maybe people have some expectations, and then they know in 99% of the cases, they will have what they expect, what they anticipate. And what they know, and what they practice that. And it can be like, like, McDonald's, I don't think it's the most exciting brand now. Maybe it was before, but now, even if the quality of the, like, it's not the healthiest food in the world. It's not the healthiest, it's not the most exciting brand, that's for sure. Yeah, but people know the gold anywhere in Tokyo, in Bangkok, the gold to McDonald's will be almost the same. They know what to expect, right? And that's very difficult to implement. And Amazon's the same, you know, it's very difficult to implement that level of delivery and service. I mean, I was, you know, when you go on those websites to order something, and you get frustrated and you think, oh my God, why can't they just make that a bit easier to do it? It's because the head guy doesn't go on his own website. If you, the head guy should be going on it. There was a guy who ran Tesco, a big British supermarket brand. Yeah. And he used to take the hey, and he used to spend two days a week. He was the chief executive. He used to spend two days a week on the shop floor. Yeah. Because he wanted to experience what the customer experience is. And the reason, you know, the people who I'm sure Jeff Bezos, so his left hand, right hand man, they go on Amazon every day and experience what the customer experience is. Oh, he certainly did in the early days. Because then you get it right. Why do you think you're, if you ventures that you launched, didn't fly, didn't work? What was there, the mistakes? Well, I think, I think a few of them, the island I bought in the Bahamas, which is going to be called Yotopia. Yohome, I think that, you know, Yotopia, my island in the Bahamas, I think that would have worked. And I think it would have worked very, very well. But the trouble was that after two years, and things had gone wrong, and people were difficult, and you know, and I got fed up with it. I thought I can't be bothered if I'd been my first venture, and I'd had everything on the line. I'd have been there every day, and I'd have made it work. Okay. So the trouble with doing things lots of times is that when you're not desperate, as I was in the early days for it to work, you'll do anything. But now, if it's not going very well, there's a line in that same poem I was quoting earlier, which goes, to win it, you've got to be in it, but never be late to quit and cut bait. Yes. And so I've learnt to quit without shame, and I've always told people about my ideas before I started them. You know, people say, oh, you can't do that with somebody else's steel, your ideas, by experience, most people think their ideas are better than yours, so they don't steal them, and actually it gets you going and you talk yourself into it. What was the hardest moment in your entire business career? Well, I think, you know, the two years that it took me to open Yosushi in 1995 to 1997 were probably the most housey in days. They absolutely had a wonderful, wonderful time. And the day we opened Yosushi, the first two weeks when nobody came, and they all walked past and thought, what is that place? What is that place? You know, and nobody came in, and I thought I'd made a terrible mistake that that was a pretty hard couple of weeks. I had some sleep this night, so I can tell you. But then I've had sleep this night, you know, many, many times over the years. I remember having a big outdoor roof up at Wobernabby for Neil Diamond, a big outdoor rock concert and so wondering if it was actually safe, you know, that was a few sleep this night, so I've had lots and lots of near disasters. And after a while you learn that you learn how to deal with them, and actually you learn how to not get yourself into trouble, not, you know, saying yes and going out and doing things is really great. But saying no, learning to say no and not get yourself in, and I still get myself into things now, I get, I'm fused as and gets me into things. But at least it doesn't threaten my livelihood and my ability to have a life and get up every day. Making money I can tell you, if anybody tells you that money doesn't make you happy, they're lying. You know, perhaps some people with money aren't happy because they're inherently not that bright. But to have what you were talking about, about the first million or the first hundreds of thousands, it does take away the stress that you feel from having to survive when you have very little, which I've had, I've been poor in my time, and I know that's like, that's not fun. And so making money is a really, really good thing to do. But to have a really worthwhile life, you have to have friends along the way and family and all of that stuff. Or you don't necessarily have to have family, that's for sure. But you certainly have to have good relations with people eventually. It took me a long time to learn that. What's your principle when you're dealing with other people? I have three rules in my life, the first one, which is very difficult, but it's a really good one to work is don't take anything personally ever. You know, it's not personal. And the second one is don't try and change anybody ever. You can't. The most you can do is to set a good example, and to influence others. And the third is that everything always works out, always, eventually. And it may take a long time and you have to keep working at it. But if you do, everything works out. And I challenge anybody listening today. The thing that you were worried about last week or last month or last year, you probably can't even remember what it was. So things pass, everything passes, everything changes. And if you can learn that, that is having three rules like that. Especially the last one is that everything changes like that. If you can learn that, that's the best way. This is a good way. This is good as exercise for these stressing. Because actually stress is good. Stress is a great thing to have, but the problem is worrying about stress. It's a bad thing to have. But a bit of stress, a bit of pressure, it's great. It makes things happen. But if you're worrying about it, and you're going around your head constantly, not good. Lending in a new country and realizing that you have not internet can ruin the first hour of any trip. You can't check the address called taxi or message someone. I use an ECM every time I travel. And today I want to tell you about Hall of Life plans, which is kindly supporting this video. What's good about Hall of Life plans is that your internet is ready before the trip even starts. So when you land, you don't feel that stress of being lost or disconnected. Hall of Life plans gives you monthly ECM plans covering 160 plus destinations with two flexible options. Light and unlimited. You install the ECM once, set it up in just a couple of minutes, and you can cancel anytime with no hidden costs. And for extra peace of mind, they're always on feature. Gives you one gigabyte of backup data per month after your ECM expires in 70 plus destinations. So you're not left completely disconnected. If your plan runs out, your trip gets extended, or you simply forget to renew it in time. Click the link in description and use my code, MaxcherNove, to get 5% of ECM's and 10% of Hall of Life plans for the first 12 months. Can you recall someone who really, when you met someone, you were fascinated with the personality. It can be a celebrity or entrepreneur or someone who really really had a wow effect. You know, I mean, the question is, who have I met, who I became completely obsessed and fascinated with their personality, and wanted to copy them. And honestly, I've met lots of people a long way, but nobody really pops out like that. Like maybe big entrepreneurs. Big entrepreneurs. Which brands don't have yellow maps? Yeah, I've met Richard Branson, but I didn't, you know, I've met him a few times, but I didn't. I wasn't completely blown away by him as a person in that respect. You know, obviously, you know, the Steve, I, all of them, you know, all those big, famous people that you read about. You know, I read things about them and I respect them. But when I meet people, generally, they're slightly disappointing. You know, they don't come over as, have you met people who've just absolutely blown you away? I met one guy in Bali, actually, just does come to mind, who was an oil zillionaire. He had made a lot of money out of oil. And we got talking and we had quite a deep conversation. I was really influenced by, I can't even remember his name, but I remember the thing that really made an impression on me, he said, you know, Simon, he said, the times are, the time to fire somebody. This guy was a nice guy. He said, the time to fire somebody is usually the first time you think about it, which is quite an arresting thought. But that is when you see somebody, you know, behave badly or something like that. Usually it's like an iceberg. The problem is much bigger belief the water. And it's the same when you come up against the problem in your business or your personal life even. And you see it, usually it's bigger below the water. So if you can make decisions early on, much better. He made an impression on me. So if you need to cut this tie, it's better. Yeah, you've got to cut cleanly. And there was another guy who was a guy, actually, I don't remember his name, his engineer architect. And he built Richard Branson's house on Neckar Island, Ian Orren with his name. And he always used to say, when you're building something, and I've built a lot of things, he said, it's just a question. And he said, it's just a question of getting from the beginning to where you're going and making his few mistakes as you can along the way. So that's one side of it. But then on the other side of it, I profess that you've got to make lots of mistakes and be willing to make mistakes in order to get somewhere. So the two things are completely opposite, both are true. Who are the biggest teachers during your active business years? Someone who really influenced your how you approach business, how you approach making decisions? Everybody asks me, will you be my mentor? And one of the things I like to do is to never say no to anything. So I always change it around into a positive thing. And I always say, well, don't ask somebody to be your mentor. Instead, just see if you can get to know them. And you can appoint them as your mentor without even telling them that they are your mentor. And get to know people because people love, if people ask me things, I love to give advice, I love to help people. I don't want to be constrained by being a mentor, but you can call it certain times. I've been influenced, but you know, I've never had a mentor, first of all, not one somebody who I've actually called my mentor. Like official mentor, yeah. I've never had one. And I've always thought that I know better than everybody else. I mean, fortunately, as I've got older, I've realized that that is a delusion. You know, it's a delusion. You know, this voice, it goes, I know everything. And this voice, it goes, you know, are you sure? And fortunately, I've learned that what is delusion, as we were talking about earlier. But, you know, I've just been influenced listening to you, just by the way you have conducted the work, of conducted this interview, for example. And I won't sort of work it out, but at an instinctive level, I'm aware of how I'm influenced by people. And I like to, I sometimes see a particular trait of a character thing in somebody, and I like to copy them. I mean, you've got a very good, for example. Come in, Pim. You've got a very good, you've got a nice face, and you've got good eyes, and you smile. But you go from being quite warm and easy to talk to, to quite serious as well. And I think that's something I might copy it. That's the thing I've always done, is go from being very, very serious to being humorous. So you're 74, right? I'm 74, yeah. How does it feel to be 74? Well, it's just the same as everybody, as that age says. You know, I feel pretty young, I haven't got any health issues. I go to the gym five, six days a week. I still climb mountains, I still kayak, I still ride horses, I still sail boats. So I'm still doing it, so it doesn't feel any different. But, do you know, if you live till 83, which is a pretty typical life, which is 10 years away from me, I guess, that is a thousand months. And I sometimes think that at the end of every month, I think, well, that's another month gone. How is that month? Because as you get older, the one thing you do want to do is to be as happy as possible, and to make the most of every single year. So I try and do my birthdays by the month, not by the year. So I quite like that idea. And I'm quite interested in the subject of death, because actually, I hope that, you know, if I was given a terminal, you know, whatever doctors do to you, say you've only got so long to live. I hope that I would do that as well as I've done the rest of my life. And so to be the idea that people say, oh, let's not talk about death, you're going to live forever, don't worry about that, don't worry about that. I quite like to talk about that, you know, and to bring that into part of the normal conversation, because we're all going to die whatever age you are. And if you're prepared for it, and you've thought about it, and you've actually, especially, if you've had a good life, I've had, I mean, I wouldn't say I've had an easy life. I think my life's been quite hard, but it's reasonably easy now. And I'm very pleased with my performance of life, and I've made a very good story out of it, and I've forgotten all the hard times. And so, yeah, if I got given a terminal, tell those going to die within a year or something, I hope I'd be okay about it. Cool. Are you afraid of the mortality concept that I'm not? No, I don't think I am. I mean, obviously I'm afraid of pain. But you know, we live in an incredible age, because people are very worried about pain when they get older, but actually the pain management today, and it's a very good reason to earn some money, and especially whatever level you're at, make sure that you've got a bit of money left for your retirement and medicine and things when you get older. Because if you have got a bit of money, the pain management now for dying is very, very good. What happens is when you get older, I'm told, and you're dying, is that in your last few months, you get tighter and tighter and tighter, and you sleep more and more and more and they give you pain, killers, and eventually you're kind of okay with going. So, it ain't that bad. I guess if you can't afford, if you live in America and you can't afford any painkillers, that that could be pretty tough. But it's not, I don't think dying is that bad. It's part of life. And anyway, here's my theory on dying. Okay. Is that what's the purpose of life? I mean, why are we here? Big question. But the way I see it is, and I don't know if you know this, but when you were conceived, there were 40 million other sperms trying to get conceived at the same time. 40 million, 30 to 40 million, my doctor told me. And I said to my doctor, if one of the other sperms have got their first, would it have been me? And he pulled his glasses down like this and he said, no. So you are the luckiest guy in the world that everybody watching, you are all lucky people because you got, you're a one and 40 million chance at getting a chance to live this life that we've lived, whether it's short or long, you were lucky to get that chance. And for me, that is a good enough purpose for life. Would you exchange your wealth that you have right now and become 30 years younger? Would you do this? So the question is, would I exchange the wealth I've gotten out to have 30 more years? Not 30 more years, but become like 30 years younger. 30 years younger. Do you know something? I can honestly tell you no. I rather like being this age. I wouldn't want to live through that through another 30 years or that stress and hassle. I'm rather enjoying having written it all up in the book and put a cap on it and pass it on to other people. So I don't think I would. No, I don't think I would exchange wealth for more years to live. I mean, the only thing I think I would pay quite big money, not all of it, I pay quite big money to live a few extra years just to see what's going to happen because we live in such an exciting age. And that's why I'm in the gym every day. And I have a secret suspicion. Most people think, oh, God, I'm going to die young. But I have a secret suspicion that I might live to quite an old age, maybe to 90 or 95, which would give me another 20 years. Now, 20 years, just thinking about it. Because this is, progress is a square law. But more progress we get technologically, the steeper it gets. And we're going to see so much happening in the next 10 or 20 years. And so many opportunities. Not that I'm looking for new opportunities in business, but to watch it happen. Wow, so interesting the future. Yeah, human race. Wow. And for you, because it seemed like cooler, because you lived through the Golden Year in the UK. And then you saw the Soviet Union and the old era collapse. And then the United States. I grew up when I was very small when we came back from Singapore. I could imagine what it was like living before the Second World War. That was the generation before mine. So I could really imagine. And I remember going to stay with some of our richer relations. They lived in English country houses with servants a bit like upstairs. Dan says, and I saw that whole world before there was any tech at all. And then I came through the music of the Sixth is, the end of the 50s and the 60s. And I was hanging on at the end of the Sixth is when it was all kicking off and the psychodilia and the music came along. And you could do things without any training. There was very little regulation. I lived through a totally golden age. And here I am in maybe another golden age. I don't know. But at least in spite of, for a lot of us, I mean for a lot of people there are wars and people suffer. But for you and me we haven't had to go to war. That is a big, big difference to previous generations. Would it at some point, would have gone to have to fight at some point or risk their lives? So what's the meaning of life for you? The meaning of life is purely that we have a chance to experience it. We've got lucky and we've got a chance to experience life. One in 40 million of being the sperm that got pregnant. Wouldn't have been you if it had been another one. So I think that's all there is to it. It's just to have the chance to live this incredible life. And sometimes I look around me and I look here, I'm looking at beautiful trees and different colors. You look at the table, you look at the cut by hands, you look at all of this. We're experiencing through our senses, you know, all these senses. We're experiencing all these absolutely incredible things every day. And if you can look at the world like that and be absolutely amazed about the relationship I have with you having met you for three hours, what we're doing, just to be in here. And not to take it from granted, just to wow. Wow. That's the way I see the world. It's pretty amazing. You can just live life being cited by those simple things. That is a pretty good way to be.