---
video_title: "Hong Kong Billionaire on China, America and Building Wealth From 0"
video_id: LCXnDh4AiTo
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LCXnDh4AiTo
video_date: 2026-07-01T09:35:24+00:00
video_description: |
  🌏 Apply for The Backstage Circle: https://forms.gle/huwR6NQNz5A4XgC78 
  🇹🇭 Learn* more about Layan Verde in Phuket here: https://links.layanverde.com/maxchernov Or contact the sales office directly on WhatsApp: https://links.layanverde.com/layanverdewachernov Mention me to get the best offer from the team 
  ✈️ Go to https://hfly.co/2nvmg and use code MAXCHERNOV to get 10% on Holafly plans for the first 12 months or 5% off on any other Holfafly eSIM 
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on Telegram: https://t.me/friendsofmax 
  
  *DISCLAIMER. This video includes a paid promotional integration for Layan Verde, a real estate development project in Phuket, Thailand. The host received fixed compensation and also personally owns property developed by the same developer group. This content is for informational and entertainment purposes only and is not investment advice, a recommendation, solicitation, or offer to purchase property. Real estate investment involves risk, including loss of capital, delays, developer default, currency fluctuation, and no guaranteed returns. This paid promotion has not been reviewed or approved by any financial or regulatory authority.
  
  Meet Allan Zeman, a Canadian-Hong Kong billionaire who became one of Asia’s most influential businessmen. In this video he shared what’s next for Hong Kong, China, and the West, why he gave up his Canadian citizenship to become Chinese, what is the biggest difference between Hong Kong and Singapore, the main mistake that destroys businesses and whether a university degree is actually necessary to become a billionaire. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  🎙 Listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts: https://open.spotify.com/show/1dktMfOBp11LNp52X3mkuR  or https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/max-chernov/id1875665593
  👥 Sponsorship requests / Guest suggestions: max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST
  ➢ LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/allan-zeman-78ab761
  
  WATCH NEXT
  ► Tech Multi-Millionaire Shares How He Built His Wealth Using AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O10NKwSJMek 
  ► Wealth Strategies of American Multi-Millionaire in Singapore: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Nz74s44wsQ 
  ► Singapore’s multi-millionaire on China, America and AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tP7QksbJVQ
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 INTRO
  01:54 Is Hong Kong Really Back?
  03:41 Why China Will Not Let Hong Kong Fail
  05:22 Hong Kong’s New Role in Asia
  07:23 Invitation to the Backstage Circle
  09:47 Will Hong Kong Change After 2047?
  10:40 Hong Kong’s Biggest Challenges
  14:02 Why Alan Believes the East Is Rising
  14:58 What Went Wrong in the West?
  16:35 China’s Capitalism With Chinese Characteristics
  18:34 Why China Thinks Long Term
  22:15 How China Built World-Class Infrastructure
  24:26 Why “Too Much Democracy” Does Not Work
  25:58 Which Asian Countries Should You Watch?
  28:21 Thailand’s Economy and Foreign Ownership Problem
  31:04 Allan’s Business in Phuket
  33:56 Why I Invested in Phuket Real Estate
  35:54 Hong Kong vs Singapore
  38:55 Why Hong Kong Feels More Alive
  43:08 How Hong Kong Changed After Covid
  45:00 Hong Kong and Shenzhen Becoming One Mega City?
  47:12 Why Allan Gave Up His Canadian Citizenship
  50:08 Becoming Chinese After Years in Hong Kong
  51:44 My Travel Hack for Staying Online Anywhere
  53:10 Allan’s Childhood After Losing His Father
  56:16 How He Started Making Money as a Kid
  58:14 Why He Skipped University
  1:01:28 How Sales Brought Him to Hong Kong
  1:03:34 Making His First Million
  1:04:29 Why He Moved to Hong Kong
  1:06:20 Behind the Scenes of My Interviews
  1:06:45 Allan’s Unfair Advantage in Hong Kong
  1:08:46 Witnessing the Hong Kong Handover
  1:13:40 What Young Entrepreneurs Need to Learn
  1:15:12 Seeing What Others Cannot See
  1:16:17 Building a Strong Team Around You
  1:16:30 How Allan Feels at 77
  1:19:47 Robots, AI, and the Future
  1:20:39 Is Life Simple or Complicated?
  1:21:48 The Meaning of Life
  
  This channel features raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery.
  
  I sit down with founders, investors, operators, experts, and outliers navigating the biggest shifts of our time, many of them based in or connected to Asia. We talk about money, leverage, relocation, power, tradeoffs, and the real decisions shaping what’s next, not as theory, but from lived experience.
  
  Some conversations happen inside billionaire homes. Some happen remotely with experts shaping global systems. All of them focus on signal over noise. 
  
  If you care about where to build, where to live, how to make better decisions in uncertain times, and what the future demands, you’re in the right place.
---
Meet Alan Zeman, a Canadian Hong Kong billionaire who became one of Asia's most influential businessmen. I've been through everything in Hong Kong. I've been an advisor for every chief executive since the handover. When he was just seven years old, his father passed away and by the age of 10 he was delivering newspapers before school. Later Alan made a couple of bold moves. First he decided to skip university and started business instead. Then in his 20s he moved to Hong Kong long before most people saw Asia as a place to build their future. There he transformed a quiet street into the world famous Lankwai Fond Nightlife district and helped shape Hong Kong into one of Asia's most vibrant and iconic cities. After more than half a century in Hong Kong and decades of building businesses across China, Thailand and other parts of the region, Alan believes Asia is the best place to be right now. The East is rising, the West is on the way down. He shared what's next for Hong Kong China and the West. Too much democracy in the East world doesn't really work. Why he gave up his Canadian citizenship to become Chinese? Then I thought to myself, I want to become Chinese. What is the biggest difference between Hong Kong and Singapore? Singapore does not have China behind it. The main mistakes that destroy businesses, you'll hate every day, you know, you just be looking at your watch. And whether a university degree is actually necessary to become a billionaire. I have six honorary doctorate degrees since I never went to university. I'm Akchur Nob. I was talking about 12 global mobility and mastery. Everything is ready. Sit here. Yeah. Oh, okay. I need to see about the chair. You can keep it. I mean, I don't mind. Yeah. It's nice. Do you like this chair? Is it a truck? Okay. I don't mind. This is high. You guys go ahead. Okay. All right. Okay. Okay. They start visiting Hong Kong maybe like three years ago right after COVID. The mood was kind of down. People were like the energy was much less. Right. And then now I start talking to people and they say, oh, Hong Kong is back, the economy is back. Hong Kong is like bounce back, the energy is there. You also feel it. Is it like this? Hong Kong always bounces back. I've been through, I've been here for 58 years most of my life. Yeah. And I can tell you, of course, Hong Kong goes through different periods, ups and downs. As every country, every city does in the world. The good thing about Hong Kong, Hong Kong always bounces back. In one thing that people have to realize, Hong Kong has big parent behind them to make sure that we do well. And that's China basically. Because for China, I'd have said this many times, the many foreign press who interview me and they worry, oh, China is taking back Hong Kong, no more freedom, all this crap. But I can tell you, China, if they didn't have Hong Kong, they would have to invent another Hong Kong. Because Hong Kong has one country, two systems. We have the common law system, same as most countries in the world. China practices the civil law system. So most countries, and we have a free flow of capital in and out, independent judiciary. And so every company, every person around the world, trusts that system. And that's why they trust Hong Kong. And that's why China, Hong Kong is the go-between, the super connector between China and the West and the West and China. And Hong Kong is the guy in the middle. We make things happen. And so that's why China will never let Hong Kong fail. And if the economy is bad, they will always do things. The reason the economy, yes, bounce back very strong after COVID, our stock market was dead after COVID. Nobody was buying stocks. Same as China, nobody was doing everything. Buying any stocks, everybody said, oh, it's uninvestable. Fared that before. And what's happened is about three years ago, the US, Nasdaq, and New York Stock Exchange, at that time, Biden, the president, at the time, sanctioned any Chinese companies from listing on the Nasdaq. And so many Chinese companies want to go public. And they could not list. And so what a China do. OK, gather all the companies, list in Hong Kong. Three years ago, Hong Kong was number one in IPOs in the world. Two years ago, number one in IPOs. And this year, again, we should be number one. Depends on Elon Musk with his SpaceX, but who knows. But in any case, value wise, we again will, in number of units, will be number one. And so Hong Kong continues to thrive, and not just from mainland China, but a lot of Hong Kong companies going public. And because of the geopolitical situation in the Middle East, and so many companies now, family offices, all coming to Hong Kong, and to set up who used to be in Dubai, in UAE, in Saudi Arabia. So everybody is now finding that this is the safe place. And China is a safe place as well. What's the role of Hong Kong now? Like before, it was like a gate to China from the Western world. Then it was like 25% GDP. Now you have Xinjiang. And basically for many aspects, Xinjiang actually over two. Yeah, in production, of course, with population wise, Hong Kong is only 7.5 million people. Yeah, Xinjiang is now close to 23, 24 million. And so of course, you will have, and Xinjiang, of course, is the technology AI. Take that one of the main scholars of China's economy. And so Hong Kong itself, in family offices, we've just overtaken Azoric Switzerland at to be number one, which is really, really a real achievement. Because we now have 3,483 family offices, which is, we'd be finally being Zoric. And then we have a whole line up of more family offices because of the Middle East problem. So many now are coming to Hong Kong to set up family offices here. And then another thing, which the government in Hong Kong is just about to pass, they made an announcement that any fund manager who runs a fund and shows a profit for the year, instead of paying tax, they eliminated no tax for those fund managers. And so you now have, from what I hear, a whole line up of fund managers from around the world coming to open up to live in Hong Kong, bring the families out. This is a real game changer. It used to be Dubai, had that. But because of the war in Iran, many people now feel this is really safe. The good thing is, China doesn't start wars. They don't take part in wars and same thing. So Hong Kong, this is like the old days of what the Western world In my interviews, I always try to get people's real, unpolished opinions. And that's why I never share a list of questions beforehand, even if they ask. But interviews are still the public layer. The real layer is what happens off camera. The most valuable conversations and the most important decisions in life never take place in a public setup. They happen in small private rooms, behind closed doors, between people operating at a high level who actually trust each other. I recently brought a selected group of founders and investors to Puket. Very strong operators. One of them, for example, was he and Gok. Maybe you saw him on my channel before. Variable known VC who sold his previous business for $65 million. And we spent a few days together in a private, setting, building real relationships and sharing experiences. One of those experiences was visiting Mohan Morghani at his house. A billionaire who created the Tomahel figure brand. We spent several hours together with him talking about life, business and decisions in a completely private setting. And after the trip, one participant is now about to invest $300,000 into another participants company. That's what happened when the room was right. But most people never get access to rooms like this. This stuck in surface level conversations, random networks and low signal environments. Okay, this is important. The leverage is not more information. The leverage is being in the right room with right people. And that's what I'm building with the backstage circle. It's a private, curated group of founders, investors and operators who want to level up their life, business and relationships, surrounding themselves with the right people. It's a closed door environment with real decisions about business, life philosophy, capital, positioning, big ideas and next moves. No pitching, no shell networking, only people who are open, thoughtful and operating at a high level. A big part of the backstage circle is access. I'm bringing exceptional founders, investors and billionaires. I meet personally to join these private sessions and conversations. If you're already operating at a high level and making real decisions, you can join the waiting list. The number of seats in the group is very limited. And if it's a fit, you'll get the details. What people don't understand about China and China relationships with Hong Kong. Because people, some people will argue, okay, wait until 2047 and then it will be no Hong Kong. It will be just another Chinese city. But I said that is a ridiculous statement because if you understand Hong Kong, as I said earlier, China will always need a Hong Kong. Because of the need, export, they need other offices. A lot of other companies that have done IBOs have now opened up offices in Hong Kong. Because they want to go abroad. They want to sell their product in the West. And so this is the go to place. And so that's why I say in 2047, China will always need a one country to systems. And so that's why that will never happen. What I think the biggest challenges for Hong Kong, like does it need to reinvent itself for some extent? Well, the biggest challenge is for Hong Kong. Obviously the world right now is facing geopolitical situations. I mean, the good thing is Hong Kong is right now is because it's so strong in financial services. It's 27% of Hong Kong's GDP, which is not bad. And we continue to attract more finance, more money, more companies wanting to set up here. And so that's not a challenge. Obviously the world is changing everywhere in the world. AI technology is the new buzzword. Everybody's talking about AI, AI, AI. We're either going to blow up the world through AI or the ambient in the world or an Elon Musk will save the world at joking. But I mean, basically, Hong Kong, I think, we have some of the six of the top universities every year. We've been in the top 100 in Asia. And Hong Kong, you as one of the tops in the world, basically, University of Hong Kong. And so as long as we have the universities, that'll be a very, very strong thing. The challenger of Hong Kong now is because Hong Kong always had limited space. We always had where, you know, we can see one building on the top of the Heather and all high rises. But what's happened now is we have something called the Northern Metropolis, which is the new on the borderline in Shenzhen. And that is 33,000 hectares of land, which we are going to develop into a university town. We're going to part. We're going to have room for another 500,000 homes where people can move in there. We also will have a lot of new site, like Science Park, buildings that will be in conjunction with Shenzhen and for high-tech buildings. And attracting now, from instance, by a medical AstraZeneca, we'll be opening a big company here. So a lot of companies from overseas will now be opening up in the greater Bay Area. Because government will be charging very, very little for land. Because that's always been a problem here. Land prices were so high. But the government really, really wants to make this into another game changer for Hong Kong. Because before everything was stock market, property market, that was basically the way Hong Kong went. Property market, stock market, was the way we went. But now it's all changing because really industry is opening up here. And let's say industry technology, which is something we lack for a long, long time. We're far behind China. China is really, to me, one of the best in the world now. And a lot of the mainland companies are opening up. Companies here, once they go public and even for manufacturing, because again, because they want country to systems. So they can do things in Hong Kong. They can't really do in China, where they have some restrictions. So these are things that will continue to build in. We are attracting so many people worldwide, scientists from US, are all coming back now to China, some are settling back in Hong Kong, people who went to school there to universities that graduated, and then went into some of the famous companies that we all know. But many of them are not happy with the administration there right now. And they're R&D budgets were cut down. And so they just feel China is really on an open. So they're all coming back home. And so that's a real shift, what do you see? As you have to, and I say one thing, for what is going on, because of geopolitical situation, I say the east is rising, the west is on the way down. From the way things are going, to a whole other world. And I really feel very confident on the future, especially in the east. What do you think the main problem with the west right now? What's the, or like, several main problems? What caused this? You know, Western democracy was a system that everybody should look up to. If you look at the west right now, US is kind of a mess, you know, 250 years, which they will be celebrating on Donald Trump birthday with the UFC, UFC, what the fight is a rebuilding on the way down, whatever, the reaches on. But you know, so if you look at the US, you look at Canada, you look at UK, mass, you look at Germany, economy's not good, you look at France, economy's not good. What's happened is in the old days, there was no social media. And so people just voted for the party that they liked, and there was no influence, you know, you have to read the newspaper, or watch TV. That was the old days for everywhere in the world. And so it was much more stable environment. What's happened with social media, it's changed the way people think, the way people get influenced, you know, if they see it on social media, oh, it must be true. You know, and that's one of the ways that MAGA grew up in the United States, make America great again, you know, and people then vote. And blindly, because a leader tells me I'm going to be rich. And vote for me. In Asia now is a lot different, because what we used to call the Communist system, say for China Fire and the State, you know, it's just Communist. China, if you go to China, it's the furthest thing from Communist, that you can imagine. No, it's capitalism by me with Western, with Chinese characteristics. Yeah. It's capitalism with Chinese characteristics, which is exactly what happens. Have huge companies like Tencent, Maytwan, you've got Alibaba, you know, so many companies that are really so big. And Huawei, you know, and continues the electric car companies. Now it's going to be, you know, just suddenly doing so well. And you can see the shift in mentality, because of the tariffs before in the US, where a lot of the friends of the US were suddenly faced with tariffs. Not very happy campers. And so they all now started to come to China, you know, originally Macron was probably the first one for France to come. Then Starmer came from the UK. Then Frederick Mainz from Germany, the President, first ship had come to China, the Beijing. And when he went, he was told, because he's be kind of an opponent of China, you know, he's, and he went to Beijing first time, and then went to Hong Zhao in, you know, in China. It was blown away with what he saw. He became a convert, and now they just had about 10 or 15 ministers go to China, and you know, to suddenly, because, you know, their car automobile industry is really suffering in Germany, which, you know, all the brands, they were like the masters of everything, and because of the electric cars, they kind of overtaken the world price-wise, and technology-wise, everything. I mean, I have six of them, and they're the best. So that's why I say, in China, it just continues. The difference with the Chinese system, China, they work long-term. They look at plans, and they think long-term, and they go step-by-step to really do things that really benefit the people. That is the only country that took 500 million people out of poverty into a middle class in 10 years, no other system in the world has been able to do that. And I've just seen the country grow more and more prosperous today. I mean, it's just unbelievable, you know, what's going on there, exports to the world are huge, and because they become the factory of the world, but not just low-end anymore, they're now doing high-end goods, you know, very, very good quality goods. You know, it's not just the cheap products that they used to make. I really believe, you know, last year, they finished in exports. They finished a year on 11.2 trillion US dollars, whether they've never, no one's ever done that before. And the good thing about the Chinese, the middle class, they have 22 trillion US dollars saved up in the bank. The government, of course, trying to get them to spend some of it, but they're really good savers. If you look at around the world, and you add up all the middle class, I don't think they have 22 trillion, you know, the US, the middle class, unfortunately, they don't pay check to pay check. You know, it's a totally different system, you know, they live on credit cards. It's a totally different system. Chinese people are savers. They're long-term thinkers, and they just want to make sure that they have a good life, because life for the children, they want the best, as every parent wants for their kids, no matter what the system is. And so that's why China, you know, now rare earth, which is so important in the world, you know, for technology, for car-eating cars, for batteries, for you name it. So, you know, China controls 90% of all the rare earth in the world, and the refining is 92%. You know, every many countries in the world have rare earth, but the problem is it's the refining that, you know, in 1980s, US used to be the country that had rare earth, but then it is a very pollution-wise, environmentally, unfriendly business. And so, all the proponents in the US, they got rid of it, they sent it all to China. And so, now it's become so important, you know, between some of the different minerals. And so, and you can't just refine it just like that. You have to go through some of the minerals, go through a thousand, because it's earth, you take it out of the ground, it's just earth, but you have to wash it through a thousand times, some of the, you know, some of the things in order, so that it becomes usable. And these are things that made China so strong, because even when the trip before, when Trump came out to visit the Presence, Beijing, and they didn't even realize about rare earth how important it was. And then when I guess when they told him how important it was, his whole tone changed and my best friend's China, you know, and not an opponent anymore, and no more crazy tire-of-friar tires. Or that kind of thing. It's a good thing about, you can see that things are now starting to pay off. China's well invested in infrastructure, in China, if you go to China today, it's unbelievable. Their airports are second to none all over the world, beautifully built airports in every city, even second tier cities, third tier cities, all have great airports. They have the trains, the high-speed rail, they invest in high-speed rail, connecting every city in the world. They have a 550,000 kilometers of high-speed rail. It's just unbelievable how they've been able to connect every city. I know when I travel a lot of time to just take the high-speed rail, it's so comfortable and so quickly and so comfortable. And so they just do things, you know, the highways are all first-class. Everything about them, you know, they invest a lot in the new world, in the green technology, you know, really trying to reduce carbon footprint, you know, and all these things that some of the other countries refuse to do. So they take the right steps. I mean, really the leadership in China, I respected immensely because I think they really have taken. I've seen China go from poor country in, that was their 48 years. I saw, I was in Hunan and Changshiao, 48 years ago, we didn't have food, we didn't have electricity. It was just a very poor country. Nice people, but poverty. And I really experienced it. I used to go 14 hours overnight to train from Guangzhou to Changshiao, you know, with the PLA, sleeping in the hard seats, sleeping in the aisles. It was, I could write a book about it, you know. And then things changed. You know, I saw after the Deng Xiaoping came along and he sit shins in, was all field and farm. He said, this will be a special economics zone. I thought it's crazy. I didn't even know what it meant. You know, 27 years later, you look at Chen Zeng today, it's one of the most amazing cities in the world. Everybody that goes there in such a short period of time, you know, because they do things at record speed. They plant properly and they really work together. And that's the difference between so-called democracy, where you have one party fighting against the other party. China's a place that everybody works together to improve their life. And I know it's hard because I listen. I lived under a democratic system. And I say, this is democracy, but too much democracy in today's world doesn't really work. And when I say too much democracy, everybody voting better if everybody supports a leader that will make their life better. And it was just really what's all they want, you know. And it doesn't allow for corruption. It doesn't allow for many, many things. So I, you know, I'm even a system in Hong Kong. I mean, it's one country to systems, but the same we vote. But again, it's a small number of people that vote, support Chief Executive. And Hong Kong just continues to thrive. I mean, the systems here really do are Singapore no different. You know, I mean, you have elections, but again, most of the parties have been forever in power, you know, the major parties. And so, and Singapore is another country that really works very, very well. And so whenever you have now, you look at all the countries that have the so-called the old days of Western democracy, they really have problems. And because they really don't work together, and don't work for the people. And that's the problem. Let's speak a bit about the region, South East Asia, plus China. What are countries? Because you do business in many countries here in the region. What countries we should watch closely? What do you think, like, the very interesting places now here? Well, I think, aside from China, as I say, aside of China. I think that both every country now is now. Yet, now, it's coming up quite strong. Malaysia, as well, because of these semiconductors, you know, because they either moved into, you know, and they're very good. Singapore, as we said earlier, is the best at South East Asia. We have Indonesia coming on, again, very, very strong. I mean, they have their problems up and down, but huge population. And I believe very, very strongly in all these countries, even Hong Kong. We just came back from Central Asia, the chief executive, let a group of delegation to Uzbekistan, and also Kazakhstan, and the whole new market basically, helping out Central Asia, because of what's going, because of geopolitical situation. So, you know, just opening up different countries. So I feel very strongly this whole Asian market is really growing strong. And hopefully Japan is a good country, you know, again, leadership change causes changes within the environment, within the world. We'll see how long that lasts there. And, you know, and then maybe get back to normal business. Korea, of course, another powerhouse, you know, in South Korea, of course. With the new leadership there, it seems to be close with China now and both the United States. These are all countries. I mean, that's why I say, all of Asia, is really, I can't really say that, you know, I'm leaving out, like, of course, the peripheral countries, like maybe Laos or, you know, the secondary countries. But in general, mostly, key cities, well, key countries, are really on an upswing, you know. You don't have wars out here. That really helps a lot. Yeah, but you didn't mention Thailand, though you have a big, big, old story. Thailand also, well, it's going through, you know, upswing. People say economy is not doing great. Not doing great, or not doing great. Because, you know, they had change of power in leadership, you know, and they went from Texan, Shenawattra to Anotin, you know, who is more of a businessman, but again, different philosophies. That's why I said, changing up parties always causes a new, you know, new thing. And so, I mean, Thailand is a great place, great for tourism. Forget, you know, I do a lot of business there, but, you know, get the foreigners, just like a separate place. Yes, separate place, yeah. And so, I mean, just in general, you know, because now they're cracking down on foreigners that don't have, you know, before you had a lot of, because ties have to own 51% of the business, you know, gently, and foreigners can have 49%. Because they want to protect their home industries and all that. But it causes a lot of problems for attracting talent from overseas, you know. And so, those kind of countries need to change the rules to really open up and really, then you can really do well, you know, thinking about it as that kind of problems, you know. All I've got now, because I talk to entrepreneur from, yeah, entrepreneur from Thailand, and then when they can see the location, it's of the old. To Thailand, to Vietnam, Vietnam, you have, can have full ownership, like in China. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And so, that changes a whole dynamics where you can track top people, you know, to your country. And, you know, and they can think normally and do business, if they're very good, they'll do business. And, you know, and they'll attract more people to the country, they'll do better and better. So, I think that in general, I'm pretty confident that, you know, when they say that, you know, Indonesia, of course, has big families and, you know, a lot of self-interest, you know, still not as open with foreigners than, you know, more pro-Indo-Nesians. Those countries that really open up to a lot better, you know, and do very, very good. Because it attracts people who open businesses, and that employees' locals, you know, and everybody has a better life. And so, I think, I think, but Thailand will, in spite of itself, will work itself. We've got too many good things going for it. Yes. You know, and so... You do a lot of business on Puket. You do real estate. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What do you do? Oh, while I have a hotel called Dara, which is very five-star hotel, very strong. I've got another project in Bangtao called Sudara, which is working on condominiums, one bedroom, two bedroom, three bedroom condominiums, we're building 500 condominiums. We've built first phase 250, so they 80% already. Many Eastern Europe, European people, but they're beautiful, you know. And so, it's really a good place. I've been there for 25 years, basically. It's just mother nature is really good to the country. Whether it's always good, the beaches, everything. The Thai culture, people just love it. Yeah. Yeah, so it's just one of those Saudi-Kai. Yeah. One of those wonderful places. From the personal investment standpoint, you think it's still a good idea to invest in real estate in Puket? Like, how do you think? Yeah, I mean, real estate, for sure. You know, because it's funny because, say, you know, I'm saying earlier, we sold so far, the kind of people that have bought. We sold many units to Russians, of course. Many units to people in Poland, because Poland is very strong on technology, number one, in Eastern Europe and technology. And many just, you know, they see the wars in Russia and Ukraine and whatever, so many are just coming out there. And then we sold a lot to Bulgaria. I was very, very surprised. But they came out in again. They just wanted a second home back of their mind, kind of, of safety for the children, for their wife, for themselves, maybe later on. And so, yeah, it's, you have a conglomerate of people from all over the world that, you know, that by, we've got somebody sold one to a lady from South Africa, actually. Yeah. So it's a good place. I like to do business in a country I like. Yeah. And I like the culture. I like the people. It's a lot better. Yeah. I feel a lot better that way. Yeah, so in general, this part of the world, I look at, not very well. And then we're doing a lot of property in China right now. We have five, like, quite fun, like, quite fun, this famous area that I developed in Hong Kong for many years. It's done nightlife area. And we're doing five of them in China at the moment. They're opening up, yeah. So, yeah, I enjoy it. Alan is not the only person waiting big on Puket. I've already invested my own money into two apartments here. Both developed by my good friend Vadim and his company, Villa Carta. Vadim saw the potential of Puket years ago and brought more than two decades of real estate experience to the island. Since then, he has built Villa Carta into one of the Puket's leading developers with over 300,000 square meters of projects in its portfolio. And now he's building his most ambitious project. This project is called Lian Verde. It's a half a billion US dollars development in Puket in Banquetau area, one of the most fast-growing areas in Puket. This mini city has more than 65 facilities, panoramic-seview apartments and hotel management by the CIT International. Honestly, when I visited the construction site, I was shocked by the scale of it. More than 400 people are working in the middle of the jungle to bring this project to life. While I was there, I asked Vadim's colleague the questions every future investor wants answered. What did I expect at yields? Like realistic ones. We say 8% over the first four or five years of the development. And on top of that, you're expected to get about a 30 to 40% capital price growth by the time this project goes live and we give you the keys. How guarantees is that? We have all of the funding facilities in place to complete the project. We can finish the project and we'll finish the project. We are on schedule. I really can recommend to look at this project, Lian Verde. It's not a financial advice. I just share my experience. So do your own research before making any investment decisions. But if you're considering buying something in Puket, take a look at this project. We will leave a link below in the QR code on the screen. Just make sure you tell them you come from Max Chernov YouTube channel and you will get a special treatment from the guys. And perhaps one day, this mini city of the future can become your home. And we're going to be neighbors. Hmm? Let's speak a bit about Singapore. So I live in Singapore. I'm based there. What do you think? You go there. I'm pretty sure you go there often. Or you used to go there often for business. What are the biggest differences that you see between Hong Kong and Singapore? Maybe how society structure, how society works? Two different cultures. Singapore people, I mean, beautiful city, very, very nice. You know, and very efficient. Everything is very manicured, you know. And what they do, they do well. You know, the government's really led them. Like, Lee Kuan Yew was really the kind of the Godfather of Singapore and really created, really, which was remarkable in a short period of time. Great city. Very safe. That's, you don't have to worry about anything. You know, you can go out all night, and not a problem. And, you know, so that's always like impressed me. And, you know, and it's very efficient. It's got trust, a brand in the world that countries around the world should really trust. So, the Singapore stock market does very, very well. You know, the companies also do very, very well. They pay their government officials the highest in the world, you know, in general. And so, they really have a good team, you know, and really built Singapore into kind of a, well, one of the strongest cities, the name card in Southeast Asia, you know. Then, same in Hong Kong, again, because we're connected to China. We're on the border with China. And Hong Kong again has its own system. But again, safety, that's the beauty of what's happened out here. Safety is so important, especially if you have kids. You know, today, you wake up every day and it breaks my heart to see in the West. In the US, every day, you've got shooting 10 people, 6 people, 8 people, 2 people, you know. It never used to be that way. But today, because the National Rifle Association, NRA, wield a lot of power, especially in boats, and it's legal. It's my second amendment right to carry a gun. You know, you have a gun. Guns were not made for people to play with and to keep it home. You know, that was done for hunters, for food, and that kind of thing in the old days. And so, but that is, you know, but, and that's why I say, with systems really made the Western system and say in there, in the United States, go Australia. I lived there as a kid. Was never like that. We never had to worry about anything like that. So, it's, you know, things have now really changed a lot. Yeah, so like Singapore and Hong Kong, like safety is common thing. Safety is what's different. Like I try to understand like... Again, again, in Hong Kong, it seems to have more vibrancy, more life here, you know. Culturally, both are similar. We have, you know, museums, Singapore museums. No, we have the Kitek Stadium, which a lot of shows in Singapore has a nice stadium. Sports is another big event now for Hong Kong. It just seems a little more Western, you know. Singapore? No. Hong Kong. Hong Kong? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because... Well, one country, two systems, no, no, no. And because we are the Western system, and Eastern, left hand, Eastern system, right hand is the Western system, you know. So, we have both on one body. Singapore has their own, down their own system, really. And so, Singapore's currency is respected around the world. They have huge reserves, you know, to back it up. But Hong Kong just seems to have that, because I know after COVID, many Hong Kong people, the expats left, in Singapore. They have to look for it. Few years later, wasn't the same. They all started to come back again. It's just a different vibe, you know. And you have to live here to experience it's less controlling in a way, you know. Sure, yeah. Here's much less control, much freer. And people, you know, in the old days, I remember Singapore had to flush the toilet, you know, or you'd be fine, you know, and you couldn't chew gum, you know. And that kind of thing, that has changed a lot since then. But, I mean, that was the old days. But the culture of Singaporeans are much more reserved because of the way the system, you know, the culture is... been ingrained in, you know, in their heads. And so, Hong Kong is... conglomeration of so many different nationalities living here together. You know, I remember, we pre-97, we were British, you know, around the 50 years there. We had the British year and, you know, everybody was British. And then it's live first, 1997. You wake up and they tell you you're Chinese now, you know. And at the beginning, some people had problems with that because it's never happened before. But today, it's just none of that. It's just been really, really very good. So, the other thing is, Hong Kong, because of China, this is the gateway to China. So, everyone in the world wants to take part into 1.4 billion population, who have money and who can buy. And so, they all come to Hong Kong from everywhere in the world to do business and go into China. Singapore does not have China behind it. You know, it's about Southeast Asia, but nothing wrong. Different market. Different market. Indonesia, you know, have their own world, Malaysia, you know, doing semiconductors now. Their own world. But not the same. China is one huge zepyra house, you know. Because I live in Singapore and come to Hong Kong often. I have this theory. Actually, there are more foreigners living in Singapore. Yes, statistically. Like the population of like US citizens, like French, British, much bigger. Here, I feel like there is a, maybe less in number, like foreigners live here. But the, maybe the attitude is a bit different. Let me try to explain. Because in Singapore, there are so many foreigners. There is a little bit of tension with locals and foreigners. Because in Singapore, there are not many of like three million plus. But here, everyone knows that, okay, Hong Kong belongs to China. Chinese ethnicity is the main ethnicity. So you guys can come, just do your business. But you'll be my minority. And that's fine. That, I don't know, if it's the right, it's not. Yeah, wrong. Well, the thing is, we had a lot more foreigners. We had 200,000 foreigners. Leave Hong Kong, drink COVID. Because Carrie Lam at that time, the chief executive of Hong Kong, refused to open up the schools. As they were learning online. And of course, all the expats got, because the rest of the world had opened up. And she, just on her own, not because China told her to do it. And she decided that we weren't ready. And so, we've opened up. So we lost 200,000 expats. Instead, there was a huge change. After that. And then we had different talent schemes to attract foreigners back, you know, talents. And we got a lot of more foreigners now, moved back. But we also got now a lot more mainland Chinese who have moved here to take this place of the foreigners that left. And they moved their kids and their families to Hong Kong. And, you know, we have some like 200,000 mainlanders who have moved to Hong Kong to work in different industries. And so people say it feels more Chinese. Well, it is. It is because there's so many, even in this building, I've, you know, I've rented out to five or seven. Yeah, I've got about seven different mainland operators from restaurants to carry OK to, you know, to hot bohawk, you know, like, yeah, they all open up here and they're doing very, very well. It's a combination. But that's Hong Kong. It's always going through different changes. And that's what I guess makes it interesting. The other thing is we have the Great Harbor in Hong Kong, which is 10 minutes from downtown. You can go hiking the hills in 15 minutes. You can go hiking and any of the hills around Hong Kong. It's just so much to do, you know, it's, uh, it's really, really become an amazing place. And now with the, with Shen Zed, you know, the open border every weekend, we lose so many people just going across the border now. You don't even need, you need, you know, just face your recognition, just walk right through now. You don't even need to go through a big race. And in that respect, it's become, I say, Hong Kong basically. And Shen Zed have become one big city. One big city. It's like, you've got, we've got from seven-half million people to like 28 million people. The other thing is I was going to say the Great Abbey area, which is GBA, which is another very important thing that you'll hear more and more about. Great Abbey area is 88 million people. 11 cities connected, I had southern China, like Hong Kong, Macau, Guangzhou, Shen Zed, and seven other prayerful cities, you know, that are, that are very strong. And they're all connected by high speed rail. The furthest one is one and a half hours away by high speed rail. 88 million people. They were the ninth largest GDP in the world, larger than Italy, larger than South Korea. And so they're really people with money and very industrious industry. So the idea is to connect all these cities into what we call the Great Abbey area. And it'll be one of the greatest, or not our number one Bay areas around the world. That's another feature that we want to just see how we can all work together and connect up in Hong Kong again. We'll be the super connector between the GBA and the rest of the world. And Macau has come on very strong also. It's like 45 minutes on the bridge to Macau. And that's, you know, the gaming capital of Asia. And also doing very, very well. So a lot going on. That's the exciting part about Hong Kong. There's so many places you can go, good places, and really enjoy yourself. You grew up in Canada, yeah, then you moved to Hong Kong. And then in 2008, you actually renounced your Canadian citizens. Do you remember the day and was it like emotional for you? It was more like a practical thing to do. It was just because as I said, I'd been in China for so many years. And I experienced true poverty and all that. And then I saw how China was changing. I was getting better and better stronger and stronger. And I thought to myself, wow, this country is really, I saw people's lives, my staff. Their life were getting better and better. They suddenly had an apartment. They suddenly had a car. They were traveling outside. And I thought to myself, in such a short period of time, I really admire this country. I saw the changes taking place in the infrastructure, the high-speed rails, the, you name it. I mean, I was just blown away by it all. And so then I thought to myself, I really believe this country will be number one in the world. I hadn't been back to Canada for so many years. And such as that to myself, you know what? I want to become Chinese. And I'm not unhappy. And so at that time, the Canadian government thought it was crazy. For eight months, I had to apply to give up my Canadian passport. They were kind of, they, why you do it? Why you do it? What's not the thing right now? No, no, why? Because, you know, they thought it was communist at all. I'm not going to be this at all, but I just saw the changes. You know, I grew up in the fashion business. And I always look ahead, fashion teachers to look ahead. I always think, what are you wearing next year? What color are you going to be wearing? Wide pants, narrow pants, you know? Her skirts above the knee, below the knee, you know what? So I always, from 16 years old, I always was thought to think ahead. And I always do. And I even took that motto to my business. And I always think ahead, I always think about tomorrow. What are people going to be thinking about tomorrow? And that helps me a lot in making decisions in business, you know? And so... And so like 18 years ago, you already, like, saw that, okay, China would be number one. Yeah, that's a nice idea. I want to be part of this. I want to be part of it. Because I was already part of it, you know, I could write a book about my experiences at that time, you know? And I just wanted to, and I really believe that they were really going. And I saw the other countries having problems internally. And so I thought, you know what? This is really the place, and I wasn't planning on moving. This was home. So I made this well. This is maybe part of it. And it's all my families here, my kids are here, my grandkids are here, everybody's here. They don't have another home. This is home. And so... You remember that day when you actually got your new passport? Like... Yeah, I'm not a emotional person. So I got the passport. It was another day. But I was very happy, very proud. Finally, after eight months of our reunion with the Canadian government, to let me go. You know, I was, and everybody was so happy when they gave me the passport the Chinese were, like, over the... Yeah, really, so proud that, you know, I call myself a joke. I say I'm one country, two systems. I have the Western face, right? Right in the face. And the Chinese yellow heart, the Chinese heart. And so I'm the true one country, two systems. Yeah. You know, but that's, you know, but that's really how I feel. I've, you know, I've been through everything in Hong Kong. I've been through the handover ceremony. I've been invited to all that. I've been an advisor for every chief executive since the handover. To Chi Wai, to Donald John, to Si Wai Lung, to Carrie Lam, now, John Lee, I've always been an advisor for them, special advisor. And I just continue to, I love this place. I just, just, I wouldn't, I wouldn't live anywhere else in the world, you know, just, I don't even travel that much outside to Europe or to North America. No, I've been there, I lived there. I used to travel so much when I was, when I was a kid, but I'm just really happy in Asia, in the spite of the world. And it's worse all happening. So I'm at the center of it all. I've spent most of my life traveling. And I've learned that almost any problem becomes easier when you have a phone in your hand and reliable internet. That's why I use an ECM and never really worry about the internet when I travel. Today, I want to tell you about Hall of Life plans. Hall of Life plans is a monthly ECM subscription that keeps you connected in 160 plus destinations with just one ECM. You install it once and whenever you land, your internet is already there. What makes Hall of Life different? It's the first international mobile operator so you can travel across America's Europe, Asia or Africa with peace of mind, knowing your internet is always ready. They have two options depending on your lifestyle. Light with 25 GB per month and unlimited. With unlimited data and even a phone number from the UK, US or Canada to receive SMS. Both plans also come with hotspot. Hall of Life plans is designed for people who travel often, digital nomads, expats, remote workers or anyone constantly moving between countries. Setup takes just a couple of minutes. You keep the same ECM across trips and you can cancel anytime with no hidden costs. There is also an always on benefit. If you decide to cancel your ECM plan, you get one GB of backup data per month in 70 plus destinations, as long as it stays installed on your phone. Go to HallofLife.com or click the link in description and use code MAXCHERNOW to get 5% of ECM's and 10% of Hall of Life plans for the first 12 months. Can I ask you to maybe briefly share your story, like how you start your business? I know you share it many times, I listen to your podcasts, but because I have audience who may not know you from Singapore, like maybe briefly, how was it? I'll do a brief. My father died when I was 70 years old. I was living in Montreal, Canada at the time. My parents were European, were from Europe, and my father passed on. And my mother was young widow. You know, and so she decided to stay in Montreal and Canada. And she then decided, I had an older sister living in New York. Actually, my sister was born in Russia. Oh really? How come? During the war, my parents were from Poland originally. Not that I'm poor. I have no idea. But yeah, so they, during the war, they escaped. And I guess they went through different places. And I said she was born. And I found my son told me, the son, I thought it was where she says Russia, but I think at that time it was called Kazakhstan. So yeah, so she was born in Kazakhstan. And I was born in Germany, although I'm not German. My parents were there for a month. And probably in the labor camp or something. And then they were sent off to Canada. And so I went to Montreal. And they grew up in Montreal. My father, we came from a mothered family. And my father passed away. He was a young, he was seven years old. He was a heart attack. And you know, for, well, to find out, you know, at the young age that you're... You remember, you have a, like, a vivid memory of... It's the only thing I really remember. There's, I have one picture of him holding my hand. But I was a little boy. And that's really what remains with you, you know, but... But aside from that, it fits in pieces, but it's just kind of a memory now. And so, yeah, and so my mother was a young widow. And she, you know, my sister continued to live in New York. And I grew up myself. At the age of seven, when you learn what life is all about, basically, it hits you in the face. So I was 10 years old. I started delivering newspapers in the morning before school at 150 papers. But that really taught me about business. Because I delivered this paper to different 150 apartment buildings. Then I, on the weekend, I had to collect money for a general week. And other people used to give me a tip. And, you know, some people were worse. I grew less. So that was really taught me about, wow, what money can do with business. I was earning when I was 10 years old, something like, with tips and everything, about $25 a week. You ask, you know, it was a lot of money. My friends were getting $1 a lot. I was kind of rich. And then when I was 12, I really had a taste of money. I decided to apply in a steakhouse restaurant for cleaning tables as a bus boy to clean tables on Friday night Saturday Sunday that wasn't going to school. So I made as well. And for some time off, I work again. And so my, my young life was working, was the work of school and working life. And again, with tips, I'd earn again, $25 a week, since so much of that. And I was really like $40, $50 a week. Tax-free, you know, the kid. Because I told him, I had to be 16 to get a job. But I took a chance, I was 12 years old, but I said, how old are you? I said, I'm 16. You know, they didn't have internet in those years. So I just did that. And I made, at that time, I really had a lot of money. You know, I'm earning more than my teachers, actually. And then, on a 16, I bought my own car in school. I was the only kid. You strived to school. Because I remember Chevy, Chevy too, convertible. You know, of course, I was the most popular kid with all the girls. You know, a lot of female friends. But was it like your organic natural spirit to do more to make money? Or like, what was like that? My study was like that. Once you get a taste of money, somebody would have a taste for knowledge, for studying and all that. I was down to study here. You know, and when I graduated, because I was in what they called in high school, the brain class, although I never studied. You know, I just, we had to take Latin and science. I could never understand what do I need to do Latin for? Who am I going to talk Latin to? You know, science okay. I can understand what's Latin. But that was, you know, I always question things. And then, so like you, you born with entrepreneurial mind, you think? I guess I grew into it because losing a father. Normally, if you have a protector, you know, mother and a father, they look after you, you know, you can get money from them. And, you know, and you can have a family life. And I'll know my family life. But when you don't, you created yourself. And that's really what kept me going. And that kind of gave me momentum to really drive myself. And when I was 16, my mother wanted me to go to university. Of course, I got marks to go to university, but I decided I want to work, I want to get a job. And so she was horrified by that. Because she was then educated. I'm educated. She thought, education is the most important thing. I thought, no, if I want to be a doctor, lawyer, of course, I have to go to university to become a professional person. But if I want to be a business man in those years, just do business. You know, learn, experience is more important. So I've got a job in a fashion, a lot of ladies, a large-rate company, doing exports, you know, at 16. And then introduced me to life in the old business. And then when I was there for a year, and then all the salespeople were working on commission, earning, you know, the commission checks, I was asked, we will have this ship today, you know. And I thought to myself, wow, I want to be a salesman, you know, I was 17. And so I thought, you know, I was thinking, my way, if somebody else could do something, why can't I? And so I started to look through the class of lives for a sales job. And I, the, the, the largest ladies dress company was looking for a showroom salesman. And there's nothing about dresses. I didn't know what a dress looked like. But I went to apply. And when HR interviewed me, I took a chance again. I was the perfect candidate. I ticked every box that they wanted, you know, because I made it up. And they said, how old are you? I said, I'm 22. Well, I was 17. And they said, what do you do? I said, I sell ladies lingerie. I wasn't working in the stockroom. And I just put everything that they wanted. And so since I ticked every box, they came to me and said, oh, one, can you, I said, what's your salary? I was writing like $60 a week. I said, I'm earning, I earned $200, you know, salesman, I thought, no problem, you know, almost died. When she said, okay, when can you start? I thought it's not cool. I was 17. It's not cool to say it right away. I said, let me think about it. I'll call you next morning. Of course, I call the next day. So of course, I'll take the job, right? Instead of working there, I started doing very well because I was young. A lot of the buyers were young. I learned about ladies dresses, you know, and I learned pretty quickly. And I, one thing I can do, I can sell. And you know, you have to have confidence in yourself. You have to be positive. I just instilled that in myself. And because you know, when you don't have a father, if you don't do it, nobody's going to give it to you. So that's sense of security. Kind of gained a very young age. And that's really helped me a lot. And so my first year in business, and that probably took Hong Kong. Because I told my old lady, sweater company. And with somebody from the UK, and we both came here as two young guys. And Hong Kong at that time was a British colony. And when I landed here to buy, all the factories in Hong Kong at the time, you know, not China was closed still. Yeah. And so... But you knew about it, like living in Canada, people kind of started researching what was going on. Canada had all the unions. I was not a year-end guy, you know. I like to be unstructured. And so I decided that, you know, I remember it was talking about the Far East factories, everything was being Japan at that time. And, you know, and I really didn't know where Hong Kong was. Yes. But, you know, at 19 years old, you're young and I can get goods made cheaply and then export it back to Canada or the United States. And so... You've been abroad before moving to Hong Kong? No, I've never been to Hong Kong. In the Middle East. It's like you're 19-year-old. I've been to Europe. I've been to Europe, you know, my mathematician. Not in Asia, because that was really far. I took the plan to remember that first flight, we had to land in Anchorage, Alaska from New York. Because you couldn't go all the way. And still remember, it's a big polar bear at the airport. Stuff polar bear, you know, white polar bear. But it's just, it was like a whole new world for me. And, you know, when you're young, it's like exciting. And I came here and I came to Hong Kong first. And the British were here. It was really hard to understand what they're talking about. But they're thick accents. But, you know, I went around to all the factories here. I got a buying office, swire, was my buying office, big buying office. And we went around and placed orders and then exported. At the end of my first year of business, I made a million US profit. A further bridge? It's a lot. A lot. Like them? So I sat down with the council. In the year, I'll have a check for a million. Not so fast. Why? You got to pay tax. Tax. You're kidding. What's that? How much? In Hong Kong, in that Canada 50%, 50% you're kidding. Who gets a tax? Socialized medicine, socialized. Socialized. That's somebody that's paid for it. So I'm thinking, half a million. Still a lot of money to not year old. I said, I have a checker, I have a million. Not so fast again. Why? You got to pay tax. And I just paid tax. That was corporation tax. There you go. Clary dividend for personal tax. Unless or right. I think I wound up at 425,000 out of my million. Still a lot of money. But then I was in Hong Kong on the buying trip. I said, what's the tax in Hong Kong? They told me 15%, 1.5. Oh, how? And I thought, you see, lucky, I didn't have an American pass. For Americans, I subject to worldwide tax. Yes. One of the few countries in the world have that. Not Hong Kong. And Hong Kong was really, that was the British tradition at the time. And so I thought a bright light would off my head. How many years will make a million? And there's one move to Hong Kong for a few years. Put away money. And go back. When I told my late mother, I'm going to move to Hong Kong. She said, can you move to Japan? I'll be in the world. I said, no, it's China. And I was like, oh my god, you know, for a young mother. And I said, no, I'll be fine. And then still, I came here, set up a trading company, and started, and I built it to the second largest with a barter, second largest trading company in Hong Kong. And we had 30 offices around the world because that business was governed by quota. Got only export, X amount of commodities from different countries. And so I kept opening up offices over the years, and really built it into a great, we had everything from Asia to Europe to Bangladesh to, you know, what you name it, Egypt. And even South America had an office in Guatemala. And so we're making clothes there, and exporting. And we built it up. And that was the start of my, and then I decided to move to Hong Kong. And that was how, what, probably here, originally for a few years, but a bit or now, 58 years and never going back. You know, there is a censorship on YouTube. So I cannot share all my raw opinions and thoughts and insights from meeting billionaires and high level operators here on YouTube. But I can do it on Telegram. So if you want to see the backstage from my interviews and very fresh raw opinions after most incredible people I meet and how I run this YouTube business. Join the Telegram channel, your call to the screen, or link below. What do you think was your, like, unfair advantage versus everyone else? Why, why you were successful from the start? I think that, you know, at that time, because instead of being considering myself to be an expat, I localized very early. I hung out in the Chinese area, you know, all the factories at that time were in the Kellown side, you know, in the Chinese areas. And the expats, they British were all in Hong Kong in offices, you know, and their career diplomats were short pants, long socks, you know, and then pipes. And I hung out and I simulated at a very young age with the locals. Yes. And I think that really helped me to understand the situation. And from there, I just went from strength to strength. And that's why I understood Asia so well, because I've heard for so many years, it's such a young age. And because of my business, I had offices in all the countries, you know, everywhere. And in the early days, you know, and we've had a big office in Taiwan at the time. Taiwan people couldn't even go out. So everything was a close society at that time. And then later on, after all people over 60, then we're allowed to get a visa to go outside, you know. I went through all the changes, even South Korea at the time at an office in South Korea. It was, again, curfew from midnight at night. It had to be, everyone had to be off the street to 4 a.m. the morning. Otherwise, you can't walk on the street. It was because there it was more with North Korea. I went through all that. I can share so many stories, but it was like, so I saw all the changes before all these countries were game powerhouses. What's the craziest story that comes to your mind? Something that really, that you can share? One thing that comes to my mind is, well, the handover was invited during 1997 to the British and Chinese handover. First time ever in the world where one country was going from British rule to Chinese rule, you know, back. And, you know, just isn't done. And so I got invited to the British side at the time with Chris Patten was the governor, a last governor of the UK. And at that time I said, I told him, you know, because their British fare was going to be where the stands are, the open stands on Te Mar, which is on the water, you know, very nice. But, and then for Chinese, they built, you know, in Hong Kong, they built the Convention Center, brand new big Convention Center, where they'd be the official handover. And so I was invited at that time to come to the, I said, what if a rain's, I mean, you know, doesn't matter, we're taking everything back, the money, everything back to UK. I said, okay, but the whole world will be watching this and it was everybody, every reporter in the world was out here. And I remember going to Te Mar, which is, you know, where the stands are on the water. And it was pouring, that night the heavens opened up. It was pouring. And that was with Mike, with the Chairman of Ocean of HSBC, the bank, and we're giving them braille us. We went sitting at the top of the stands, our suits were soaking wet. And that day, I was invited, because originally, after the handover Prince Charles, King Charles, now Prince Charles was here to sail out, to do the handover, and then after the handover, sail out to the Philippines with Chris Baton. And I was close to the chapter of British. And so for some reason, I got invited to lunch, that day on the Britannia, just six of us, with my wife and I were invited to have lunch with Prince Charles at the time. And it was really something, because I was in a fashion business. So at that time, I didn't even think I was wearing a green suit, and no socks, because fashion people didn't wear socks was cool at the time. And we pull up to Tamar, the afternoon, to go to lunch and the toots, to guards or standing outside the gang plan, to add attention, not turn their head. As I'm getting out of the car, I can see, from the corner of the rise, one guy's looking at who's this character, no tie, no suit. And no socks. And then I first thought I felt, oh my god, maybe I should dress differently for the occasion, but I thought too light. So I went in and did a tour of the Britannia. It was one of the last sailings of Britannia. And it was a beautiful boat. And I think in one of the bedrooms, I saw a teddy bear belong to Queen Victoria. And then we had dinner, lunch with Prince Charles. He was very charming, really, really today's king, of course. But at that time, he was unfortunately going through a difficult period with his life, with his wife and all that, which was killed in the car crash. But he was really a charming person. And he sent for, and we had a very, very good time. For so for 20 years, after he sent me 10 years, he's sending Christmas cards of the family, invited me to Buckingham Palace. I never really went. But it was just a really momentous occasion. And I felt sorry for because when he was doing the handover ceremony, there didn't even have a rostrum for me. And if somebody would umbrella, the whole world's watching. And he's like trying to tell me later that the words were running on the paper. And so it was difficult to read. And then later we all moved at midnight to the convention center, brand news, until 4 a.m. But doing the handover. And it was like being part of history. That still remember that. That was a very, very momentous day, very, especially, especially having lunch with him the day of the handover, and then going to both ceremonies. And I am part of the history here. And they invited, yeah, yeah, yeah. I can, there's many, many things like that. When some younger entrepreneurs ask you, what's important to be successful in business? What are the biggest skills that you have to learn? Well, I can say is, first of all, you have to have an idea. Number one, think ahead. Be confident in yourself. Be positive with yourself. Today, though, the world is changing AI in two minutes. Can give you what? He's a take you months to study. Today, technology can really change things. It's going to make it more and more easier and more difficult because everyone can do it. And so know what you're good at. Know what you like to do. If you don't like something, don't do it. I don't say that. Even I even say I'll tell you, I give a lot of speeches for universities. I have six honorary doctorate degrees today. Even though I never went to university. And I tell the students, and I tell the young people, and young signing out, follow your dream. Do what you love doing. And if you love it, you'll be good at it. If you don't like it, if you became this profession because your parents forced you to do it, get out of it. Seriously, because you won't be good at it. You'll hate every day. You'll just be looking into your watch to see when you can leave. And so I've always said, and the good thing is, and always think out of the box. If you think of the famous people like Steve Jobs, Jack Bond, I always say one saying, I look at things for not for what they are. I look at things for what they could be. Meaning that the average person looks at something. They all see the same thing. Those people, better things like I just mentioned. They see beyond what other people see. And because of that, they're able to come up with something that makes the impossible possible. Who would have believed we'd be having a mobile phone in everybody's hands? You know, like in your days, you had to walk around the dial way to get to a phone booth. Or, you know, so it just totally changed. And the world has changed so quickly. And you just got to be part of it. So think ahead, be positive. And everyone has strengths and weaknesses surround yourself in the weakness with the strong people, people that are strong for that profession. And it's like putting a strong sport team together. You're the coach. And then having the great players at every position. And then you have something very special. Are you 76? I'm 77. 77. I'll be 78 in July. Although I can't believe it. In my mind, I'm 45. How does it feel to be 77? I'm 45. Because I exercise every day in my life. 90 minutes. Every morning I wake up. I've been doing it for 50 years. After my father died, I've been doing it for 50 years. And I never miss a day. I mean, I exercise 90 minutes every day when I travel to a hotel. The gym is the most important thing. The room. I don't care about the band. I don't care about the room. I care about the gym. It's got to have a good gym. 90 minutes. 90 minutes every day. Every morning. Every morning. I never, ever miss the evening COVID. I just did. When I'm sick, I still do it. It's just part of my routine. And I believe that really has helped me to, because visualize them. Because I honestly still think I still do things. I did 45 years old. I never think that I'm 78. I'm also my wife. She also feels like she's very young. She's good shape also. And I don't feel any different than I have a 50-year-old son. I don't feel any different than him. Are you afraid of death? Of the concept that's the end? No. Because there is a beginning and an end for everyone and everything. And so when your time comes, it's over. And no problem. I mean, it's just lived a very good life. And I look at every day. For me, most important thing is health. The rest doesn't matter. I learned a long time ago, even Warren Buffett, when he passes on, he goes to the same place that his driver goes to. Can't take the money with him. Can't do anything. So that's always, I never thought I'm better than somebody. Death is the great equalizer. Because everybody, Donald Trump and Democrats, so he calls the law, end up in the same place. So I never think I'm better than someone. Because I just think I'm maybe in life for more lucky than some people. And in my world, we're all the same. Everybody came from a mother and a father. Didn't matter if you're from Russia. Didn't matter if you're from Africa. Didn't matter you're from China. Everybody had a mother and a father and religion for me also. Although everything, every religion is different. But everyone believes in a god of some sort. And they do whatever they can to do worship. And it's fine if they feel comfortable with it. But at the end, the guys that are fighting right now, whatever, one side and another side don't want to mention names. They wind up in the same place. So what's the point? It's the truth. You know, I have a very simple logical mind. And I've just developed a lot of time and I just start to myself. We are all the same. Yeah, because nature, we have different facial expressions and different languages and whatever. This was made the world go around. But right now, we're talking about robots and the future robotics. And I'm just joining a robotics company from Beijing. It's amazing what they do. They, I was in Shenzhen the other day. And the robot supports coffee. Definitely. So it takes ice cream, makes ice cream. And they know so much. You can tell the robot that it was a vase with flowers, red, yellow, green, purple, you know, until the robot, to robot, can you please bring me the red flower and give it to yourself, right? And the robot would just go right there, pick the red flower and give it to you, like the human being. And then it's scary, but it's true and it's happening more and more and more. But the world is changing. But like conceptually, is life simple? Or it's complicated? Well, it's what you make of it. Some people look at it as I always look at I'm positive. You know, even during difficult times, no problem, come out of it. If you're positive, you make life seem easy, be happy. At the point to be unhappy, doesn't get you more or less money. And some people go through a difficult period. That's why I say health is the most important thing. Would you trade your wealth to become 30 years younger? 30 years younger people also die. So it doesn't really guarantee you anything. But what I do it all over again, the other. I bond with my mind with AI and everything coming, I believe, that they're saying that I gave a speech last year at one of the conferences and milk and conference. And the guy aftering was from biomedical. And they're working on something that will make man live to 120, waiting for that. I'm hanging on. You never know a technology today. What's the meaning of life for you? The meaning of life is just to wake up every day and enjoy. And enjoy from you know, you never know what's happening today. And enjoy every minute. And to me, that's the meaning of life. It's to have a good life, have a happy life, and just enjoy it while you're here. That you don't know what happens tomorrow. Some people just walk out and suddenly boom, something happens. So just enjoy every day, smile every day, be happy. Even when things are very bad, be happy. And tomorrow's also always a brighter day. That's the way I look at it.