---
video_title: "Multi-Millionaire in Thailand Explains How to Build Wealth in 2026"
video_id: CguDOV48xwY
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CguDOV48xwY
video_date: 2026-08-19
video_description: |
  ✈️ Go to https://hfly.co/plbw0 and use code MAXCHERNOV to get 10% on Holafly plans for the first 12 months or 5% off on any other Holfafly eSIM 
  🇹🇭 Learn* more about Layan Verde in Phuket here: https://links.layanverde.com/maxchernov-episode8 Mention me to get the best offer from the team 
  🌏 Apply for The Backstage Circle: https://forms.gle/huwR6NQNz5A4XgC78 
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on Telegram: https://t.me/friendsofmax 
  
  *DISCLAIMER. This video includes a paid promotional integration for Layan Verde, a real estate development project in Phuket, Thailand. The host received fixed compensation and also personally owns property developed by the same developer group. This content is for informational and entertainment purposes only and is not investment advice, a recommendation, solicitation, or offer to purchase property. Real estate investment involves risk, including loss of capital, delays, developer default, currency fluctuation, and no guaranteed returns. This paid promotion has not been reviewed or approved by any financial or regulatory authority.
  
  Meet Peter Kopitz. At a time when everyone wanted to move to America, he left it behind and chose Thailand, where he has now lived for 26 years. He helped build Zalora Thailand, part of one of Asia’s biggest online fashion companies, and led more than 800 employees. Then… he was ordered to fire half of them. That experience changed his approach, so he later co-founded one of Southeast Asia’s leading e-commerce companies, focused on sustainable growth instead of growth at all costs.
  We discuss what Westerners get wrong about Thailand, whether Bangkok is still good for expats, and the brutal reality of firing hundreds of people in a single day. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  🎙 Listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts: https://open.spotify.com/show/1dktMfOBp11LNp52X3mkuR  or https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/max-chernov/id1875665593
  👥 Sponsorship requests / Guest suggestions: max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST
  ➢ LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/peterkopitz/
  
  WATCH NEXT
  ► Tech Multi-Millionaire Shares How He Built His Wealth Using AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O10NKwSJMek 
  ► Wealth Strategies of American Multi-Millionaire in Singapore: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Nz74s44wsQ 
  ► Singapore’s multi-millionaire on China, America and AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tP7QksbJVQ
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 Intro
  00:49 What Westerners Get Wrong About Thailand
  03:27 Bangkok vs the Rest of Thailand
  05:30 Is Bangkok Still Affordable for Expats?
  08:30 How to Stay Connected Abroad with Holafly
  09:46 How Thailand Changed Peter's Personality
  13:20 Why Asia Is Developing Faster Than the West
  16:15 Thailand’s Economy and Political Instability
  18:33 A Phuket Project Worth Watching: Layan Verde
  20:26 Is Thailand a Good Place to Start a Business?
  23:12 Inside Rocket Internet’s Aggressive Growth Culture
  25:00 Firing Half of Zalora Thailand
  29:07 Invitation to The Backstage Circle
  30:50 Why Raising More Money Can Hurt a Startup
  34:45 Why Successful Entrepreneurs Still Need a Purpose
  36:47 Raising Children for an AI-Driven Future
  39:42 Unfiltered Opinions from My Interviews on Telegram
  40:07 Why AI Makes Starting a Business Easier
  42:03 A New Way to Study Entrepreneurship
  44:00 What Is the Meaning of Life?
  
  This channel features raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery.
  
  I sit down with founders, investors, operators, experts, and outliers navigating the biggest shifts of our time, many of them based in or connected to Asia. We talk about money, leverage, relocation, power, tradeoffs, and the real decisions shaping what’s next, not as theory, but from lived experience.
  
  Some conversations happen inside billionaire homes. Some happen remotely with experts shaping global systems. All of them focus on signal over noise. 
  
  If you care about where to build, where to live, how to make better decisions in uncertain times, and what the future demands, you’re in the right place.
---
Asia or Thailand specifically developed and is developing in a much much faster pace across the board than anywhere else in the western world. >> Meet Peter Coppit. At the time when everyone wanted to move to America, he left it behind and chose Thailand, where he's now lived for 26 years. Peter helped build Zalora Thailand, part of one of Asia's biggest online fashion companies, and led more than 800 employees. And then, he was ordered to fire half of them. That experience

changed his approach. So, he later co-founded one of Southeast Asia's leading e-commerce companies focused on sustainable development instead of growth at all costs. We discussed what westerners get wrong about Thailand, whether Bangkok is still good for expats, and the brutal reality of firing hundreds of people in a single day. I'm Akshat Nov, I host raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery. What do you think the biggest misconceptions about Thailand in the west, like in the US or in Europe, when you like, for example, when you explain like about your life in in in Thailand to people who never been there or who been there but only for vacation. What they don't get

about the the place? >> Well, I would say if somebody has never been there, and especially more like North American, they definitely have the big misperception that Bangkok is like uh not big city, but let's say more chaotic city, right? Not very modern, not very uh organized. Uh not a place you would work or open up a business. Uh in a way a lesser city than maybe from like some cities from their own country.

And that's a big misperception. So, when they come here to Thailand first time, and then they drive into Bangkok, they're going to be like, "Whoa, what's going on here?" right? I guess it's similar to China as well, but China's more known now that all the cities are like bling, right? And like big metropolises. Uh but here

in Bangkok, maybe it's not bad known. So, I think it's all quite uh uh for a few people as a tourist, they arrive in Bangkok first time, they're going to be shocked in a positive way, like, "Wow, this is much bigger, much more developed, right? Much more luxurious, right? Uh than I expected." I expected, of course, you have the chaotic part still here, no question.

You have the traffic, for sure. But it's a mix, right? And I think that's a big surprise how big of a modern city Bangkok is, especially in some areas. I think that's definitely quite a big surprise for foreigners who never came here or that went straight to Phuket. I mean, let's say I know from Europe, same as from Russia, there's a lot of direct flights.

So, people never come to Bangkok. Why? They go straight to Phuket as an example or maybe Samui. And there, of course, it's like more like island life. So, so then again, they don't know Bangkok or Thailand, right? So, their perception is

still, "Oh, okay, Thailand is a place I go and go to the vacation, right? Go to the beach." Um that's what they think. But they never think about Thailand necessarily as a place to live, right? Or work to work as a job or start your business.

That's newer. I mean, I think it's more uh I think 15 years, 20 years ago, most people would never think that. Now, of course, Thailand is extremely known for I don't know, digital nomads, right? As an example. So, now it's a little bit more more known. When you now say,

"Okay, let's say somebody says, 'Oh, I went to Thailand for 1 year and try to I don't know, do my startup here, right? Or whatever it is.'" Well, people are, "Okay, makes sense, right?" So, now it's a little bit more accepted, more known. But it's also pretty new. Definitely 10, 15, 20 years

ago, that was not the case, no. Did not exist. >> Yeah, and like, so to speak, Bangkok is the most visited city in the world the last year. >> Totally. Exactly. So, yeah.

>> So, it's like people know Thailand, I guess. But again, it's I guess it's a different lens for people who come as tourists to Phuket or to Koh Samui. It's different versus like living in Bangkok. And also, I guess it's a different lens for locals who live here and maybe not so working like not very high-paid jobs. I would put it this way. Cuz I'm

actually interviewing the guy his time during him tomorrow and he made this point on like people see like how Bangkok is great especially if you live in like Sukhumvit area. But Bangkok is for local people. For example, if you there are hospitals which are great, yeah, in in Bangkok. And they have like really like they top the ranking top like five or something in the world. But there are local hospitals for local hospitals if you if you go in Bangkok you got to wait. So people arrive like

at 5:00 a.m. and then they wait for the whole day to to be treated. But if you like if you have money so you go to Farang hospital and you pay and then you'll be treated straight away. So it's I guess it's a very different lens for >> Totally agree. I mean but I think the

difference is Bangkok is not Thailand. I mean people think [clears throat] Bangkok is Thailand but it's Bangkok is in a way more like Singapore itself, right? It's like a it's like a metropolis a metropolitan area that is not necessarily Thailand, right? That's why if you people come in think oh I don't know average salaries, right? Up country versus Bangkok of course night and day difference, right? For

still these hospitals infrastructure everything is night and day difference. So it's a big difference if you live in Bangkok or if you live anywhere else actually up country. Up country just means anywhere else in Thailand, right? It could also be in the beach could also be in Phuket. Oh they of course there there's more money so they might have also decent infrastructure to support let's say I don't know hospitals, right? Etc. But

I would say otherwise always see Bangkok as a as a place as a a country of its own in a way. That's why if you really look at Bangkok itself, right? If I mean you probably also read all the time these rankings, right? That even now I've seen that on some measures Bangkok is now also kind of like moved into the top 10 most expensive cities in the world for expat to live. Most expensive.

And I get it, right? Because now let's say, if you want to live a good, luxurious life, it's expensive. It's equally expensive to a lot of places around the world. Can you still eat cheap on the street? Can you still find a very cheap condo? Absolutely.

Even in Bangkok, right? Yeah, you can. But not in all the the the main areas here. Uh, if you want to get a very nice condo, they're definitely not cheap anymore. Restaurant, same thing.

Restaurant prices, uh, they definitely, um, yeah, I mean, they're same as any other big big big city around the world. In many areas, I would say even more expensive. So, yeah. And then again, you have to get insurance, that's also more expensive, right? Hospital, okay, um, that's maybe a little bit cheaper compared to the top hospitals overseas, right? But overall,

living in Bangkok, well, maybe Singapore is an exception, right? It's extremely expensive, right? But if you compare to most other cities in Europe, uh, if you want to live a certain lifestyle, it's definitely not the cheapest anymore. But the good thing is, at least you can live that life here now. Because that's the that's the difference to 20 years ago, maybe. That didn't really exist. Now it

does exist, right? So, now, if you want to live a great lifestyle, uh, although again, you definitely need some money, Bangkok is a really almost perfect place to live, because it exists, right? Everything that you expect, uh, from a city, infrastructure, shopping, I don't know, international schools, hospitals, restaurants, bars, whatever it is, right? It exists and is arguably among the best in the world, right? Uh, definitely price value-wise it is. Not

cheap, but again, you you can you have that kind of environment here. >> Mhm. Yeah, true. Actually, like when people say like Singapore is expensive, it's true, but also in Singapore, you have options. For example, you can go to food court and have your like noodles for like six, seven Singapore dollars, which would be like four four US.

>> Right. Exactly. >> So, you have options. Like public transport is super cheap. If you buy a car, it's super expensive, but public transport is is great and and cheap. For

locals also, the there are HDB. HDB it's like the properties built by subsidized by the government built by the government. So, it's much cheaper than like condo. So, there are options. If you stay in Marina Bay Sands and you go to Marina Bay Sands for like eating eating out, it's like very expensive, but it's actually there are options in Singapore as well.

>> Right. >> Exactly. Compared to let's say London, we just we spent like a week in London. >> And like you cannot eat cheaply there. >> Right. You cannot. It doesn't exist.

>> You Okay, McDonald's like some not a great food you have. You can have fast food, but there are no like good and cheap options to eat. >> Right. >> Um public transport is very very expensive. >> Yep.

>> Everything is basically like inflated. So, there are no options. It's only like only only expensive options. >> Yep. >> Yeah.

>> When I travel, my phone becomes almost everything. It's my map, taxi, translator, wallet, and the only way I can reach out to people [music] I'm meeting. So, reliable internet is a must. And in my experience, the easiest way to have it is to go with an eSIM or something even more advanced such as HolaFly plans. It's a monthly eSIM subscription that keeps you connected to over 160 countries with just one eSIM.

[music] You install it just once and you don't need to buy another eSIM every time you cross the border. They have two options depending on your lifestyle. Light with 25 GB per month and [music] unlimited with unlimited data and even the phone number from UK, US, or Canada to receive SMS. Both plans also come with hotspot. There is also an always on benefit. Even if you cancel your monthly

plan or your HolaFly eSIM is no longer active, you'll still get 1 GB of backup data per month in 70 plus destinations. Just keep the eSIM installed on your phone and you'll never be completely disconnected. Go to holafly.com or click the link in the description and use code Max Chernov to get 5% off e-sims and 10% off Hola Flight plans for the next 12 months. You have like German traits and American traits probably, but what like Thai traits you added within the last 26 years?

>> Oh, okay. Good question actually. Well, I think in Thailand like well, it's mainly on the on the workplace I assume, right? Because here you have to be a little bit more sensitive compared to US or Europe, right? Meaning here you don't have necessarily direct communication, right? You know what I

mean? So, it's kind of like you have to communicate sometimes indirectly to to get people to do what you want, right? That's definitely a new thing. So, if you go to the office now in a meeting, right? And then let's say we all like let's say a typical German, right? We

all strict, right? And assign people task and if they they don't live up, you know, the quality of work doesn't live up to the expectation, right? That you kind of like be strict with them. It doesn't really work here, right? So, here it's a lot more about nurturing, right? Uh working with people, getting

the respect of people, um training people, right? Uh and then slowly you can kind of like grow with them, right? Uh so, it's very very different to let's say in Germany where we I think a lot of Germans they couldn't work in this environment here for sure. It would be too frustrating. They want to want things to happen quickly, right? The teams to be in place

quickly. Here it takes time. That's probably a big one. And then in general, here like as an example, maybe that's the point where I'm still learning in German like punctuality, being on time, right? Here in Thailand it just doesn't happen, right? So, when people doesn't

matter where they're going to be late. And I understand why because there's good reasons. If you really want to plan ahead to go to a dinner, to go to a meeting, right? It's not easy. You really have to leave if it's the other side of town 2 hours or 1 hour well, 1 hour before if you want to be there 100%, right? On time. But it's not

practical because then maybe you're you're in 15 minutes and then you're there 40 minutes before, right? So, I get it, right? So, people plan as best as they can, but quite often they're going to be late. So, I'm as soon as uh people are late, normally people would be really frustrated, right? But, here it's normal, right? Meaning 5 minutes

late, 10 minutes late is like still on time, in a way, right? So, those little things are I think quite different to what you're used to in, let's say, Europe or the US. >> 5 10 minutes time is already like in Germany it would be considered late, a no-go. Uh I mean, in Singapore Singapore is also like quite in the middle of like West Western Eastern, but 5 10 minutes late in Singapore it's like, yeah, okay, whatever. It's It's not It's not a huge deal.

>> Right. >> So, it's fine, but for your background 5 10 minutes is like, okay, it's late. How you adapt being like German and like growing up in US, how you adapt to the Thai culture and Thai way of doing things? >> Well, I guess after a while you get used to it because, of course, you have a lot of Thai friends, etc. So, you you automatically, yeah, I guess yeah, it doesn't bother you as much. The

punctuality workplace it still bothers me, so that's definitely a point where where I'm still not over it, but otherwise, you know, there's a saying in in in Thailand kind of like sabai sabai, that means just be comfortable, right? Meaning don't take it too stressed, and that applies to every everything here, right? Even at, you know, I don't know, when you're in line at the at the store somewhere, maybe in Europe or in the US, people would already get nervous and complain, "Hey, how come there's nobody here?" right? But, in Thailand people tell tell you to be a little bit chilled.

Um not as serious, right? You know, they don't take everything as serious as maybe Europeans or Germans would. And that's probably a good thing. That's why probably here people are much happier and have a much better, yeah, happier life because they're not constantly, you know what I mean, worried or, you know, like about little things that maybe don't matter in life. >> Do you go to the US and Europe often?

Yeah? Yeah? What What do you see like? You have this helicopter view cuz living in Asia for so many years, how do you see the changes that you see in US or or Germany or Australia? >> Well, I think how should I say, Asia or Thailand specifically developed and is developing in a much much faster pace across the board than anywhere else in the western world. So, I grew up as

an example in partially right in California in San Jose, which is Silicon Valley, right? So, I spent quite some time in that whole, you know, let's say Bay Area, San Francisco. >> Yeah. >> Now when I visit and I visit fairly often, every two, three years, it looks and feels identical to the '80s. It's almost like they didn't didn't move on.

And all my friends who also studied at that time, I mean I mean I hear that a lot. It didn't improve I mean obviously we know the problems they have in cities like San Francisco. I mean how bad it is in some cities like LA or San Francisco, meaning homeless, right? Drug use and all that. That is crazy. That didn't

exist back then. But I'm talking about in general, right? Meaning the city itself, right? It looks exactly identical to the '80s. And that's kind of like shocking to me. Europe, similar,

but there are at [clears throat] least some improvements because in the '80s US was the best, right? The most developed, you know what I mean? Like the most flashy cities in the world. Everybody wants to go there, right? Europe was kind of boring, old school, right? So, again, maybe US completely

stalled, didn't change. Europe changed a little bit, so it gotten a little bit better. But Asia completely accelerated, right? Obviously China, but even places like like like Thailand or Bangkok. Yeah, I would say now when you look at Bangkok, the city, I mean at least for me, right?

Has much much much more to offer than most cities, let's say, in Europe and the US. Meaning not about that that you have access to it. It's more like in other cities around the world, you do not even have access to, let's say as an example, I go to the US now, right? To a city. The options for restaurants, the options for malls, the options for hotels, the options just to hang out in cafes, right? They're there, but they're very

minimal. Here we have this massive abundance of options. Here in Bangkok now, is it nice coffee places or brunches you want to, you know, sit down and work in the morning. You want to eat somewhere cheap, but really nice with a good vibe. You want to eat at the top Michelin three-star restaurant. You want to stay

at the best hotel that you could ever stay at. You want to stay at a budget hotel that is still very decent and nice. You know what I mean? You want to go to a shopping mall that is open every day 12 hours a day, never closes, right? Everything from cheap shopping to the most luxurious shopping.

You have all that here in Bangkok. More than I I would say in more than in any other city in in in the world. And that doesn't exist. You go to San Francisco like Oh, of course there's some pockets of course New York as an example has some some of it, but I think still Bangkok has more options and better options than most cities in the world, I might say. >> Do you feel like like Thailand now is the growth is much slower than before?

Like GDP is not going that fast and the population Asian population that that type of problems. Or maybe living in Bangkok you don't really see it because Bangkok it's the place on its own. >> Yeah, I'd say exactly. I I think you cannot look at Thailand same as the politics, right? So people always complain and and about Thai politics, right? It's always, you know, like

Thailand most coups in the world, I mean historically, right? >> Yeah. >> Never has a stable government and so we just normally not good for the economy obviously, right? But I do really realize that once you live in that environment for a few years, it doesn't matter. You know what I mean?

People just move on their own pace, which might be a good thing. As an example, if you cannot expect much from a government, right? Yeah, then you do do things on your own. You know what I mean? And I think a lot of Thai companies, even the top companies, they have done that. So they cannot really

rely on the government anymore, they do it themselves. Meaning and I'm talking about Thai big Thai companies, they expand overseas, right? They expand their own business, right? They don't wait for the government. If you have a country where the government is doing giving out a lot of, what do I say, like, yeah, has has a lot of subsidies for business I'm talking, right?

People are always waiting, right? Okay, what's next? What are you giving to me, right? That doesn't really exist here. So, people have to make it themselves, and I think business adapt to that. Hence, a lot of

the Thai companies 20, 30 years ago, they were really big in Thailand. Now, they're big in a global stage. Some of them leading in the world, right? Across the board, right? Agriculture, hotels, there are so many examples of Thai companies who are among the top 10, let's say, in the world, or even leading. And I think that's probably one

reason why they gotten there, because they've just done it themselves. I think the Thai government, not saying they're not doing anything, I think they also improved quite a lot over the past 25 years, but ultimately, all the policies are very, what do I say, it's very focused on their own base, right? More like populist policies. You know what I mean? They want to keep the people happy. You know what I mean? And

the majority of money is spent in those areas. Not saying that all these things are not bad not good for the economy, right? But, they're not necessarily good for for business. >> Behind me is one of the most ambitious new developments in Phuket. And the person behind it is my good friend Vadim. He's been in a real estate

development for like 20 years. And he's building this project with his company Villa Carta Group. So, I invested in his previous project. I bought two apartments in Layan Green Park. Not because Vadim is my friend, but because I saw the progress and that they are delivering. So, this project is called

Layan Verde. It's a half a billion US dollars development in Phuket in Bang Tao area, one of the most fast-growing areas in Phuket. This is freaking unique project. It's basically it's surrounded by the jungle and it's going to be integrated in a nature. One of the projects Vadim was inspired by >> [music] >> is Marina Bay Sands in Singapore. The

master plan of this project was created by award-winning international studio with 40 years of experience and the landscape by one of Thailand's leading firms. It's going to be a hotel style management. It's basically it's going to be run by Dusit, very well-known brand in Thailand. So, Phuket is no longer just a holiday destination. Like for us, for example, even Singapore, I come here, 4 hours door-to-door and here you go, you're enjoying uh Phuket. At the

same time, you can rent it out. It's managed by the guys, by the company, you don't need to do anything. I really can recommend to look at this project, Layan Verde. It's not a financial advice, I'm just sharing my experience, so do your own research before making any investment decisions. But, if you're considering buying something in Phuket, take a look at this project. We will

leave a link below and the QR code on the screen. Just make sure you tell them you come from Max Chernov YouTube channel and you will get a special treatment uh from the guys. And perhaps one day, this mini city of the future can become your home and we're going to be neighbors. Tell me your experience like running business here. So, you have a lot of like vast experience of doing like working for a company and then doing your own business. Uh maybe at a high

level, what's the what's the like the main things that like let's say our viewers should know about how to run a company, a how to run a business here. >> Well, I think if you starting your own business, right? Well, the whole setting up everything now is a lot easier, right? So, 20 years ago it was extremely difficult, let's say, to set up your business, regulatory hurdles, right? Uh investment criteria, Thai labor hiring criteria not easy, right? So, it

was very, very difficult. Hence, only the big companies came here. Now, they did change quite a lot, right? So, now uh if you're an entrepreneur, you want to set up in Thailand, you have all options, right? You have you can get a license as you can set up a company, you can even hire foreigners with fairly I mean, the limitations are there, but it's fairly easy, let's say. You can get

cheap office space. So, everything is there, right? Infrastructure obviously is great, meaning internet, whatever you need. So, it's a good place to let's say set up a company, but it really then depends on what you're going to do with it, right? Meaning not necessarily all how do I say, type of startups succeed either, right? Because if you let's say

as an example, open up a company and you want to be in fintech, right? Or maybe AI, just two a couple of hot hot areas, right? Thailand might not be the best place because you also what should I say, like uh maybe it's easier or better you set that up in Singapore, right? Demand is there, early adoption is there, fundraising opportunities are there. That's a little bit more difficult here. Meaning ties

maybe are a little bit more not not early adopters, right? Raising money here, let's say seed funding, VCs, right? Venture capital is very weak here in Thailand, right? Compared to let's say Singapore as an example or overseas. So, it's not necessarily like Thailand is the best place you will if you want to as an example set up your own company. So, you really have to

let's say understand the market before you open up a company here. Not just because it's cheap, right? And it's nice, and it's, you know, the infrastructure exists. That's obviously not enough. So, that and then I've seen it over the last 15 years, at times there were tons of startups, a lot of entrepreneurs coming.

Even at that time more VC money, let's say flowing in the market. Seems that the way other markets like Indonesia, Singapore, what is it? Malaysia, Philippines, yes. Uh but I would say majority of them did not succeed. Uh so they followed up after a while for the reasons I mentioned earlier.

>> I heard stories about like the this early years of Rocket Internet. Like the culture was like very very aggressive, yeah? Uh the energy was was there. How would you explain this this time and maybe as an example you can give some stories like to show how was it back then. >> Well, it's just the pace of it.

And the thing is and that's also one reason why I joined is kind of like because I knew again there were similar ventures also in other markets before Southeast Asia where Rocket launched with similar models, right? Like Turkey as an example. They also have it like a Lazada type Zalora [clears throat] Zalora type business, right? And again, when they started here it's kind of like you got almost like a blank checkbook, right? Of multi-million dollar, right?

And a equity stake and a salary, right? And full not full reins, right? But a lot of leeway how you going to run and scale the business, right? And that was crazy, right? So it's kind of like you literally start uh and the instructions was grow at all costs. That's it. Uh and no

expense because expense didn't matter. And then it was literally like the first KPI was, "Okay, you go from whatever, right? 10 people or 50 people to 500 people to 1,000 people." And that was the KPIs. So you hire like crazy. That

was the main KPI, right? Uh initially, right? Before even there was a long that side then when the platforms launched, right? And then of course there was sales and orders, but also at all costs, right? Meaning doesn't matter if the orders were profitable or not profitable, it doesn't matter. You just

had to grow and grow fast. But I think probably the best example how brutal it was is Yeah, maybe uh we're just talking about the hiring, right? So the one of the top KPIs was to basically hire people across all levels, right? At levels in seniority, but also uh is it in the warehouse, marketing, buyers, right? Across the board, right?

So at that time probably Zalora already had 500 people, probably more than that, right? But at some stage the call came and from the founders who are in Germany obviously, right? Rocket Internet founders who said, "You know what? You've grown now, right? And you have the people in place, but nobody can hire that many people with only A talent, right? So I'm sure you hired a

lot of probably C and D talent. But we didn't have time to kind of like assess this. So what I want you to do is like fire 50% of the people." And that was the instructions. So then we really had to go back >> Yeah.

>> and within and we we I remember I was called or we named it project colon cleansing and we made a big list and ranked all the people because of course we wanted to be fair, right? Based on performance, right? And whatnot. And of course all the salaries because some people were also sent from overseas, tons of them. They were called entrepreneur in residence. So they're

highly qualified people but with no experience, right? But they got some of them also got quite high salaries with no experience, right? So a lot of them were also pushed in these ventures and they came like they they were sent from all over all around the world. Almost like every week there were a couple who started and they said, "Hey, I'm here from Rocket Internet. I'm starting here." And we're like, "Okay." Anyway,

then we had to go through that, let's say getting rid of literally almost half of the staff we had. And that was so brutal because well, that took I mean, all of our time, that's one. It completely interfered in the business, right? But more importantly, imagine Thailand has very strict labor laws, extremely strict. And the directors of the business, which was me and let's say my fellow co-founders, there were three initially, then there was two. We were directors in the

company. And here in Thailand directors are personally liable for salaries. >> Okay. >> So even if the company is bankrupt, director is liable. And [clears throat] we knew the numbers, right? How much

money in salaries there were, right? >> Yeah. How many people were there like in >> Oh, I don't even know. 800 at least, I would say. >> Wow.

>> Probably more. If you include even more probably. >> Wow. >> Okay. There was only Zalora at that time.

So anyway, so what happened is we went to execute that plan, but then of course we were hit with tons of lawsuits, right? From all from everywhere. Mainly actually from the Thai side. Of course the foreigners they knew, right? So they they had loans those people who were let go and then started great businesses and became great entrepreneurs, right? But a

lot of them especially on the on the local side, I'm sure it's the same as for the other markets. What happened is they they were fired and then we were sued mainly by the parents, right? Maybe by them for unlawful firing la la la because of course at the same time we were also instructed not to try not to pay full severance. So anyway, so our HR team and we had quite a lot of people in HR spend all day at the all day at the labor courts literally. Both Lazada same thing by the way, identical.

It was crazy. And then the risk that's also actually one reason why let's see not only me but my fellow co-founder left because of course we had a bunch of lawyers representing us at some stage they called us in literally and said, you know what guys, if I were you I wouldn't be able to sleep at night. And I mean I'm serious. And then these stories popped up or I remember Turkey co-founders had to leave overnight in Turkey, right? Because they had arrest warrants or whatever. Just I mean

nothing bad happened. They were just liable for some they were sued not only by employees but also by suppliers as an example, right? It was so chaotic. Anyway, and then we were like, okay, no way. And then we kind of like started yeah, to kind of like plan our departure, right? Which was

working quite well. I mean we we sit down and then obviously talked to yeah, to like the regional team and then the guys in Berlin and then yeah, and then kind of like we left like three month both of us at the same time. We left at that time because it was just too risky. >> Left left the country. >> No, no, not that I left the country.

Left left Rocket Internet. So resigned officially uh, said that's that's getting too risky. So, that was like probably 1 and 1/2 years after, uh, we started Zalora. Uh, we were like, "No." Uh, and then we left, uh, and that was actually pretty well managed also from the Rocket Internet side. So, they did I mean,

again, they're obviously also reasonable, right? So, that was managed quite well. So, we left like probably 3 months after that. >> Mhm. Because I meet all of these like legendary incredible founders, investors, unconventional people. I'll

bring them to private meetups with the members of my The Backstage Circle, a project that I'm I'm building now. I'm so bullish on this project right now. It's a group of high-level entrepreneurs and investors based in Singapore, Hong Kong, Thailand, and few other places. We are super pre-selective with the people that we are accepting. We're going to have several trips together every year.

And we we have small groups where we form this 7 to 10 people where members can share their challenges and problems, can get advice from other members without judging. It's like your safety groups of peers, not like it's a psychotherapist or it's your friend or family members. Literally, peers that operating at the same high level as others. Cuz one problem that I realized like talking to many like successful people, when you get higher, it starts to be more lonely up there. You have less and less people who actually you can relate to and they relate to you.

So, that's why I'm actually building this together with like incredible people. I'll be involved in majority of the events, and this is actually rare for this private class or networks or communities when the founder is involved. I'll be involved. It's a I will not optimizing for scale, for quantity. The main value comes from the people that we actually pre-selected for this project. So, if you want to join

us, I'll leave a QR code on the screen. I'll leave a link below. It's a form. I'm checking all the forms, all the answers myself, and if there is a fit, you will know it. We'll get in touch.

>> One of the big learnings that uh and probably one of the problems which I personally think is wrong with startups nowadays that startups, when you read on LinkedIn, right, or you read all these stories, everybody talks about money raised, valuations, uh but again, I saw the whole boom and bust, and I would say 98%, 99% of all the companies [clears throat] that were talking big evaluations, right, raised some decent money uh in tens of millions, even hundreds of millions, a lot of them didn't make it, right? Because ultimately, they or even now a lot of people think having a high valuation or raising a lot of money, right, you always see it on LinkedIn, right, "Oh, we raised this and this, right, series A, series B." Is a measure of success, and I guess in some angle it is, but for me, no, right? What really matters are you making money? Or and how much do you still own the business? Because what

happens with a lot of them is you raise a lot of money, right, you have some massive PEs, famous global PEs part of your cap table, but what happens in the end, your share shareholding becomes very, very, very, very small, right? And then in the end, you're becoming an employee, right? Because uh you're not really in control anymore, and technically, your investors uh are in control. >> Which might not be a bad thing, but can be a bad thing. >> Yeah.

>> Uh and then the problem is, if you raise a lot of money, I personal opinion, you also then have to invest that money because the investors expect growth. That's all they care about, right? And they expect expect it quickly, right? So, you have to deploy that money. And I think many companies, maybe not all, but many companies, including us, you invest and you expand too quickly, right? And

then uh and that's not possible. That's what I said earlier about Rocket, right? You hire a lot of people, you expand infrastructure, warehouses, right? You spend money like crazy, but then, uh what hurts is the profitability. Right? Uh and then ultimately, at some

stage, you become very, very big. Maybe also have the revenues, but then you're struggling with the profitability. And maybe the quality of the the overall company, right? Uh so, that's why, yeah, uh looking back at that now, would have been probably smarter to raise only the amount of money needed to grow, you know, to have, let's say, sustainable growth, profitable growth. Not exponential growth. Everybody wants

that hockey stick. They raise the money for that hockey stick, but the chances that you can make that hockey stick, and then after that be profitable, like I said, most companies, I think they don't make it. And even if you do make it, sorry, but even if you do make it, you then end up with a very, very, very, very small percentage of ownership in a very big company. You You own a tiny, tiny slice of a massive pie. But in many, many cases, I personally think uh the other way around, right? You You own

a huge slice of a smaller pie. Because then, number one, you more in control because you own it, and probably financially also better off. >> Some people would argue that like the exit uh with the small share, but from a huge company is kind of probably better in terms of their personal gain. >> I don't honestly I don't think so. It might be better for PR purposes, and it looks better on paper, but no. Uh because the thing is,

naturally, I think the major like after, let's say, if you pass the series B or later round, right? And you raise significant capital, depending on how how, of course, with how much did you start initially, right? >> Yeah. >> But I would say almost no founders, unless maybe you Elon Musk is a difference, right? So, he's the ones owns huge chunk in massive companies.

>> Yes. >> Uh SpaceX, Tesla, right? That's a very good example how it should be right? Which is unusual though, right? But I would say the majority of uh uh founders they definitely don't have majority anymore and they end up owning a small piece uh but they then not in control anymore, right?

>> Okay, so you still have like a lot of ambitions, yeah? To >> Absolutely, yeah. >> What is it all about? Like why wouldn't you just chill and live your life? >> Well, I definitely can't number one cannot sit still, right? That's one

thing. Plus I would say everybody needs a purpose, right? You need something I think you always need some kind of a goal post uh that you have to look for, right? >> Mhm. >> And because just sitting at home doesn't make one happy. You know what I

mean? Even if you let's say you have all the money in the world, I don't think that defines happiness, right? I think to in order to feel happy you have to feel some pain first. Meaning you which is logical, right? Meaning uh uh whenever you have pain, you're going to feel much better afterwards, correct? And pain can be a challenge,

right? Uh a challenge at work as an example, right? Uh but I think you need a purpose, you need a goal post, and you have to feel some pain to make you feel better the rest of the time in your personal life. >> Mhm. >> And that is of course running a company, building a business, right? With all the

channel channel challenges that come with it. >> Yeah. And as an entrepreneur, you kind of create this pain for you. >> Yeah. >> It's kind of yeah.

>> But but it's what it is, right? Because you have challenges and then while solving the challenge >> Mhm. >> you feel good about yourself, right? Because it's a little bit like you know people always say checking things off a task list feels very good and psychologically it's actually very good for you because you feel you achieve something, you've done something, you've done some work and it's done, you feel good, right? And it's similar in a way I think, right? So

you face challenges, you overcome, you feel good about yourself. You know what I mean? And I think that's yeah, important I think for for anybody. No matter if you're poor or you you middle class or you have a lot of money, it doesn't matter. For everybody it's on a different level, but it's the same concept that applies. Hence

uh the happiest people are also not necessarily the people with the most money. You know what I mean? So maybe money does solve certain problems, right? But it doesn't necessarily mean it makes you happy. >> Yeah.

>> Makes it easier. >> Yeah. >> But it doesn't necessarily make you happy. >> What are like you have two kids, which are like not adults yet, but not like between teenager and adult. >> Right.

>> What do you teach them? What's like maybe the main principles that you want them to learn from you that you pass to them? >> Okay, now definitely changed a lot because of AI, right? So now um well, normally I mean, I would say things like okay, you do what you passionate about, right? You know what I mean? So you find

a hobby, let's say something that could be your hobby, something that you want to do every day, and if that becomes your work, [clears throat] you're going to be happy while you're at work, then you're going to be successful, correct? So that obviously is kind of a fundamental. Problem is nowadays it becomes more difficult, my personal opinion, because I think it's going to be much more difficult to land a lot of jobs in the future because of AI, because they will be replaced by AI. The same thinking that I mentioned about the do what you like still applies, but you have to be a little bit more careful now early in the career what you want to do long-term. Meaning, before maybe I would have told my daughter or my son, okay, you do a bachelor in business at a let's say uh top university somewhere, it doesn't matter, right? You get a good

degree, you build your network. >> Yeah. >> You have time, right? You have 4 years. Then maybe if you do a master degree, right?

Uh and then when you know, okay, I want to go in banking, I want to do this, you do it. But now, I don't think, let's say, they should do 4 years a bachelor of of something very general because the majority of jobs I think won't exist in 4 years anymore. So meaning, they have to really know already now uh which way at least they're going, right? And what the end goal is. And the end goal, also my personal opinion, is you either have to be an owner of the business or a shareholder and benefit from the growth, not just an employee, a high-paid employee, let's say. Or you do

have to do something with a practical aspect, you know what I mean? Something, you know what I mean? Like like a trade, you know what I mean? Like everything dealing with people or doing something with their hands. AI for now is not going to take away in the future with robotics, maybe, but of course that's also a a safe place. Let's say you're a doctor,

right? You still need a doctor to operate, etc. Long, long term, maybe have AI also analyze you and the robot repair you, right? But but for now it's you still need a person, right? So either, like I said, you become an owner and you have to be think about that early on, not no career ladder to get there. You have to be an owner early. Or

you do something with a real practical aspect. So in this example, my daughter wants to do psychology. For now that's still very relevant. A lot of people now have even only with AI have a lot of problems as well. In general, the there's a lot of like people want to talk to somebody, right? So of course if

you're a psychiatrist, um that's not going to go away anytime soon. Even if AI at some stage will do that, I think people want to talk to a person, right? So okay, that's for now pretty safe from AI. >> You know, there is a censorship on YouTube, so I cannot share all my raw opinions and thoughts and insights from meeting billionaires and like high-level operators here on YouTube. But I can do it on Telegram. So if you want to see

the backstage from my interviews and [music] very fresh raw opinions after most incredible people I meet and how I run this YouTube [music] business, join the Telegram channel. QR code on the screen or link below. >> Let's say for my son, who likes business, I want him to, instead of learning business and then start as an employee and work himself up, uh learn directly the like how business works and at the same time in parallel or right after set up his own company and actually be become an entrepreneur and actually be a shareholder or an owner in his own company. Already now, not wait until afterwards. >> Already now, yeah. Using AI and like

that. >> Yeah, because exactly. Because the thing is the problem also for most of the previously in in businesses was always like Okay, let's say I'm not necessarily the tech guy. So, let's say you need a tech guy. You know what [laughter] I mean? Let's say

you want to launch a platform. So, very likely maybe you have a co-founder. Let's say you're two people or three people. Maybe you have one business person, soft skills, right? Goes out, raises money, etc., right? Pitches the

idea. Then quite often you have a tech guy. >> Yes. >> Or maybe then a finance guy. It's the complimentary, correct?

But nowadays you don't need the tech guy anymore. You don't, right? Because of AI. So, now you can actually do it almost yourself. Even the financial part. You don't need

the the the finance guy anymore. You know what I mean? Because the AI takes that away the majority already. Marketing, maybe okay, you need a very senior marketing person or even a co-founder for marketing. It's very At that time earlier was always difficult to not picking, but you have let's say two co-founders normally three max, right? Who are these people? They

have to complement. Nowadays again all that is being taken away already now with AI. Imagine in 4 years. You know what I mean? So, now I think anybody can start a business just themselves, right?

They don't even have to raise a lot of money. They can do the majority of the task at least for that MVP phase when they launch until it becomes a business that works. Let's say after you go to market a big chunk of that you can already do purely with AI nowadays. And that wasn't available 2 3 years ago. >> Yeah, no 100% true. We'll let you know

this the thing called Backstage Circle. It's a private membership. So, basically it's like the private membership for investors [clears throat] and entrepreneurs for like high-level people like focusing on Asia. When I launched it, basically, I spent like maybe 2 weeks. I locked myself with ChatGPT, with the pro version, and I just discussed back and forth, back and forth, and basically I got I had rough idea of the project, but then after 2 weeks I got like the whole execution plan just using me and Okay, I have some experience. I talked to I asked some

people questions, but 80% of work was done with just ChatGPT, which is like freaking incredible. >> Crazy, exactly. >> It's crazy, yeah. >> And imagine now what happens the next 4 years, right? How how that will be. It

will be I mean nothing that you can see now. That's why now also for my son as an example, which is quite interesting. He's studying in Berlin, and they have a university. [clears throat] Well, coincidentally also Rocket Internet involved, so they started this university in Berlin with a bunch of top startups there, big ones, yeah, like Trivago, Zalando also involved, which is you're doing a normal small bachelor degree in entrepreneurship and management, but there's no lectures, and the whole 3 and 1/2 years studying, you actually have to build a startup, and then they have these mentors/professors come, and that's the class on the side. And then you finish with a bachelor degree, >> Mhm.

>> but you also obviously hopefully finish with an actual company. And if you didn't finish with a company, then of course you then you have all the tools because you already built one, right? Even if it was not successful, you already have all the tools to basically start one. Um so for that I'm quite excited because I think that's a very new approach to higher education, and I'm very very excited for that. Because again, that's the skills you want now when you study.

>> Mhm. >> You know, I mean, like you want to you it has to be practical, hands-on, um not just pure theoretical lectures. >> What's the meaning of life for you? >> Meaning in life is you have to have a purpose. You have to have something you work towards to you believe in, you know what I mean? Some kind of a north star

that guides you, right? That brings you through challenges, you know what I mean? That makes you, you know, the the the the path is overcoming these challenges, but you need that that challenge, that purpose in life. Otherwise, you will never be happy.