---
video_title: "Former INSEAD Dean on Singapore, AI, and the Future of Jobs"
video_id: E84avHDDWI8
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E84avHDDWI8
video_date: 2026-06-17T11:00:04+00:00
video_description: |
  ✈️ Go to https://holafly.sjv.io/aNeGdQ and use code MAXCHERNOV to get 10% on Holafly plans for the first 12 months or 5% off on any other Holfafly eSIM
  🌏 Apply for The Backstage Circle: https://forms.gle/huwR6NQNz5A4XgC78 
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on Telegram: https://t.me/friendsofmax 
  
  Meet Professor Arnoud De Meyer, ex-President of Singapore Management University and former Dean of INSEAD, who brought this legendary business school to Singapore 26 years ago. Today, he sits on the boards of several companies, including Banyan Group. Originally from Belgium, he first came to Singapore in 1985 and has spent much of his life here ever since. We talked about whether Singapore is really as boring and sterile as some people think, why Europe is struggling to keep up with Asia and whether university will still matter for young people in an AI-driven world. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  🎙 Listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts: https://open.spotify.com/show/1dktMfOBp11LNp52X3mkuR  or https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/max-chernov/id1875665593
  👥 Sponsorship requests / Guest suggestions: max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST
  ➢ LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/arnoud-de-meyer-5256b9167
  
  WATCH NEXT
  ► Tech Multi-Millionaire Shares How He Built His Wealth Using AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O10NKwSJMek 
  ► Wealth Strategies of American Multi-Millionaire in Singapore: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Nz74s44wsQ 
  ► Singapore’s multi-millionaire on China, America and AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tP7QksbJVQ
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 INTRO
  00:50 How Singapore Became Home
  01:51 Is Singapore Really Boring?
  03:36 Singapore Rules vs Europe
  06:36 Safety, Discipline, and Self-Control
  08:13 Does Singapore Limit Entrepreneurship?
  09:53 Why Singapore Startups Struggle to Scale Abroad
  11:03 How Singapore Keeps Reinventing Itself
  13:09 Will University Still Matter in the AI Era?
  14:29 The Real Value of Higher Education
  16:00 Why University Is a Safe Place to Experiment
  17:22 How Learning Will Change in the Future
  18:07 Travel Internet Without Roaming + Bonus for my viewers!
  19:44 Where Should Kids Go to University?
  21:46 Why Singapore Is a Strong Place to Study
  22:54 Are Boarding Schools Good for Teenagers?
  23:19 Why Networks Matter More Than People Think
  27:05 Invitation to The Backstage Circle
  31:50 What Skills Kids Need for the Future
  33:39 AI, Critical Thinking, and Experiential Learning
  35:40 Advice for Young People Choosing Their Path
  39:26 Singapore’s Biggest Business Advantage
  43:24 How Middle East Situation Changes Singapore’s Position
  45:55 Why Business Hates Unpredictability
  47:21 Who Benefits Most from Middle East Instability
  49:35 Is Democracy Still a Good Thing
  51:56 Unfiltered opinions from my interviews
  52:22 Why Europe Is Falling Behind Asia
  54:53 What Europe Can Learn from Asia
  56:29 Life at 72 and Staying Useful
  57:46 The Meaning of Life
  
  This channel features raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery.
  
  I sit down with founders, investors, operators, experts, and outliers navigating the biggest shifts of our time, many of them based in or connected to Asia. We talk about money, leverage, relocation, power, tradeoffs, and the real decisions shaping what’s next, not as theory, but from lived experience.
  
  Some conversations happen inside billionaire homes. Some happen remotely with experts shaping global systems. All of them focus on signal over noise. 
  
  If you care about where to build, where to live, how to make better decisions in uncertain times, and what the future demands, you’re in the right place.
---
Meet Professor Arnaud de Mere, ex-president of Singapore Management University and former Dean of INSEAD, who brought this legendary business school to Singapore 26 years ago. Today he sits on the boards of several companies including Banyan Group. Originally from Belgium he first came to Singapore in 1985 and has spent much of his life here ever since. We talked about whether Singapore is really as boring and sterile as some people think. In Singapore there are less rules than in some European countries. Why Europe is struggling to keep up with Asia? We need to grow in Europe. We need to become more productive. And whether university will still matter for young people in an AI driven world? What they really need to learn is... I'm Max Chernov, based in Singapore. I host rock conversations about wealth, global mobility and mastering. How's your feelings about Singapore? Is it like home? Yes, it has become home for me. In earlier days, the 90s, even the early 2000s when I was here, I was a little bit like an ex-bath. We were... And the INSEAD community was a bit like an ex-bath community. As a consequence, I didn't feel really home. My home was still in Europe. But when I came here in 2010, I became part of the local networks, as president of a local university. And I have build up a network of friends and professional relationships and Singapore has become really my home. I am a permanent resident here and I'm proud to be part of Singapore. That doesn't mean that I have given up my European identity. Obviously, I still go regularly back to Belgium, where I am originally from, and France, where I lived for quite a long time while I was working with INSEAD. But yes, this has become home. When people say Singapore is boring, what's your reply? 2000, 2001, 2002. In those days, I had a joke that when you were living here as an ex-bath on Friday evening, we would all see each other at Changi, because we were flying out to Bali or to Mukhat or whatever. Nowadays, it's very different. There is a lot more these days that's happening than it used to be 20 years ago. It has become one of the cultural highlights, I think, in East Asia. Next to Tokyo, Hong Kong, perhaps Seoul, to some extent, and Shanghai. But yes, it has become up. I'm living here very close to the stadium, where we have from time to time these big concerts. Such as Staleurs with, but there are lots more than that. I think the notion of Singapore to be boring us teraiil is still there. I disagree with that, but still, many people think it's too controlled or too sterile. I believe it is not that sterile anymore. It is not that quote-unquote boring. The reason why some people still have that impression, I think, is that you have quite a few visitors who arrive here and basically stay in the central area. Orchard Road. And then what they see is shopping centers and hotels. They go away with the wrong impression that that is what Singapore is all about. But when you live here and you really integrate yourself in the local community, it has become a very vibrant city with lots of activities going here. Yes, Singapore applies some rules that you couldn't enforce in other countries. The recent decision to prohibit vaping is probably something that you would not be able to get implemented in many European countries, or at least it would be very difficult. Yes, there are some rules and regulations. I always have commented that probably in Singapore there are less rules than in some European countries. I've lived in France for quite a long time. In France, there are lots of regulations and rules. The difference is they're enforced here. Very often in my own country or in some of the European countries, they don't enforce the rules that strictly. And that's probably the reason why Singapore still has this brand of being a bit boring and sterile. I feel like in Europe actually many countries are over-regulated. It feels like this. If you go to London and then if you drive there, you can only drive 20 miles an hour in the city center everywhere. I mean, it's pleasant for pedestrians. You cannot make this rule here in Singapore. People are fast-paced here, so they don't want to be strictly in this way. But let me play a bit of devil's advocate here. It's not even the rules, but for example, I'm pretty sure you've been to F1, Formula 1. Right. And F1, when you go there, it feels like, let's say you go to Hong Kong. You go to the touristy street and people are drinking and having fun on the street. So, divide the energy is there. In Singapore, it's not that people cannot go to the Chinatown and drink on the street, but just the energy is a little bit different. So people don't let it go. So maybe it's subconsciously people think that some rule will be enforced against them or something. But it's just not even the rules itself, but how people behave. That is probably true, in the sense that, first of all, when you live here in Singapore, like me for quite a while, one realizes that everything is very well organized. And I assume that, and this is purely an assumption, but when you look at Formula 1 or other big events here in the city, that people have gone through lots of scenarios of what can go wrong, and that they actually have organized it in such a way that no major, a people, no major accident will happen here during these events. So it's probably sometimes a little bit over-organized. And I'm sure that in other countries, when you see how similar events are organized, you only have to go to Indonesia or Malaysia for that matter. You will probably discover that they are less organized. And that organization puts, indeed, sometimes, a constraint. I actually feel pretty happy with that. But then maybe I'm a relatively disciplined person. But I find that the fact that it's well organized and that I can go there and be quite sure that no major accident will happen, no major upheaval will happen. I feel that actually makes it relatively comfortable. But you're probably right that also in our behavior, we respect perhaps more each other's constraints. And there is perhaps a bit of self-discipline or self-sensorship. I don't mean censorship, that in the sense that I can't say what I want to say, but I limit perhaps my interaction with other people out of prudence to avoid that there are. There would be problems. Yeah, that is a bit of that, I think, here in Singapore. But it does remind me of living in Belgium in the 60s, where we probably had a similar situation, where my parents relatively rarely close their doors. Because yeah, there was a community of neighbors that would take care of each other, watch probably each other's homes, and where it was quite safe to live. It's not the case anymore in Belgium for the moment. You will close your doors and you probably will have your protection systems. But yes, I think there is a bit of this self-constraining attitude, which I said I have no problems with. Because you've done a lot of things around entrepreneurship and business, do you think that people may be a little bit less willing to risk and to be outside of the normal, like, pass and normal stream? It's restraints, restricts the entrepreneurship here. I've seen actually a positive evolution. I remember when I came here in the early 2000s and lived here, and then even early 2010, 1112, that most young Singaporeans would be reluctant to become an entrepreneur. For a number of reasons, first of all, the government is taking care of them from cradle to grave. Yeah, you don't need to be an entrepreneur to have a comfortable life here in Singapore. Secondly, I think that parents, and this is more my experience when I was president of Singapore management university, but I noticed that parents were often reluctant to support their children, who were students at SMU. They were reluctant to support them to become an entrepreneur, because they were actually stimulating their children to take good jobs, well-paid jobs, with multinationals, or with big local companies. But over the years, over the last 10-15 years, I've seen a real change, a number of young people who are willing to take risks within the market of Singapore and set up their own companies. We do have a particular problem in Singapore, that is that our own market is very small. We're talking about, if you include everybody living here close to six million people, but the reality is if you take away the migrant workers and the mates, that you probably end up with about four and a half million people that actually form a consumer market. So the market is relatively small. You could argue that we have big markets close by in Indonesia, in Malaysia, in Asia in general. But I noticed that Singaporeans have not a lot of experience of operating in these markets. That the rules and the systems that existed Singapore don't apply anymore in these markets, and that it becomes for many young Singaporeans difficult to operate in these markets. So then they look for markets further away, in Europe, United States, and then it's pretty far to operate there. And these are not easy markets, by the way, anyway. So I think that is a bit of a constraining factor on entrepreneurship here in Singapore. But then again, it's impressive how Singapore has been able to renew itself constantly. I'm old enough to remember that Singapore and have been here many times to remember that Singapore in the early 90s was the place in the world for disc drives. Seagate was very big here. We don't see that anymore today here in Singapore, but why? Because Singapore, through its industrial policy, has been able to constantly renew what it is good at. Of course, there are some constants in what Singapore is doing. We're still one of the biggest petrochemical complexes in the world after Houston and perhaps the combination of Antwerp and Rotterdam in Europe. This is one of the biggest petrochemical complexes in concentrations in the world. And that has been a constant that goes back very far in the history of Singapore. Obviously, because of our good location, we have always been important in what it's sort of in trade, in maritime trade, and Singapore still has always been a very important transshipment port. But when it comes to technology, to industrial activities, it's impressive how Singapore has been able to renew itself constantly. And you see it today with all the activities around artificial intelligence, the startups that exist here, or the companies that actually set up, I mean, international companies that set up business here in Singapore, because they benefit from the stable regulatory environment, good intellectual property, rules, and yeah, a good infrastructure that helps them to set up companies. So, a long answer to sort of say, I see a positive evolution in terms of entrepreneurship, not for everybody, but not everybody needs to become an entrepreneur. But I see the country renewing itself constantly. I have two daughters. One is almost nine, one is almost three. So for my almost three-year-old, should I think that she will need to go to university in what, in like 15 years' time? Or there are options. I may be old-fashioned, and maybe myself suffering from that innovators dilemma, but I still think that universities will play a significant role. Or higher education. And let me do use a different word I will call them institutes of higher learning. Because there may be more diversity in the future of what a university is all about. We shouldn't forget that the current model of a university goes actually back to the middle of the 19th century when von Hümbel to Universitate in Berlin was created on a pattern that probably goes back to philosophers like Kant and other people. But where the universities were created as isolated units, where you do research and where you educate and elite. Most of our universities today are still a little bit based on that model that was actually made popular, by the way, by Cambridge and Oxford worldwide. We may have different institutes of higher learning, but I still think there will be a need for those institutes. Why? Because there is a moment in life, whether it's at 17, 18, 19, 20, where you have learned enough stuff that you actually need to interact with others and sort of learn the critical decision making, the critical examination of what you have learned. And that's what universities, when they're good, that's what universities do, they help you to develop that ability to be critical in your decision making, in your evaluation of what you're learning. Secondly, it's also a moment where you do networking and where you build networks for the rest of your life. I look at my own networks and I've developed networks here in Singapore in Cambridge when I was there, the dean, in through in France. I've developed networks all over the world because that was part of my job. But I still look back and say some of the networks I developed at university are still of the strongest, even though they're far away from here, but still of the strongest I have in my life. So, yes, that's the second reason why universities are important. It's the moment where you probably are open to build strong networks with other people that will help you for the rest of your personal and your professional career. And the third to third reason why universities, in my opinion, are important is there are places where you can simulate an experiment without negative consequences in a sense. You can try out things. I mean, I look back again at my own university years and I'm not saying that that should be an example for others, but it's during those university years that I got myself involved in politics, in student politics, I tried out what an election was. I was highly engaged. I experiment also with social work. Some of it worked. Some of it didn't work. But I learned a lot by the experiments. And you can do those experiments in that university environment because the negative consequences are very limited. While if you experiment in a company and you fail, you lose your job very often. So there is a much bigger risk. So for those three reasons, critical thinking and critical thinking leading to more critical decision making, building up networks and experimenting and finding out what you're good at and what you're not good at, that's an environment where an institution of higher learning can help you. So I think in 15 years from now, your daughter will still go to some institution. Choosing it will be important and it may well be organized differently. Actually, you see that already today that is that people start the university and then take a year off to do an internship or go for an exchange or do something totally different. Perhaps set up an entrepreneurial venture and then they come back to university and continue. And then some of us do only an undergraduate degree. Some of us will do a master's degree because you feel that you need to improve your learning. But maybe that master's degree come when you're 35 years old under the form of an executive MBA or something like that. I do think that the way we organize learning will be different. But institutions of higher learning will still be there. When you travel a lot, small things start to matter more. And when you live internationally or move between countries often, you realize how important reliable internet actually is. After a long flight, the last thing you want is to hunt for airport Wi-Fi, swap SIM cards or deal with expensive roaming charges. You want to check the address of the apartment or hotel you're staying at, message your team and family, order a car and get straight to where you need to be. This is why I use an ECM when I travel. Today I want to tell you about Hall of Life plans. Hall of Life plans is the monthly ECM subscription that keeps you connected in 160 plus destinations with just one ECM. You install it once and then whenever you land, your internet is already there. They have two options depending on your lifestyle. Light with 25 GB per month or unlimited with the limited data and even a phone number from the UK, US or Canada to receive SMS. Both plans even come with hotspots. Set up takes just a couple of minutes. You can keep the same ECM across trips and you can cancel anytime with no hidden costs. There is also an always on benefit. As long as your Hall of Life ECM stays installed on your phone, you get one GB of backup data per month. In 70 plus destinations from the moment you cancel your monthly plan or your travel ECM expires. So if you get stuck during a layover or your trip gets extended, you still have enough data to get connected, call a ride, check maps or activate a new plan. Click the link in description and use cold max charnov to get 5% off ECM and 10% off Hall of Life plans for the first 12 months. I'm originally from Russia so I was born in a very East part of Russia. It's called Sakhalin and I grew up in Sakhalin. I grew up in Vladivostok but then we moved to Volgorod, I was in Stalingrad before with my family and I went to the union there. But then I moved to Moscow by myself. I think actually going back to Singapore, I'm already thinking okay if we live in Singapore, then do I want my daughter to go to the university in Singapore? Oh I want her maybe to develop independent skills to be independent, send her to Australia or to China or to Hong Kong, to spend this four or five years in a more fun, more independent environment, not only concentrated to the studies. Well it depends a little bit on how she in nine or ten years from now sees her future. Whether she sees her future here in this part of the world in Singapore or in the region or whether she sees perhaps going back to Russia because that's where the roots of the family are or whether she sees herself in a different part of the world. I believe that you should do your undergraduate there where you think you will develop yourself, where your life will be. Because what you really want to do during your undergraduate, I would do that in the country where you see your future. Yes. Because you want to build up your networks. You want to have friends. And if you transplant somebody at eighteen, let's say you transplant them into the United States or into the United Kingdom or in Australia, they're going to build up networks which maybe when if they come back which may be less useful, they may still be friends but they may be still less useful. So my advice has always been to parents over the last 30 years. When you think about the choice of an undergraduate degree, the bachelor's degree, the first three or four years after graduating from high school or from JC here in Singapore or junior colleges, think about where your life will be and study. So my advice would be do it here in Singapore is a great place to do it. The quality of the university's whether it's NUS, NTU, SMU, SUTD is as good as anywhere else in the world. Actually it's better probably than most other places in the world. When it comes to an additional master's degree, that's a different story. There I often said go when you're 24, 25, go in an environment where you will be independent, where you have to build your own life, where you learn from the best probably because you will go to a top quality university, where you actually prove yourself in a different environment. I think 18 is a bit early for doing that. So you're against boarding schools? I guess. Yeah, sometimes there is no choice. Sometimes I see ex-part families which have no choice and you want to provide some stability for your children and boarding school can be a good option then. But I don't think that boarding schools are necessarily the best way of educating somebody who is 14, 15, 16 years old. The importance of being in the right network and to build network. What's the biggest advantage to think if you're building? Is it also important to be surrounded by smart or innovative intelligent people that you see different perspectives? I guess you grow through people who you're surrounded with. In my research, my academic research, I've worked a lot on what we call business ecosystems, ecosystems of companies that work together not necessarily with big contracts but just because they trust each other. I take that example to talk, come back to the networks that I was describing or referring to because I think that we all need other people that complement us. When I look at myself, I have some strengths but I have a lot of weaknesses. Both socially in my private life and professionally. I recognize that I have a lot of weaknesses and I try to compensate that by having a good network of in my social life, my friends, in my professional life, my professional partners that actually can compensate for my weaknesses. But you need to be able to trust these people because you're not going to say you are good to it. Let's say that I need to have somebody to help me manage the adoption of artificial intelligence. Yeah, I can go to a consultant and I can pay that consultant for it. But I think that in first instance I prefer to go to a professional partner and maybe a professional friend who says, can you give me a first introduction to what that is all about? What should I think about? How should I look at AI and how does it possibly augment what I'm doing or possibly automate some of the things that I'm doing today? So I look for a network of people that can help me with advice, help me with introductions, help me with compensating for my weaknesses, telling me sometimes that I'm doing the wrong thing and that I should adapt myself to the new situation. That's where networks play a very good and important role. It's not only networks for introductions. Introductions, if you are in business, are important because it helps you to open doors. But it's a lot more than that. It is helping me in acquiring knowledge, in understanding, difficult situations, in as I said, compensating for my weaknesses. And I strongly agree. I think it's even more important for entrepreneurs because if you're in a corporate world or if you're in an educational world, so you're kind of automatically surrounded by smart, interesting people. I want to reinforce that because over my life, I have helped a few entrepreneurs, not that many, but I invested in a few entrepreneurial ventures. And what I have observed is the loneliness of the entrepreneur. I starting a new venture, being an entrepreneur is a lonely exercise and that's where you need to have very good partners. Entrepreneurship for me is also being able to mobilize resources you don't control. Ask other people whom you don't control to help you in growing and establishing your business. Entrepreneurship is basically mobilizing resources that you don't control. Those resources come from your networks, from people you trust and people that trust you and are willing to take the risks together. Oh yeah, that's exactly, I mentioned this, the private membership that we're doing, it's called the backstage circle. It's exactly for high level entrepreneurs and investors focused on Asia. So there are a lot of like networks and communities and private class, but they originated from the US or from the UK and here in Asia, they have side chapters. So it's like I'm really focusing on Asia. And another one you said about trust, building trust is super important because like meeting someone at an event and I say, hi, introduce yourself, it's not, it's not working, it's not really okay, but what's next? So I think the main, the biggest decisions are made when people trust each other and it's like private setting. So that's what we are trying to actually achieve with this, the backstage circle. If I for a minute maybe come an academic and I would say there are two Nobel Prize winners, Ronald Korsen, Oliver Williamson, who got a Nobel Prize for aspect of the question, why do firms or organizations exist? Why don't we just have markets all over the place? And sort of constantly I sell my capabilities and you sell your capabilities and we create a market. And so these economists who got a Nobel Prize for their work basically come to the conclusion, organizations exist because markets have transaction costs. Each time I need, if we would work in pure markets where everybody buys and sells capabilities, we constantly need to write contracts, we have transaction costs. But coordination is very simple, that is it's about price. We agree on a price when we discuss exchanging capabilities and if your price is too high, I go to somebody else who can offer me similar capabilities and I negotiate for a different price. Prices the mechanism of coordination. Organizations exist because people don't want to go to the hassle of constantly transacting with each other. They basically know they work in the same organization and they know how this organization behaves and how it works and they do their job and they compliment each other. Coordination is there done and I go back to what our two economists tell us that coordination is done through hierarchy. My boss tells me what to do or the company tells me what to do. As a management specialist I have observed that are a lot of hybrids somewhere in between a market and an organization. Somewhere where well we agree to work together with each other and maybe we don't write a contract but we know that we are going to work together because together we can create value for a customer. Maybe what we are doing today here with this interview. In order to do that the coordinating mechanism is exactly what you are talking about trust. We can coordinate with each other and I have seen this in many business environments. Companies can work together without extensive contracts because business people or the CEOs or the groups that run these companies trust each other. Perhaps I trust you because you have been introduced by a common acquaintance part of our network. That trust is important so that we can do this interview together. Trust is an important coordination mechanism. It's not easy to build. It comes from our mutual capabilities whether we respect each other's mutual capabilities. It often comes from working together and learning what our respective strengths and weaknesses are. It comes from delivering. That is you promise me something. Do you deliver? And if so I will trust you. So there are lots of aspects that lead to trust or that influence trust. And as they say it's something that takes weeks if not months to build and can be destroyed in one second. Trust is important. It's a very important management mechanism. It decreases the transactional cost. Also what we are doing in the backstage circle we preselect people. It's not the random network because sometimes you need to assess who is this person. So having a mutual friend or recommendation helps. Then it's like what are you doing? What's the level of your business? What's the level of business achievements? So in the backstage circle we actually preselect people heavily out of all who want to join. We will leave a link that you can check it out. What are the set of skills that you need to have right now or maybe kids right now need to have to be successful in like in 10 years time and how the set of skills is different from the skills that you need to have like 10 years ago. Whatever I say now will probably be obsolete tomorrow because the field of artificial intelligence is moving so rapidly that whatever I observe today will be as I said will be obsolete in tomorrow or in a few weeks from now. But for me it's something you can't stop. So be open to the opportunities from OVI. Will we have to learn the laws of Maxwell or the basic principles of economics? I still think it will be good that we have a deep understanding of some of the concepts and the theories that underlie what we are doing in business. Do we need to understand as I said the equations of Maxwell the Maxwell equations to understand that we use a telephone? No. Most of us don't need to know the principles of electromagnetic waves and how that works to be able to use a telephone. But you expect that number of people who are influential in that area will understand the basic principles of how it works. So we can't really replace that basic learning by AI. I think that our students will still have to go through some kind of basic training at least for the next 15 to 20 years. Your daughters will still have to go through that. But then it's a lot more about application. When I was at SMU I started something that is called SMU X and the X was stood for experiential learning. That is you can learn the theory or you can download the theory in those days even without AI. I'm talking about 10 years ago. Today even more thanks to AI. You can download the theories. You can download the concepts. You have to look critically at it and you have to teach students how to make the difference between the good, the bad and the ugly, the difference between true information and hallucination. You need to make sure that they have that critical insight. But they don't need to go through classroom anymore to learn these things. They can download it. They can look at a good video on YouTube and see what it's all about. They can learn it that way. What they really need to learn is the application. And that was what I called experiential learning. That is we worked together in sort of a, or that was the ideal to, in a sort of triangle where you have the student or a student group. You have a faculty member who acts as a mentor around conceptual thinking, critical thinking, theories and whatever. And you have an application person, a business person or somebody working in an NGO or somebody working in in a government institution. But that's understands the practical implications and the practical application of all these theories. And then you work together on a project where the faculty and the practitioner act as mentors and where the student learned or in groups or individually learns how to apply these theories. And that I think will become much more important in a world of AI. Not necessarily about learning the theory. Some of us will have to learn that, but not necessarily learn the theory, but really about how do you apply it? If someone in their 20s will approach and ask you how to choose the path in my life or how to be successful, what would be your advice? If you think I'm a successful person, my recipe has been never forego an opportunity. I'm an optimist. You know this, my glass is half full, my glass is usually two-thirds full. I'm a basic optimist. I have taken on challenges in my life, in my professional life, which were risky. And by the way, I have failed once or twice. Actually, as I mentioned earlier in the conversation, I have sported some entrepreneurs in the entrepreneurial venture. In two of those, we had to close the company and close the books. So I'm always, when I talk about innovation, I always say to my students, I'm probably one of the few professors you have that actually know what bankruptcy is. From, now in both cases, it was not really a bankruptcy. It was like we sold off the assets for symbolic dollar or whatever. We basically had to start and give up. Stop and give up. So I have had a number of failures in my life. I've had also in my career moments that I thought I shouldn't have done this, but then I look forward and said let's get on with it. So my advice is life is full of opportunities. There will be difficult moments, but even in those difficult moments, take on the opportunity, go for it, and prepare yourself to do as good as possible a job. Yeah, that would be my advice. Do also the things you like to do. In any job, there are things you don't like. I will always honestly admit that as a professor, the thing I really didn't like was grading exams, because it's boring. And it's sometimes confronting that you say I've been teaching this and they haven't understood it. It's very frustrating. So I give this as an example to say in any jobs, there will be things that you don't like, but that are part of the job. Exams and grading are part of the job of being a professor. But generally speaking, follow that career path, be flexible, adjust, take opportunities, but always say is this something I like to do? Because the more you like the job, the better you will be at it. And then my other advice is once you're 40, you were asking for a 25, 30 year old, but once you are 40, it's very difficult to improve on your weaknesses. You become less flexible, you can't improve, et cetera. Be aware of what your weaknesses are and compensate your weaknesses by your networks or by building the team. I had the advantage of being a dean of a business school, of being a president of university, in other words, to be at the top of the organization where I was. We were successful and I can say that in the different organizations where I am, we were successful. We were successful because I built teams that delivered, not because I was good, but I built teams that could deliver. And in building your team, you look always at, I repeat myself here, but what are your weaknesses and how do I compensate for that? I introduce the Kelvin Chang, he's an XMP and he's a successful entrepreneur. He said like, he's Singaporean. So he said like Singapore is the, it's actually it's not a good place to start business in the region because you what works in Singapore doesn't work in Indonesia. So you need to adapt yourself. Like my good friend, he's also Singaporean, he does a lot of business in India and it's like a completely different approach. He has a manufacturing company, a completely different approach, but I see. So it's about adaptability. I guess it comes down to some niches or some markets would work here if you start in Singapore, manage it from Singapore or you do it in Singapore. Some would just be, just would not work, I guess. No, the Singapore is, yeah, is in, has the advantage of very, very low corruption, very high transparency, clear rules about how it is to do business, a stable government policy. I always give as an example to my European friends that when the government decided to increase the sales tax by 1% that it announced it years ahead of time. So from a regulatory environment point of view, the government is very transparent and announces many changes a long time beforehand. So that makes it a very good environment to set up a business. It's clear that these characteristics do not necessarily exist in some of our surrounding countries. I myself, I'm in the board of an Indian company called Upgrad Technology and located in Mumbai, a very good company. Timasek is one of the shareholders in the company and because of that Indian company behaves really as an internationally, an international company with very strict rules about accounting and reporting, etc. But still it's a very different environment to work in. The speed with which things change in India, the turnover of personnel, of employees. It's so different from what we are used to here in Singapore. So yes, when you're successful in Singapore, that doesn't guarantee success elsewhere. But yet, I think that Singapore has this big advantage that if it's a business where you need to trust the supplier, that Singapore has an advantage over other countries, because precisely of our transparency and good regulatory environment, you can trust finance, you can trust pharmaceuticals, you can trust businesses that require trust and confidence. Where, yeah, why are we still very good in what I call medical tourism? Why do people come here to have medical care from these surrounding countries because you can trust a system? And that I think is a big advantage for Singapore, even in the region. Yeah, it's like I run my small business and I used to run another business before and I have my Singapore company and Singapore bank account. So I had zero questions when I sent someone an invoice. Like if they want to pay, they don't hesitate to pay because they pay to Singapore. So if you have some offshore company. So it's a matter of trust, I guess. I think it's what's now suffering, what Dubai is suffering at the moment. I'm pretty sure Dubai physically will be fine. I think they'll figure out how to protect them and stuff. But the level of trust that they had, for example for safety, it's diluted now. So and that's additional like extra value that was created through this layer of trust. It's now much less. So for Singapore, I guess the Singapore has to maintain this, the belief of all the outside world in Singapore. I can just reinforce that point. I know Dubai and Abu Dhabi quite well. As you know, I'm still in the board of Insiat and Insiat has a campus in Abu Dhabi. Then again, I'm in the board of the Banyan group and we have hotels in Dubai, in Doha, Alula, in Saudi Arabia. So I'm a bit exposed to what's going on currently in the Gulf and the Middle East. And by the way, I'm in the board of a refinery company, in a refinery and distribution of gas, gas oil and diesel and whatever in Australia. And we have been looking at supply of crude oil very carefully to make sure that the refinery can keep on running. And that Australia can be supplied with the appropriate oil and gas and whatever is needed. I'm looking at it from distance, but I have my own sources of information, but I'm not a geopolitical strategist or geopolitical that's not my background as an academic. So I don't know what's going to happen, but like you, I feel that some trust has been broken in what's going on in the Gulf. And that Singapore and this part of the world has probably increased its visibility and its attractiveness precisely because we're in such a stable region, geopolitically speaking we're in such a stable region. I'm not saying that nothing wrong can happen, but for the moment, ASEAN has a mechanism to make sure that the different countries can interact with each other and solve their problems. Yes, we have problems in Myanmar. There are lots of questions around Taiwan, but I do believe that for the moment is a fairly stable, politically speaking, a fairly stable region, and that is an attractiveness for Singapore. So based on your experience with the Middle East, with the Gulf countries, what's the takes from the business standpoint, like what will be there maybe some predictions? I know you're not talking about geopolitics, but from your level being in the boards of directors and companies there in Seattle as well, what's your takes on the station? It's highly unpredictable what the United States will do in the coming months. It is highly unpredictable because President Trump is a somewhat unpredictable figure and he probably uses that unpredictability in all his negotiations. So I have no judgment about how good or bad that is for the country, but it's highly unpredictable what's going to happen in the Middle East and in the Gulf from a geopolitical reason. But what I do know as a business person is that business persons try to mitigate risks. In other words, it's very clear that anywhere in the world, we will try to diversify our sources of crude oil and liquid carbon products. We will diversify our sources. I'm sure that producers, whether it's Saudi Arabia or whether it's the United Arab Emirates or Qatar, will try to find other ways to export their products then through the straight up for moose because everybody realizes that that is a choke point. So I see from a business perspective, we are going to diversify our risk profile. Yeah, so the main concern for business is unpredictability. Yeah. If we knew for sure, it's going to be war or it's not going to be war. Then at least you can plan. Yeah, you can plan for it. When you cannot plan, it's you cannot plan your business. Yeah. Who's the main beneficiary? Like, Asia is a beneficiary? Politically speaking, I think that the main beneficiary is China, not necessarily Asia. The whole of Asia is very dependent on oil coming from the out of the Gulf, the Middle East. The United States is not dependent on it. Europe to some extent, but not such a large extent. So Saudi will suffer, I believe, in the coming months, maybe years from very high oil prices. China had built up enormous reserves and I read recently that they are reducing the limitations on export, export of oil products. So they must be confident that they get enough oil either from Russia or from maybe Iran in one way or another. So they must seem confident that they have enough oil. So I think the main beneficiary of this conflict will be in the long run China. It also has probably some political benefits in the sense that it's currently seen as a stable and predictable partner. And I wouldn't be surprised that a number of European countries, but in particular, a number of countries from what one calls the global south, will again diversify its risk profile and get closer to China and a little bit farther away from an unpredictable United States. It feels like China was preparing for it. Oh, yes. China, I think, had built up significant reserves. I think they had learned from previous events, previous crises, I guess, but also from the bombing of Iran slightly as any year ago in previous year, that actually the flow of oil was relatively unpredictable and they have built up reserves. China has been building it up for years. So it's more stable, more predictable versus countries that they need to be leaders, need to be elected every few years. Like, living here for many years, do you still believe that democracy is like the way to go? Or what's the takes on that? I am an European who is a strong believer in what we call the social democracy. Another wild type of democracy, capitalism, but a well-organized, managed democracy. I come from a country where, I mean, I'm a Democrat. I strongly believe in democracy, but I come from a country where we always have coalition governments in a sense in favor of that because it does mean that, yes, with elections, population expresses its comfort or discomfort with the people who are in charge, but it also means that the shifts within between the different political parties from one election to another election are not that big and that the coalitions that come out of these elections are relatively stable. They shift a bit more to the center left or a little bit more to the center right, but actually there is a long-term stability, I would say, in our political system. So I'm in favor of that type of democracy. I still think and looking at here at Singapore where we have also free elections and where it's compulsory to vote. I do think that through these votes, the population sends a message to the government. I've seen it very clearly, for example, in 2011, when the PAP lost significantly from its vote, still had its majority, but lost significantly of its vote, of the percentage of its vote. And when you saw the first breakthrough of the opposition parties, I believe that that was a signal that the government took very seriously and then adjusted its policies in the years after 2011. So I do feel that democracy helps a lot in steering a country in the right direction. You know, there is a censorship on YouTube, so I cannot share all my raw opinions and thoughts and insights from meeting billionaires and high level operators here on YouTube. But I can do it on Telegram. So if you want to see the backstage from my interviews and very fresh raw opinions after most incredible people I meet and how I run this YouTube business, join the Telegram channel, your call to the screen or link below. People think that Europe is not going to the right direction. That's the notion. That's the whole notion that I see in official media, non-efficial media, what do you think the biggest like mistakes that Europe is doing and maybe what Europe could learn from, Asia or from Singapore in particular? As a citizen, my observation is that in Europe, we expect the government to provide a better and better social safety net. And that social safety net is in terms of employment. And so we want to have unemployment benefits. It's in terms of health and the cost of health is increasing almost every day and it is in terms of education, cultural deployment, etc. So we expect, Europeans expect a lot from their governments and we're willing and one has to recognize that we're willing actually to pay relatively high taxes to make sure that the government was able to provide those services and that social security safety net. I think we've come to the limits of that and there are two reasons why we come to the limits. That's first of all we have insufficient economic growth in Europe because if you want to spend more on your population, spend more on health, spend more on education, you need economic growth so that yes, part of that growth can be taxed and can be redistributed within your organization. And secondly we have a demographic problem and a demographic problem of insufficient number of children. I mean fertility rate is too low. It's low very here too, very much here too and very much in Japan or Korea and in China. So they're running towards the same problems here but we probably have run into that problem a little bit earlier in Europe than in this part of the world. We've solved that problem partially by immigration in Europe I mean but there are limits to what a society can, from my perspective, can absorb. The absorptive capacity for influx of people is limited and what you see today is that significant parts of the population feel unhappy with the increased immigration and the insufficient integration of these immigrants in the society. So you ask me what can they learn from from this part of the world that is growth, economic growth. We need to grow in Europe. We need to become more productive. We need to innovate and that is still happening here. I go very regularly to China. I was impressed last time by the number of electrical vehicles that I saw there. I mean the same is true by the way here for Singapore but we don't produce EVs. But when you look at the breadth of offering in terms of electrical vehicles, the quality of these vehicles, the sophistication of these vehicles, it's clear that China in this particular part of the economy has been innovating a lot. Our European automotive manufacturers have not been doing that that much. They feel uncomfortable with EVs. They still stick to cars with internal combustion engines because that's what they're very good at. Yeah, I think we need to innovate more. That is my... Again, when you think about AI, artificial intelligence, and you try to put up the names of the companies that make a difference in AI, you end up with Chinese companies, US companies, a few here in Saudi Stasia, and maybe one or two in Europe. So economic growth, innovation, those are the things I believe we can learn from as Europeans. You are 72. How does it feel to be a 72? I'm very busy. As you know, I'm in a number of boards, both of commercial boards and non-commercial NGOs. I have a very busy life. It doesn't feel 72. If suddenly all these activities would disappear and I would be sitting here and reading a book and eating and having no occupation, maybe that would be tough. But I have given up my operational jobs. I don't run an organization anymore, but I'm in the governance of quite a few organizations and that keeps me quite busy. But 72? My mother used to say, life is 25 years growing, 25 years of blossoming, and 25 years of, I feel a bit here, I feel a bit that. It's a bit on the pain in my knees. I guess I'm in that period of a little bit of this and that. But I don't think I'm going down the drain yet. What's the meaning of life for you? Being part of a community. I don't think I could be a hermit in living in the desert alone. For me, it's the social interaction with other people. And being able to help people and being helped by people. But that sort of being part of a community is so me important in the meaning of life.