---
video_title: "85-year-old British scientist on life in Singapore since 1964"
video_id: vQS4CB1nr1U
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vQS4CB1nr1U
video_date: 2026-01-06T11:01:49+00:00
video_description: |
  📌 Get a free personalized plan comparison from Pacific Prime: https://www.pacificprime.sg/maxchernov
  📌 To join the Phuket trip with me, add your name here: https://forms.gle/fs7u4EG1DJRHS2kx6
  📌 Join my free online workshop "YouTube Fast-Track to Views & Passive Income": https://www.shym.sg/workshop
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on my Telegram channel: https://t.me/friendsofmax
  
  Meet Professor Geoffrey Benjamin, a UK-born scientist who first came to Singapore in 1964. He is world-renowned for his research on the indigenous peoples of Malaysia and the languages of the Malay region. The professor shared where you can still find the real old Singapore, how Singlish shapes Singaporean identity, and why the American dream sounds fake to an anthropologist. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP:
  📷 Casual daily life on my Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  💰 Sponsorship-related requests: max@maxchernov.sg
  👥 If you have a guest suggestion for an interview, please reach out at max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST:
  ➢  Website: https://geoffreybenjamin.academia.edu/
  
  WATCH NEXT:
  ► 90-year-old shares his life in Asia since 1961: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d5eY03d2K2k
  ► Why this American chose to spend his entire life in Singapore: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_qHmI3j6BTA
  ► Kumar about censorship, ignorant foreigners and stressed Singaporeans: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bHBqXlMlNek 
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  00:00 INTRO
  00:34 How Singaporean society has changed
  02:09 Why Little India gives a feeling of old Singapore
  02:55 What Singapore was like in the 20th century
  04:52 When Singaporeans started speaking English
  06:06 How Singlish evolved
  08:04 Fun facts about languages
  09:06 An important part of Singaporean identity
  10:23 What Indigenous communities taught Prof. Benjamin
  13:34 How the way people live has changed
  16:03 The biggest changes in Singapore
  18:03 Healthcare in Singapore (+ a bonus for my viewers)
  19:08 Why it is so hard to compare East and West
  19:54 Common similarities among Southeast Asian countries
  21:43 Comparing the West and the East
  24:20 The most misunderstood things about human nature
  26:26 The difference between regime and culture
  30:58 Is it possible to distance yourself from the culture you grew up with?
  35:14 Why some people are successful and others are not
  36:46 Do some ethnicities make people more successful than others?
  39:04 How Singaporeans are different from other Southeast Asians
  41:32 Can everyone really achieve anything?
  44:29 What it feels like to be 85 years old
  46:56 The meaning of life
  
  Hey! This channel bridges the gap between locals and foreigners all over the world. Join Max as he interviews expats, unraveling their unique stories and providing valuable insights into their lives in the vibrant places of Asia. Through engaging conversations, Max fosters understanding and appreciation between locals and the global community, focusing on cultural exchange.
  
  If you're a company seeking sponsorship opportunities to engage our upscale audience, contact us at maxchernovYT@gmail.com. With over 50% Singaporean viewers and a substantial number of foreign professionals (US, EU, Australia), our mature audience (35-54 years) boasts strong purchasing power and interests in an above-average lifestyle, travel, investment, and personal finance.
---
I'm always puzzled when people try to talk about Asia as a unity. It really isn't. It's the most varied place on Earth. Meet Professor Geoffrey Benjamin, a UK-born scientist who first came to Singapore in 1964. He's a world-renowned for his research on the indigenous people of Malaysia and the languages of the Malay region. The professor shared

where you can still find the real old Singapore, how Singlish shapes Singaporean identity, and why the American dream sounds fake to an anthropologist. I'm Max Chernov, your insider to Xpat Life. Let's go. How society changed through these years, Singapore society? The language change has gone along with related changes. Um Singaporeans, pretty

well all Singaporeans, have seen quite a bit of the rest of the world, which, apart from those who'd come from China in the old days or maybe from Indonesia, was was not the case. Singapore was just their was their world. That is no longer true. So, the degree of worldly wisdom is much bigger here now. Um so, from that point of view, Singaporeans, in many respects, are not that different from the inhabitants of any big city anywhere else in the world.

From that point of view, Singapore has lost a quite a lot of its peculiar character, which it had um previously. Um but, this is commonly remarked on how all the chain companies are replicated in cities around the world. The same the same food chains, the same um to some extent department stores, and so on. Basically, if you want to see what Singapore used to be like, you can still go to Little India. Mhm. That's where I take visitors if

they want to come to Singapore and feel that, for a moment, for a short while, that they're still in Asia. They're not going to feel it, I think, specifically in Orchard Road or even in around this area, which could be a suburb in many other parts of the world. So, that's where I take people to, Little India. Yeah. So, what what what does what does make >> Well, I'm I'm Pulau Ubin. Yeah. Pulau

Ubin, yeah. Yeah. So, what does make Little India feel the old Singapore? What what's about it? You've got everything spilling out onto the street. You've got it

mostly in shop houses. Um even Mustafa's has something of the sense of a Yeah. of an old uh It's huge, and it's got everything, but it's got a bizarre feel about it. It's still Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um

so, that basically is the only place in Singapore that I can really feel I'm in Asia. But, then I do go to other parts of Southeast Asia. It's Um so, I'm not entirely um isolated in that respect from the rest of Asia. Most small Malaysian towns um still have that. Even towns as big as Ipoh still have character of older Mhm.

places. What's the the brightest memories about Singapore back then? From that time. >> Surprisingly, it reminded me more of a small British town. It was still very green.

The only high-rise area at that time was Queenstown. There were no other What's the >> HDB areas other than Queenstown. In the city itself, the Asia Insurance Building was the highest building, and that's still there, but Mhm. you can't even notice it today. Haha. Um the uh the

land reclamation southwards hadn't taken place. Um Uh there were lots of villages, real kampongs, Yeah. such as don't don't exist anymore. If you compare the kind of the atmosphere or the vibe of the place, was it very different from Britain or similar or Well, different from Britain, certainly. But, also very different from what it is now. The major

difference, one that concerns me since I now teach linguistics rather than anthropology, is that you did not hear English or Mandarin in the streets, except occasionally. What you heard were Malay and Hokkien. What's more, those two languages were not ethnically limited. Everybody spoke a bit of Malay with varying degrees of quality. And uh a lot of people, besides Hokkiens themselves, spoke Hokkien, including many Malays could speak Hokkien. So,

those were the two lingua francas in Singapore at the time. The university at that time had only maybe 3,000 students. That's less than a tenth of the student population now Mhm. in the one university I'm at. Now, there are several universities. So, that is

that's changed greatly. And that's one reason why there wasn't much English to be heard in the streets Mhm. at that time. Few people had gone that far in English language education. Yeah.

Do you remember the point when people start speaking more English on the streets instead of Malay and Hokkien? >> [snorts] >> Well, that was the result of deliberate policy here as as everyone, I think, appreciates. Lee Kuan Yew pushed that very strongly. I do remember that in the early days of the old University of Singapore, there were students coming in whose English was not great. Mhm. Had

some troubles with it. Um they'd come in from Malay and Chinese stream schools, and we had to give them a little bit of on the side unofficial Mhm. tutoring in those languages, too. So, I I think >> After my few years at the old University of Singapore, I actually went to Australia for 6 years at the Australian National University, during which time NUS had been formed through the fusion of the old University of Singapore and the old Nanyang University. Yeah. By that time,

I think English had been pretty well established. Everyone had been to school in English, and that was what you began to hear in the streets. What year was it? Like Um I came back from Australia in 1981, and left for Australia from here in 1976. What do you think about Singlish? Like,

maybe you can like explain to me and to our viewers how Singlish evolved into Singlish. Opinions on Singlish are varied, even amongst the experts, as to how it came about, Mhm. as to what are the underlying languages on which it's sort of structured. So, it's a bit hard to answer your question. Um what has happened, and it's quite recent, is that there's been a grudging awareness by the relevant government agency that Singlish does say something valuable about Singapore identity. It's a good marker

of it. Yeah. And, unlike what was previously fear, the government's fear that if you spoke Singlish, you would necessarily damage your ability to speak more standard English, we know that actually doesn't happen. It's just different registers, and most people who speak can speak Singlish here can also handle standard English. Yeah. Um which

means that they can engage in social relations at all kinds of levels of familiarity and formality, and so on. Um so, um Singlish is a typical urban creole in places of very mixed historical background. But, also there is a level of Singlish. It's kind of it can be super super deep Singlish. Yeah. Yeah. It can be just normal. Yeah.

People can play games with it. I mean, they can overdo it, let's put it that way. But, the normal way of speaking Singlish is to dip in and out of it, even in mid-sentence. Oh. Right.

>> Which is true of similar languages in many other parts of the world. People don't necessarily stick consistently with the creole or the pigeon version. They they dip into it. Like, on and off, yeah? Yeah. Yeah.

Yes, literally in mid-sentence. Yeah. I know in Russia, there are like it's called Caucasus. Like, Chechnya and other regions over there. >> Yeah. Yeah. So, if you speak, like, when

I was there last time when you speak when you hear local people speaking, they would be starting, for example, starting the sentence in Chechen language, but in the middle they use like the like five, six, seven words in Russian. >> Right. And then Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. back

to Chechen language, yeah. Um I've been to Uzbekistan while it was still in the Soviet Union. Um and I I did utter a few words of Russian there to find my way around. But, but yes, I could hear other languages being spoken, of course. But, I'm as aware that, like now in Singapore, everyone knows some English, I was aware that everyone even then did know some Russian alongside whatever other languages they were speaking. So, Yeah. that they could I

don't know for sure what was happening. I wasn't there long enough. Um but, I would assume it was not it was somewhat similar to what you've just described here. Yeah. Do you think it's like important part of Singaporean identity?

I think most Singaporeans feel that way about it. Some are rather skeptical and would like to have nothing to do with it. Amongst my students, I do ask them about this. The proportion of students who insist they never speak Singlish is very small indeed. Mhm. And I think there may

be something special about their particular family background. Yeah. Pretty well all of them, they're linguistics students. Uh whose standard English is excellent. But, uh 98% of them, let's say, admit to freely speaking Singlish when it's appropriate, you know. Are you able

to code-switch? Um I only in a small way. Mo- perhaps in intonation and so on. Um I I don't want to do it too much because people may think I'm mocking them or something and it's a little bit difficult for someone who looks like me to carry this off properly. I definitely naturally use la all the time as a declarative particle. It just comes out. I sometimes

produce sentences without a main verb and so on. Yeah. >> Uh, okay. But my pronunciation is more or less as you hear now. Yeah.

What indigenous communities told you about human nature? The particular group, the Temiars, that I was living with reasonably famous for uh, their non-violence. It's not true that they've always been non-violent. They have in the past there are historical records where they have forcibly objected to outsiders coming in, but for the most part they don't lose their tempers. They don't smack their children.

If a child has a tantrum, they just let the child get on with it Mhm. until it comes comes down. And that's a feature of several other Orang Asli groups too, not all of them, but um, that's something I think does it sticks with me certainly. Yeah. I would also say it may not be so true these days, but Um. a

generation or so ago each person was skilled at everything necessary in society. Everybody could build a house, could cook, Mhm. could farm, could trap animals for meat, could go fishing. So, that probably like the rest of modern society is being lost these days. Now we're all really rather specialized Yeah. and can't just

turn our hands to anything, but they were pretty clever. Mhm. They they could make a floating toilet on a raft, for example. Mhm. >> Um, they could make chair a chair and table for me out of split bamboo just like that Yeah.

>> for me to write up my notes on cuz they didn't have chairs and tables in the house. That's not something they needed. They just sit on the floor. Or in the in those days they did. Huh.

>> So, um, that self-sufficiency is is something I did admire, but it's really largely disappearing as it is from most parts of the world. There's the migrational background which populated Singapore in the first place historically, but within Singapore itself >> Yes. there's the destruction of the kampongs, the villages, and the removal of people to high-rise flats that makes any indigenous, even any incipient indigene linkage to the ground Yeah. apart from the fact that subsistence practices never existed here in the first place with one exception, the southern islands, which have now nobody living on them anyway. >> Yeah. Anyway. So, it breaks the

connection with the land in some way. >> A perpetual connection. Yeah. >> That's what I call indigene. Yeah. Yeah.

And um, unfortunately, in that gives an advantage in terms of modern society. It gives an advantage for making an individual headway in modern society. Mhm. Um, it's unfair, but it's I think the case. Huh.

How it gives an advantage? >> It's unfair because those people who are not able or do not wish to break >> Yes. >> that indigenous linkage with the whole environment that is meaningful to them, they are going to end up, most of them, as amongst the poorest people in their society. For no real fault of their own. How does it make you feel um, that's now people live like very differently?

We can't avoid it. I mean, it would be hypocritical to do so cuz, you know, I that's the way I live. That's way we we all live. However, I I do take a different view of um, modern city life. For example, even today I have this very Orang Asli way of looking at the environment as being defined by the rivers that flow through it. Mhm. So, even in Singapore I'm aware

of the rivers as I pass them. I know their names. I know which ones they are. Yeah. Um, even though roads, of course, have been built all over them and I kind of have this sense of what was there before the buildings went up. And part of that, at least in

Singapore, is because I was here before all the buildings went up in many [clears throat] areas. Um, for example, Clementi Road today was effectively the limit of the built-up area of Singapore when I first came here. The eastern side of Clementi Road, yes, had buildings on it, but the western side was still scrubland. Mhm. There was nothing. Nothing. Uh, there was some

farming, but that's it. In those days on the only two visits I ever made to Nanyang University, it was a long and rather remote journey through what is now Old Jurong Road. Even um, Boon Lay area now, I can still remember it when it was open land. There was just a crossroads there. And that's relatively recent. Previously, it was just

scrubland. So, I always sense that the the the current buildings have been plonked on top of something else and I I'm aware of the something else that was there previously. >> Yeah. If you meet this part of Singapore, I'm I'm like you know, you asked me just now, how old is this building? Nine Well, 1981, this part was still pretty well scrubland. Uh, there

were estates here, um, rubber estates. I didn't come into this particular area, but I I know from looking at old maps what it was like. Mhm. And [snorts] this is an area where during the Second World War there some of the most violent violent um, Mhm. >> massacres took place, particularly of Australian troops just down the road Mhm. in the playground down the road.

Yeah. Um, when it this was very rough country. What are the other like the biggest changes, any changes in Singapore that you like see through saw through the years and something like very remarkable? Um, okay, shopping malls, that's a big change. Mhm. The

first time I ever went into a shopping mall was in Japan. It wasn't here. And that would have been around 19 70-71. And this was a completely new experience for me. Now, of course, it's become the norm in Singapore. In those days the all

the shops were basically in shop houses alongside the older streets. >> shop house. >> Yeah, yeah. So, that's changed. The the this whole experience of shopping, um, Cold Storage had only one outlet in the middle of Orchard Road. NTUC?

No. >> NTUC, I don't know that it existed in the '60s. I I'd have to check on that. I don't remember it. Yeah. So, the the

whole supermarket thing is that's new. I mean, I still feel in some sense it's new. You really had to go [clears throat] to a traditional market or to a just a small shop. I walked a lot more in those days. I thought nothing. I and

and the old University of Singapore, I lived right next to it. That's Dalvey Road, Cluny Road area in a building that's since been knocked down. I thought nothing of walking all the way down to town, down Cluny Road, down Orchard Road all the way to the bottom. Um, there was no MRT, of course. It had not had not been built. I didn't use the

buses cuz I didn't know where they went. So, I would use taxis, which were cheaper in those days. So, basically, I walked everywhere. I try to walk now for exercise only, but not not on the whole for getting anywhere. The public transport here is really quite impressive, actually. Yeah. And

uh, as long as you stick to trains and buses rather than taxis, it's cheap. And now you know where the buses are going. I know. I know mostly where buses are going. I'm quite good at the buses here.

Yeah. Health care in Singapore is excellent, but expensive. A simple surgery can easily cost a like few thousand dollars. So, if you're an expat in Singapore, private health insurance is an absolute must-have. To find the best option for you, save time, and make sure all the details are properly covered, it helps to work with a broker like Pacific Prime who supported today's video. Me and my family use insurance

all the time. Dental, GP visits, MRIs, and you know, I like playing football like regularly. And let's say it doesn't always end perfectly. That's when having insurance really matters. I like that you don't have to think twice about whether to see doctor or not. In most

cases, it's covered. So, [music] you can just go and live normally. Pacific Prime works with all major insurers and offers an unbiased comparison based on your situation. In Singapore, their advisory team speaks over 10 languages, which helps newcomers and non-native English speakers navigate such an important decision. To get a free personalized plan comparison from them, scan this QR code or click the link in description.

And take care of your health. Can you compare the East and the West from the anthropologist's point of view? Not in those terms. West has some features in common, but East, that's everywhere from where? Turkey to Japan? I don't think so. Um. I I'm

always puzzled when people try to talk about Asia as a As a as a unity. It really isn't. It's the most varied place on Earth. Historically, Asia meant what we now call Turkey in Latin. I believe that's the case. Asia was what we would now

call Turkey, Yeah. which wasn't even Turkish at that time. It was Greek or something of the of the kind. So, um, but then it got extended all the way here. So, I there's no it's not possible to generalize about anything called Asia.

I'm a bit more comfortable about talking about Southeast Asia. Okay. >> And I've been in Southeast Asian studies and some of the courses I teach have the phrase Southeast Asian in the course title. I'm more comfortable with that. I think there are some generalities. I've Bit hard to put

my finger on it, but Well, like like what if you can name >> Um it's Some of these generalities are really rather technical um and a bit hard to talk about in lay terms. You might have to separate island Southeast Asia from mainland Southeast Asia. But those two areas separately, each of them really is has has a high degree of similarity, I think. Or I would say from Myanmar across to Vietnam from Laos down to certainly Thailand. Um then island the Philippines, Indonesia, peninsular Malaysia.

I would I include that with the islands. There's a whole range of things which they which each of those areas shares, but there are also some features deeper down which cross which exists between parts of the mainland and parts of the islands. This is especially noticeable when you look at certain linguistic typological features. As I say, this is kind of technical to talk about, but it is possible to talk about it in in technical terms. I think it's fair to say when you travel from one part of Southeast Asia to another, you don't find very great differences. You Across the languages

are different and the religions are different, but daily life is really rather similar. Villages [clears throat] are rather similarly structured. People's interpersonal patterns to some extent are similar. >> Like what? For example, maybe it's it's difficult to compare other parts of Southeast Asia with each other, but maybe we can compare this with like America, let's say. Oh, well. Um

You as a like a researcher and a scientist, for you it's hard to generalize, but I'm trying to kind of uh break it down to my audience which are not like professionals. >> okay. Uh As I say, if you wanted to put up a list of what makes Southeast Asia something to some degree a unity, that list would consist of a fair number of rather technical issues. One way to do it, I think, however, would be to contrast it with South Asia and East Asia. Their societies are largely what we call unilineal, patrilineal, occasionally matrilineal, but with descent groups. Southeast Asia

is largely not mostly not. Kinship systems are calculated on both sides and that makes for rather different way of calculating family, land ownership, and issues of that kind. That's one feature. The population densities are a lot lower historically in Southeast Asia than either South Asia or East Asia. And that means that some institutions that have been found historically necessary in South Asia and East Asia don't really exist here except in small echoes.

Things like the caste system in India, which is partly a device for handling very high population density. The clan system in China. Mhm. Neither of those exists except in a very small scale in parts of Southeast Asia. The countryside is fairly similar as you travel around Southeast Asia. There There's no great

shocks, I think, as you move from one area to another. The same contrast of lowlands with wet rice fields and highlands with mountains and sometimes dry farms and so on. The area would feel fairly similar traveling all the way, say, from Laos to parts of Indonesia and so on. And um in the sense that you would feel reasonably at home. I certainly do when I travel around. Houses built on pillars

off the ground, not everywhere, but very largely the case in traditional housing. Of course, in the cities it's different. Um that's gone in Singapore. It hardly exists anymore, but it certainly did still exist when I first came here. So, things like that.

Like I'm very curious because there's as an anthropologist, what what do you think the most misunderstood thing about human nature nowadays? That really is a difficult question because the only evidence we have have for human nature is what people actually do in specific social and cultural and historical circumstances. We can't abstract human beings apart from the specific circumstances in which we're all living. So, anything you want to say about human nature is going to be pretty hypothetical. People like to abstract generalities from the different cultures around the world. If I were to attempt

this, okay, I I have taught courses on culture theory where this comes up. And what I would say and have said in doing this is that you can't blame culture or society for making you do what you do. Culture and society, they have no agency, but they provide the background against which you have to construct your own life and your own actions. You can't do that without being embedded in social relations or without a cultural background, but what you do with it is from moment to moment your own business and you Culture is something that you have to puzzle out. It doesn't decide for you what to do. So, every time some

students write "Society says such and such", I cross it out and say, "No, other people, not society. Society has no agency. It's not a thing." I don't believe in cultural determinism. I believe that we have to work out from whatever culture is culturally transmitted to us how we should be behaving. So, I'm not a

cultural determinist. I suspect a lot of people think anthropologists are. I think most modern anthropologists are not cultural determinists. I don't think they hold that culture is a fully structured thing that makes people all behave in the same way. That's a very old-fashioned view that I think the vast majority of anthropologists and sociologists would not hold to anymore.

Though, if you take for example, Chinese ethnically Chinese person and ethnically like Caucasian person. Like Chinese person upbringing in China. Uh >> There will be differences, sure. >> There would be difference. So, what's the I know the percentage of this agency you actually have uh being different from someone else?

>> that that is immediately a political question. Politics is always present. I And I mean politics in a very basic sense of even in societies that don't have states or don't have political parties, there's always some people who are trying to persuade you to behave in the way they want you to. And ways of doing that can be very diffuse indeed. So, that's minimally politics. So, yes, people are always

trying to constrain other people in one way or another, but the mechanisms by which they do this can be quite hard to discern and that's part of the job of anthropological analysis, I think. What I will say is that um that often involves presenting models of ideal behavior. That certainly exists. >> Mhm. Um >> cultures it's different.

>> Yes, yes, every There are always people trying to use the idea of an ideal culture to say, "That's how you should behave. And if you don't behave that way, you are not a member of this culture." Okay? Um but that's a political device. That's sometimes what people think of as the culture, but any anthropologist faced with this in real life knows that there's a lot more to it than that. Mhm. Um and

uh basically that's a stereotype. I call these regimes basically, not culture but regime. Yeah. >> Yeah, which is built up within a culture. >> So, from the >> to constrain other people's behavior by using cultural rhetoric. Yeah, at the

same time it it exists, right? People would behave differently. >> sure. It happens absolutely. Yeah.

>> grow up in Russia, you would behave differently. Yes, but you don't even need to to name nation states like Singapore and Russia. It It happens in pretty well any cultural linguistic societal [clears throat] tradition including the Tamils I've been talking about. Yeah. >> In their case, they do it through the kinship system and a whole range of other things. Yeah.

So, it leads us to conclusion that we are more similar >> What's similar about human beings, I think, is we we each of us separately have to puzzle out for ourselves what to do with the particular societal social and cultural framework we find ourselves in, which can be very messy, not well ordered. And we have to find order within it and construct our own behavior within it. That of human life, basically. Um it doesn't matter which society you're living in. You all have to do that.

We all have to do it. We can't switch off, in other words, unless society and culture work through us. We have to have to exert agency. We have to um puzzle out for ourselves what to do, how to behave. But we can't, as I've said earlier, we can't do it without having a social framework.

And a cultural framework, yeah. >> I guess this the the most difficult part to understand like to try to separate like yourself from like all the layers cultural historical and other layers that that you have. >> they they're given to us. I mean, but they're not given in a manner that we can work out exactly what is required of us. We have to work that out for ourselves.

I interviewed a numerous billionaires, politicians, celebrities, investors on this channel for the last 3 years and many of them became my friends. Some even bought my services. And I started this project from scratch when I moved to Singapore. I didn't know anyone. My English was not great, but I really wanted to make it work cuz I strongly believe that people around you is the most valuable asset for success in life.

So, I'm gathering a small group of interesting people and bring them for a short networking retreat in Phuket and you can join us, too. You will expand your >> [music] >> network, improve your conversational skills and we will just have fun together. I'm even setting up a meet up with a billionaire at his mansion. So, it's going to be very unique experience. To join us here in a beautiful Phuket, jump in in the early bird waiting list.

To do it, scan this QR code or click the link in description. Can you maybe give me an example to illustrate this these ideas? Maybe nations wide or at least these are cultures wise. If you assume that culture is everything that is transmitted to us through social relations, through reading books, through what we see on TV, from what we overhear people saying, that's really a mess. It's not structured. It simply is

is not tightly organized. Okay, it's bits and pieces and from that we have to somehow build up as I say, course of action from moment to moment. It doesn't come as a set of instructions. There may be people expressing certain values when they're asked, "What are your values?" But they're not necess- Those are not necessarily the values that operate from moment to moment. What

actually motivates what we uh our particular actions from moment to moment. That's something that that really is not given to us fully formed. As I say, we have to puzzle it out. Mhm. And um I reject the view that cultures come ready structured.

That's why I use this additional term regime Mhm. for portions of culture that some people have applied structure to trying to make it into a sort of object lesson for other people to follow, but that's not that's not the totality of culture, which is much more complicated than that. From anthropologist standpoint, is it like um organic and natural for humans to fight with each other? Oh, I Or or not? I I don't think it's natural. I'd be

very careful about ever using the word natural for almost anything. Um Mhm. But that's behavioral, that's to say Behavioral? No, I think that's something that's within the range of human possibilities. Unfortunately, humans can be very nice to each other. They can

also be very nasty to each other. And that's all human. If you want to call it natural, yes, that whole range is natural. Yes, sure. So, it's a choice. It's a agency that

what you Well, it's the agency of obviously. In this case, it's the military. There's no There's no denying that that's what's happening, yes. >> Yeah, I mean, not only Burma, but in general because some people would claim okay, the wars are inevitable. And some people will say, "Oh, come on, it's 21st century. Like you don't have

to like be in a war with each other." And I'm trying to understand for like from your point of view, how how how you how you see it. Um I would like to think you don't have to be at war with each other, yes. I think war is not necessary. I would make a slight exception for cases where there is a horrible regime and the only way to deal with it is invasion from a neighboring country.

I'm thinking of the Khmer Rouge and how they were moved out by Vietnam. Of course, that's caused problems since now. Yeah. Many Cambodians are not that happy about how many Vietnamese have settled in Cambodia. I'm thinking of Idi Amin's regime in East Africa in Uganda a long time ago now. It's only when the

neighboring country invaded and tipped removed him that that went. So, I would make a slight exception for cases of extremely brutal regimes, which it seems could not be dealt with except by invasion, but I think all other wars I'd like to think are totally unnecessary and are simply the result of um I don't know, excessive pride, if you like, on the part of of those countries that go to war. Yeah. Uh pride on the part of their leaders, not the whole country. When was the last war in Southeast Asia? It was Khmer

Rouge, I guess. Yes, I I mean, and of course, Myanmar right now in a very serious civil war. There are some skirmishes still going on in parts of Southeast Asia, parts of the Philippines still have some Or like there is war between Thailand and Uh that one, yes, yes. That's a very recent, yeah, yeah, sure. >> Yeah. Yeah, but not not not a big war

Not a big war um and one hopes it would not become one. Yeah. Yeah. If we come down from the level of like countries and big societies to our like personal level, why do some people end up more successful in life, in career, in business than the others um if they start with like kind of the same the the same base? Again, from anthropologist point of view. I think I'd have to give a

sociological answer to that rather than anthropological one and I think a sociologist would say it's in the nature of society, modern complex that not everyone has an equal chance to rise to the top. Uh you asked about the US just now. US has this over worn statement, "You can be anything you like." Well, you can't be anything you like. It's simply not possible. Society is

structured that only some people can rise to certain positions. So, there are always exclusions and people are excluded may definitely not deserve the exclusion. It's just the if society means anything at all, it is these mechanisms of exclusion, I I I think. Mhm. Um so, it isn't simply a measure of the personal qualities of each individual. It's also

the interactional societal framework they find themselves in. It's simply not the case that everyone can be whatever they want to be. Mhm. I think luck has large part to do with it. Mhm. Parentage, yeah, it helps. Mhm.

Sure, but it's these things are not the only answer. Ethnicity plays the role or not? >> Ethnicity, if if by ethnicity you mean actual cultural content, cultural background, Like possibly, I don't know. Let's start from the like just the the blood. Like you're Chinese descent or Indian descent or like Caucasian descent or anything else. I'm not sure Chinese

descent in itself would matter. It uh um you would have to immediately separate Chinese who are the offspring of immigrants from China some generations ago who are living in very different circumstances from those who stayed behind. Um I was about to say I think emi- immigrant experience is important. I draw distinction between indigene and exogeny. Those technical terms and I I published on this.

Exogeny, I think, tends to give an economic advantage to people because they can view their circumstances as ripe for um What's the word I'm looking for? For utilization. The land around them is something you can buy and sell. Truly indigenous people still living in indigenous circumstances who are now by far the minority in the world today can't do that. They can't think that way. That's one thing that makes a

difference. Okay, so let's look at Singapore. Nobody in Singapore is now living where their parents and grandparents lived. Everyone in Singapore has been moved from whatever bit of land they were their ancestors were attached to. That, I think, does give Singaporeans a very different outlook on the world than people in much of Southeast Asia even today who are living in much more indigenous circumstances. Mhm. And I I

don't just mean tribal by indigenous. I mean Same piece of >> Basically yeah, rural farmers and so on who are living in circumstances where they've not had this experience of being lifted from relatively subsistence education on the same plateau block of land all their life. That makes a big difference. And that in itself is not ethnicity. That's that's really a that's a sociological difference. So, that makes Singaporeans

what? What what quality? What trait? >> uh in tech- relatively technical terms, this means that Singapore differs from the rest of Southeast Asia not because it's small, but because it's never had a peasant population. Mhm.

Even the farmers on Singapore always farmed for cash. There was never a subsist- a subsistence dimension here. Whereas farming in the rest of Southeast Asia historically has been very largely always had a large subsistence dimension, people farming to feed themselves, but having some of their produce taken from them either by force or as part of the market. Nowadays, of course, the subsistence dimension is disappearing cuz everyone has to work for cash. Have to buy their necessities. And that

uh brings about a big change. People have to go to school, they have to go to secondary school, even farming families have to reduce the number of people working on the farm because their children now have to go to secondary school and so on so forth and learn the national standard variety of the national language and earn for money. And the farming becomes more mechanized, so we can work with fewer people and so on. This is the big change that's been going on throughout the region. This channel is now my full-time job. But

before, I worked as an engineer, brand manager, I ran a media agency, but YouTube is actually my dream job. Small team, big profits, everything is done remotely, and it aligns with my passions and values. So, some of you might be also thinking to start a YouTube channel for, let's say, some additional passive or semi-passive income. So, I made a video lesson for you where I break down my five-step strategy, which helped me to grow this channel to almost 350,000 subscribers within just 2 years. I also used the same one to grow my other channel, different language, different niche to 300,000 subscribers. And I

always use the same strategy when I help my students and clients to grow their channel. I also explain how this blueprint can help you build a semi-passive [music] income stream of at least $10,000 a month. So, this lesson is packed with value, and I'll probably start selling it later. But for now, I'm giving it away for free. So, I'll leave a link in description. Click it and grab

it if it's still available. In the US, there is American dream that you can achieve anything. Before, I was more into this you can be anyone, you can become anything. But now I kind of inclined more to, for example, you see like delivery like Go-Jek delivery driver in Indonesia. And then for you as a person with education, it's easy to say, "Oh, why you would not like learn how to code and like program and stuff and like live this life and like Mhm.

make money." But he's in the circumstances that would not allow him even to know how to uh do this like break through in his life. >> It would be the fortunate few, I guess, who could do that. But then I'd like to ask why how many coders do we need? I mean, Yeah, I mean, it's it's just an example of what >> Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um But the same is

for, sorry for interrupting, but the same is for like if Elon Musk, you know Elon Musk, like look at us, look at me. He's like, "Oh, why you would not learn how to make billions and how to, you know, send rockets in the space?" But how many people would he want to become trillionaires like himself? I don't think he'd want that. It's quite clear he doesn't. I mean,

he's been he's been busily um making people unemployed. I mean, that's So, but the fact remains that structurally, it is simply not possible to be for everyone to be anything they might like. I mean, it's even said of the presidency of the US, you could be anyone could be president. But if you want It's it's nonsense. There's only one president.

Only one person can be president. I mean, it's it's it's just a bit of silly mythology. And it's it's a fundamental sociological untruth. I I Any sociologist will immediately know this. They will know that what we call society consists very largely of those limitations on what you can be.

Then we we come back to the question of agency versus the this >> Yeah. the the the lock on your >> Yes. You have to construct your own behavior, but it doesn't mean to say you can succeed in anything you want to do. There are limits. And yeah, sure. In this case, it's hard to,

I guess, be motivated to achieve something if you know that statistically, you'll probably not be successful. [clears throat] >> of people quite rationally decide there's no room for them Mhm. to move into some new area. They'd better Well, they may as well stick with what they're doing and make the best of it, which is a perfectly rational attitude. They're not likely to end up very well off financially, but they might end up psychologically reasonably. Yeah.

And more happy. Yeah, maybe. Yes. Mhm. Yeah.

Yeah. I'm not sure happiness is that widespread around the world, but You are 84? 85. 85. Mhm. How does it

feel to be 85? It feels puzzling. Um that first of all, I don't feel all that different from when I was in my 20s. Mhm. But rationally, I have to admit that I am much older. I've had

all this life experience, which I do reflect on. My students seem not to mind when I reminisce about the older days in Singapore. I think they found that valuable. Some of them have actually said so in their comments. I feel a bit strange talking like an old person who's seen everything. Um

when in other respects, I haven't actually changed very much at all. It's a puzzle, frankly. It's it's a puzzle. So, uh there's no simple answer to what you asked. I'm certainly older than my father was quite a bit older than when he died. I'm

older than my wife's father was when he died. And so on. So, we're, I guess, we're potentially living older these days. Yeah. Are you afraid of death or the concept of mortality?

>> I'm aware of it all the time, sure. Afraid of, I'm not sure, but I'm aware that it's coming, yes. Yeah. Yeah. No question about that.

How does it make you feel? Makes me wonder about how much I can get done before death intervenes. Beyond that, I don't know what to say. Uh I'm sure my wife and daughter will miss me, but they are perfectly capable of running their own lives, so I'm not worried about that score. I won't be here, so what can I say? I mean,

you know, um I'm not religious in that sense. I look at this from purely secular point of view. Do you think, not from religious point, but do you think God exist at some like a some concept that created um No, I can understand why some people think so, but I do not think there's any verifiable Yeah. uh truth [clears throat] in that statement, no. However, I am very interested in religion.

And I've written on it and I'm still interested in it. The basic anthropological problem of why are people religious in the first place? What are they getting out of it? Yeah, surely. I'm certainly interested in that. What's

the meaning of life for you? I have thought about this, and I've come to the conclusion life has no meaning. Um it's just that being human, we like to look for it, but I don't think it has any meaning. It just happens. I guess that's in You might say that's a slightly Buddhistic way of looking at it if you wanted to say what religious sympathies I may have, it may be with that, but I wouldn't confuse religion with philosophy, frankly. My philosophical

stance would be it's not worth constantly looking for meaning in life cuz nobody asked us to be here. Mhm. We just ended up here. And we ended up as a species that is pathologically always searching for meaning, but that doesn't mean to say [music] that my life actually does have a meaning. >> [music]