---
video_title: "I Left Singapore For Bangkok"
video_id: qnDoDzBEY4A
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qnDoDzBEY4A
video_date: 2026-06-10T11:00:23+00:00
video_description: |
  🌏 Apply for The Backstage Circle: https://forms.gle/huwR6NQNz5A4XgC78 
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on Telegram: https://t.me/friendsofmax 
  
  I’ve lived in Singapore for eight years, but somehow Thailand has slowly become my second home. I come here all the time, but this trip is different. I found a billionaire who has built his life in Thailand for decades, and I want to understand why people like him choose this country. The problem is, he didn’t really want to do the interview. I received a tentative yes, but I still don’t know if it will actually happen. So the mission is simple: get him on camera.
  Along the way, I’ll meet the Thai MrBeast, My Mate Nate, who has 15 million subscribers on YouTube, drive to the middle of nowhere to film the founder of a billion-dollar brand, compare Bangkok with Singapore, and show you the backstage of how these videos are really made. I’ve been running this channel for five years, but I almost never show this behind-the-scenes side of the process.
  Let’s go to Bangkok! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  🎙 Listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts: https://open.spotify.com/show/1dktMfOBp11LNp52X3mkuR  or https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/max-chernov/id1875665593
  👥 Sponsorship requests / Guest suggestions: max@maxchernov.sg
  
  WATCH NEXT
  ► My Mate Nate Interview: https://youtu.be/CevMh63x_x4
  ► Billionaire Interview with Fred Mouawad: https://youtu.be/m7FbPZYZ2nk
  ► Interview with Billion-Dollar Brand Founder Simon Woodroffe: https://youtu.be/e1wTPzJH06Q
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 INTRO
  00:52 Flying from Singapore to Bangkok
  03:50 How I Got a Billionaires on Camera
  04:25 Food in Bangkok vs. Singapore
  05:26 How I Prepare for Billionaire Interviews
  06:08 Meeting Thailand’s MrBeast (My Mate Nate) 
  06:48 Inside My Mate Nate’s Business Empire
  08:18 Building The Backstage Circle
  09:34 Meeting a Thai CEO at His Home
  12:23 The Drive to Meet a Billion-Dollar Founder 
  12:52 Building The Backstage Circle Behind the Scenes
  14:06 Living the Life I Imagined 4 Years Ago
  14:51 Meeting YOTEL Founder Simon Woodroffe
  17:42 Why I Do This Channel
  18:10 Exploring Hua Hin Alone
  19:02 My Non-Negotiable Daily Rule
  21:18 Working from Bangkok
  21:46 Bangkok vs Singapore
  22:49 Why Thailand Feels So Safe
  24:36 Discovering Hidden Bangkok
  26:46 Preparing for The Billionaire Interview 
  27:50 How I Convinced a Billionaire to Say Yes
  28:44 Interviewing Billionaire Fred Mouawad
  29:31 Lessons from Building a Generational Business
  30:14 Managing 650+ Backstage Circle Applicants
  31:18 Why Most Private Clubs Fail
  32:53 Back Home in Singapore
  34:31 Thank You for Following Me 💙
  
  This channel features raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery.
  
  I sit down with founders, investors, operators, experts, and outliers navigating the biggest shifts of our time, many of them based in or connected to Asia. We talk about money, leverage, relocation, power, tradeoffs, and the real decisions shaping what’s next, not as theory, but from lived experience.
  
  Some conversations happen inside billionaire homes. Some happen remotely with experts shaping global systems. All of them focus on signal over noise. 
  
  If you care about where to build, where to live, how to make better decisions in uncertain times, and what the future demands, you’re in the right place.
---
I've lived in Singapore for 8 years, but somehow Thailand has slowly become my second home. I come here all the time, but this trip is different. I found the billionaire who's built his life in Thailand for decades, and I want to understand why people like him choose this country. The problem is, he didn't really want to do the interior. I received the tentative yes, but I still don't know if it will actually happen. So the mission is simple. The Ironman camera, along the way I'll meet the time Mr. Beast, my mate Nate, who has 15 million subscribers on YouTube. I'll drive to the middle of nowhere to film the founder of a billion dollar brand. I'll compare Bangkok with Singapore and show you the backstage of how these videos are really made. I've been running this channel for 5 years, but I almost never show behind the scenes side of the process. I might turn off. I have strong conversations about wealth, global mobility and mastery. Let's go to Bangkok. Okay, I think I'm ready. Taibat, my bag. That's it. So we gotta find this billionaire and interior. It will be another banger on the channel. So lately I only fly from terminal 1. Though my favorite terminal in Changi is terminal 4 because it's small and just very causing my buy. See you in 5 days. It's actually super convenient because car park is here like 4 motorcycles and the entrance to the terminal is basically here. It's like 30 meters. I said no need to check in. I'm just proceed to the departure. So in Changi airport is super easy. We just go to departure. That's it. Now we're going to my regular place to eat. Oh no. Let's drop a table with this one. Fresh. 14 singles. Nice. Pretty cool, yeah. So all together is 17 singles which is roughly what? 12 US. Okay, you always have to get priority morning. Just so much less hassle if you have it and much more enjoyment. If I fly scoot, I either get the first roll or I get a scoot plus. It's cheating. It's a business class which cost slightly more than like a normal economy ticket. Which is illegal. Should be illegal. Should be banned. Okay. Oh. It's making business. Always great to be in Bangkok. I mean in Thailand, in general. It's my second home basically. After Singapore. Okay, it was not too bad. Maybe 20, 25 minutes at the border. Sometimes it can take like up to one hour. But to this Monday. Should be alright. Very familiar vibe and the air. All Bangkok. I said it up. Thanks for waiting. By that moment, I still wasn't sure whether the interview with the billionaire was going to happen. And this is nature of my job. You have to stay flexible and open-minded. From the outside, it looks simple. You fly in, set up the cameras, ask a few questions and sub how it turns into a video on YouTube. But in reality, getting someone this important to sit down with you, takes patience, timing and ability to build genuine relationships with the wide variety of people along the way. New day in Bangkok. We're going to a grab some breakfast first and then I'm heading to interview Thai Mr. Beast. What I like about Bangkok and Thailand is general. There are so many cool places to be. Especially for breakfast. And for me, I like breakfast places in Singapore but they're not enough. I mean, on top of food courts, there are not as big variety of breakfast places there compared to Bangkok. You know what's crazy about this city? We are in the very heart of Bangkok also. So can we, basically, to come with? And there are so many low-rise buildings like this where people live. It's just very central. Next to all the skyscrapers and high-rise, but a lot of low-rise old places. It's cool but that's why also so much traffic because the space is not distributed in the right way. Okay, my breakfast place is here. I think it's there. The breakfast. Yeah? Okay. Very cozy. That's our preparation notion page. That's how it works. So for each guest, we have this separate page in notion. This is the production funnel, production stream. It's when I was preparing for the interview. So this is basically a set of questions. It's how I normally do it. And also we have all the links about the guest. And then after it's ready, it goes up on this funnel, up to like final cut length. Oh no, so big up. Bye-bye. See? It's my mate Nate. Hey. Wow. Nice. Thank you. We're trying to find it. Wow. Nice. Thank you. We're trying to find it. It's like... It's about Ross. Hi. Hey man. Are you? Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you as well. How are you? Good, good. We're trying to find this place. A little bit like small Ross. Yeah. No worries. My grab driver didn't know what to go. That's okay. How are you? I'm doing good. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. You want to do like a tour or anything? Sure. Yeah. The tour would be great. Spend most of your time here when you're inside. Yeah, like Monday to Friday. This would be the office we work in. Yeah. So this is all a bunch of... Okay. Let me just feel. I mean, I stick the mic and they just show me around. Okay, let's do it. Come back. Come on, Tayyukip. The one that speaks English. He'll take an idea of somewhere else. We'd like the compost. Entire. It's called chrome sand. Just to keep it... And then I went on my first day to walk out the doors of the airport. And it's just hot and sweaty. All right. We just finished the interview with my mate Nate. And it was super interesting. He's basically like the Mr. Beast of Thailand. And then he just date with me a lot how they do production and how they run businesses. And he's like a very chill guy. Very interesting. Don't you worry. And also he's a good speaker also. I will bring him to one of my events for my backstage circle. There you go. Thank you. So we've got... We've got the mic snacks. Yeah. My personal favorite is the sea salt. All right. Everyone has their own. We've got the jellies in there. But we were talking about we've got events. We've got the snacks. Yeah. We've got the videos. Right now we're making board games. Yeah. Based off of our videos. So right now we have a series that's... We hide and seek. And we're in the entire country of Thailand. And so we're making a board game where you go hide and then the people find you in the game. I just started this thing called the backstage circle. So it's basically the private membership pool like investors and entrepreneurs in a region. It's like Singapore, UK, Bangkok, Hong Kong. And then I just started doing it. I'm bringing this, the billionaires for the events. It's like our circle. So I'm super bullish on this project. What? What are you bringing them all together? We just went to UK at the months ago. 12 people, everyone's super high level. And then on the back of that and building like the private club kind of thing. So the next event will be I think a pool cat as well in September. I can send you later the information. If you're open, like maybe I can invite you to speak or something. Down. For the events, yeah. Those are the type of people I want to give myself or after. So that'd be awesome. Thanks for the presence, man. Yeah, enjoy it. Super cool. You don't like it. Let me know, like, be honest. I like salty chips, like in general. I like salty chips. So I guess I'm going to like this one as well. The fun part is come up with the taste, yeah. Like, just the taste. That makes it forever. Okay, this is mine. That's probably it. All right, dude. Yeah. Yeah, good to meet you. Yeah, let's keep it that way. Let me know when it goes out and I'll recommend it to my fans. All right, sure. All right, thanks, man. See you. Bye-bye. I'm now going to see this guy. He was a participant of the backstage circle in Puket in March. He's Thai. He runs a listed company in Bangkok. Super cool guy, like I'm very much. So he invited me to his house. So we're going to check it out. Hey, dude. I think I'm in front of the... Is it your house? Yes. Come, come, come. Okay, okay, okay. Hello. Hey, hey. Hey, hey. That's how it is. Hey, man. Come, come. Hi. Hi. How are you guys? Nice. Hi. How are you guys? Nice. Nice meeting you. Nice meeting you. Nice meeting you. It's the office. Oh, you live here. They live here. You live here? Hey. How old is the house? It's like 10 years. 10 years. Yeah. So it's like this house is like every other house. And then I had to stay 10 years. You're family-built, or you bought it? We brought the old house. Yes. Then like the other side, the like, family-detached house. And then I really signed it to it. So I pushed the house forward. And then I have this spiral staircase. So your parents stay here. It's only two of them. Or it's like a sister brother. It's like we are a wing. Yeah. This is my brother here, my other brother there. Oh, nice. My house is going on this here. Okay. My dad is my mom. It's up to him. Okay. All families here. Yes. Very cool man. And then you know, here, my mom lives here as well. So we can't be too chill. Is this penis? Or is this... Is it a penis? It is a penis. Peadas are not with us. Yeah. And then you have cheese. That's what the cheese is. So if it's not me, you would guys will speak Thai between them and each other. No, yeah. English. Because you speak Thai, right? I speak Thai. Everybody here speaks Thai. Yeah, but I mean, if it's not me, you would speak Thai. No. Or English. No, well, well, kinda like Swaparai. Swaparai. Yeah. Okay. Interesting. And certain thoughts are easier to express in Thai. Certain thoughts. Ah. Right, right. No. Oh, this is cool. That's a lot of travel on pizza. Yeah, it's like... It's like triple... It's like triple the price of pizza right away. Oh, 10x. 10x. My interview with this billionaire is still not 100% confirmed. But, that's the beauty of Thailand. One meeting always seems to lead to another. From Thai entrepreneurs to the biggest local YouTuber out there to a legendary British founder, hidden somewhere in the jungle near Ho-Hin, this trip is already becoming much bigger than a single interview. The main target is still ahead, but the journey is already starting to pay off. Just got a breakfast and I'm off to Ho-Hin. This is my car waiting for me. Hello, how are you? Yeah. Ho-Hin. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Got one grab. Thank you. Oh, a fortune. It's the fastest car on the road. Normal, most aggressive. Also, what I wanna do is to prepare for the interview. So, I normally need like one hour and a half to prepare. Also, my plan is to write a couple of posts about my TBC, the backstage circle. So, what we're doing now is firstly, we created the product already. It took us like three months to think through everything and come up with the whole structure. Then, leads generation. We started a couple of months ago already. So, we have 600, 650 leads. Like, candidates, basically, go applied. In the form and the third one is basically having calls. It's people that's like a two-way, so it's not only sale, which is like explaining what the product is and what the fit is with every candidate. But also, it's screening candidates because we are optimizing for the quality of members in TBC. So, yeah, that's what I'm doing now. I'm preparing for the interview with Simon Yotel and Yosel Shigai. And I'm somewhere in... I don't know where. Somewhere in the middle of Thailand going to walk him to see his beautiful house there. And, like, chat with him for a couple of hours about business life strategies. And I just realized that this is kind of a dream job and dream life that I imagined for myself four years ago. I remember I was selling myself. It would be so cool if I traveled. I go to places. I go to, like, remote places. I fly to, let's say, Thailand and jump in the car. And I go, like, three hours to, like, some very unique, a special place to find a very unique person there. And basically, interview him. And here you go. This one I'm doing right now. It's so weird. It actually was like... I was thinking about it. It was, like, my dream, like, outcome and theorem for years later. Exactly how I imagined it. What the hell? All right. Right here. Hey. Hey, Simon. Very good to see you, man. Very good. A bit of adventure, right? Very nice to see you. Very nice to see you. And good adventure for you. Yes, pretty cool. I'm glad that you found two more people to visit. So I was thinking if you just came for me, I didn't want you to visit. No, for sure. I would come just for you, but in Bangkok, so many interesting people. Your friends, you were the one who worked for us. But it's like a proper, proper nature. You know, proper get away from the civilization. That is true. It feels like... Yeah, yeah. So this is our river at the moment with nearly drive. Normally, this is a very fast flowing river. We can't fool them here. Oh, that's super cool. This is the golf course we're just building here. So it's a big piece of land. Yeah. This is Max. Hi, my wife. Hi. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Hi. Yeah. Nice to meet you. Yeah. I'm watching now the projects that I really bullish on. It's the like private membership. So it's a private membership for investors. Like high-level investors and entrepreneurs in Asia. And then we had a first trip to the hook-at. Actually, so I... Private membership would be like a concierge. Not like a concierge, but more like a networking, slash private group. Just networking here. Yeah. But not with a building or anything. Not with a building just for now. With events. Yeah. With events. Yeah. We did the first trip. Like I got like 12 founders and entrepreneurs to hook-at in March. So we went there just like a weekend trip and spend there. So I had a facilitator with us who kind of helped us with guiding the conversations and this kind of stuff. And then we... Maybe you saw the century with Mohen Morghane. He's a co-founder of Tom Hale figure. Yeah. So he lives in hook-at. He has like huge mansion there. So basically I agree with him. So we will visit him and spend like few hours in the private group in his house talking with my group that they brought. People like completely fascinated with this experience. I think that's how it came. I love the stable. Oh. Here in the near the road. Up it. Room for sleep. And then the water can. Just finished the interview with Simon. He's gonna be a lift to Hohen. It's like 30 minutes from this place. Sorry to cap. Bye bye. Bye bye. Meeting people like Simon reminds me why I do this channel. You drive hours outside Bangkok, arrive somewhere in the jungle and suddenly find yourself sitting with someone who build things most people only read about. There are so many people like this across Asia. Real builders with incredible stories who stay low-key yet the stories deserve to be heard. That's why I do this YouTube channel. And it's also why I started the backstage circle which feels like a very natural extension of what this channel has become. Hohen. Alright, now I've been here. What I'm planning to do is to grab a bike and then just ride around and see what's going on here. That's the plan. This is what I normally do. I run the bike in new place and just explore the place. Like that. I'm going there. This is my car. So I did that. Yeah, book one night. Alright, nice little room. I'm kind of on the fence either to take a nap or I'll go eat because I skip my lunch. Guess what I've chosen at the end. Yes, you're right. I was so tired so I just had a nap. And now I'm going to have a dinner. Good morning. Okay, we're going to hit the gym. I have this rule for every day in my to the list. It says don't go to sleep if you don't exercise. So I have to do at least something like some exercise. You can be riding and can be lifting weights. If I'm not done with it, I'm kind of not allowed to go to sleep. Okay. Little gym. So we're going to do this. Let's get some food. Okay, trying to eat as clean as possible. Okay, checking out and going back to Bangkok. Alright, somebody come. Checking out. Yeah, I do. No cash, no cash, right? No cash, card. Grab, grab. Yeah, the I cash in, you pay. They ask me to cancel on the grab in the app and pay cash and they change the card. So I'll be going on. What's the name? Okay. Okay, okay, thank you. So the way from going to my place would be to Bangkok 2 hours, 47 minutes. Okay. One two minutes. Okay. New driver. Okay. Okay, quick toilet stop. We are hour and a half away from Bangkok. We're going there and yeah, just quick stop for toilet. This is our car. Pretty comfortable. I like it. So hot. It was 10 o'clock, 10 a.m. And I was picked up and I was already like extremely hot. April and May in Bangkok is fucking hard. I like that old pole. Good job. All right, I just checked in to the another hotel. A new area for me. I normally is 10 to come with. So it's something new. But still like central. I wanted to take three calls with the backstage circle candidate. Yeah, and before that I need to shoot a couple of our YouTube videos. Basically I need to shoot one introduction and one head read. The billionaire interview is still a big question mark. But in between work tasks, I decided to get out and walk around Bangkok for a bit. What I like about the seat, it has a quite different energy from Singapore. A little messy, sometimes very loud, but full of life everywhere you look. I just went for a walk to explore this part of the town. I like Bangkok, but just very noisy. Now it's pretty quiet. But in the second it will be lots of cars. If you go along Sukkambit road, it's extremely loud. It's freaking loud. Bangkok is one of the most loudest cities I've been to. But still it's one of the best places. It's always fun and interesting. And lots of cool people live here in Thailand and specifically in Bangkok. So when I travel for interviews for example, I always try to have time to meet people I know here. And friends in Bangkok, I show you something pretty. This side is pretty. Yeah, very Bangkok. Nice. And then here, also pretty cool, yeah. Also what's cool about Bangkok? I can just walk around. Not really worrying about sound snatch, the camera from my hand is quite safe. And you feel safe as well. You feel good when you don't need to expect that someone attacks you. I don't know if it's intentional or not, but this is a yellow kingdom. I would call it look, the building, the trucks and the tree and also some yellow flags. The situation is I caught by rain. So I either need to wait or just go on. Or I was heading or go to have a food massage. I think massage just the way. Alright, alright. 30 minutes, food massage. Yeah. 30 minutes? Can't be. Okay. 300. You need to wait until the rain. Oh, what juice? Thank you. Hi. Hi. You too? Hi. For YouTube. Oh, literally. Thank you. How do you know Privet? Privet. You learn? Yeah. You have Russian friends? No, but I listen to some Russian people. Talking. Thank you. Yeah, yeah. Thank you. Yeah, thank you. Capungrap. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Very cute. Very cute. Okay. Rain stops. I go now. Something is interesting about this district. They're producing here. Scary. You know what's cool? So the shop is closed already. Yeah, because now is what? Like 7, 30 pm, 8 pm. So the shop is closed. But you see this stuff? It's not really secured. It's just on the street. That's the thing in Thailand. So basically, when the shop is closed, they just, in many places, they just leave, for example, chairs, just like that on the street. Because people don't really, like, steal here. I mean, unless it's like super touristy area. Super. It's boss. Super, super quiet here. And I found... Look. It's a huge Buddhist temple. It's 200-year-old look. It's super peaceful here. It is ginormous. I don't know if you can see the signs, but it's absolutely stunning and huge. It's so beautiful. I arrived. Always super cool to take a bike. But you know what's also cool? It's to get into the Erakwander room. That's also very cool. Because now is the hottest season here. And literally. Look, last time I checked was 30 degrees Celsius. Sorry. You see? Sorry. And the time is half past nine. Crazy. Finally, I've just received the final confirmation for the billionaires interview. So, I don't want to waste any time. I need to stop preparing right away. Okay, I came to Embraureum at Sukham Viet. So it's more central. And now I'm going to prepare for the interview with... owner of this mallard. You see Fred Mallard. He's a billionaire. He runs one of the biggest jewelry businesses and diamonds, particularly diamond businesses in the world, in the entire world. So, we're going to film here later. Now I'm going to grab a quick lunch and I'll be preparing for this interview. Basically, that's my charge of the PT. And I'm researching my guest here. You see, I have my YouTube guest project. So I'm preparing with charge of the PT. And then I'm having my notion page with the brief. So I put the most important facts about my guest here. And then my topics that I want to talk about. The story with this interview. Actually, I wasn't introduced by someone to him. To Fred. And the beginning Fred said, yeah, like, nice to meet you, Max, but don't want to do it. Really. But I knew that Fred has a great story, works to share with the world. So literally I asked him, like, okay, no worries. But can we just meet for a quick coffee when I'm with Bangkok? And he said, yes. So literally, I bought tickets to Bangkok. I flew all the way from Singapore to Bangkok, meeting for 30 minutes for a quick chat. And then I persuaded Fred to participate. And now, like, one month later, I'm here. And my interview starts in basically one and a half hours. That's how it works in my business. Hi, somebody come. Yeah, I'm meeting Fred later. Hey. Hey. Is there, yeah? Give me. Hey, hey. Hey, how's it? Good to see you. Good to see you. Good to see you. That's Adrian. Hi. Hi. Hi. I'm a subscriber. Oh, that's me. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. We're so excited. We just finished. It was a super cool conversation. I mean, lots of very unique takes about how to build a generational business. That's not the topic that I normally have conversations around with my guests, but that one was definitely unique. And the coolest part, the coolest part, it's all there already. Fred said no in the beginning. He said, I don't want, yeah, maybe in. No, I don't want to do it. And then I actually flew to Seem in Bangkok. And then eventually, here we go. We're doing this interior. All right, so back in my cameras, this one. This one. That's it. Off to, I have in a couple of calls with the candidates for the backstage circle tonight. We have more than 650 people in a waiting early bird list. So we started selecting candidates and having calls with them. We're doing it together with my teammate, Rob. So part of the calls, I'm doing myself and part of the calls is done by Rob. And this part of the job around this big project, the backstage circle, that I'm currently launching. Super excited about that. Bangkok weather. Okay, I wanted to have a quick walk, then find a cafe nearby, and then prepare for my call with the backstage circle candidate. Now I think I'm staying here, just find some coffee shop here, and I'm going to prepare here and have a call from here. But you see this guy? It looks not too bad. I think it's going to be over soon. See this guy? Not too bad. I never even thought about going to Asia. My focus was more like, Europe or like, America? Just finished the call with this guy. So basically what I see, people are unhappy with their experiences, participating in private clubs and different network groups and communities. Because they had a bad experience, and then they think, oh, it's all like repetitive and not relevant to them. And this is exactly why I'm building the backstage circle. We are doing it properly in the right way. We are really, really selective about what people we are bringing in. And it's actually the values created through members, because most of the clubs they're pretending to select members, so some of them are not pretending. And we are really, really focused on what people we are bringing in. Because that's the main value of the backstage circle. And also it's funny. He told me about, oh, he's been a Singapore for like many years, 20 years, I think. And he's like, oh, I'm a bit afraid of the same scenario as always. When you meet someone, then you say, hey, hello. How many years have been a Singapore for this like repetitive questions with when you meet random people? And that's exactly why I'm doing the backstage circle. And we straight down to the point, without all this bullshit, how long you been a Singapore for. So because it's curated environment, that's why it works. Finish it out of the tree. I'm cold. Tunggi. Tunggi. Wow, this is so good to be home. Why was a long trip this time? I left on Monday, today's Saturday already. I brought four videos from this trip. I entered billionaire, Fred Moa. I entered Sam and Woodrow. He's a like, bull agent, a founder, the yacht hotel hotel, his company. Then I entered the time Mr. Beast, which is my mate Nate. And I also did the vlogging, basically this one. I'm super happy that I managed to level up, really, really level up my guests. Also, there is a progress with launching my TBC, stage circle. I had a few calls with potential candidates, like potential members for the membership. And we're actually like, tweaking the offer now. Super fun, super interesting. Because basically, you get on the real feedback from real people on your product, not something that you're imagining in your head. But then, basically, you need to challenge your ideas versus the real life. The best part about Singapore when you are in the plane. And you go Singapore, you know that, okay, you can relax because you will not have any other hassle. You will arrive. And then there is no cues, no border control, no nothing. So it will be like super fast and smooth. It says, welcome home, Singapore. Singapore. You know, a few years ago, I couldn't have imagined this would become my life, but somehow step by step, it happened. So, I guess we'll just keep going. And there is a lot more ahead. Thank you for being part of this journey. Thank you.