---
video_title: "How Foreigners Are Pushing Thailand Into Crisis (Thai-American’s POV)"
video_id: ZY8I2cAHUiU
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZY8I2cAHUiU
video_date: 20260812
video_description: |
  🌏 Apply for The Backstage Circle: https://forms.gle/huwR6NQNz5A4XgC78 
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on Telegram: https://t.me/friendsofmax
  ✈️ Go to https://hfly.co/plbw0 and use code MAXCHERNOV to get 10% on Holafly plans for the first 12 months or 5% off on any other Holfafly eSIM
  
  Meet Win, a Thai American who grew up in Bangkok. After high school, he spent eight years studying in the US. But when it was time to decide where he truly wanted to build his life, he chose Thailand. Today, Win runs his family’s waste management business while also creating content about life in Thailand. In this conversation, he reveals what Thai people really think about foreigners, why Thailand’s economy continues to slow down, and how skin color and accent can still shape a person’s social status. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  🎙 Listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts: https://open.spotify.com/show/1dktMfOBp11LNp52X3mkuR  or https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/max-chernov/id1875665593
  👥 Sponsorship requests / Guest suggestions: max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST
  ➢ YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/@Winomicss
  ➢ Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/winomicss/ 
  
  WATCH NEXT
  ► Tech Multi-Millionaire Shares How He Built His Wealth Using AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O10NKwSJMek 
  ► Wealth Strategies of American Multi-Millionaire in Singapore: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Nz74s44wsQ 
  ► Singapore’s multi-millionaire on China, America and AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tP7QksbJVQ
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 Intro
  00:43 Why Thai People Are Getting Fed Up with Foreigners
  03:11 Thailand’s Growing Restrictions on Expats
  04:07 Why Some Thai Women Prefer Foreign Men
  06:49 Invitation to The Backstage Circle
  08:32 Why Thailand’s Economy Is Falling Behind
  09:55 Vietnam’s Growth vs Singapore’s Stability
  12:17 How Thais Think About Money
  14:43 Buddhism, Desire and Thailand’s Culture
  16:42 Status Symbols and Showing Wealth in Thailand
  17:38 Join My Telegram Channel
  18:04 Why So Few Thai People Move Abroad
  20:50 How Thailand’s Younger Generation Is Changing
  22:24 The Hidden Cost of Thailand’s Sabai Sabai Culture
  23:55 Skin Color, Accent and Social Status in Thailand
  28:12 One eSIM for International Travel 
  29:28 How Thai People Handle Conflict
  31:32 Growing Up Privileged Through Financial Struggles
  32:08 How International School Creates Social Capital
  33:38 Moving to America: The First Cultural Shocks
  35:55 Why Americans Speak Up and Thais Stay Indirect
  37:44 Self-Service America vs Service-Oriented Thailand
  39:58 Is He More Thai or American?
  
  This channel features raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery.
  
  I sit down with founders, investors, operators, experts, and outliers navigating the biggest shifts of our time, many of them based in or connected to Asia. We talk about money, leverage, relocation, power, tradeoffs, and the real decisions shaping what’s next, not as theory, but from lived experience.
  
  Some conversations happen inside billionaire homes. Some happen remotely with experts shaping global systems. All of them focus on signal over noise. 
  
  If you care about where to build, where to live, how to make better decisions in uncertain times, and what the future demands, you’re in the right place.
---
Thai people are starting to get fed up with the foreigners. >> Meet Win, a Thai-American who grew up in Bangkok. After high school, he spent 8 years studying in the US. But when it was time to decide where he truly wanted to build his life, he chose Thailand. >> I think I'm more Thai in my life.

>> Today, Win runs his family's waste management business while also creating content about life in Thailand. [music] He speaks openly about the country's economic challenges, cultural differences with the West, and its future. In this conversation, he reveals what Thai people really think about foreigners, why Thailand's economy continues to slow down, and how skin color and accent can still shape a person's social status. I'm Mark Chernoff, host Rock Conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery. >> I kind of curious how Thai see farangs.

Cuz in in Bangkok, there are too many like foreigners. In some countries, if it's a very small number of foreigners living in a place, so you'll be worshipped or like you'll be like oh, there's a farang. >> In Thailand, because of the people really accept everything, so maybe the foreigners I would assume, I don't know if if I'm wrong, but it would be like yeah, it's a foreigner. It's okay. Yeah.

>> I think you're right majority of the time, but then they're starting to be the change, the switch where Thai people have accepted so much, and there's a lot of bad acting foreigners and tourists where they just I guess sometimes get fed up with with things as well. There's slowly that shift, but in general Basically, he's just a foreigner. He doesn't know much. >> Mhm. >> That's generally the attitude. But

that's very interesting because I was at Khao San Road at one point uh cuz my friend was was visiting me from the US, and there was this very old foreigner guy. He wanted to steal my friend, my Thai friend's beer. Right? And he >> Steal? >> steal. He bought for it. He bought He

bought the beer, and he paid for it, and then the this white guy, who's like 60 years old or something, looks like Santa Claus came in, just grabbed the beer, "Mate, this is mine. Like, with a British accent. >> [music] >> And my friend's like, "No, this is mine. You saw me pay for it. This is mine."

And this is also like another side point where like my friend, I love him, he's my friend, but he's just way too passive. Like, I think it's a Thai thing. So, I had to step in and I was like, "Hey, man, you literally saw that he bought it. Let go now. Let go." Told

him many times, so I said pushed him. And then he just like went back. Right? And I went to talk to my friend. And then he he swung like a big hat overhand.

And then I saw it, so I blocked it. And then I countered with a knee. And then I elbowed him. And then the security guard started coming in. And then uh he got kicked out. So, I did

I just started speaking Thai to the security guard, explaining everything. And the Thai locals who were at the bar saw the situation. They started coming up to me. It's like, "Thank you for defending Thailand." And, you know, for for standing up and stuff like that. So,

at one point I felt like, "Oh, I'm like a Thai hero." But also to to the other point, how Thai people feel about foreigners is that there's starting to be a shift where Thai people are starting to get fed up with the foreigners. And they're not really doing much about it, but they're supporting those who do. So, I think yeah, that's the shift. How do you see this evolving in the next like 5 years?

What do you see the the fabric of the like this tourism {slash} interaction with local society will look like? It's a very good question because I think the Thai government is super unstable. So, there could be a new law that can be passed next month. So, I think but in terms of the trend right now, I think the government is putting way more restrictions towards expats, foreigners, you know, DTV visas being more difficult. Before expats can own a Thai bank, now they can't. So, in

terms of a trend, I think the Thai government is favoring more towards the Thai locals and giving more power back to the Thai locals. and [clears throat] I think that kind of attitude, the bad acting tourist foreigner attitude will start to go down. And I think it will kind of like revert back to >> [clears throat] >> normal, I guess. In the next 3-4 years. >> How do you see yourself when there are a lot of like farang western man who come to and they want to meet and like date Thai girls? Does it bother you? Like you

personally and how how do most of Thai people all see it? >> It doesn't bother me personally because it doesn't really affect me because the the Thai girls that the foreigners are going after tend to not be the group that I'm going after or that I am, I guess, attracted to or in the same social circle. So, it doesn't really bother me. Uh in terms of the Thai population itself, I don't think Thai people are angry. They don't take it as a a big deal, I think. It's kind of like, "Yeah,

you know, she's going to be with a foreigner. He has more money than me, whatever. It is what it is." kind of thing. Just plenty of people.

But in the event where the Thai girl cheats on like a Thai guy or something, it doesn't really matter what culture, right? It's very disrespectful and then people would get bothered by that. But in terms of just like if you're talking about a macro sense, just like purely on the idea that foreigners are coming to Thailand to find Thai women, I don't think Thai women are 100% like super bothered by it. If anything, I think the Thai women themselves are bought more bothered by that. >> Thai women themselves? Or what what what

why? >> Like the Thai like the women that are not into foreigners, I guess, a little bit more bothered by that. Cuz it's like for some reason, I I don't know why, but I think Thai women are very much more aggressive in terms of life. Like they get influenced by social media more, less relaxed, kind of like if they see like a white person going after who has like a Thai fetish or something, they see that as like what do you call it? Like a a a colonizer mindset or whatever, something like that. Like if you're an average

Thai guy, you might know about it, but you don't really care. Whereas I think a Thai woman, they would probably care more. >> Mhm. >> In in that sense. But actually I'm going to make a video about why Thai women, those who prefer foreigners, why do they prefer foreigners? I was

going to actually make a video about that. And I was about to talk about like it has many factors. Like Hollywood, you know, Oxford study, I don't know if you know about that, all these things. But I think it has to do with Thai men ourselves as well. I think our behavior also reflects on why Thai women might not like Thai men. And I'll just

like briefly touch on it is like cheating culture is big, very being very passive, not very aggressive, very not aggressive with life. That's number two. Yeah, there's other reasons, but I'll talk about it a little bit more. >> Mhm. Okay. So, you got to subscribe.

>> [laughter] >> Because I meet all of these like legendary incredible founders, investors, unconventional people, I'll bring them to private meetups with the members of my the backstage circle, a project that I'm I'm building now. I'm so bullish on this project right now. It's a group of high-level entrepreneurs and investors based in Singapore, Hong Kong, Thailand, and few other places. We are super pre-selective with the people that we are accepting. We're going to have several trips together every year and we we have small groups where we form this 7 to 10 people where members can share their challenges and problems, can get advice from other members without judging. It's like your safety

groups of peers, not like it's a psychotherapist or it's your friend or family members. Literally peers that operating at the same high level as others. Cuz one problem that I realized like talking to many like successful people, when you get hired, you start to be more lonely up there. You have less and less people who actually you can relate to and they relate to you. So, that's why I'm actually building this together with like incredible people.

I'll be involved in much of the events and this is actually rare for this private class or network of communities when the founder is involved. I'll be involved. It's I will not optimizing for scale, for quantity. The main value comes from the people that we actually pre-selected for this project. So, if you want to join us, I'll leave a QR code on the screen. I'll leave a link

below. It's a form. I'm checking all the forms, all the answers myself and if there is a fit, you will know it. We'll get in touch. I love Thailand. I come

here often. The thing is economy is not growing that much right now compared to with the neighboring countries. Which is like a little bit frustrating, I guess. >> I made a video, a long video about this and there's two reasons, right? There's the individual and there's the structural.

Individual, obviously talked about sabai sabai acceptance culture. Not very difficult to understand that part, right? That's the individual part. The structural part, obviously I don't want to get too much into politics, but there's governmental issues, lack of productivity, corruption, all these things. So, there's two two two sides and those who want to actually work hard in Thailand, they're limited by the structural issue.

So, basically you have a culture where working hard and and and and being productive is not the main thing in Thailand. Not only only Not only that you have that culture, but you also have a system where it prevents people who wants to work hard to rise up as well. So, it's literally those who who to work hard are getting squeezed kind of like this. And that's why you see a lot of Thais who want to work hard, they go abroad. You get brain drain from the US, from Singapore even. In my prediction, you're

going to start to see it from Vietnam as well. And I think Vietnam, they're going to brain drain the hard-working Thais more. >> Mhm. Yeah, let's see. Yeah. Yeah,

Vietnam is fascinating. >> Yeah. >> Like the growth and like the energy. You you [clears throat] you went there recently, right? >> Yeah.

>> I went to Hanoi a like few months ago. First is like very young society. You can see it clearly. People are young in the street. I I felt like very old there.

And then the energy like people are if you you can feel it the energy of the of the place. Yeah. And I think it's also the positive mood. It's kind of what's slightly lacking in Singapore at the moment cuz like Singapore is very developed, but it's kind of it's a little bit like the stalled in terms of the net What's the next big thing? What's the next big idea for the country?

>> because every time I speak to a Singaporean, right? They're always like talking about how boring the city is. >> [clears throat] >> Mostly the younger generation. They're always talking about how boring it is, how everyone must conform, and how everyone is so stable, and doesn't really have creativity and stuff like that. It's always that. And to me as a

Thai person who is thinking about the country economic the macro wise, right? Not not individually. We want stability to an extent, you know? If you don't like you probably know Thailand is ranked like one of the most unstable political wise in the world. So, as someone who's Thai and outsider from Singapore, but is also grew up in a Singaporean curriculum, I'm like be you know, that's something that we strive for.

But I think it's different for everyone and different for for people in every stage of life. And what arc you're currently at right now as a country, an economy. >> Yeah, I agree. Stage of life and different personality. There are also like I guess there are stages for every country. Like I talked to one like very

rich investor in in Singapore, American guy. He told me this, so like some Singaporean friends told him that okay, Singapore now is like on top of their economic development, but in 50 years it may not be the case, and the country can like go down or maybe go go up more. So, it's really like the case for the US now. US is not doing well. Probably next 100 years for the US will be like >> Yeah, it's >> not not as easy, so it's >> A country cannot grow forever. 200 Yeah,

you cannot grow forever. It's just an arc, and now I always say this, and a lot of my friends from Indiana are not going to like what I'm going to say, but it's not It's China's turn in terms of the economy. I don't want to say it, but it's just the truth, you know. >> What's the relationships with money in Thai society? Is that you you you watched this movie How to Make Millions Before Grandma Dies?

>> Yes. >> Yeah, the recent one. I think last year. Like first Is it like close to reality, this movie? Like in in general? Overall?

>> I think it really depends on the family, too, cuz like Thailand is a very mixed society at the end of the day. If you're a Thai Chinese, you know, Teochew came to Thailand like a thousand years ago, Teochew Chinese. And if you're like very close-knit to that family, for example, the owner of CP, he has Chinese blood. I think he's Hakka He might be Teochew. The recent prime minister, he's like I think he's Hakka or something like that. That culture's a

little bit different than like a typical Thai culture, and I think it's it it resembles more of the Thai Chinese society. I might be completely wrong. I Don't quote me on that. >> In the movie they are Thai Chinese? In the movie?

>> I think I think >> I think yeah, because they speak Chinese >> Yeah. >> at times. It's like we had a discussion about like how with the with the friend. He's from Germany, but he lived in Korea in South Korea for many years, and now for a few years here. And I was discussing like how like overall how materialistic society in Korea versus here.

He states that Koreans are much more materialistic than Thais and Thais normally it's a generalization but they not they don't care about like making money so much saving money so much. >> Yeah, I think that's that's the distinction that's very important to make because we're talking about Thailand as a country or Bangkok or there's even like a subgroup of people in Bangkok like the Thai Chinese international school kids. >> Yeah. >> Very materialistic. There's also the regular Thai Chinese who grew up in Yaowarat and went to a very good private school like Dhempudom or something like that. Is that I don't know if that's

private or public but a very good school in Thailand like Dhempudom a little bit less materialistic a little bit more Confucian mindset. So so it's important to understand what kind of Thai person you are as well. Let's say if you're a a Thai person from the south uh Phuket or something like that maybe a little bit more of a sabai sabai attitude. We know that like northern Thais are a little bit more relaxed and soft as well Chiang Mai, Lampang where my family's from. >> Mhm.

>> So it it's important to I wouldn't say it's important but it's good to know that that distinction. >> If you remove Thai Chinese from from the equation would you say that overall people are less materialistic or or not compared to other nations? >> Yes, I would say so. >> so? >> Because I think first of all Buddhism acceptance culture. I was a monk before when I was

super young and the monk asked me if you have would you rather take the steak or you take the kapow and I said I want the steak you know I was young. I would take kapow any day now. >> Me too, yeah. >> Yeah, so the monk was like okay why? I said the steak is more expensive blah blah blah right? Imported western

whatever. And then the monk said okay what if you don't have the steak? What if you just have the culture? What are you going to do? And I I think I answered was like I'm going to go out and find it and hunt and everything to get this get the steak. I want the steak.

And then the monks like, you can do that, but then you're going to suffer. And the root cause of suffering and unhappiness is the act of desire. That kind of mentality was I thought of that was like, that's very interesting. Cuz as someone who grew up privileged, I guess, in Bangkok, right? That was not really ingrained in me that much. And I

was in the rural areas of Thailand. I'm like, if this is what they're teaching kids, right? I'm sure kids are okay watching in the TV, seeing like girls and guys at Emporium buying handbags, and then them still not having that. And I'm like, yeah, this is probably why Thailand is so calm. Because if you look at it, like Colom- Colombia or something like that, right? Or Latin America,

super dangerous, right? And one of the reasons is, I think, the act of wanting and desiring. It's like, I don't have this thing, so I'm going to commit >> crime for it. Whereas in Thailand, >> it's not always like that, but whereas in Thailand, it's like, I don't have this thing, it's because I was born this way, and I have to build merit for my another life, so I don't need to commit crime. So, in a way, I think Thai Thai Thai society is very interesting in the sense that it is very calm and it's very stable, but sometimes it reduces urgency.

>> What about the status symbols? Like you you mentioned in one of your videos on Instagram that the difference in like the status symbols in the US versus Thailand. In Thailand, it's kind of if you have money, you would drive like drive a nice car, and like you kind of show it. >> Yeah. >> So, show off thing exists. So, people show it. So, the

people who let's say don't have money, they kind of accept it easier that okay, someone has money, it's fine, it's life. >> about people in the rural like outside of Bangkok, rural areas of Thailand, I would say so, yes. But then there's also a lot of the news of like people buying food and then taking out a loan to go to a buffet. There's also like or or like buying Labubu's and Macha's and they don't have enough. Like there's also cases like that where people don't accept, but I think that's more in in Bangkok. But in general, in general,

yeah, I agree with you, yeah. Thai people tend to accept, yeah. >> You know there is a censorship on YouTube, so I cannot share all my raw opinions and thoughts and insights from meeting billionaires and like high-level operators here on YouTube, but I can do it on Telegram. So if you want to see the backstage from my interviews and very fresh raw opinions [music] after most incredible people I meet and how I run this YouTube business, join the Telegram channel. QR code on the screen or link below.

>> My experience, I travel a lot, I met a lot of people. I didn't meet that many Thais outside of Thailand to be honest. I know one guy in Singapore, Thai guy, we are like in one like motorcycle club, but apart of that I don't know like I don't meet many like Thais in Singapore and Singapore is a melting pot. >> Yeah. >> I don't know. Any idea why or it's just

my >> like if you look at the history, like they say like Thailand has never been colonized everything. Obviously there's like some I'm not even going to go into it, but but most it's it's I say it's 99% true that has not been colonized. And there was not no significant like war or anything like that compared to for example Vietnam or Myanmar, Cambodia. You know, so we've never felt the need as I think as Thai people to like become refugees and go abroad. You know, those who go abroad usually already have some sort of wealth.

Like for example, my family, we weren't wealthy by any chance, but we were mostly nurses and doctors. And at that time in the US they required nurses and doctors, right? So my grandmother at that time was like, you know what, why not we do that? We're not going there as refugees, we're going there because they're asking us to go there. We never had like that wave like in Vietnam where with the war had that wave where like a lot of the population needed to go to to to the US or abroad or whatever, you know, so I think that's the number one answer I can give right now. And also

number two, uh I think this might sound a little bit critical of Thai people, but I think it's true especially that I'm Thai and that I've lived here for so long. I think we have like this very relaxed culture of like if we're already happy at this place and if we're comfortable living here, why do you have to go abroad and want more? Why do we have to build another a newer life? It's cold there. I don't know anyone there. Yes, I might

make more money, but I'm just going to be less happy. You know, it's it's a very different mindset compared to for example, Chinese culture in my at least from my experience, right? Cuz in China it's almost like, I need to go abroad. I make I have to make a lot of money, build my life, build a like a happy life. Thailand is more like, this is my life, I accept it. Sabai sabai. Why do I

need to go and undergo pain essentially, right? And you can you can really see this even in like Chinese culture in America right now. We talk about America having a lot of high crime, shootings and everything. It's getting a lot very dangerous, right in America? Yet, there's still a big chunk of Chinese students who want to still go to America because they get a higher salary, right?

And you don't really see that with Thai people as much as much. Obviously, I'm not I don't have the stats right now, but from my anecdotal experience, that's the case. >> Younger generation, do you think they are For example, in Russia, there is very big distinction between like older generation and younger gene- younger generation grew up as like they free internet, like being very globalized. Basically grew up like myself, I grew up with watching American movies and So, very ingrained in American culture and stuff compared to older people. How is mindset of younger generation in Thailand is different? It's closer to more

conservative and more like Thai standard like way of thinking or it's like much more globalized? >> I can speak from as someone who grew up in Bangkok, I would say much more globalized. Younger generation. >> Mhm. >> Because of social media.

Obviously, the internet. American culture is really big. There was a time where everybody wanted to be Japanese at one point in Thailand, all the young kids. Then it shifted to Korea. >> Now it's China probably.

>> Now now it's China, exactly. Yeah, so I think it's very interesting. I actually made a video about this before and that Thailand is such a very the people is such a fluid community. It's like whatever that is trending right now, we will kind of like go to that trend. And I think one of the reasons is because we never went through war and genocide like that, like compared to other countries.

>> Mhm. >> And I think and if you look at the history during World War II, you know, I won't get into much of it, but it was like should we would we decide with Germany, Japan or we going to side with America? You know, we took the middle option. So I think it's in our culture to be fluid in that sense, yeah. >> Yeah, you talk about it a lot actually on on on YouTube and on Instagram.

That it's like has this pros and cons, yeah? It's very harmonic, but for you with the American perspective because you saw it, for you it's probably you see the sometimes people are lacking of like desire and to go to make an additional effort to make more money, to strive something in life. I guess. >> I always had this kind of like these YouTubers coming in. I don't I don't you know, I'm a YouTuber myself. I'm friends with a lot of

YouTubers and social media personalities, right? But at that time, I was just like you're coming here and you're spewing the positive sides of Thailand and I I I love that. As a Thai person, I appreciate that you love the culture, but it I think it's important that that culture benefits mostly you as an expat and as a YouTuber, right? And really not the best for Thai people in that sense. Like sabai sabai culture, great for tourists, great for an expat, not really great for the economy in the country, right?

>> Yeah. >> But then again, as I grew older, as time went by a little bit more, as I started posting more con- content, I started to realize that it's just about choice. And that if if Thailand and the Thai people want to be sabai sabai and don't want to have that mindset like Vietnam where they're growing 8% a year or whatever and we're happy about that, I think that's fine. As long as we're not hurting anyone, I think I've learned to accept that. >> Yeah.

>> Very Thai of me to accept it. >> Yeah. >> [laughter] >> What else I wanted to uh talk about is like the social hierarchy in terms of the You discussed it also in one of your Instagram reels. It's like when you meet someone for the first time, you meet like another Thai person, there are like different features that people are looking at, like the accent, the the skin color, the how people dress, how they how they talk. They can ask like family name or school, yeah. This type of stuff. Can you

explain like for someone like the to the outsider, how does it work? Like how consider other Thais in terms of this this >> Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I think like everything is never 100%, but I'm going to generalize here. Let's say you you you're going into a a restaurant or something and you have a little bit of a darker feature, it's kind of like assumed that you're a little bit lower economic status. If you were to look more Thai Chinese, they would assume that you're more high income. If you

were to look half white, then you're going to be probably high income as well or probably model like like like a model or something. So, I think there's there's always that perception in how you speak and how you look. >> Let's say because before we go further, like for the like a darker skin color, because if you have darker skin tone, it means you come from the poorer region in Thailand. >> Most most of the time, yes. Most of the time, yes. Because to to be fair, it is

true. Like people from get south of the south of Thailand or even like Isaan, >> Yeah. >> it is a poor region and you know, there's many reasons to that individual and the you know, government not widespreading the resources. There's many reasons, right? But generally, it is true.

If you have a darker complexion, you tend to be you may be lower social economic class. >> Yeah. >> Mhm. >> And that's the perception in Thailand. It is changing for sure because of like Lisa and a lot of these like celebrities coming up and stuff like that. But if

you were Isaan or if you had a like a darker complexion, it's very difficult for you to break into like the Thai media industry at that time. >> So, the Thai media? >> Like the Thai media. Like like Lisa from Blackpink, she I would argue that it would be very difficult for her to be like a famous star Lakorn star in Thailand. She had to like step out of the Thai media and go into the you know, Korean or international market to get that recognition.

>> But also if you see like the advertising banners you go from the airport to the city center like all the advertising like feature girls with the very white you know, >> Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. >> Yeah. That's the thing. Okay, what else?

Like the skin tone, skin color, what what what >> Uh I would say accent plays a little bit of a difference. If you speak more aggressively, use less crap krap they can consider you as a little bit lower status as well. Whereas if you speak in a very soft and tone soft matter like in the like there's always this this this idea that where they say northern Thais are are pudy. Puddy means like classical classy people very posh people the northern Thais like from Chiang Mai Lampang all that. >> the royal family's originally from from the tradition.

>> So, that's that's considered more like classy if you speak less of like a downward tonality and more of like an upward. Right? >> Can you give me Can you give me an example? Like how it sounds? >> Uh Sawatdi kha.

Sawatdi khap. Whereas if you're from the south, it's more of like Wadi khap. Very masculine, I think. >> Anything else? How you present yourself?

How you like >> Definitely how you dress. >> Dress? >> On like a street level. I guess like if you're from the south of Thailand, you This is from my experience. I don't want to like say 100% but they tend to lean more of like the hip-hop American culture. So, they dress

a little bit more street, oversized tees and stuff like that, bigger pants. Whereas the more posh, higher income tend to tend to be more of like a bind up kind of like their hair is kind of like slicked back, shaved, you know, like a person you would see in the TV ads, like a Chinese person kind of like like that. >> When I travel, my phone becomes almost everything. It's my map, taxi, translator, wallet, and the only way I can reach out to people I'm meeting. So, reliable internet is a must. And in my

experience, the easiest way to have it is to go with an eSIM or something even more advanced such as HolaFly plans. It's a monthly eSIM subscription that keeps you connected to over 160 countries with just one eSIM. You install it just once and you don't need to buy [music] another eSIM every time you cross the border. They have two options depending on your lifestyle. Light with 25 GB per month and unlimited with [music] unlimited data and even the phone number from UK, US, or Canada to receive SMS. Both plans also come with

hotspot. There is also an always-on benefit. Even if you cancel your monthly plan or your HolaFly eSim is no longer active, you'll still get 1 GB of backup data per month in 70 plus destinations. Just keep the eSim installed on your phone and you'll never be completely disconnected. Go to holafly.com or click

the link in description and use code Max Chernov to get 5% off eSims and 10% off HolaFly plans for the next 12 months. >> When you like observe group of Thai friends, they hanging out with each other, normally it's very like the good vibes. When you see it like they smile, they chat, and and stuff. They're very friendly. Um I was curious actually like when some disagreement happens within the like I don't know family or group of friends, it's because you don't want to show it in public.

Probably these conflicts are hidden. So it's not in public, it's maybe more rare people would like kind of argue with each other in public. But how it handles? So if something happens like that, some conflict, some disagreement, how it's handled? Would it go like, "Okay, we when we are It's two two of us in a room, then we can talk." Or it's

never handled, it's like All right. >> Sometimes it's never handled. It's It's never Like I said, it's very non-confrontational. Sometimes it is going to be they're going to gossip, talk behind your back. It's mostly like that. And if

it continues, they don't talk about it. You see it in the news all the time. Rural areas in the rural area of Thailand, it gets super bad. Start shooting people. It gets to that point. And I've always said that Thai

people were like an elastic band. You can stretch us so far, right? But once it's super far and it snaps, it just really bad. I've always said that. >> What happened to your hand, by the way?

To your arm? >> My arm I had a motorcycle accident. I was on a on a bike. It's kind of my fault cuz I kind of like pushed the motorcyclist to be like to go quicker cuz I was late to to something. And he wanted to cut the go get over the traffic and he didn't see this big like van. So, I was kind of like this and

then my arm just scraped. So, it's not that bad. It They added extra layer to the band-aid, but yeah. >> Yeah, what I normally do when I'm on the back of the Grab bike, I kind of watch if they go like really like try to try to squeeze in between like two cars, I'm >> Yeah. >> I squeeze in myself.

>> That's smart, actually. I should have done that. Even even almost 20 years here. >> [laughter] >> I'm trying to understand like your background and where you came from. Was it like like growing up, did you feel like privileged and then you feel like oh you're you're like >> I We had our ups and downs, but I my dad has always told me that you're privileged in Thailand, especially. You

were born privileged compared to Thai locals. But, there were times definitely where when my dad was going through the business, we couldn't afford another plate of chicken and rice at a food court. So, it was really that bad at one point. But, scrolling up, I always had like cultural social capital and I always realized that and appreciated that. >> Yeah.

>> Yeah. So. >> So, what what do you think the main social capital that you gains from Thailand? >> going to an international school, you get to network with a lot of high-value individuals. I know, you know, my my sister's friends with one of the CP kids. Yeah, so we we we get to

have a lot of friends who are in the top 100 billionaires, millionaires, whatever in Bangkok. So, I think that that network really helped. That's the social capital. Cultural capital I think is the ability to talk to people from different cultures. I think international school really helps you with that because I was exposed to people from all uh back walks of life.

Um and I I actually realized this recently when I actually lived in Vietnam for months. Um because in Vietnam there's a lot of businesses that are Singaporean owned and I kind of like was able to understand the Singaporean culture, how they do business, and I think that is something that has really helped me in terms of networking and just communication is is very important. That's the advantage for sure. >> Yeah. I would say like English skills and ability to speak English.

>> Yeah, that too. Speak Mandarin as well. That's important too. Especially if you live in Southeast Asia, I think a lot of the businesses are you will have to know a bit of Mandarin or at least understand the Chinese culture >> Yeah. >> very well.

>> Yeah, that's true. If you go to Malaysia, like there are, I don't know, maybe 20-ish percent of uh Chinese, but they own like majority of like businesses. >> Yeah, so is Thailand as well. >> Yeah. In Thailand as well, I heard about it as well, yeah. After you finish your

high school, you you went to the US to study in the uni. What was like the first impression of the US? Like do you have any cultural shocks? >> Yeah, I mean in Singapore in a Singaporean curriculum school and also living in Thailand, you're kind of like not allowed as much to talk back or to voice your opinions, not as much. The culture is never there and if you were to do that, you have to do it in a particular way.

>> Mhm. >> And I think in the US, that shock was when I was in the classroom, kids were just raising their hands, speaking out, speaking loudly as well because if you speak loudly in Thailand, that's considered extremely rude. So, I remember this one time I was at a gas station, I wanted a coffee and I was saying it very politely. It was like, "Excuse me, sir, can I can I can I get like a coffee, please?" And then you know, I was in Indiana, right? And

then this uh big farmer looking dude was like, "Say it louder, son." You know, and then and I I it kind of hit me. It's like speak with your chest, son. And then it was it was uh I guess that was like a bit of a culture shock, I would say. Cuz uh if you speak in a very mellow tone, that is a sign of weakness in America. It doesn't say that directly

100%, but if you live in Thailand long enough and you compare that to the US, you definitely see it. >> Yeah, I remember my first time in the US, I was like 20 year old. It was like exchange summer exchange program when I was in the Union Russia. So, I went to the US like my third trip abroad. I remember how people were like not shy to talk like anywhere on the street. It's so

easy. Like people are super open everywhere. Like you can just chat with anyone and no one is shy. And people will like reply to >> Yeah. And I think like the the ability to speak and like to just voice their opinion is is just like sometimes it's overwhelming. It's like you don't have

to say whatever you have to say, you know? Like sometimes you just like me being Thai, sometimes I'm like, you don't need to voice that opinion. It's not the right time. But they would just speak it. And always and I always ask like my American friends like, why do you have to voice that opinion? I didn't ask for

it. And they're they're always the same response is always I know you didn't ask for it. I'm just giving it to you. And that's like the mentality I think Americans have and that kind of shocked me. >> Yeah. I guess it's it's a very big

difference compared to Thai culture. I'm from Russia, but also like we kind of connected to Europe. So, in Europe there are like different shades of it. Like for example, Scandinavia it's more like more cold, more like reserved. And like there is Spain, but like Thailand culture more like reserved and more like polite. It's like the opposite from the

US. >> Exactly. Exactly. I think living in the US, I've learned that ask and you shall receive, that kind of mentality. Whereas in Thailand is more of like it's implied. Like I'll give you

an example. I had a friend who came to Thailand and he was sitting at a at a sofa, right? He had his legs wide open like all relaxed and stuff taking all the space and stuff. And I told him, "Hey man, can you like close your legs like in case someone wants to sit there?" And he told me, "If someone wants to sit there, they can ask me and I'll do it.

Otherwise, I'm not going to do it." And I told him that that's not how the system works here. It's implied that someone is going to sit there. They're not going to ask you because it's it's a non-confrontation culture. >> Yeah.

>> So, there's pros and cons to that culture, I believe. It's just not going to work if you use that culture the American culture in Thailand and tie the Thai culture in America also. That's not going to work as well. >> Yeah. It's funny. It remind me

how I actually experienced kind of similar in the US. So, I was like kind of not expecting that when you sit somewhere like in a public space, people would before sitting next to you, people would if you're like sitting normally, so there is enough space here and enough space here, Americans would come to you and ask if I can sit here. >> Mhm. >> So, implying that I will say yes and they will just come. So, in Russia it would be just someone would just come and sit, yeah, without asking, but they would just Can I sit here? I love your

another example that you made in one of the videos that is like when you compare the culture in the US and in Thailand, in US the culture is self-service and Thailand culture is like service for you and one for you. >> Can you elaborate on that? >> Yeah, so so for example, if you're in a restaurant in the US, right? It's or like even at McDonald's, let's just say use McDonald's. You have to clean your tray and you put it into the in the tray stand or whatever, right? Whereas in

Thailand, you can just leave the tray on the table and then the service member will come and clean it up for you. And the reason main reason for that is first of all, that's the culture, right? The culture of serving. You know, we're a very tourism dependent country. So, it's kind of like ingrained into our culture of that hierarchy, too.

If you're the If you're the customer, we have to serve you. Blah, blah, blah, right? That's number one. Number two, I think the labor cost in Thailand is also very low. The labor cost and the cost of living does is not really proportionate.

So, companies are willing to hire a lot of workers, excess workers, right? And with excess workers, you have excess service, too. Like, if you go to EmQuartier right now, to a mall, do you really need that security guard that that needs to be there and salute you or open the door for you? Not really, right? But, because the labor cost is so so low, they just put it there. 3 or 400 baht a day or whatever,

right? And that's like the difference. And every time I have friends over in Bangkok, they always say that, "I love Bangkok because they're such a service-oriented country. They have this respect. The culture is still there."

And I And I agree with them. Yes, 100%. But, more importantly, number two is because of excess labor. And with excess labor comes with, you know, excess service. >> Yeah.

>> Yeah. >> That's why Yeah, interesting. Now since you mentioned that, it kind of teaches you, if you need to do everything yourself, it kind of teaches you to be like more independent and more like basically do not depend that much of anyone else. So, it be be on your own. >> Yes.

>> Making you more individualistic, but also maybe more like confident that you can do stuff yourself. >> Yeah, exactly. In America, that that culture is has been there in America where you you you know, you take responsibility, you take accountability. You grow up, you make your own bed. Stuff like that. Leave the house at 18.

That trickles down to how you operate in life in America. You do everything yourself, basically. >> Do you consider yourself like still like mostly Thai? What's the percentage now? >> [laughter] >> It's a very difficult answer every time people ask me that. I I I think it

switches, really. It depends on the environment I'm in. Depends on who I'm talking to. I say a majority of my life right now, having spent most of my time at the dump site, at the office, crunching numbers, and speaking to, you know, my employees. I think I'm more Thai in my life. But, if I come to like

Sukhumvit area, Bangkok, or something like that, or hang out with more expat friends, I become a little bit more Western. >> You switch to more like Americanized version of you. >> Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Code-switching.

>> You're bilingual like fully, right? Thai plus plus Mandarin is like what you speak in three. >> I'm conversational. >> Conversational. But, like when you kind of you're dreaming or you're thinking like in English or in Thai?

>> I've had both type of dreams. So, I've had English and Thai. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I would say 60 English, 40 Thai.

>> Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah, I'm trying to understand like how your personality was shaped like after living for 8 years in the US. Do you feel comfortable in both places? When you're in the US, you feel comfortable there? When you're here,

you're comfortable here? >> That's a very good question. I think I think and there's always nuance to that answer. I think it depends on where in the US, and it depends on where in Thailand as well. Like if I'm in in Bangkok, let's say at a market near my house where it's super local, sometimes I don't feel comfortable because I'm going to have my like have old grandmas asking me, "Why are you so tall? Uh who is the dad white?

Or is the mom Where's the mom from? Where's your other half?" And I don't have an answer to that because I'm not half, first of all, right? >> You're one quarter, yeah. >> I'm a Yeah, I'm a quarter. Yeah.

So, So, sometimes I just don't get I just feel uncomfortable. Or sometimes I even go to like a taxi, let's say I'm at Nakhon Nayok, which is where my my business is at. If I'm around that area, I I get to a taxi, immediately the taxi driver is going to speak English to me, and I just don't even bother switching to Thai because I know that >> I don't bother. >> They're going to ask me so much questions. So, so So, I'm not going to bother, right? So, that's the part where

I don't really feel comfortable. But, let's say I go to Sukhumvit, and then people just assume that I'm just like another way to another happy guy, another kid that grew up who went to international school. I feel a little bit more comfortable there because they they know what I'm getting into. But, also there's the other side where the international school student perception in Bangkok isn't really perceivable as well. It's perceived that we're like spoiled brats. We are very entitled, which is

true to an extent. But, I think I come from a very different situation because the school the high school that I went to isn't like a elite international school, expensive or anything. That's number one. Number two, my family has experienced ups and downs. So, my dad has always instilled that American culture of live with the 99%.

You know, always understand, be appreciative of what you have. So, it it it's very interesting in that sense. In terms of the US, if I go to LA, I think I'm I would fit in. I think I would I would I would feel comfortable because, you know, Asian face, uh culture. But, if I go to let's say Ohio or Indiana or something like that at a gas station, >> Yeah.

>> I would not feel as comfortable. I would have to speak extra loud compared to if I were in LA. [music]