---
video_title: "Why This Chinese American Fears Going Back Home"
video_id: z9ojBj2RDRU
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z9ojBj2RDRU
video_date: 2026-03-12T12:35:37+00:00
video_description: |
  📌 Thanks to Atomic Minerals* for supporting today's video. You can get their latest presentation here: https://atom-presentation.com/max-chernov
  🌴 Phuket trip with me: https://apply.thebackstagecircle.com/phuket
  
  *DISCLAIMER:
  This video and the information presented about Atomic Minerals are not targeted to residents of any specific country or jurisdiction. Investing in mining and publicly traded companies involves risk, and the value of your investment can rise as well as fall. Before investing, you should carefully review the company’s official filings, technical reports, and disclosures, including all sections that describe risks related to mineral exploration and the volatility of small-cap stocks.
  All views expressed in this video should not be taken as investment advice and are provided for general informational or entertainment purposes only. The author of the video and the channel host are not responsible for the information presented. This advertisement has not been reviewed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Singapore’s financial regulator, or any other securities authority in any jurisdiction.
  
  
  Meet Daniel. His parents left Hong Kong chasing the American dream. But 17 years ago, he made a different bet and moved to China. Despite having an American passport, he lives with the fear that one day he might not be welcomed in the States. While walking around Singapore, he shared how Americans can stay out of serious trouble in China, what helped him understand AI early and build a multi-million-dollar business and what it really costs to risk everything and build your own life from scratch. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on my Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  🧩 If you're building, investing, or thinking long-term, learn more about The Backstage Circle:
  https://apply.thebackstagecircle.com/phuket
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on my Telegram channel: https://t.me/friendsofmax
  🎙 My interviews in podcast format on Spotify: https://open.spotify.com/show/1dktMfOBp11LNp52X3mkuR 
  💰 Sponsorship-related requests: max@maxchernov.sg
  👥 If you have a guest suggestion for an interview, please reach out at max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TO START AND GROW YOUTUBE
  🎬 Online workshop "YouTube Fast-Track to Views & Passive Income". Join for free: https://www.shym.sg/workshop
  
  TODAY'S GUEST
  ➢ LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/chengdaniel/
  
  WATCH NEXT
  ► American took me to China's most HIGH-TECH city.... I didn't expect this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8CD0LKkoMzE
  ► This walk with Brit in Guangzhou changed my view of China: https://youtu.be/R-ozoOKhUO4
  ► He Sold Everything to Escape the US Chaos for China: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5z323qK-LKw 
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 INTRO
  00:40 Mentality: Chinese vs. Americans
  01:59 Feelings When Going Back to the U.S.
  03:52 Life If He Hadn’t Moved Abroad
  04:41 How AI Changed His Business
  06:02 The Great Firewall in China
  07:18 Misconceptions About China
  09:48 What Investors Should Know About the U.S.
  12:06 Lifestyle in America vs. China
  13:02 How to Stay Out of Serious Troubles in China
  14:49 Phuket Trip with Max
  15:43 Asians in the U.S.
  
  This channel features raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery.
  I sit down with founders, investors, operators, experts, and outliers navigating the biggest shifts of our time. We talk about money, leverage, relocation, power, tradeoffs, and the real decisions shaping what’s next — not as theory, but from lived experience.
  
  Some conversations happen inside billionaire homes. Some happen remotely with experts shaping global systems. All of them focus on signal over noise.
  If you care about where to build, where to live, how to make better decisions in uncertain times, and what the future demands — you’re in the right place.
---
Meet Daniel, his parents left Hong Kong chasing the American dreams. But 17 years ago, he made a different bet and moved to China. Despite having an American passport, he lives with the fear that one day he might not be welcomed in the States. It's just something that's in the always in the back of my head. While walking around Singapore, he shared how Americans can stay out of serious trouble in China. The first time someone pulled a knife on me. What helped him understand AI early and build a multi-million dollar business? It's been probably the greatest decision in my career to do that. And what it really costs to risk everything and build your own life from scratch. I'm Mark Chernobyl. Let's go. How's the mentality of people Chinese compared to Americans? I would say probably the most glaring difference is that in the US, people are very opinionated. You know, you have the ability to vote and you have access to a lot of media. In China, it's a little more simple. The people that I met, no one's really politically driven or anything like that. The conversations steer in a different direction. You talk more about sports. You talk more about movies or film. You talk more about music. It just never steers in this very polarized political direction. Which I think is actually quite nice. That is a divider in the States. People choose their friends or choose who they want to surround themselves with. Because you kind of want to be around like my people, right? But in China, it's very easy to just get along with somebody. Simply because you align on more things than you don't. I think that's quite nice. It's much more simple. Yeah, more simple, more harmony. Yeah. And you can focus on important stuff, important things. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's just not not political, I would say. It's probably the biggest difference. What's your feelings and thoughts about the US when you come there? Something that you've started to understand about the US after living abroad? Every time I board a plane back, I'm very pleasantly surprised how welcomed I am when I'm reading that Border Patrol. In the US. Yeah. I obviously hear stories about people getting turned away at the US border and all that. But the US still citizen. Yeah, even though even some people who have valid visas and everything, I always have this fear where if I go back and they like, oh, you know, you lived abroad for so many years. You're not American. You know, like you still hold a passport. I still hold a passport. I mean, the Vietnam American flag. It's just this very unrealistic fear. Yeah, maybe it's because I'm not. I don't look like a typical American. It's just something that's in the always in the back of my head. Okay. But I should probably try to get over it. Yeah, like the fear that you will be stopped to something on the border at the border. Yeah. Even this kind of stuff. Yeah. And like having to explain myself and why I've been abroad for so long and what I do and why don't you live in the States? It's unrealistic, but there's always in the back of my head. Why do you think it's there? Why do you have this thoughts? I mean, I've been gone for so long. 17, 18 years is a really long time. I've spent a majority of my adult years not in the States. Yeah. Right? So it's every time I go back, it's just kind of a wake up call because in the multiverse of things, there is a version of me who never left the States. Right? And that person would be very fundamentally different from this version that's talking to you right now. What would be the difference? I think the main difference would be I probably wouldn't have pursued entrepreneurship. I think my career would have had a lot of limitations. I probably wouldn't have left Boston and I think in the long run that could have hurt me in my career because there's a very limited number of things that you can do in Boston. It's great for a lot of industries but in the field that I ended up in. Actually, even going back a step, I might not have ended up in the creative field. I might have taken a different route and I think it's very likely that I wouldn't have pursued entrepreneurship. I wouldn't have tried to start my own company or you know, left the comforts of a corporate ladder. You started your company around 10, 12 years ago, right? In 2013? Yeah, I started my company in 2013. So can you explain a couple of words about what you guys do? A few years ago, we were a full service digital marketing agency and during COVID, I made the decision to pivot our company to really focus on this. It's been probably the greatest decision of my career to do that because with AI and the threats of AI, I would say travel is probably one of the few industries where it's almost AI proof. In the sense that AI will never be able to replace the experience of actually, you know, hopping on a plane, going to a new destination, experiencing it, staying in a nice hotel or a sort. At least for the next, I don't know, 10 years, right? Until VR gets so good. And that's great for us too because our industry, like marketing and advertising is severely threatened by AI, but by focusing in this niche where we're growing, right? A lot of my peers and other companies that we would benchmark ourselves against in Shanghai, like they're shrinking. Yeah. You know, and so I was lucky enough to discover this and then really capitalize on it. You have this great firewall in China. Have you ever bothered you that you have this, like, basically the wall between you and the rest of the world living there? It's an inconvenience, especially when you're doing business, you know, with global clients. But I would say a minor inconvenience at best. You get used to it when you live there. Yeah. And it's fine. Yeah, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Now it's the proper spot for the integration of VPN. This is very important. I think because you're entrepreneur, this kind of thing is a lot like the big deal for you. Oh, it's like you can know how to find the way around like small things in your journey. I guess. It's a bit flexible. Agile, if you do business, right? Hard of entrepreneurship is your adaptability. Yeah. It's probably the greatest skill. When I was talking about being adventurous early and waking up and sharing high and then every day was an adventure. Hard of is also the entrepreneur journey. It's very much an adventure. So, you never know what would happen as a small company owner. I've been in lawsuits before, you know, and like that's not fun. But, you know, I think it's character building. Hard of growing up. Hard of being a small business owner. It's understanding how to navigate that. What do you think the biggest misconceptions about China in the West, in the so-called West, or, you know, America? What people don't get about China or get it wrong? China is actually a very welcoming place. It might seem like it's not a very welcoming place due to the strict visa process and how difficult it is to, you know, but once you actually get into the country. Yeah. And you get around and you meet people. It's actually a very, very welcoming place. Yeah. And I would say that's probably one of the biggest misconceptions. Yeah. And people are super friendly, actually. Oh, yeah. Very open, very friendly. I was also quite positively shocked when I went to China first time. People are so open, so easy, easy-going. Yeah. It's, um, they're, they're like, chill Hawaiians. You know, a lot of the things that bother, you know, like Americans, don't bother them. It's just not a thing. Yeah, like what? Like politics. Right. For example, politics is a big one. People, you know, America paints China in a particular light. And it has its reasons for doing so. China does the same thing for America. And it has its reasons for doing so. Yeah. But as an individual or as a tourist or as a student, or someone that's working there, it's far more simple than that. From a person. You know, no one, people are really friendly, you know, at the end of the day. And then they're really happy to, you know, be friends and learn more about, you know, your culture and who you are as a person. As opposed to, you know, what country and you're from. Yeah. Any other like big misconceptions, I think. And like, for example, your American friends, when you talk to them, they're like, oh, I don't know, are you safe there? I don't know. What would be their misconceptions? I think one of the biggest misconceptions about China is people might think like, it's like a communist country that's stuck in like 1950. Right. But it's not. It's a very, very technologically advanced country that's actually leading the world in a lot of industries. It's a small business owner in China. I find that there's a lot of collaboration and a lot of opportunities where people are more than willing to hire us because, you know, we're a foreign-known entity. I don't know. That's a hard question. I'm also distracted by the chickens over there, which is a great reason to move to Singapore. Yeah. On January 5th, 2026, the US Department of Energy announced $2.7 billion dollars in contracts to restore domestic uranium enrichment. This isn't just government spending. It's a declaration of intent. America uses over 50 million pounds of uranium each year, but produce under 1 million domestically, leaving the country dependent on import. Rebuilding domestic enrichment capacity has now become a national priority. This is where atomic minerals come in. Trading as 80M on the TSXV and ATMF on the OTC, this isn't a startup. It's a team with a proven track record of delivering major uranium exits. He members were part of the discovery and subsequent 654 million sale of the rogue rider deposit to Rio Tinto. The question is, can they do it again? Atomic controls 400% on uranium projects on the Colorado Plotot, America's historic uranium province. The flagship sits within the Lisbon Valley District, one of the most productive uranium belts in the US, which has historically produced 80 million pounds of uranium. The geology is proven. The history speaks for itself. This month, the administration reinforced its position by invoking section 234 through executive order, formally prioritizing domestic resource independence. Regulatory and fiscal support is now firmly behind security, North America's nuclear fuel cycle, and atomic minerals is positioned directly in that path. Uranium prices are climbing. Some analysis are forecasting over $100 per pound, as demand continues to outpace supply. With a strong grilling season underway at their flagship project, atomic is focused on execution. Here's what I'll leave you with. The team helped deliver $654 million exit to Rio Tinto, and outcome roughly dozens of times larger than atomic's current valuation. You do the math. To learn more about the critical mineral story, check the link in description. Thanks to atomic minerals for sponsoring today's video. What was very different from your American lifestyle, from Boston, like lifestyle, in China? What was the biggest difference? I couldn't drive. You know, like I loved my car in Boston, and you know, it had to kind of drive everywhere. Being without my car was actually quite liberating, I'm gonna say, because Shanghai is, it's the most important thing to do, because Shanghai is, depending on where you live, but it's very walkable, you don't need a car. Actually, years later, I ended up getting a scooter, which was one of the greatest things, one of the greatest practices of my life. Yeah. And that allowed me to go basically anywhere I wanted, quite easily. But yeah, I like to go scooter. I like to scooter, that's right. But losing the car was a huge, huge, positive thing, to be able to be in a metropolitan city without having to rely on that to get around. It's liberating. Was there something that shocked you? Some like cultural shocks that you experienced? Yeah. That was all cultural shocks. I got into my first fist fight. Oh, fist fight. Yeah. There, and the first time someone pulled a knife on me, that was a culture shock. But luckily, our program, director, a month before, was like, do not get into a fight if you get here. Yeah. And if you do, run. Which was the best piece of advice I've ever gotten. Yeah, I guess you guys are far from and are not expect to get any sort of trouble. Yeah, absolutely. You're a guest in a country you need to be on your best behavior. You know, we were kids, right? But when someone pulls a knife at you, yeah, it's probably best to run away. Yeah. What part of you is still American? And what part of you is Asian or Chinese? The part of me that is still American is that I still follow Boston sports. Which is really important. My family is still in the States. I consume American music, American TV, and film, and the only thing that's not necessarily American about me is that I don't live in America anymore. I'm now fully based in Asia, but I think a lot of the ways that I still think and the way that I approach work and my thought process is still very American. I have a great emphasis on creativity in some of the places that I've been to. Don't necessarily focus on that as much. But for me, especially being in the creative field, being in the advertising and marketing field, it is very much something that centers me. I interviewed a numerous billionaires, politicians, celebrities, investors on this channel for the last three years, and many of them became my friends, some even bought my services. And I started this project from scratch when I moved to Singapore. I didn't know anyone, my English was not great, but I really wanted to make it work because I strongly believe that people around you is the most valuable asset for success in life. So I'm gathering a small group of interesting people and bring them for a short networking retreat in Puket. And you can join us too. You will expand your network, improve your conversational skills, and we will just have fun together. I'm even setting up a meet-up with the billionaire at his mention, so it's going to be a very unique experience. To join us here in a beautiful Puket jumping in the early birth waiting list, to do it, scan this QR code or click the link in description. You said that you don't look like a typical American, which is interesting that you said it. You experienced any racism, at school, when you grown up, or being feeling you as a minority there. Absolutely. Most of it is very wide stage, right? When I was growing up, it was very wide. I grew up with Irish and Italian kids, and I experienced a ton of racism. Tonerous? A ton. It's not something that I really... That's not the reason why I left the states, and that's not the reason why I moved to Asia. I think a lot of guys that I've met, especially in China, other Chinese Americans who have left, they have a chip on their shoulder because they grew up a lot of racism, but they didn't necessarily deal with it in a very cohesive and holistic manner, where they were able to put it away, except that it's a thing, and then move on. They've built this whole, their own persona around the fact that they grew up with racism. It's definitely a thing. But the moment you leave the states, it's not there anymore. In Asia, there's no racism towards Asians. I mean, there is. The minorities and stuff, but for the most part, there are beefs between different stations. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Is it Japanese Chinese? Of course, of course. But the type of racism, I think, is different. It's hard to explain. It's hard to understand. It's not the easy topic to talk about, right? It's... I don't want it to be seen that I ran away from the racism, but I did escape it by moving to Asia, and I think for a lot of people, if it is a choice, if it is within your means, you can escape the reality that you're in. For example, if you're a gay guy in Missouri, it's probably really, really difficult. But if you have the means to afford it, you can probably move to San Francisco, where that lifestyle is much more accepted. And I think it's the same thing with systemic racism, where there are places in the world where the racism just simply isn't that rampant, right? And you can go and live and work in those places. Yeah. So maybe that was a subconscious decision of mine, but the moment that I moved to Asia, I found far more like mine individuals here than I did, than I ever did in Boston. Yeah. And that could be because, you know, of how I look or how I grew up, but it's just... I just found a lot, you know, I found my tribe, so to speak, here. And I never found that in the States.