---
video_title: "How to Reinvent Your Life Starting Today"
video_id: 5cnuH5MUdzM
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5cnuH5MUdzM
video_date: 2026-05-13T11:00:08+00:00
video_description: |
  ✈️ Go to https://holafly.sjv.io/VONBW3 and use code MAXCHERNOV to get 10% on Holafly plans for the first 12 months or 5% off on any other Holfafly eSIM 
  🌏 Apply for The Backstage Circle: https://forms.gle/huwR6NQNz5A4XgC78 
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on Telegram: https://t.me/friendsofmax 
  
  I was invited by Nicole Lee to the You Never Know show. We talked about why so many expats in Singapore never get past the foreigner bubble, how moving between eight countries across Asia, Europe, and America changed me forever, and whether a YouTube career is really as glamorous as it looks from the outside. Enjoy! 
  
  ➢ Nicole's YouTube Channel: @nicoleleethisisme 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  🎙 Listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts: https://open.spotify.com/show/1dktMfOBp11LNp52X3mkuR  or https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/max-chernov/id1875665593
  👥 Sponsorship requests / Guest suggestions: max@maxchernov.sg
  
  WATCH NEXT
  ► Tech Multi-Millionaire Shares How He Built His Wealth Using AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O10NKwSJMek 
  ► Wealth Strategies of American Multi-Millionaire in Singapore: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Nz74s44wsQ 
  ► Singapore’s multi-millionaire on China, America and AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tP7QksbJVQ
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 INTRO
  00:34 Why Singapore Feels Like Home
  02:19 Choosing Singapore on Purpose
  03:36 Learning Singlish and Local Culture
  04:48 How Max Escaped the Foreigner Bubble
  06:12 What Still Surprises Max About Singapore
  07:37 Why Singapore’s Predictability Works
  08:53 The Downside of Singapore’s Structure
  11:26 eSIM With Special Bonus for my Viewers
  12:37 What Living in 8 Countries Taught Max
  14:03 Why High-Level People Might Feel Isolated
  14:26 How Backstage Circle Started in Phuket
  16:04 The Problem With Traditional Private Clubs
  18:19 How Max Changed Over the Last 10 Years
  21:31 Is Being a YouTuber Really Glamorous?
  23:55 How Max Started Interviewing Billionaires
  26:51 What Billionaires Taught Max About Life
  28:30 Why Overnight Success Is Usually Fake
  30:48 Join Max’s Telegram Channel
  31:14 Social Media, Fast Money, and False Success
  35:46 Would Max Change Anything?
  37:35 What 15-Year-Old Max Would Think Today
  39:09 What Max Would Tell His Younger Self
  40:39 Why Overthinking Holds People Back
  43:22 What “You Never Know” Means to Max
  
  This channel features raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery.
  
  I sit down with founders, investors, operators, experts, and outliers navigating the biggest shifts of our time, many of them based in or connected to Asia. We talk about money, leverage, relocation, power, tradeoffs, and the real decisions shaping what’s next, not as theory, but from lived experience.
  
  Some conversations happen inside billionaire homes. Some happen remotely with experts shaping global systems. All of them focus on signal over noise. 
  
  If you care about where to build, where to live, how to make better decisions in uncertain times, and what the future demands, you’re in the right place.
---
I think now I truly belong to Singapore. This is my home, definitely. Meet Max Chernov. I mean, it's me. Born in Russia, I built my life in Singapore and somehow turned conversations with their leading voices in Asia into a YouTube channel with 200 million views. I was recently invited by Nikol Lee to the You Never Know Show. We talked about why so many experts in Singapore never get past the foreigner bubble. How moving between eight countries across Asia, Europe and America changed me forever. And whether a YouTube career is really as glamorous as it looks from the outside. Let's go. Max, welcome to the show. All right, thanks, Nikol. How does it feel like to be in the hot seat? Funny, funny. And also, I'm not used to that level of set up, like three cameras, professional, professional light. I was like, wow. Yeah, that's pretty cool, right? Pretty cool, yeah. A lot of vibe, yeah. So I'm really looking forward to a very funny conversation today. So Max, you've had this YouTube channel for like six, seven years. Actually, this channel actually for like four years. OK. Yeah, the X-Patent Review start picking up three years ago. But before I used to run Channel in Russian. OK. OK, so these four years, you've been interviewing hundreds of really interesting experts, right? In Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia, China, so many places. And you often ask them, what it's like to actually live somewhere else, what it's like to fit in or not fit in. So I'm going to turn around and ask you the question back. Yeah. So Max, you've lived in eight countries now. Did you ever feel like you truly belong to somewhere? Yeah, that's a good question. I mean, I kind of, I think now I truly belong to Singapore. But when you change places so often, you don't see one particular piece of land as like your home. So it's a little bit different at your top of the set. This is my home, definitely. Yeah, I feel I belong here. And when I live in Chandgierre Port, it feels like I know the place well. Through this year, I've been in Singapore. I kind of made this place home for me. Yeah, I explain more. Because sometimes it's not just about, in all of you say, oh, yeah, this city is not good for me. That city is too boring, whatever. But you said you made it home for you. What does that mean? Yeah, because I think many people end up with moving to a place without thinking much about it. So for example, they were sent with their job like the same Singapore. And then there are like two options either they like it. And some people actually hate it. And then they leave after a couple of years. But for me, I lived in Singapore for half a year in 2014. And I fell in love with the place back then. Then was kind of thoughtful decision to move back Singapore. Because I kind of know, for example, I don't like being cold. I grew up in Russia. I kind of hated when it's like even minus five degrees Celsius outside. So I know the list of criteria for me that makes the place good for me. Such as? Yes, I just like I don't like the cold place, for example. And also, like to be honest, Singapore is easy place to integrate in. Because it's like English speaking. Some people like Tokyo that tried to move to Tokyo. You'll be surrounded by Japanese. And many of them don't speak English. Huge additional piece of effort for you to learn the local language. And Singapore just needs to learn like Candle and Lash. Yeah. That's it, but I'll ask. Yeah. No, but it's actually so true. Because you know, I just came right from Hong Kong as well. And a large part of the population speaks Cantonese, actually. So I actually have fully agreed that the language that you speak really does help you in your daily life, right? So you talked about English as well. Yeah. You speak English? A little, a little. Yeah. I can understand English. When I arrived like for first year, I was like, what's going on? Like taxi driver, taxi uncle talking to me. It's like, ah, now I kind of, my friends from Europe, they make fun of me because I add the additional sounds at the ends of the sentences. Like, thank you. Like this, eh? Which is not needed, actually. It's not necessary, but I kind of mimic the help people speak. No, you know, it actually is an art. Like when you put the ah, la, la, la, ah. Yeah. Yeah. No, but I think what I love about you and how you've lived your life in Singapore is that you really embrace the culture, even the food and even what shows like from Kumar and stuff, which not many people get. Right? No, no, no. You know, a lot of people complain, right? About like, oh, experts, they come to whether it's to Singapore, Hong Kong, wherever and then they don't really eat the local food and they don't really know the jokes. How do you manage to embrace that? It's hard to say. I was curious in the beginning. Then, I think I start making friends with locals. So I played this a weird game called Spike Ball. I don't know if you heard about it. No. So it's the game from the US originally. It's a funny game. Like we can put the, how it looks like. We started playing this game with like few, actually, a few local, like few international friends and also locals because the game is played by a lot of students. So we played in the US a lot and I kind of get my friends with the local crowd but also younger people like in their 20s, which is also like very interesting. Yeah, I guess this one then I start playing football. It was also like quite a few locals. So through sports and through some activities, I kind of start to get to know Singaporeans. And then if you kind of, for example, we play a game of Spike Ball and then after that we go to for breakfast, we go to like toast box and have a kai toast. So it's kind of automatically moves you in. The circle and the local habits, I was saying. Yeah, but not many people do that. Yeah, I know some people, they just, they stay in bubbles for like four years. Yeah. Some foreigners, yeah. Yeah, but let's talk a bit about Singapore because you've been here for eight years and you say it's your home now when you land in Changi Airport, you can feel, you know, the energy is quite different, right? And I think even as a Singaporean coming back home, it does feel like home a lot. A lot of your guests have also been very vocal about Singapore, right? So now you've lived here for eight years. What surprised you the most in Singapore, whether it's positively or negatively? After eight years, it doesn't, there are not many things that surprise you. Singapore is a predictable place. Yeah. It's advantageous, it can be disadvantageous as well. True. Like in the beginning, like my first time in Singapore in 2014, for example, I was fascinated by the how much water you have in the city. Yeah. Like you have spin pools, you have like the small fountains or like waterfalls, like small decorative waterfalls, like in condos. You have a lot of rain, pouring rain, so it's like a lot of water, yeah. Which you feel even Europe, you're not used to that amount of like water, for example, which is not very like obvious, I guess, for Singapore. Now it's very natural. Yeah. It's like, yeah, the water is everywhere. You surround it by water. Right. But yeah, this like little things, but they are already in the past, so it's not like I'm surprised about something anymore. You said it's predictable, right? It is. And it's an advantage and a disadvantage. Let's talk about why it's an advantage first. Why do you think being predictable is an advantage in Singapore? Do you drive in Singapore? You do. You do. But no longer is too expensive. Too expensive, yeah. Yeah. And then the motorcycle in Singapore, Singapore has a reputation that drivers are not really good. I would put it this way. What do you mean? Well, some people didn't know how to drive. Like even taxi uncles, they do this, like accelerate stop, accelerate stop, what that like. And it gives you like, yeah, yeah, why? Why would you do it? But no matter the level of like driving, the culture of driving, like kiasu driving as well, because the infrastructure is very, very important. Very predictable. If you know how to ride a motorcycle or drive, not many things on the road would surprise you. Even if there are some like crazy drivers, they accelerate fast and stuff. But because the whole ecosystem infrastructure is predictable and you understand it, then it makes it easy for you to drive. Yeah. And also to stand out, actually. I was just talking to someone recently about, you know, I'm from Singapore, I grew up in Singapore, but never really appreciated sometimes the structure and the predictability because it is actually through the predictability that things can work. Yeah. Right. And you can actually stand out if you if you choose to. You know what I mean? Like in a way that you choose a different path or. Yeah. You choose a different path or if you want to do something a little bit different, then that actually stands out from the crowd as well. Yeah, true. I think so. I think so. Yeah. It disadvantages. I would love to have more excitement about something in Singapore. I mean, I was like sometimes I ride my bike in the morning, it's beautiful, I live in areas around by a lot of nature. I ride my bike and it's like I feel good, I feel happy. But I kind of try to maintain this feeling of this, oh, I still, I still enjoy it even up like after eight years. It's not like, I don't know, I talk to this guy. He's a special entrepreneur in Singapore, Singaporean guy. He used to live in New York in your city. And then he told me like in his like five or seven years in New York, he met more random but very like fascinating people than like all the years in Singapore. So it's just maybe sometimes a bit like of unconventional individuals or maybe I don't know, maybe they stay low key or maybe they will move to Bangkok. I don't know. So a little bit like it's harder to find someone who is like, oh, like you are like very, very unconventional, interesting person. I think in some cases, I actually kind of agree and in some cases, it also, it depends. But I also think it's part of how we grew up in Singapore, right? In terms of how we grew up in education system. A lot of us are taught to follow a lot of the rules and that's why you see things work because if the government tells you to wear a mask, you wear a mask, you know, they tell you not to do something. People tend to follow them and that's the reason why the country works. But also the reason why it's more conventional than unconventional. And so I think you have a good point there. And I also like excitement, right? You know, it's nice to see new things pop up as well. Lending in a new country and realizing you have not internet can ruin the first hour of any tree. You can't check the address called taxi or message someone. I use an ECM every time I travel. And today I want to tell you about Hall of Light plans, which is kindly supporting this video. What's good about Hall of Light plans is that your internet is ready before the trip even starts. So when you land, you don't feel that stress of being lost or disconnected. Hall of Light plans gives you monthly ECM plans covering 160 plus destinations with two flexible options. Light and unlimited. You install the ECM once, set it up in just a couple of minutes, and you can cancel anytime with no hidden costs. And for extra piece of mind, they're always on feature. Gives you one gigabyte of backup data per month after your ECM expires in 70 plus destinations. So you are not left completely disconnected. If your plan runs out, your trip gets extended or you simply forget to renew it in time. Click the link in description and use my code, Max Chernov. You get 5% of ECMs and 10% of Hall of Light plans for the first 12 months. Let's talk about how the fact that you traveled so many places, it makes you understand about yourself much more. So tell us what do you understand about yourself now? Then if you had just stayed in Russia. It's easier for me now to understand what's actually good for me and what's not good for me. Another one is when people complain even about Singapore, that people say, we don't like this, we don't like that. For me, I see where it's coming from. But living in Russia, I saw a different life. A different kind of life. And also living in Europe, and you asked a little bit. I can't say what are the real problems. I'm not saying that there are no real problems in Singapore. But it's like the levels of problems. If you don't have drinking water, it's not like in Russia, we always had it, but in some places in the world, you don't have drinking water. It's like a basic necessity. And then not having drinking water is actually affects your life much more than a traffic. So you kind of see the broader spectrum of things that exist in life. And that kind of through this, maybe you become more calm also. Like, yeah, that's okay. This is not okay, but this is okay. So Max, the importance of the quality of your network, everything's about connections. Yeah, yeah, for sure. Even this, whether you can resonate with the other person, because honestly, even if the person has a few million subscribers, but you don't really resonate with the person, then you wouldn't also trust to, you're going to recommend someone else. You're doing backstage circle and inviting billionaires, entrepreneurs who are very successful in their fields to actually come together. What exactly is backstage circle? I had this group of 12 founders and investors for a twin-half-day trip in Puket in March. So I decided, okay, let me organize this trip and then again, like very high-level people together. And then part of the experience will be meeting a billionaire that ensures that Puket Mohenburg-Jani is a co-founder of Tom Higur brand. He's one of the most fascinating people I ever met. So I brought this group of 12 people and we went there, we had the whole weekend, having conversations, like deep conversations about life, business, meanings, goals and challenges. What I realized after having this group in Puket for like two and a half days, I realized that even people at the top level in their business and their careers, they still sometimes struggling to find the right people to get around people around them. So it's kind of the common problem. And actually the more high-level you are, the more lonely or sometimes the more isolated you can feel because they feel like really progressing in your business and then people just don't resonate with you anymore. So they don't get what you're like, oh, challenges. Or you need to like fire like 20 people in your team like, oh, you are like bastard. But then you need to make this decision. So like big decisions. So people like don't get it when you are on high level. I was inspired enough to that. I decided to look at the like, what are there? Like networks, so private clubs exist in Singapore and actually, so I research Singapore, Bangkok and Hong Kong. And I kind of found a few big problems with these communities. They are most of the time the residents or the members, they are very mixed levels. So you come to an event and then it's like very like different levels of people. Someone just starting out and someone is already like doing like a big business. So that's the big problem. Another one, many of them they are not like Asia focused. So some of them, they for example, originate from the US. My big belief, you need to grow your like circle around the place where you are, where you're based. Because like I go often to like Bangkok, Hong Kong, China, Singapore. So that's kind of my area of my interest. So the backstage circle is for founders and investors in the region. And then also I have access to this super, super iconic high level founders and investors here like like Hokwon Pink and Kler Cheng, like Mohon Morghane, like Bill Hainiken. Because I kind of build relationships with them, I can bring these people to for private events with like the members of the backstage circle. So that's the kind of the big idea. I want like a very private, not optimized for scale, like very private group, Asia, like even Southeast Asia plus like Hong Kong, China, Central, very, very preselected crowds, the members. And then yeah, we're going to have like offline meetings three times here. We're going to have online meetings like mini groups regularly. And yeah, that's kind of the concept. So we actually, we are accepting the applicants in the early, but least. So guess we will leave a link and put the cure coat on the screen. Go check it out and yeah, see if we see your application and we see there is a fit. Well, I will have a call and then talk about it more. I'm very, you should be very proud of yourself, Max. Thank you. So high five to that. I'm very. High five to that. Like you, Max today versus like you, let's say, I don't know 10 years ago. Do you think you're different? Yeah, I'm older. Me too. You look young. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. I mean, but it's hard to, okay, it's hard to separate how some country affects you and how your like life stage affects you. Like for example, having kids or not having kids is like different. One hundred. Before and after having kids a different life, right? One hundred percent. Or like before starting a business and after starting like also different life. So it's hard to say. I guess I become like more mature. I am 41 now. I understand what I like better and what I don't like. What's important in life? What's not important life? If you compare to me at my 30, 31 year old. Yeah. Yeah, I was like still was searching around that age. I started my business. So I was still searching of like trying to understand what I'm going like that. I can fully resonate because especially when you start your own business, you have to almost rediscover yourself. Then if you hired by a company, you just do right because they pay you to do something. But when you have your own business, you need to think what you resonate with and what can make you money. And so many more other things that you have to think about and when you become a dad or a mom, it's another huge thing as well, right? Yeah. I used to work for PNG. Yeah. I managed, I used to manage a Gucci brand, Gucci perfumery. So my like budget marketing, I was in marketing. So my marketing spend was in like tens of millions of dollars. So you have this Excel sheet and then you see, okay, shall we spend like this like number of mail you spend on TV advertising. Then okay, this is before it was like outdoor print this more like conventional. So then let's say we have like 300 K left, like budget left. Okay, what shall we do? Like it's almost nothing like almost zero. Yeah, let's let's buy some like print like some another like magazine, for example. And when you start like dealing with your own money with your own budgets, when you start your own businesses like completely different games. So it's like decision making processes very different, I was saying. Yes. And actually you become more prudent. But you also know then what you need not spend on because you know, you know what it actually for you give you more run, run way then just let's say throwing money somewhere that most companies might throw. Yeah, but sometimes you don't know when you start to think you don't know where to spend. You have to throw. Yeah, yeah, throw actually. And in the company, if you throw, it's okay. If it's your business can be not okay. You can get bankrupt. For sure. So this takes a higher. Yeah, that's true. But the lessons as in the good stuff I believe comes to you back hard much higher as well. No, for sure. I can't see myself going back to the corporate world. So Max, you have now like close to half a million followers, right? Subscribers on YouTube. Yeah. Right? And people from outside like me looking in like, whoa Max, you're awesome. You did a great job, you know? But is it as glamorous as it seems to be a YouTuber? I would say to me, it's not glamorous at all. Like my work in PNG, like when I was a Gucci brand manager, it was like much more glamorous. Because you invited to some parties and like you meet celebrities and stuff. It's more fulfilling for sure. So I mean, I like I meet all this like super interesting like people all across Asia. But glamorous, I don't know, it's very interesting. Like when I go to places, so I discover. So we started with the concept was like X-Puts living in Singapore. Then after that we kind of made it work here and then it was like what's next? And then we expanded to Malaysia first. It's like more similar to Singapore. And then after that like India, China, the Philippines, Thailand, etc. And it's just very cool. You go to a new place. We will like discuss with the team. Okay, shall we do Indonesia? Okay, let's do Indonesia. Okay, let me fly to Bali and find interesting people there and to you them. So you basically get to know the place through the eyes of like people who live there. But you also like physically you go there, you go to this vealus. Then you find the address and then you go to people's houses. I really love it actually. In Singapore also like I just finished another interview. Like did the interview this morning. So I always try to like can we do it? Can we shoot in your house? Because I want to see how people live. It's very interesting. So I met quite a few billionaires through this interview. Yes. I don't know. It's like it's cool to meet these people. Otherwise it's very hard to like get like two hours or three hours of time of this like billionaire guy. But the interview is possible. So I spend time with these people. It's pretty cool. Yeah, I mean, and it's not. You know, a lot of young generation now want to be YouTubers, right? But sometimes you don't realize how much work goes into it to actually produce something like that. Yeah. You know, how much preparation that goes in, right? We were talking about it the other day like we're always on our laptops, you know, typing away and sort of researching as well. Yeah. So let's talk about the billionaires that you're meeting now because like you said at first you started off meeting interviewing experts on the streets and then now you're interviewing billionaires in their homes. Like what happened? How did that happen? What changed? We kind of found this niche first, interviewing next part. So like for example, like this British guy who's been a Singapore for like 10 years, like expressing his opinions about Singapore. So and people are really interested in this, especially Singaporeans. They want to see, it's not only Singaporeans, but like I want to see what this foreigner and more guy is saying about Singapore. Is he liking it? Not liking it? Like why is he here? He's probably super rich. So this a lot of like things that people want to know. So we kind of found this topic and this niche and that work for us. But then I kind of tried to gradually level up the guess and just through like introductions and like when the channel start picking up and maybe we cross like 100k subscribers we start getting a lot of like requests for interviews. So people just reach out, emails like, I'm actually shooting to you this guy, this girl. So I can make an introduction, this kind of stuff. So it was like quite organic I think. And then when you interview like one billionaires, like a centimillionaire, centimillionaire, it's like 100 mil plus. It's can then I could ask like, oh, there was a like great interview. And I can introduce him someone from the social circle. The goal is kind of make them through like their interview experience and then after you publish the video. The goal is to make them like the experience overall. And then so you produce a good video, the viewership is good. And then also because the channel is quite kind of large already. After I publish the video, normally I don't, I wouldn't say to my guess. That all we published the video. Because the most of the cases, they after a few hours the video was posted, they would find out themselves. Because they're a neighbor or they're a friend or they're a family, they would like, oh, you did this interesting. They actually see the video first and then they tell them and then it's like a wow effect. So and then if kind of they like you through this experience and like the whole like experience of like being introduced first and then after the video is published, you already established some level of relationships and then it's kind of easier to ask for introductions. Yeah. And then it's like that when you just like reach out to one billionaire and then you interview him, then he likes the experience and then kind of through him, you can get to others. Yeah. So like you've now been to the, you know, to different, you know, billionaires, a centimillion as homes, right? When you sit across them, it's very different from sitting across, you know, your usual interviews in the past where, you know, you interview an expert in their homes or on the streets. Like, when you actually interview billionaires, does that actually change the way you view life? For this, that actually changed the way you see yourself for your future? Yeah. It broadens your horizon of what's possible, you know? For example, a few months ago, I flew to Pouquet to interview Bill Haniken. He's an Anantara founder and a minor international. I stayed there. They are like huge like, they are pooled chicken that you have in, in the city, it's like their brand. So they have like hundreds of brands. And he's self-made guy. He started when he was like 16 or 17. Now he's 70 plus. But what's fascinating, you meet the level of people and you see the drive. So I would guess the, the common pattern in, that I see in successful people is no matter the age, they're still like very driven with what they do. And it feels like they, they like what they do. They're still excited about what they do. And when you see this, it's kind of, it's a no brainer like for you as well. It's like, oh, it kind of makes sense to try to choose things that you like in life to, like to be successful. The other feature that I see in this successful people, you clearly see the compound effect of their success. I don't think I have seen like overnight success. Like normally overnight success is like, it can be overnight, but then it's prior 15 years of like hard work and like trying, testing, making mistakes and stuff. So there's a compound effect. And when you see this, okay, so this level of people, they'll be building their empires for years, for years. Sometimes for generations, sometimes I introduce you like, I'm going to Bangkok next week. I'm tuning another billionaire. He's a second generation there in jewelry business, one of the biggest families in the world. But basically, you can, after you meet this, this, this people, you can tell yourself, it's all right. So you just need time. So do what you like. Try to be like, find your way. It's not going to be smooth for sure. Like zero chance is going to be smooth. Zero chance. A lot of ups and downs, a lot of downs. Like all of these people, they share a lot. And then, unit time. So it's not like, you don't have to be rich or successful fast. It doesn't have to be a goal of anyone. And then when you see like back to Singapore, like when society pressures you, okay, you need to buy condo by the age of 30. And if not, what then your loser, I don't think this is the right way. Wow. Thank you. It's also good. It's for me. And for you, I mean, like for so many people need to hear that, right? Because we've been taught, right? For so long that you need to make money fast. I mean, even the young generation that are already more aware and conscious, a lot of them still are looking for jobs that are making them the most amount of money in the shortest amount of time, right? So that is actually a very good learning and to do what you love. To find out what you love as well and what you're good at is actually something that seems simple, but it's actually you need time to find out what you love. 100% 100% You know, there is a censorship on YouTube. So I cannot share all my raw opinions and thoughts and insights from meeting billionaires and like high level operators here on YouTube. But I can do it on Telegram. So if you want to see the backstage from my interviews and very fresh raw opinions after most incredible people I meet and how I run this YouTube business, join the Telegram channel, your call to the screen or link below. We know we live in Singapore, so we know how sometimes you know, this love, academic pressure as well, or in places like Hong Kong. But when you actually talk to more people like outside of Singapore, do you also see that as well in terms of the younger generation or people who are being pressured to have fast money? Oh, hard to say because we all stay in the bubbles. I don't know, I don't know what's like, French, Gen Z are thinking right now. So it's like it will put a very different bubble from my bubble. So it's hard to say. But it's like, yeah, I guess it's a social media effect when you see the successful people on social media and you think like most of the people are successful, which is not. Like I run the biggest Russian speaking YouTubers community out there. So I started this like six years ago, it was COVID. So now it's like the big, so all the like large Russian speaking YouTubers in this, it's a Telegram chat, it's like 140 people or something. I know what it takes to become a successful YouTuber, not only from the subscribers standpoint, but from financial standpoint. So it takes time. When you see someone has like million subscribers, like a million followers on TikTok, they could literally like make, I don't know, 500 bucks a month. So it's not guaranteed that. But when you see them like on TikTok or Instagram on YouTube, you think you're assuming they are like they are rich, which is not the case. It's like for YouTube game, you need to know how to generate views, but also you need to be business savvy or learn how business works. Yeah, it's so important. It's a distinction between visibility and monetization, right? And actually it's a different skill sets that you need to learn. Difference set and here's where it becomes tricky. Because if you like to create content or you want to aspire to create content, you're probably a creative person or like you tend to be more creative. And I see a lot of creative people, they are like the anti-business or anti-immun money. It's like, and the optimal, like the all the successful business people that I know, they both creative but also business savvy. But also they're also good with people. It's basically to have like this complex personality to be successful. No, very good points. It's true. It's true because you're using different parts of your, not just your brain, but you're using different parts of who you are. Which sometimes, you know, from young, we're not really taught to piece these pieces of us together because each of us are actually creative in our own way. It's just that we haven't tapped into it. Right? So it can also be that entrepreneur have that entrepreneur side of us, but we haven't tapped deep into it as well. Right? So when you actually meet these successful billionaires, now you said that it also makes you dream bigger. It makes you think of possibilities. Do you also feel like the mix of people that you're around with really changes how you see life and how you think about where you could be? One percent because you, like, you learn from people. I mean, that sounds obvious, but if you have only, like, you work at a bank in Singapore and then you kind of surround it by bankers. So basically, you learn only this part, how to be a banker, how to, I don't know, if you're like, client facing all, like how to track with clients. But then you don't learn, if you don't have anyone who is good in, like, online marketing. You kind of don't learn. You don't even know that it can be learned. So the thing exists and it can help you in your career or business and life because you don't see examples people doing something, like, very different. So that's why I'm super bullish on, like, you got to have, you got to surround yourself with people at your level or like high level. And also this group of people has to be diverse. It makes you more, like, more diverse person and more interesting people, a more interesting person for people. Max, if you could restart your entire journey, what would you do differently? I don't think I would do anything differently because where I am now is the product of my past. So it's kind of hypothetical. Is the word? Yes, yes. It's kind of hypothetical to, like, for example, you pull out one piece of your, like, background and then it's probably the final product would be different if you do it. I don't know. I was like searching for what I would like to do and what would bring me kind of financial success and through trying different things. So I was in a corporate before I graduated as an engineer. I'm like electrical, mechanical engineer. So it's like very, very different from what I'm doing now. But I was always like questioning myself, okay, what shall I do next? Is it the thing that I want to do or no? And then I was like every couple of years, I kind of question myself and then I would make a decision based on that. If I discovered, for example, the content creator, past, earlier, maybe like five years, a 10 years earlier and I started it earlier, maybe it would be like a big result right now. But it's also very hypothetical. It's like it's hard to know how your life would be. Yes. So I guess I wouldn't, I would not change anything to be honest. Yeah, I get it. I get it. I think I wouldn't change anything to. Because every decision you make from now actually leads you to a different path in life. So then I'm going to ask another question. So Max, if your 15 year old Max was sitting here today and looking at you, what do you think 15 year old Max would say to you now? Crazy. Yeah. Yeah. He would not believe that I'm in Singapore and I'm like interviewing this billionaire saying to you two and stuff. It's, I don't know, he would be shocked. He would be shocked. Wow. I think. Really? Because we've got different today than before. Like you mean like me compared to me 15 year old. Yeah. 15 year old, yeah? Yeah, yeah, yeah, 15 year old. Now I was like, I kind of feel that I lived several different lives. Also like moving first like when you change jobs, if it's like a drastic change, it feels like you live a different life. And then when you move places, it also feels like a very different life. So for me, I kind of, if I look at my past, for me it feels like I lived already like, I don't know. Seven or eight lives. Which is pretty cool. Yeah, it's pretty cool because you actually have to shed your old, let's say if you lived in, you know, somewhere else before in the US, you have to shed your old US version of yourself and then come to Singapore and become a Singapore version of yourself. So I can understand that. What would you say to 15 year old Max if he was next to you today? I would say it's going to be fine. It's going to be fine. Yeah. So don't stress much overall because of like some unsuccessful like love, how you call it, like the first love on this kind of stuff or like exams, university exams, don't be too stressed about anything. Try to be excited and curious about what you do, what you try. But I think almost nothing in life leads you to like to the, to the full stop to the full end. I mean, if you're dead, you're dead. But most of the, I think if we exclude like some severe disease or like, I don't know, car crash or this kind of stuff. But 95% of things that happen to you in life, it's okay. I mean, you would just need like few months to recover to go over them. So it's most of the things if they seem like super, super heavy, super like difficult at the moment. Yeah. There is a high chance it's going to be fine in a year. For most of the things, some things try to avoid like car crash or like try to avoid like falling from the bike and body from the cliff, this kind of stuff. So, but most of the things they are, all right, they are not too bad. So it's a bit like how you like you sit in Singapore, they are more gassos, right? Skate to lose. Yeah. Skate to fail. Skate to fail. And I think it's not just about people in Singapore, but in a lot of places around the world. Yeah. You're afraid that one decision that looks major and a lot of it is, some of it is quite major. We'll lead to failure in life, but it actually could lead you to the most beautiful and expensive thing that you've had in your life. Yeah. Right? Yeah. I think we both know it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Not like living your job or starting a new business, it's not the end of the world. If it's even if it's not successful, it's not the end of the world, 100%. Yeah. Yeah. In most all, like moving to another country, it's not the end of the world. Yeah. In fact, it's the beginning of something new. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you don't know what you don't know. You never know what happens, right? Yes. Yes. Yeah. Well, it unlocks in you that you wouldn't have unlocked because the problem is no one has the full information about anything, even like, I don't know, Trump or Xi Jinping. Definitely not. They didn't know what the millions of, billions of possibilities are. So for us, I think we're overthinking too much because you cannot, for example, if you never start the business, you cannot plan like how it will be because you don't, if you started like 20 businesses already, like 20, you open 20 restaurants. The end of the case spent some time to, when you open the restaurant number 21 to assess the concept and the location and stuff, but if it's like you're freaking first restaurants, it's silly to think like too much about it because you don't know. Yeah, yeah, yeah, because people are afraid to change. They are current, comfortable circumstances sometimes for something that's unknown. We should understand, like all of us are afraid of like, if a comfortable, it's, it's on, even on a physical level. You don't want to change because it's what engraved in your brain. Because changes can lead you to die. If you don't know the path in jungle, then you go there and then a wild animal can catch and kill you. So it's kind of engraved in us. You need a lot of effort to actually like accept the changes. It's not easy. I'm not saying it's easy. It's actually very difficult. But it makes you a lot, I don't want to sound cheesy, but it makes you a lot stronger. And it makes you closer to who you are as well when you actually go to. Yeah. Yeah. What is you never know mean to you? That's exactly what we were just talking about. Like for example, the backstage circle. It's like a private membership for investors, high level investors and entrepreneurs in Asia. Starting with I was inspired by actually people I interviewed. Because all of them have like different perspective. But when I started more and more talking to like this super high level people like billionaires and stuff, I kind of start seeing that they share like common traits. For example, I think all of all this type of people when I asked them what's the main like skill that you need to learn. And all of them say, oh, I'm like to be curious and open and to learn constantly. Like some of them like 70 year old, 80 year old, they're constantly learning. And to you the Hock one pink, Banyan tree, Banyan group founder. And before we start to introduce you, he asked me like 20 questions about what I do. Like, oh, how you do it? How produce videos, how you find guests, how you monetize, how you find sponsors. So I saw he's really, really interested. So I guess this ability for people to know new things and back to your question, you don't know like if you never had anyone from a social circle who does like YouTube or social media. And then you do some traditional business and then you find someone who is in this area and is like, oh, okay. So maybe I could apply the skills or this knowledge in my business. So you never know what like what happens when you meet all this people. Yeah. Yeah. It was so important because like you you don't you don't know what. You don't know. But you can be exposed and then get inspired to do and try the things that you never thought possible. Right? So thank you so much, Max. Sure.