---
video_title: "The American Who Shocked Thailand"
video_id: CevMh63x_x4
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CevMh63x_x4
video_date: 2026-06-03T13:23:00+00:00
video_description: |
  🔍 Go to http://www.ground.news/chernov for a better way to stay informed. Subscribe for 40% off unlimited access to world-wide coverage through my link
  🇹🇭 Learn* more about Layan Verde in Phuket here: https://links.layanverde.com/maxchernov Or contact the sales office directly on WhatsApp: https://links.layanverde.com/layanverdewachernov Mention me to get the best offer from the team
  ✈️ Go to https://holafly.sjv.io/aNeGdQ and use code MAXCHERNOV to get 10% on Holafly plans for the first 12 months or 5% off on any other Holfafly eSIM
  🌏 Apply for The Backstage Circle: https://forms.gle/huwR6NQNz5A4XgC78 
  
  *DISCLAIMER. This video includes a paid promotional integration for Layan Verde, a real estate development project in Phuket, Thailand. The host received fixed compensation and also personally owns property developed by the same developer group. This content is for informational and entertainment purposes only and is not investment advice, a recommendation, solicitation, or offer to purchase property. Real estate investment involves risk, including loss of capital, delays, developer default, currency fluctuation, and no guaranteed returns. This paid promotion has not been reviewed or approved by any financial or regulatory authority.
  
  Meet Nate. At 19 years old, he left America for Bangkok, became fluent in Thai, and built My Mate Nate, one of Thailand’s biggest YouTube channels, followed by 15 million people. Nate shared what Thailand is really like beyond the tourist and expat bubbles, how Thai people are different from Americans and how much he earns from YouTube and selling snacks. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  🎙 Listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts: https://open.spotify.com/show/1dktMfOBp11LNp52X3mkuR  or https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/max-chernov/id1875665593
  👥 Sponsorship requests / Guest suggestions: max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST
  ➢ YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/@MyMateNate 
  
  WATCH NEXT
  ► Tech Multi-Millionaire Shares How He Built His Wealth Using AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O10NKwSJMek 
  ► Wealth Strategies of American Multi-Millionaire in Singapore: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Nz74s44wsQ 
  ► Singapore’s multi-millionaire on China, America and AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tP7QksbJVQ
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 INTRO
  00:39 Americans vs. Thais
  02:43 My Mate Nate's Housekeeper Became a Content Creator
  03:30 The Biggest Myths About Thailand
  04:44 Inside My Mate Nate's Studio
  05:13 Is Bangkok the Best City in the World?
  06:07 I Asked Nate's Editor If He's a Good Boss
  07:15 The One Thing Nate Doesn't Like About Thailand
  08:10 Becoming a Thai Citizen
  10:21 How Being a Foreigner Helped His YouTube Career
  11:12 Can You Really Trust the News? + A Special Bonus for My Viewers
  12:43 Building Thailand’s Biggest YouTube Production Machine
  13:27 Growing Up in America vs. Thailand
  15:48 Inside My Mate Nate's Studio
  17:14 Why America No Longer Feels Like Home
  19:09 Why Global YouTube Ideas Fail in Thailand
  21:17 Why More Expats Are Looking at Phuket
  22:53 Why Nothing Is Scripted on the My Mate Nate Channel
  25:06 Why He Doesn't Want to Become a Celebrity
  27:51 The Story Behind His 10 Million Subscriber Award
  29:39 The Reality of Being Famous in Thailand
  31:55 How He Runs a 15-Million-Subscriber Channel
  33:31 How to Stay Connected in 160+ Countries + A Special Bonus for My Viewers
  35:08 The Hidden Costs of Being a YouTuber
  37:31 Building Thailand's Own Version of Spikeball
  38:45 Inside the Business Behind My Mate Nate
  43:00 Will AI Replace Content Creators?
  44:06 Invitation to The Backstage Circle
  46:30 The Goal System That Changed His Life
  48:58 Why He's Learning Chinese
  50:23 His Daily Routine and Productivity Habits
  52:07 His Vision for Life at 40
  53:15 The Meaning of Life
  
  This channel features raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery.
  
  I sit down with founders, investors, operators, experts, and outliers navigating the biggest shifts of our time, many of them based in or connected to Asia. We talk about money, leverage, relocation, power, tradeoffs, and the real decisions shaping what’s next, not as theory, but from lived experience.
  
  Some conversations happen inside billionaire homes. Some happen remotely with experts shaping global systems. All of them focus on signal over noise. 
  
  If you care about where to build, where to live, how to make better decisions in uncertain times, and what the future demands, you’re in the right place.
---
Meet Nate. At 19 years old he left America for Bangkok, became fluent in Thai and built my mate Nate. One of the Thailand's biggest YouTube channels followed by 15 million people. Nate shared what Thailand is really like beyond the tourist and expert bubbles. Some people think Thailand is just to come like party and like get drunk. Whereas like real Thailand being the Thai people is not like that. How Thai people are different from Americans? Anywhere else in the world? You know who the Americans are. And how much he earns from YouTube and selling snacks? Most revenue is from online sales, not from YouTube. I'm Max Churnov. I host rock conversations about wealth, global mobility and mastery. Do you think overall like Americans and Thai's they are very different or they are more similar? Like as the mindset wise. I think I... Man it's hard because there are some things that are very different and some things that are very very similar. What would be similar? For me things that are similar would be at least what I grew up in the US. And I feel like it's like that here in Thailand is super family oriented. The family is the most important unit. So family oriented. Like here in Thailand a lot of families still eat dinner together. They all spend time together. And that's one thing for me in the US growing up is like that. I feel like here they have this word in Thai it's called Grainjai. What's that? You know I don't even know what it translates to in English. It says Grainjai doesn't have one perfect English word but the closest means are to be considerate, not wanting to trouble someone or to feel bad in posing on someone. So it's kind of like they don't want to trouble each other. I feel like here in Thailand people are very considerate of other people. You know someone's doing something they don't want to interrupt them. They don't want to mess up other people's days which is one thing I really like. They're very considerate of other people here. That's one thing I really like. Whereas in the US people are really super straight forward and they're really loud and they're straight to the point. I don't know. They don't have a problem causing a scene. Just being whatever they're doing in the US but here people consider it of others around them and just everything in society. I guess it's like after this year some talent is probably very weird for you when you see these kind of things in the US when you go there. It's always like why people do it. When all man especially not even going back to the US but when we go to Europe or anywhere else in the world you know who the Americans are because they're loud. They're just so loud. They're definitely from America. She helps clean everything up. I'd call it the housekeeper I guess. She's making content now. Oh really? So she's going to film this. She's going to be like she kind of does it like satire. She's like oh my gosh look at my minute. He made a mess again today. And then she cleans it up. So even the housekeeper's making content. I'm going to call it a day. I'm going to call it a day. I'm going to call it a day. Yeah. What's the name of the housekeeper? Oh, what's the name? She's got 3000 followers now. Wow. And she started to see this one's got 300,000 views. This is her just being like. Like oh look they made a mess. I got to clean it up. So that's kind of what it is. So even the housekeeper's got. She's selling my snacks. Good job. What's the biggest misconceptions about Thailand in the US or in the rest of the world? What do you hate when people say something about Thailand and you're like, No, it's not like that. There's two things I don't like. Some people, a lot because there's the movie that hang over where it just makes Thailand look like it's just hardcore party. Some people think Thailand is just to come party on the beaches and get drunk and just like that. But that's more just what the tourists do. Whereas like real Thailand being with Thai people is not like that. Like we're talking like they consider it, they're kind, they're really heartwarming. And I don't like when people kind of think of Thailand or they some, a lot of foreigners would say that talk about lady boys and just getting drunk and stuff. But like that's not Thailand at all. Yeah. So I don't like when they talk about that. And the other thing, some people have told me they're just like, Oh, it's like a smaller country on the map. It's a developing country. I don't like when they say that. Because when you come to Bangkok and you come to their cities, like, Matt, it's awesome. Yeah. They've got malls that are just ginormous. They've got everything you need. Fast internet, great malls, great food and overall just a great quality of life. Yeah. So I think a quality of life here is better than in the US. In the US, in the man that's expensive in the US too. Most of the team is Thai. They're from here? They're all Thai. All Thai. Okay. So it's only you who is originally not from here. That's right. He's bringing all the shirts that we used in the videos this last week to hang them all up. Okay. Oh, she's on the prop team as well. Hello, guys, how are you? Hi, it's howdy, come. So you communicate only. It's all in Thai. It's all in Thai, yeah. There's one other person in the office that speaks English. Okay. That the head editor. So him and I will speak in English, but other than that, it's all Thai. 100%. Do you think Bangkok is like the best city in the world for one of the best? For me, it's one of the best. I mean, they've got everywhere. It's got problems. They've got a lot of traffic. But overall, in general, I feel like Thailand is super safe. They don't have very many natural disasters, nor tornadoes. They've got some flooding. Politics here are kind of messy, but in general, it's still pretty stable. Living here everyday life, everything is stable. I feel safe. Great food. That's why I think quality of life here is better. And man, the healthcare here is awesome. The hospitals and everything. They're cheap and so good. People come here from Singapore for healthcare. It's good. It's much cheaper. All the beauty stuff, and for example, if you need some complicated operations. And you don't have insurance. So insurance doesn't cover it's in Singapore. So people fly to Bangkok here. Everywhere has good things and bad things. But I think for me, almost everything here is on the positive side. This is Asa. He's the one that speaks English. Other than that, everything else has been fine. Okay, important question. Is he a good boss? Oh no. Well, how should I put this? Well, I'm sad. It's not really around much. But he's a really, really good boss. Kind. He's very, very kind. What do you do here? Well, I'm the lead editor here. So I look after all of this six, seven editors here. What's the best part of your job and worst part of your job? Well, let me start with the worst, you know. Okay. So the best gets better. The worst part is that it's a repetitive job, right? When you're done with one video, you're onto the next one. And it's not like a short form video. It's like a two hours long video. So that's the worst part. It's just that it's tough. But the best part here is that we're all like families here. And you're just like, you're in a classroom full of like exciting people, energized people, and you're just like energized every day. Nice. Cool, man. I love your T-Shirt. Thank you. Thank you. What's something that you're not used to still? This is like a super small thing that I personally I don't like. It's just some of the tourist places. They charge foreigners more than they charge Thai people. It's like, let's say like the Thai person is 10 bought. They charge foreigners like 300 bought. That's a small thing. It doesn't matter. Like I don't care that much. But if you ask me one thing, I don't like that. It's like, come on. I live here. I pay taxes here. I've been here. Like, can you charge me the Thai price? No. That's like one small thing. That's just one of my little complaints. It's like, even if you start speaking Thai. Yeah, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. No, because what they do, they say, don't keep it. I'm not complaining. I love it. And I wouldn't have it anyway. But they write it in Thai script. So like a foreigner wouldn't be able to read the price. I was like, come on. I could read it. I speak to the Thai. That should be enough to give me the Thai discount. But that's okay. I so pay the full price. Other than that, I don't really have any complaints. I'm like, I love it here. Are you still in America? Or you Thai? Yeah. I have American citizenship. And soon I'll have Thai citizenship as well. Okay. So that's... We'll be allowed to keep the American one. Yes. I'll be able to have dual citizenship. Okay. How's your identity? How many percent you are still in America? How many percent you'll take? You think? I call myself, I don't know, 60-40. I say 60 would be Thai. 60 would be Thai. Yeah, 40 would be. Because here's one thing I think of. A lot of people always ask me, like, what is it like in America versus here? Like what you ask? But some people can't think into the fact that my whole experience of America was just as a kid. And being a kid and an adult is so different. Like when you're a kid, you don't have to work, you're stressed for you and everything's fun. So for me, my identity, I'd say 60-40. 60-40 Thai. Because now I think more in Thai. When I plan things, I plan more in Thai. And just my everyday life is in Thai. So... Yeah. Here we go. What are they doing? Oh, they're cleaning. They're helping to clean up. So there you go. It's very sweet. You know? Yeah. I think I have. Hello, YouTube. You think in many cases it's still perceived as a foreigner? 100%. Because you look, yeah. Yeah. Because I mean, I am. You can't change, right? I think until I get Thai citizenship, I mean, I'm still just a foreigner. But even if you get it, like, if the... If they don't know you and then you go to some distant village in... I don't know, in the north and then... Oh, yeah. It's like you're still far-ung. Oh, yeah, 100%. That's right. I'm always a foreigner. Yeah. So... Does it bother you? No. Because it's like, it's different from the US. Like, in the US it's like, no matter what skin color you are and how you look, you can be American. Right. So people don't question, right? Right. You can have like... They just assume if you're there, then you're American. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So... But here it's like, in most of the Asian countries, it's actually different. Right. But in Thailand as well. Right. And that's fine. It is what it is. That's what I say. Whenever there's problems or anything, I just say it is what it is and you just keep going on. Do you think actually being far-ung helps you with your YouTube career? Yeah. It definitely does. Yeah. Because I don't think that it makes me get more followers or views, but it just sets me apart from... So let's say if there were 10 people I'll make in the same content. Everyone has to find something to set them apart. And just naturally because I'm a foreigner, I'm already a foreigner. That already sets me apart. And then there's other things that I can put in my own point of view, which will be totally different than the other 9 people who grew up in Thailand. So I think it helps set me apart. And that's definitely something we use in videos. Yeah. Because I've got my team of, let's say, that are 7 of us. They're all doing funny jokes and stuff in Thai. And sometimes if I don't get the joke, it makes it even funnier. Or if I try to... Sometimes when I try to play like a western joke and they don't get it, or they're like, oh man, that's terrible joke. So it helps with the content as well. Are you sure you actually know what's happening in the world? You might say, of course, I read the news every day. But can you really trust the news you're reading? I'm not sure. Over the past decade, online news and ad-driven algorithms have made it profitable for news outlets to drive clicks, using polarization and over-bias. That's why we always need to compare different perspectives, question what you are being shown, and understand who's behind the story. Before, that meant digging through internet for hours. Now, there is ground news. There is a website and app designed to make reading the news easier and more data-driven. Every day, they gather thousands of news articles from around the world and organize them by story. Each story comes with visual breakdowns of the reporting bias, reliability, and ownership. Old help you understand why you're seeing what you're seeing. For example, here's a story about Bangkok Street food vendors being pushed from the streets. Ground news shows the bias comparison summary, you can see how left-leaning and right-leaning sources explain the same news differently. And here you can see which specific sources are covering it. How reliable they are and who is behind them. Ground news is subscriber-funded, with no ads inside the product. I'm grateful to them for supporting this video and I think what they are building is genuinely useful. Subscribe by scanning this QR code or go to ground.newslashchernov to get 40% of the vintage plan. Link in description. Enjoy. That's what he'll do. He'll take an idea of somewhere else. This is one of the sidemen hiding seats. We'd like the compost, but obviously we'll change the different places. Then after that, we'll take our own photos, different versions. He'll generate it right here. So we'll change it. It's generating, give it a second. So this is playing hide and seek at a school. This is for the thumbnail. This is for the thumbnail. So he'll take them out and then he'll place me or someone else in their place, change the compost. So it depends on the video. Some thumbnails will take on location like almost like a selfie and then some will just generate it and put them in. Look at that. Yeah. What was the difference between being a teenager or being in your like 18, 19, 90s in America versus in Thailand? Like just the food you eat every day is so different. What you do every day is so different. Because when I was in high school back in the US, I did a bunch of sports and I ate a bunch of music. Whereas I mean here they've got a bunch of sports and music. But I don't know how to put it in the words. How it's just so different. Because I'm sure for yourself being in Russia versus being in Singapore, night and day difference or the similar. No, I would say I can compare because I went to the US a couple of times for two summers basically. When I was 19 and 20 years old, before I was in a city called Volga Grat. It's like 1 million people population city in Russia. And then I went to first summer, was in the state of Maine. So the difference was quite drastic. There it was a little bit like the American movie. Okay. You like the big difference. Everyone has a car. Have you seen each other? Yeah, every teenager. I got my driver's license when I was 15 years old. So I had a car when I was 15. That's the big difference. How you spend time, you jump in the car and you go to watch the racing or movie. Or you play a lot of basketball. Compared to maybe it's also because kind of the small town life. Because I'm from a bigger city. So it's a little bit different. So you spend more public transport or so car. When you ask that there is no public transport. Yeah. But when you talk about Thailand, it's hard for me to compare it because there's Bangkok. And then there's everything outside of Bangkok. So we in Bangkok definitely motorcycles public transport everything. But outside of Bangkok, it's, I don't know. But I get what you say. Growing up, growing up when I was a teenager, I just had, not even my parents trusted me and I just had freedom. I could really do whatever I want. I could go to my friends house and ever want to do whatever I want. But here, yeah, it's like that. But I don't know. I feel like it's safer here for sure. It's safer. Yeah, it was. I feel like people are, when you don't know someone, they're nicer. I don't know. I feel like in the Western world, when you don't really know people, like everyone kind of keeps themself. But here, like if you see some random person, you're like, what's going on? They're like, hey man. In total, we have two cameraman for video and then one for pictures. So you always bring one for pictures, yeah, for the backstage? No, not always for pictures. I'd say he's only there like 30% of the time. He's like half an actor in the videos and then half for pictures or behind the scenes. Yeah, like for PR. Yeah, so when it's important stuff or for taking thumbnail pictures, we'll use the pictures. But most of the time, it's our video. So this is kind of where we keep everything. We organize everything. You see, we keep it all organized. We've got like a system for batteries. These are all charged. If it's not charged, then we turn them over. Oh, nice. Because there's been times where you take a battery, you don't film. And it's like, oh, it's empty. So that's what we do with that with different batteries. We've got all the random things we need. Which the main cameras? Main cameras. We use Sony FX3. Sony FX3. Yes. So we've got, I don't know, we've got four of them, I think. Four or five of them. We keep the main cameras in here. Originally, I started with like Panasonic GH4, GH5. There was a time where we used the Canon R5, but it gives annoying because it overheats. So we cut that off. We used the Panasonic S1H. I loved it, but I had terrible auto focus. So that's why we switched over to Sony FX3. I think we've been using it for like three or four years now. Maybe even longer. Yeah. I really like it. When you go back to the... Do you go sometimes? Yeah, you usually go back about once a year. When you're there, do you feel something is weird for you? Or maybe your friends or family say, oh, like, why are you doing this? Or like, why are you saying this? Oh, yeah. It happens all the time. Or even my accent sometimes. Like, my family's like, your accent sounds different. Or when I see other people, a lot of people don't... They don't know if I'm from the US or from different places. Because my accent's kind of just not specific anymore. But when I go back home, but I consider Thailand home now, it feels off because it's not home. My parents move to different places, so nothing's familiar anymore. It's just more like a vacation when I go to the US. What about you originally? I was born in Utah, so like in the mountains. And then in high school, I was in California. Yeah. But now my parents live in Texas. Okay. So when I go back, it's just like, well, I have no idea what it's like in Texas. I just go visit my parents, so. And then when you go back to Bangkok and you play in Taj Dome. You walk out the doors of the airport and it's just hot and sweaty. It's like, I'm back home. Yeah. You like? When I go back to the US, it's depending on where I go. But usually it's dry, especially up in Utah or in California. It's dry. It's not as humid as here. You like here more? I'm so used to it here now. One thing I love about here is that there's no snow. It doesn't get cold. You're from Utah? Yes. I know I can relate. I'm from Russia. I hate being cold. Right. Like, I like to, if it's if it's vacation, it's okay. Yeah. A week or two is okay. But when you have to live in it, it's like, no, it's better here. Yeah, I remember being frozen to death when you wait for a bus to go to school. Yes. Like, wow. Yes. Standing outside. Like that. Doing this. Uh-huh. Yeah. People probably don't know what it is, but you're trying to get like a bit warmer. That's right. It's always like this. It's pretty. Yeah. If you compare, like, content that you see in the US or in the UK or global market, compared to your content, what works for Thailand, for Thai people? What kind of content, what kind of, I don't know, cakes and jokes? It's all very local. Because in Thailand, they're language. They do a bunch of play on words. Just in everything they do in the videos and just regular sentences while we're talking. They have a lot of play on words and jokes. They're actually really hard to translate. Because there was a time where we were trying to do subtitles and voice dubbing. And someone was just like, it's really funny and Thai, but when you try to translate it, it doesn't work very well. I think taking the Western idea, but finding a way to put a Thai spin on it with the Thai culture, with the jokes and the local stuff is just what's worked for us. Yeah, I guess what's unique about you guys? You actually build this huge content machine. Being inspired sometimes from the global ideas, from the US, but you made it real local. So I made it work here. Because a lot of people over the years, people are always like, why don't you do stuff in English or why don't you do more worldwide content because you can make more money, you can get a bigger audience. But right now, I'm to the point, I don't really want to do that. I just want to be more localized, more specific, more niche here, just specifically Thailand. What, why? I don't know. Well, one, I feel like we've just built so much already. Yes. And I don't know, on the global scale, I feel like I can't compete with them because they make so much more money from AdSense and the UK and the US. If we try to compete with that, we just can't do it. So if they wanted to build a set made out of wood and whatever, their cost over there, let's say, if it was the exact same cost to Thailand and the US, but if they made a million views and we made a million views, they make like 20x more. 20x? Yeah. Shit. So they can do, they have a lot more budget to do bigger things to do more things. So I don't really feel like I want to compete with that. Now, I don't know. I feel like being local more niche is just the way to go. That's kind of what I'm doing right now. I bought two apartments in Puket in a project built by my old friend Vadim and his development company, Villa Cartel. Vadim has been a real estate for over 20 years, has lived in Thailand for more than 13 years, and is now developing a half a billion dollar mini city in Puket, called Lian Verda. It's located in Bangkok, one of the most desirable and fast growing areas in Puket. Lian Verda is a 7.5 hectare complex with 200,000 square meters of nature-inspired architecture. It was designed by an international studio with 40 years of experience, with large green areas created by one of the Thailand's leading landscape studios. Inside there are panoramic C-EVU apartments and more than 65 top-level facilities. It's also designed to use up to 35% less energy than a standard building, offers a hotel style management and has a team of more than 400 professionals behind this project. Puket is no longer justification destination. More entrepreneurs and families are now looking at it as a place to live and invest. So if you are thinking about it, I would take a closer look at Lian Verda. Of course this is not a financial advice and always do your own research before making any investment decision. I bought properties in the current Vadim projects myself, and I know him personally, he's a great guy. And I believe in Puket long term, and that's why I think Lian Verda is worth looking at. Scan this QR code or follow the link below to learn more about the project and the investment details. Also don't forget to mention max to get the best deal from the guys. And yeah maybe we will become neighbors someday. That's the Moitai fighter, so that's a different channel. And right here he's editing the shorts. We just call them shorts, which is TikTok, Facebook, IG and YouTube. So the vertical videos, these two guys are sick or somewhere today, not sure. Not sure. That's up to the head editor. And then each of them are doing a different video. So this is weird out on a river for 24 hours. In your video? Yeah. Call him and Lensak, see you later. Hey, I'm a man, I'm a kid. So this is just a group of friends just playing, having fun. Like this is just nothing was planned in this video at all. We just went on location and whatever happened happened. So that's why I really like our videos. We don't script anything in advance. I think we all know, okay we're going to be on the river. We need food, other than that, whatever happens happens. So most of the time for this type of videos, you don't plan. You don't like a writer script. There's a few videos. Like there's never a script. We just have the entire, it's called Chrome Sound, the framework. It's like we'll be on the river. There's a boat, there's food, there's that, and then whatever happens happens. There's a few videos where it's like if it's hide and seek, like you know, okay, we got to start the video, you got to find them in the video ends, but nothing's ever scripted in. Okay, interesting. There's other YouTubers that really go for a younger audience here in Thailand. Like other videos are like 80% scripted. I don't like that. I really don't like that. Personally. It makes it more fun basically. You just come to their site and have fun. And as the actors, it's so much more fun. Because when it's a script, you're playing a role. But for these videos, we're just having fun like literally. Like we don't know what's going to happen. We don't know what's going on with the teams. And so right now it's like these guys are just messing around with the background. We're talking, we're planning. There's just everything's going on. Which I personally, I personally like that. And then he's working on a hide and seek video. He's going to hide and seek over here. So these are the same videos. Yeah. Do you see yourself as progressing from like the only perceived as a YouTuber? Got it. To like a national celebrity. There was a time where I kind of wanted to do that. But to be honest, right now I don't really want to. So there's a time. I, a few years back, I was on TV shows. I did some of the boxing was on TV. But more like I was acting in different, I've been in movies, I've been in TV stuff. But still, I feel like at the end of the day I enjoy this where I can just be myself, live my life, and then not do that. I think I'm, here's the better way. There's YouTubers, content creators, and there's celebrities. I'm about right here on, in my mind, on my scale, I'm about here. Because I do TV, I've done movies, I've done stuff, I'm a bit more than just the average YouTuber. But I don't, my goal is not to be like that. My goal is to go by land, up in Chiang Mai, or up in the north, have like 10 acres of land, like 20 rye, just a house, and just a nice big green grass field, and just live life up there. Have fun. That's my goal. So I don't want to go out and be some crazy celebrity or anything. Yeah, so. Let me see your tie relaxed nature, somebody somebody. Yeah, somebody. I just want to be with my family, be with my kids, and just have fun living life. So that's my goal. Yeah, you have kids. He's one and a half right now. What do you have? Yeah. So we probably have more like within a year. Yeah. We probably have two or three kids, and then just as they grow up and get bigger, oh man, we just have fun. Oh yeah. So are you thinking of starting the channel for them? We have a family channel, but it's more me and my wife. Yes. When the kids grow up, but I don't want them to, they'll go to school, they'll have their regular life, and while they're at school, like I'll get stuff ready. And when they come home, we'll just play games, have fun, but the channel won't be the main focus by any means. No. No. I want them to have a regular life, like grow up as regular kids and just enjoy life. So that's my goal. So like I don't know if you know, you know, you know, Casey Neistat, like he has kids, but, he doesn't even show their face in the videos. Yes, that's true. I don't see all these kids actually. I don't think I'll go quite to that extent of not showing the face, but it'll be more. I think the family channel will still be focused more on me and my wife doing family stuff, and then the kids will, I don't know, I don't want them to grow up, like, having that spotlight, because it changes on how they perceive the world, because growing up being, if you grow up being famous, you kind of feel privileged and everything, and don't want them to be like that. This is my office room. If we're not filming, then either I'm in here or I'm back at home doing stuff. So this is kind of, this is my office room, this is where we have the team meetings and just kind of talk about ideas and everything. So yeah, kind of, that's all the YouTube creator kind of stuff. Okay. Which one is the most valuable for you out of all of these? Oh man. It's probably the ones for my midnight, so the 100,000. And then this is the million for my midnight, and then the 10 millions in this box here. And then these, the other ones are from other channels and a bunch of different things, but yeah. So, but this one was the most valuable, yeah. I would say so. So, getting to the 100k for the first time. That's the old one. I have one is now is bigger, the button itself is bigger, and the frame is also bigger. Right, and then nowadays they're like this, which is this style. Oh, basically, yeah. Which is the style. Which you can tell they're not like the stickers come off, not very good. That's the old one. So. Do you know you can write anything basically here? Yeah, you can write anything. You can write any channel name, you can write whatever you want. But yeah, so that's the old school versions. Nice. Can you show me the 10 million? It's kind of glossy. It's heavy. It's heavy and it's a bit dirty as well. Let's see. Nice. And it is it's... Can I hold it? Yeah. Fucking heavy. Yeah. It's a lot heavier than you think. But it's dirty because one of the days the housekeeper, she thought it was glass, so she used a glass cleaner on it. So. You got to use like a silver polish on it, but I'll get a fix one in these days. There it is. Do you think like a fame change you? It's hard to say, but you look at a very down to earth guy, but do you think the fame change your stuff? On some things. Yeah. Like, after like getting some nice VIP treatment or like living like some nice things, it's like, oh that's nice. I could live with that. But I try not to be too changed. I try not to let it get to my head. I mean, it does to a point, but I try to... I think the good thing about having the team, having the friends with me, it really helps keep us all centered and not getting too big of a head. Yeah. So. If you, let's say, will go with you right now at the Sukhavvit area, like how many times you will be recognized in one hour? A lot. Yeah, I don't really go out to malls very often anymore. Yeah. It's not like crazy, but as you're walking out the fans, the fans will take pictures. And I always take a picture, I never say no. Don't really go out to, let's say, amusement parks or nowhere near schools or universities. Ah. Because that's... Like, unless we have an event, but I've been doing it so long, I'm just going to use to it now. How people react. They won't selfie. They're like very emotional when this year. Depends on the age. Or how long they've been following. Because the culture is very nice and well. They're very considerate. Like most of them will be like, hey, can I get a quick picture? They get a picture like, thank you. Yeah, like that. Yeah. I mean, there have been some cases where people like follow you and like everything. But for the most part, I think because the culture really helps as well. Yeah. They're very considerate. And that's great. It's like, it seems like, when I get recognized in Singapore, the Singapore, my audience, it's a bit older. Okay. And then people are normally like, oh my, I've watched your videos. Yeah. And then I went to India and then I was recognized in India. And in India, they crowd is younger, for sure. Right. That would demographic is much younger than Singapore. And people react differently. Oh my god, we got this here. Right. And people are like, oh, that's kind of the celebrity vibe. And Singapore, they don't have it. Singapore, yeah, good content. Right. And I think it's the age. It's 1% the age thing. Yeah. Because when I meet older people or like their kids follow and they know who I am, they don't necessarily follow me. They're like, oh, hey man, good videos. Let's get a picture and it's done. But like, yeah, that's why malls and schools and universities are not. They don't go very often. What parts of the business you are still running? Ideation, brainstorming, strategy. I'd say I've got my hand in everything still. Everything. Other than, not actually everything, yeah. The way we do the ideation for videos is roughly I'll come up with, I'd say 50% of the video idea. And then each Monday we have a team meeting and I'll give it out. I'll give like that. Let's say for example, this week we're going to film. It's an alphabet food video. Okay. So I'll sit down. I'll say okay, we're going to film this video. This is everything we're doing and then I'll give it to someone on the team and they'll go get all the rest of the ideas of it. So that's the, that's kind of how we film it. Yeah. So you're like production machine. Yeah. Yeah. So before I was a YouTuber, I was a cameraman. I did a bunch of freelance. I would film music festivals. I filmed travel, travel company stuff. So I did a bunch of camera work before I was a YouTuber. So I really like the production side of it. I'm really like the production side. So then before we film, I talk with the camera team. We figure out exactly what cameras we're using, what frame rates, what bit rates everything. We'll film that and then we film. Yeah. So kind of a producer, director, actor, kind of everything. Yeah. And then when we edit it, I'll take you to the editing room. The editors will take the whole video, they'll edit it. And then every single video, I've never posted a video that I haven't, like, watched the full thing and give them feedback on it. Yeah. And then every people, they'll just give it to the editors, they'll edit it and then they'll post it. But for me, like, I watch every, every second of every video. So that takes a lot of time. When you travel a lot, small things start to matter more. And when you live internationally or move between countries often, you realize how important reliable internet actually is. After a long flight, the last thing you want is to hunt for airport Wi-Fi, swap SIM cards or deal with expensive roaming charges. You want to check the address of the apartment or hotel you're staying at, message your team and family, order a car and get straight to where you need to be. This is why I use an E-SIM when I travel. And today I want to tell you about Hall of Life plans. Hall of Life plans is the monthly E-SIM subscription that keeps you connected in 160 plus destinations with just one E-SIM. You install it once and then whenever you land, your internet is already there. They have two options depending on your lifestyle. Light, with 25 GB per month or unlimited, with unlimited data and even a phone number from the UK, US or Canada to receive SMS. Both plans even come with hotspot. Setup takes just a couple of minutes. You can keep the same E-SIM across trips and you can cancel anytime with no hidden costs. There is also an always on benefit. As long as your Hall of Life E-SIM stays installed on your phone, you get one GB of backup data per month. In 70 plus destinations from the moment you cancel your monthly plan or your travel E-SIM expires. So if you get stuck during a layover or your trip gets extended, you still have enough data to get connected, call a ride, check maps or activate a new plan. Click the link in description and use cold max charnob to get 5% off E-SIMs and 10% off Hall of Life plans for the first 12 months. What are the biggest tradeoffs that you're having during this? That people don't realize that they probably see you as like, oh you go to all these places and it's a glamorous life. One is you trade your personal life for... I'm basically trading your personal life to make more money and whatnot. So having a personal life out in public is hard. There's definitely times when I'm with my wife and kid and it's like, hey, we just want to have family time. But people come up and take pictures all the time. So I think that's one big thing. Some people really like it and I enjoy meeting the fans. I love seeing the fans because they support and get us to where we are today. But sometimes you're just like, oh, I just want to have my personal time. I think that's one big tradeoff. Another is, if you stop, you're forgotten. If you're not constantly uploading, there's a million other people that are hungry and want to make content. So if you really put in the work and you build it, you've got to keep going with it. I don't know if that's a tradeoff. It just depends on what your goals are. My goal, I think a great goal is PewDiePie. I think he did a great. He did the grind. He's doing daily videos. He put a huge audience. He made money. And then he still does a family vlog every few weeks and whatnot. But I feel like that's the life. He's just having fun. Yeah. And he's making enough money and then just live life. And he moved to Japan, I guess, also because he's less recognized that. I know that him and his wife love anime and everything. They love the culture. That's why I think for me, moving outside of Bangkok, it doesn't get rid of all the fans that take pictures. But it's just a nice, slow life. It's true. I see when, for example, we get a video and video pops up. For example, it gets like million views. For us, million views is quite a lot. And then for the next two, three weeks, I get to recognize much more industry. So you really see this spike. So people remember you and they're short memory. Like, oh, that's the guy. And then if the videos, like constantly, you know, I'm a normal views, which is like 100 to 100k, you are not that popular anymore in the street. So you really see this spike. And then I guess if I stop making content three months, six months, maybe that's very rare. It'll be the hardcore fans that remember you. Hardcore fans. Yeah. You play spikeball. I'm teaching my team how to play. Yeah. I play for four years and think of really my American body showed me how to play and just become a big fan of the game. Right. So nobody in Thailand knows the game. Yeah. And so I ordered different versions of it. Oh, I didn't know that one exists. It's a little bit like ping pong. Yeah. It's similar. This one, the team understands a lot better. It makes more sense to them, but it's bigger and everything. But the reason why I bought it was because I was thinking of making our own version of spikeball here in Thailand. And that was the cool one. And setting up our own tournaments. Yeah. And like trying to do it at universities and bigger areas. Because on my team, so we've got a professional Moitai Boxer. My girlfriend is an ice hockey. She's on the national team. And then I love sports. So like we're one of the few channels that does a lot of sports. Yeah. So it fits perfectly with us. So we're testing a bunch of different versions of it to see what we like. The game is super popular with students, especially. Right. I even went to some competition in Duma Gating in the Philippines a couple of years ago. Wow. So you did really serious then. I mean, not really serious, but I've been playing regularly for four years. Oh, wow. Yeah. Through that's awesome. How the chips business going? Great. The chips make more than you do. Yeah. Yeah. So we make right now we have we have four flavors. We make chips. And then also now we recently did. We call them jellies. They're like fruit snacks with vitamins in them. And then just expanding the snack business. That came from seeing Mr. Beast with chocolate, seeing like Ryan Trayhan with different sour things. Nico in the UK has like gummies with the shades. Just seen the sense of all them. It got to a point with you two where it's like if I got sick or something happened and I wasn't making videos, then the income would just drop off. Yes. So need something more stable. And also it's hard chasing views. It's tiring. You can't just chase forever. Like it's never enough. There's always more to do. So trying to build another business that's more stable that sells. It's really nice. And this guy that disconnected from your brand. Right. I purposely, I purposely didn't. Yeah. Some people make it to their brand, but I purposely didn't put my face on it or anything. Yes. So that if people are in the in several evidence or they're in the store and they see it, that I think if it's specific to my mate Nate, then if they're not a family, they might not buy it. Or if they don't like me, they might not buy it. But having just a brand, they might not know it's my brand or whatnot. And then we're likely to buy it. So I very specific and not writing my mate Nate or anything there. I think it's very smart. So that's the that's the actual goal, a dream of many YouTubers. If you generate a lot of views, but then yeah, where's the substantial like business? Right. And the other thing is another reason I don't tie it to myself is I would love to in the future if it keeps growing to be able to sell it and then it should be done. So build the brand, build the people who like it and then sell it and then be done. Yeah. This is the my snacks team. So they come, come back and come and tie it. Keep, come and sell it. Wow. Team my snacks, crack a deck for gran, you're welcome. In turns. In turns. These are five interns. Okay. But I asked, is the head of content? Okay. There's the editor and then Pio over there, he helps, but he's also on the YouTube team. Okay. So he's half YouTube, half my snacks. And then B in the back, she's the my snacks manager. Oh, let's go. And then these are, these are posters from the events we do. So this is football, these posters are better. I don't know if you know like, do you know Rotten? He's one of the most famous Moitite fighters. Okay. I saw it. He's worldwide. These are all more celebrities. So we split into eight teams. We've got the YouTube team. We've got the Esan, which is like the Northeast. They're all Moitite fighters. We've got the rappers. We've got the, these are like artists, like big, big musicians. So that's, that's the events that we do. Can you share any numbers? I don't know, the revenue or like number of stores, anything like. The first year we did about a hundred million Ba in revenue. Which is like like three million dollars. Three million dollars, sir. And then it's just been growing. We produce it locally. So a lot of other YouTubers here in Thailand, they'll manufacture it in China and send it over. I produce it here locally. It's a bit more expensive, but I'm able to make more changes and fixes to it. So right now, we're not in a bunch of stores. We're in 7-Eleven. It's, I think it's in 500 branches right now and slowly growing. But just because it's a higher cost, so putting it into 7 to take a huge, it take a huge percent, we'd be losing revenue if we're in every 7-Eleven. So right now, we're trying to cut the production costs a bit, make our own warehouse, our own manufacturing place. But yeah, it's growing and it's going good. But most of the revenue is from online sales. Not from YouTube. It's from live selling on TikTok. It's from here they also have an app at home line. It's like a chat app. A bunch of sales from line. And then I mean, YouTube is building the brand. But I think like 60% of sales are from TikTok. Like yesterday, I just, usually alive for like one to two hours. Some days, like this morning before you came, I was just cleaning a bunch of emails, a bunch of work. I just set up my phone and put it on live and sell it. Well, I'm just doing everything else. So, that's pretty cool. Are you afraid of AI or like how are you bullish on AI? I think it's right. I think it's still our jobs in five years. No. I feel like the more AI that happens, the more people are going to want real, real content. And I don't think, I think it's normal. Back in the past, before cars, everything was horses and carriages. And then when the first car came out, within 10 years, everything was, like nobody used horses anymore. Everything was cars. And so, I feel like that's going to happen with AI. And everything else is going to be automated so that humans can live their life. I think people are looking for authenticity and experiences. So, that's why I don't think they'll take our jobs. Yeah, I agree. It will take some people jobs, like content wise. I think the brain rot or this mass content will be done by AI, 100%. But for long form and authentic content, connected to personality, probably not. In my interviews, I always try to get people's real, unpolished opinions. And that's why I never share a list of questions beforehand, even if they ask. But interviews are still the public layer. The real layer is what happens off camera. The most valuable conversations and the most important decisions in life never take place in a public setup. They happen in small private rooms, behind closed doors, between people operating in the high level, who actually trust each other. I recently brought a selected group of founders and investors to Puket. Very strong operators. One of them, for example, was he and Gok. Maybe you saw him on my channel before. Variable known VC who sold his previous business for $65 million. And we spent a few days together in a private, setting, building real relationships and sharing experiences. One of those experiences was visiting Mohan Morghani at his house, a billionaire who created the Tomahel figure brand. We spent several hours together with him talking about life, business and decisions in a completely private setting. And after the trip, one participant is now about to invest $300,000 into another participants company. That's what happened when the room was right. But most people never get access to rooms like this. This stuck in surface level conversations, random networks and low signal environments. Okay, this is important. The leverage is not more information. The leverage is being in the right room with right people. And that's what I'm building with the backstage circle. It's a private, curated group of founders, investors and operators who want to level up their life, business and relationships, surrounding themselves with the right people. It's a closed-door environment with real decisions about business, life philosophy, capital, positioning, big ideas and next moves. No pitching, no shell networking, only people who are open, thoughtful and operating at a high level. A big part of the backstage circle is access. I bring in exceptional founders, investors and billionaires. I meet personally to join these private sessions and conversations. If you're already operating at a high level and making real decisions, you can join the waiting list. The number of seats in the group is very limited. And if it's a fit, you'll get the details. As far as I understand, Mr. Bista is doing. He has this huge priority on generating views for the main channel. And then these views are distributed through all these verticals, all the businesses. It feeds all or everything else. Which is true. The event company wouldn't work as well if they didn't have so many followers or views. These sales wouldn't be as high if we didn't have all the followers and views. So yeah, I have a goal sheet and one thing is don't kill the golden goose. And the golden goose is still at the end of the day. It's the MIME and H&N with content. That gives us all the opportunities to do everything else. I think maybe it's because the Thailand market is such a finite amount of people. And where my channel is, it's kind of up on this part. Because it can't grow much more in Thailand. I mean, yes, there's more people that could subscribe to it. But it's kind of to a point where it's more stable now. That's why I'm really focusing on the other things now. But at the end of the day, YouTube is YouTube and that's what started it all. So it's got to keep going with it. Do you have a list of goals? Oh yeah. Yeah. You remember I was actually at your speech that I saw last summer. I think you talked about the goals and the importance of goals. What's the biggest goals? Top three goals for 30-36? For the MIME channels to make one or two videos a week with a steady income and a focus on having life experiences and promoting the other businesses. Just like what we talked about. Nice. It's funny. I wrote, not losing money and use it as a marketing monster. So focus on the marketing. So building the MySnacks brand, building the events, building whatever we build. Then I've got the MySnacks. So a goal for the MySnacks is the team runs the business while I focus on marketing. So I don't need to be in the day-to-day. I do what I do best is the marketing. And then focus, like I've got sales for it, talking about multiple products. I've got things like this, how I spend my time, health first, so making sure I work out and eat good, relationship and family second, and then work is third. So work is life, life is work, use work to have life experiences, use life experiences for work. So it's something that I really intertwined. That's very cool. And then other ones that aren't connected to work, like I've got spiritual goals, mental goals, physical goals. So for spirituals, be at peace with the path I'm on. Help others along their journey. For the mental goals, I want to learn Chinese. Oh, why? I feel like we're so close to China and China is just growing so much. I feel like I don't know why, but I feel like there will be something in the future where when I could speak Chinese, it'll pay off. It's a good one. And then other things like read, read for at least 15 minutes before I go to bed each night, they'll help my mind relax, just a bunch of things like that. So these are personal, and then I've got goals with my wife, we've got couple goals, relationship goals, and we kind of just, the reason why it's laminated, we just kind of hang it up in the shower, just to kind of see it and keep it fresh every day. So, oh man, I'm all about goals. Yeah. You think it's super important, yeah? Because what do I say? I like to say a dream. What is it? I guess I don't like to say it because I can't say it right. A dream is a goal not written down. Basically you can have a dream, but it doesn't mean anything if you don't write it down and like actually do something about it. So many people talk and have like, oh I want to do this, I want to do that, I want to do that. But to me, physically write it down, it's just a dream. And then nothing's going to happen until you actually write it down and do something about it. How often do you do this exercise? Every week, every week me and my wife sit down and talk about, well we talk about the week they went by what's going up the next week and then we kind of go through the goals. But like big, big goals, probably, I mean I look at them every day, but I actually have an app that every day, it's a tracker, right? I worked on this goal the day I did that goal, like did I do my pushups today, did I drink, did I have enough water, did I do this, I do that, and then I just track it. Wow. So, it's crazy. Yeah, it's really, it takes like 10 seconds to do, but doing it every day just adds up. Yeah. And then you said you wake up at 5, like how many hours is it? I get 7 hours. 7 hours. Yeah, so usually we go to bed not later than 10 pm. Okay. That's kind of late. Yeah. So, go to bed early, wake up early. I like waking up early because let's say I answer emails or I answer things or get stuff done. Nobody answers back. So, I can answer like 50 people and then I'm done. Yes. But if I answer, let's say like 12 today, I answer the first person, I start answering the second, and the first person answers back, and then like it just never gets done, it's just chaos. Yeah. So I just, I like the mornings as peaceful as quiet. These are mouth straps that we're part of. I don't know if they're. They were part of the candles yesterday. So. So, these mouth straps and candles. This is all just kind of random storage. Yeah. Like this is still more props over here like bikes. These are double bikes. So basically that's why you are here a bit like outside of the city center. Yeah. Because you can get like this huge space and you don't bother your neighbors and stuff. That's right. Yeah. And I say our videos that we film, maybe only 30% we actually film here in the warehouse. Yeah. Not so many go out. Yeah. Because we noticed that I mean some videos are fun and good inside the warehouse, but I think we, me and my entire team, we enjoy being outside going around seeing people. Yeah. It's more fun. Yeah. More energy. So you are 33 now. Yep. How do you see yourself at 40? With my house up in the land, up in the north of the land. My goal, my goal would be doing work in the mornings and then anything after 12 afternoon is just life. So whether it's been with my wife, being with my kids, just living life and life. And doing what I want to do, hobbies. And that's kind of the goal. So I mean, I think I'll, even if I was to sell my snacks or anything, I still think I like having goals. I like having things I work towards. So just doing work in the mornings and then having the rest of the day to do whatever I want. Yeah. I think that's the goal. I know some people want to be a big company, have all that money. But some people don't realize like having all that money. You don't have time for anything else. Like after I met Mr. Beast and his days were like, time down to the minute. Like you have exactly three minutes to do this. If you take a lot of that, like we'll cut it off and you keep going to the next one. Yeah. I don't, after seeing that, I don't want to live my life like that. Yeah. So for me, I'm happy to just, just keep making more content. Sell my snacks, have enough money that I can just, just live my life and enjoy it. What's the meaning of life for you? What's the meaning of life? Yeah, a random question for all of you. That's the, that's the big question. I mean for me, I think it's, I think for me is making quality relationships, whether that's in family or friends. So relationships that matter and experiences. Those, that's for me, that's the meaning of life. Yeah. Being able to do things you want to do, being able to try new things. And, and most importantly, like there was a time like when I didn't have, didn't have my, my wife or kids. And I was doing all the experiences. But I didn't feel like they meant anything. Like when I climbed the mountain, like I got to the top and I was happy. And then when I came back home, I was like, I don't have anyone to share it with or tell it about. So I think for me, having experiences, but no relationships would mean nothing. So I think relationships and family would be the most important thing. And then once you have that to go out and experience life. That's, that's for me, that's life.