---
video_title: "He Sold Everything to Escape the US Chaos for China"
video_id: 5z323qK-LKw
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5z323qK-LKw
video_date: 2026-03-09T12:06:02+00:00
video_description: |
  📌 Get your first month of Kimi AI for just $0.99: hhttps://www.kimi.com?invite=okc&code=MbUQ8IZd
  🌴 Phuket trip with me: https://apply.thebackstagecircle.com/phuket
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on Telegram: https://t.me/friendsofmax 
  
  Meet Ben, an American who sold everything and moved to a small city in China. For 15 years, he has been living in one of the most politically sensitive areas of China, with his wife and two kids. Despite the tensions in the region, Ben organizes tours in the mountains, and sometimes things go very wrong. He shared what it's like for an American to live under constant surveillance in China, what shocks him most when he goes back to the US and what really made him leave everything in the States and start over in China. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on my Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  🧩 If you're building, investing, or thinking long-term, learn more about The Backstage Circle:
  https://apply.thebackstagecircle.com/phuket 
  🎙 My interviews in podcast format on Spotify: https://open.spotify.com/show/1dktMfOBp11LNp52X3mkuR 
  💰 Sponsorship-related requests: max@maxchernov.sg
  👥 If you have a guest suggestion for an interview, reach out at max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TO START AND GROW YOUTUBE
  🎬 Online workshop "YouTube Fast-Track to Views & Passive Income". Join for free: https://www.shym.sg/workshop
  
  TODAY'S GUEST
  ➢  YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/@thecubbages
  ➢  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/elevated_trips/ 
  
  WATCH NEXT
  ► American took me to China's most HIGH-TECH city.... I didn't expect this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8CD0LKkoMzE
  ► This walk with Brit in Guangzhou changed my view of China: https://youtu.be/R-ozoOKhUO4
  ► I Went Inside a Chinese Factory... I Didn’t Expect This: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Aj4HcbLtPVE
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 INTRO
  00:50 Why This American Prefers China Over the US
  02:28 First Impressions of China
  04:11 Why He Didn’t Fit the American Dream
  05:38 Thoughts When Ben Comes Back to the US
  07:10 Personal Assistant Who Really Knows China + Special Offer for My Viewers
  08:23 Why Chinese People Thought Ben Was an Animal
  10:14 Troubles With the Police in China
  11:35 What Does It Mean to “Drink Tea” With the Police?
  12:22 Chinese Hospitality
  13:36 Disadvantages of Living in China as a Foreigner
  16:30 Trip to Phuket With Max
  17:25 Misconceptions About China in the US
  18:55 Is China Really Communist?
  20:01 Living Under Constant Surveillance
  21:34 Speaking Chinese About China
  22:03 How Locals React When Foreigners Speak Chinese
  23:41 Is China Home for Ben Now?
  25:30 The Meaning of Life
  
  This channel features raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery.
  I sit down with founders, investors, operators, experts, and outliers navigating the biggest shifts of our time. We talk about money, leverage, relocation, power, tradeoffs, and the real decisions shaping what’s next — not as theory, but from lived experience.
  
  Some conversations happen inside billionaire homes. Some happen remotely with experts shaping global systems. All of them focus on signal over noise.
  If you care about where to build, where to live, how to make better decisions in uncertain times, and what the future demands — you’re in the right place.
---
Meet Ben, an American who sold everything and moved to a small city in China. I live in a city of only 200 foreigners in the whole city of 2 million people. For 15 years, he has been living in one of the most politically sensitive areas of China, with his wife and two kids. There are military bases out here that are not posted on Google Maps. Despite the tensions in the region, Ben organizes tours in the mountains and sometimes things go very wrong. Suddenly, about 25 police show up with his body cameras. He shared what it's like for an American to live under constant surveillance in China. Americans would think I'm crazy to say that. What shocks him most when he goes back to the US? We don't have to worry about that in China. And what really made him leave everything in the state and start over in China. I'm Max Chernov, let's go. I'm an American citizen. It's a 7 to 1 ratio from the Chinese Remembee to the US dollar. So I can go out and buy a bowl of noodles for one US dollar. My rent to live in one of the nicest apartments in my city is 400 to 500 US dollars per month. Where in America would be 2000 to 3000 US dollars for a three bedroom two bathroom apartment. So my dollar goes further here. I just get more bang for my buck literally. And I appreciate that. I can take up 250 kilometer an hour fast train from here to anywhere in China for 30 to 50 US dollars. So that would be my number two. It's just the infrastructure. In America, we just don't have any public transportation. Either you have a private car or you're not going anywhere in America. In China, there's these amazing high speed rail systems, bus systems. Everything is just kind of cheaper and more accessible here, which I love. I just went to Lijo in Yunnan Province on my family. And it was 50 US dollars for us to take this 24 hour train ride in a soft sleeper bed in a private cabin. In America, that would be 500 to 1000 US dollars to do that. So just the public transportation here, I love. And I just for me, the third big reason I live in China is I love the mountains and I love the people. There are inconveniences. There are things that are different than American culture. There's disappointing and hard days in China. But overall, we love living here because we love the people. We love the mountains. We love the opportunities that afford us as an American citizen. I probably couldn't have a travel business. Taking people into the Himalayas as I do here in China. So we enjoy the opportunities we have as being foreigners here. What was the first impressions of China? We just moved from America. We just sold everything. And suddenly, all these things are not working. We have to order bottled water to our house every day. We don't know how to speak Chinese. And so to answer your question, our first impression of China was, overwhelmed. We were just like, we didn't, there weren't that many foreigners here to help us. And we're kind of out on our own in the middle of nowhere, you know, in the middle of Tibet. And it was difficult to move here. We didn't speak any language. So it really took a year or two for us to kind of get acclimatized into the culture. But once we did, we really started to love it. I live in a city of only 200 foreigners in the whole city of two million people. So you can kind of think of us as kind of the remote Denver, Colorado of China. And so there's not a lot of foreigners here. There's not a lot of English here. When we first moved here, we moved into a total concrete box. You know, at that time, China wasn't quite as developed as far as like the furnishings. And what we call the the the drum troll China, the decorations. So we moved into a concrete box. And we had to fully furnish. We spent the first three months of our lives fully furnishing this box. It didn't even have a toilet or paint or doors or carpet or anything. And in that process, you know, that was kind of our first impressions of China's is is dealing with these these vendors and these these decoration and construction guys. And they they'd install things and they the quality of construction was so cheap when we first moved here. You know, the tower acts would pull out of the wall because the concrete was basically just sand, you know, it was a terrible construction. I had a bookshelf fall in my head because you know, these Ikea nails basically just like pulled out out of the concrete. So my first impression of China were, you know, we didn't speak any Chinese. We're furnishing an apartment for ourselves. And I'm like, oh my gosh, what have we done? I was prepared for this interview. I got interesting like a quote of yours. But when you grew up, you're not feeding an American dream. Like, can you elaborate on that and why didn't feed the American dream? But I've just never really really fed into America. I was a I was a boy scout when I was a youth in high school. I love nature. I love going outdoors. I love being outside. And I also had really, really sweaty hands. And because I was pretty, which is a really kind of a funny small feature. But I just never felt like, you know, I could never fit in like the American dating seat. I always kind of felt like an outsider. And for that reason, because I was kind of outdoorsy, and just because like I wasn't always in like the popular group of kids, you know, and just wasn't really into like the dating seat. And you know, what most kids are doing in high school. Like I always kind of felt like I was on the outside. So for me, like what I went to university, I kind of always knew that I'd probably be living outside of America. Because I just didn't quite fit into, you know, the American dream of, you know, buying a house with a white picket fence. And I just wanted something more. And that for me kind of excited this interest in traveling the world. Because I knew I didn't quite fit into America. I knew there's something else out there for me. And so I started traveling the world. I met my wife in West Africa on what's called the Mercy Ship, which is like a big hospital boat doing volunteer work in Africa. And then from there, you know, our life has kind of been moved. Ever sees where we've lived in China for the last 15 years. And that's been a really great fit for me. What's your thoughts about the US? So you left like a long time ago and then you come back like every couple of years. Then you see some changes probably. So what's your thoughts of feelings when you are in the US? It's changed a lot since we left 15 years ago. And you know, I didn't relate to being an American then. And I certainly don't very much know. I'm thankful that I have an American passport. It's opened a lot of, you know, educational opportunities for me and travel opportunities for me. And I'm thankful I love America. I love the geography of America and, you know, the people of America. But, you know, America is going through a tough time right now. There's just more politically divided than it's ever been. The gun safety issue is a big deal. And of course, we don't have to worry about that in China where there's no guns and very little crime. In China, I let my 13-year-old daughter just take a taxi anywhere she wants. And Americans would think I'm crazy to say that in most countries. I never let my 13-year-old daughter walk around by themselves, but in China, you know, it's so safe publicly. There's cameras everywhere and therefore you're kind of safe all the time. So I just see America just struggling a lot with crime, drug addiction. There's increased homelessness since I've left. More political division. And it's just become kind of a, I know. Yeah, if you follow Facebook, you know that there's just a lot of controversy around America. Yeah, it's for me, I've just never really related to all that political tension and strife and conflict. And so for me, China is just a kind of a safe, nice alternative to that. Remember a few years ago when AI felt like the far future and now it's everywhere? I use it every day, sometimes without even thinking about it. Recently, I tried Kimi and AI model from the Chinese lab won't shot AI, which kindly supports today's video. For example, when I was preparing for my introduce in China, instead of digging through endless websites, I just turned on agent mode and asked Kimi what interests people most about life in China. And it came back with the really well structured file packed with spreadsheets, references, numbers and key insights that helped me understand the topic more deeply. If you're doing business with China or often traveling there, it's very helpful to have a kind of personal assistant that understands Chinese language sources and local context. According to the lab team, the latest model Kimi K2.5 has outperformed, open AI and anthropic models on some benchmarks. I can't really judge all the technical details, but from user's point of view, the experience was very smooth. And with all of that, Kimi is still cheaper than most alternatives. You can try it yourself through the link in description and get your first month for just 99 cents. I hope you will enjoy any interesting, like, memorable stories from your time living in Tibet or like with the groups, the tour groups that you're down there, any memorable stories that you can recall. One place, in particular, I was hiking these really, really remote mountains in Gansu province, which is out here in western China, a place that we really trips to. And what we're doing a backpacking trip for, I think, five or six days out in these mountains. And we kind of just descend in the mountains into this tiny little village, maybe a hundred people. And these people had definitely never seen a white person before. A lot of the village didn't have running water or electricity. Probably a lot of them didn't have access to western media. So I was definitely very, very novel for them. And at that time, I had a big beard and kind of long hair. And as I descended from the mountains into this tiny little village, this dark Tibetan guy who obviously never seen a foreigner before, he looks at me and he goes, what the hell is that? In his like, thick Tibetan dialect. And my guy helped me interpret the sentence. And I was like, why did you say that? He's like, well, the man doesn't know if you're actually animal or human. He doesn't know if you're like a Yeti coming down from the mountains. What? Or like a yak or like a white person. Like he never seen a white person before. We didn't have any contact for like what I was. And so it's often pretty fun to travel into these villages. They've never seen a white face or white skin or eyes that don't look like there. So we get a lot of crazy reactions as we travel to these places. And that's kind of our goal as a travel business is to get people out into these wonderful untouched places that haven't been kind of ruined by big bus tourism in China. So yeah, that's one of my favorite stories. I think it kind of captures what we do at Elevated Trip. You'd have any problem with the police? With the local police in China? Occasionally, yep, yes we do. We live in a sense of living in western China with a lot of different ethnicities out here. And occasionally because we kind of live in kind of the middle of nowhere of China, there are military bases out here that are not posted on Google Maps or by-do maps. It's kind of out there. And occasionally we're traveling through the mountains. I remember one time we were on a rock climbing trip. And we're just we're climbing and we're doing doing these day climbs that we're going to sleep there intense. And then suddenly about 25 police show up with these these body cameras on them. And they're like, oh, you didn't know this, but you're about a one kilometer away from a military base. And so we did, obviously we didn't have any bad intent being out there. But you know, they took us into quote unquote drink tea, which is basically where you get taken in and kind of censured for being in place. You shouldn't be in this government office. And the police just said, please don't come back here. You know, we know you didn't know. But if you ever come back here, we have to revoke your thesis. So yeah, so that kind of thing happens occasionally, you know, where we're out. I'm traveling to some pretty wild places. And occasionally you encounter those police or those military helpers. And we're just very respectful and say, sure, you know, sorry, we didn't know. And we won't come back to this area. So it's called drinking tea. Drinking tea. Yeah. Any ex-path that lives in China or especially Chinese will know that, you know, that the drinking tea is a code word for you get invited in for a strong talking to you with a police. So yeah. Okay. Oh, interesting. Because they answer, because they serve you green tea during this kind of interrogation. I'll say they were very strict. They were very strict, but they were kind. They didn't mistreat us. You they just said, yeah, just don't come back here again. So yeah, that's that's kind of how it is. And that's one thing that surprises me about communist officials is that they're not like not like whipping you or slapping you in the face. They're putting you under some big interrogation like, you know, they treated us like amazing guests, but they just said, sorry, you just can't be here. You mentioned that Chinese people are hospitable, very hospitable. Any like example of Chinese hospitability, maybe the story that happened to you, like something that's very fascinating from your time there. I have a backpacking business and there's moments, you know, we're out camping and we have to, maybe it comes down raining and you know, suddenly we have to bail that out of the camping trip. Where are we going to go? We're in the middle of mountains and we go down to the nearest village and they'll just take us in. And we show up at the door unplanned with no invitation. In America, you probably get shot. And we show up at someone's door and they just come on in. We have a bed for you. They move out of their own bed. They let us they give us their bed and the fetus for the night. So when you've traveled for 15 years, you have these experiences where things you don't always work out to plan. And in those moments, you just have these people that just kind of rise the occasion say, I'll take you in. You know, please come. You know, be my guest for a couple nights. I'll feed you. You know, the best food I have will, you know, kind of slaughter the fatten sheep and treat you as amazing guests. And so we've just received this, you know, amazing hospitality that I don't think I could ever receive in America if we are in such a situation. If you compare like life in China versus life in the US, what are the disadvantages? Maybe something that you still don't get used to in China. Number one is privacy. You know, anytime I go out of my home because I live in such a remote area with not a lot, not a lot of foreigners, I get a lot of attention. You know, anytime I'm sitting at Starbucks, usually someone comes, sits at my table and starts talking to me and wants to practice the English. Which can be funny. You make friends. It's fun. But you know, when that happens to you every single day for the last 15 years, you suddenly think, wow, like there's really nowhere I can go that I'm kind of safe and have my privacy. In America, I can just kind of go on a coffee shop and I blend in and no one's going to talk to me. But in China, they're so curious and, you know, hospitable. And I don't, I wouldn't even say they're being rude, but they're just interested. You know, like, wow, like I've never said a way before. That's novel, you know? So the privacy is a big one for me. It's hard to go anywhere and kind of not automatically be, you know, celebrity. Which is good for yourself, but not necessarily good for you. Try to do some work by yourself. So the privacy is probably a negative. The other big negative for me in China is that here about 80% of men smoke in the public. And, you know, anytime you're outside in a restaurant, you know, I've talked to many my restaurant friends and say, why don't you make it a no smoking restaurant? They say, well, we literally get zero business if, you know, if we've been smoking here. Even if smoking is legally publicly banned, you know, the restaurants have to allow it because otherwise no one's going to be there. So that's part of China's culture, which means when you go to eat, you're probably going to be smelling cigarette smoke all the time. You know, unless you're in a very specific foreign restaurant or, you know, five store hotel or something. So like, even the airport, you know, restaurants is so the public smoke is everywhere in elevators. It's everywhere. So that's kind of, you know, as an American, we don't love the smell of cigarette smoke in public, but that's part of the reality of China. So those are probably two of my lesser favorite things in China. And I'll also say the public noise, you know, you go to Japan, you ride this subway, it's like pin drop quiet. You go to Thailand, everyone's like very quiet and respectful and you know, I spoke to Khan, you know, very, very nice. But in China, totally opposite. You know, you probably travel around China, Max, and you know, there's, whoo, there's just noise all the time. Every shop is like blaring like modern techno music. Guys are, you know, on the plane, people are just watching movies on their phone with no headphones. People, you know, it's just sort of playing two days ago. A guy was on his phone to the moment the airplane took off from the ground, basically yelling on the phone, you know, just noise all the time everywhere around you. And you know, the Chinese culture is lively, it's exciting, it's wonderful, it's hospitable, but it's also very noisy. And so those are probably like my top three dislikes as far as like privacy, smoke, and public noise. I think those are kind of the three things, but you know, those are minor things. I interviewed a numerous billionaires, politicians, celebrities, investors on this channel for the last three years, and many of them became my friends, some even bought my services. And I started this project from scratch when I moved to Singapore. I didn't know anyone, my English was not great, but I really wanted to make it work, because I strongly believe that people around you is the most valuable asset for success in life. So I'm gathering a small group of interesting people and bring them for a short networking retreat in Puket. And you can join us too. You will expand your network, improve your conversational skills, and we will just have fun together. I'm even setting up a meet-up with the billionaire at his mention, so it's going to be a very unique experience. To join us here in a beautiful Puket jumping in the early birth waiting list, to do its hand-discure code or click the link in description. You're from not from a big city in the US. What do you think the people in your state, in the ocean town, what they don't get about China? What's the biggest misconceptions about the place? For every Americans? I think a lot of people watch the news and get their information from there. And what I encourage people to do is come to China and see it for yourself. There's a lot of anti-Chinese media and anti-government things that are going around America. Maybe the government is what it is, but come and visit China and see the people. Because the people are the real life of China and the people are extremely hospitable, extremely kind. I've never, as an American living here 15 years, I've never had any problems. If anything, I say people have been more welcoming to me than in America. They go out of their way. There's a lot of bad and probably misinformation on the American media. I encourage people to come and see it for yourself, rather than posting comments on YouTube videos. Talking about for a country you've never been to, come to China and see what it's really like. Yeah, there are cameras everywhere, but there's also amazing people and amazing hospitality and amazing culture. But what are the other misconceptions about China? I don't know. People don't have any freedom or like, it's a whole communist country. I don't know. What's the misconception? You solve from the American friends. You do you do it from the American friends? Yeah, China is one of the few seriously communist countries in the world. But I think one of the misconceptions is that actually in everyday life, it really just feels like very capitalist. I think China is like the second largest and the port of luxury goods in the world. You have people, I see more Mercedes, more BMWs, more Lamborghini's in China than I see in America or even Dubai. There's just a lot of wealth here. I'd say that the standard of living is very, very high. People think China is poor. They think they're held down by communism. But the communism is really more of a form of control. A way to control a huge population of 1.4 billion people versus an economic system per se where everyone's like, quote, unquote, equal in social status. So I think that's some misconceptions that people think China is all kind of poor and living on the street and living in an equal social platform. But really, there's a lot of wealth here. There's also a lot of business opportunity as maybe more than in America as well. You mentioned that the cameras are everywhere in China. Does it bother you? Do you feel restricted? Freedom restricted, especially in America. Freedom is one of the biggest values for it. Yeah. For Americans, individual freedom is probably our highest value as a national people. And that's okay. That has pros and cons. But for me, there are cameras everywhere. Literally, every time I go through a stoplight, it's taking a picture of my car and my license plate. Literally, every 50 meters everywhere. Any restaurant you look in, every public taxi you look in, there's a camera always taking your picture. So for an American, I think that's a hard sell. Most Americans aren't super into losing their privacy, either to Facebook or to the government. But for me, what you lose in privacy, you gain in public security and safety. And for me, I'm totally fine to make that trade. I don't have anything to hide. I'm not doing anything wrong anyway. So yeah, I know that there's cameras everywhere. There's a moment where you're like, man, it is a little bit invasive as far as privacy. But at the same time, that's also the reason there's no crime. And you know, it's so safe. I've literally left my phone out on the restaurant table for hours. And I come back hours later. And it's still there. I don't think that would have any other country where you can just leave a phone out and no one has stolen it. No one has taken it. So yeah, for me, what I lose in privacy, I appreciate that I gain in public security. So I'm fine with that trade. I'll know most Americans probably would not be. Can you say in Chinese maybe like one or two sentences? What's the best thing for you about living in China? Anyhow, or Tobi Shuhun, Qinghai Shang, or Juzai Qinghai Xining, was I really sure, Dau Yiu, or Tobi Shuhun, Papu, Tobi Shuhun, Zongzui, Wenhan, Juzai, or Zai Shuhun. So what was it? Just I like living in Qinghai province. I like living in Tibet. I like the culture here. I like the mountains. Yeah, basically. How local react when you see you a foreigner and then when they hear you speaking Chinese? Kind of flirt. Yeah. Actually, just let me give you an example. Yesterday, I was in taxi. And my Chinese is not perfect as far as tones. I'm sure the Chinese can come at on that. Section below. But so I'd definitely not perfect. But I feel like, you know, after 15 years, it's definitely enough to get around. And I was in a taxi yesterday. I was speaking. What I thought was like pretty good Chinese about the address where I'm going and making conversation with a taxi driver. But so like, well, I felt like my speaking was, you know, pretty on point. Like the driver just like couldn't understand me not because they couldn't like hear the words or make sense the words, but they couldn't. When they saw the white face, they couldn't, you know, it was. They couldn't make the connection like there's a white face. He shouldn't. I knew. So even though I was speaking properly, they couldn't hear it because their expectation like didn't allow them to do that. And so they just kept me like, I don't understand. I don't understand what you're saying here far. I'm like, just listen to my words. Like, like don't look at my face. Look at my words. So sometimes we do get that. People are quite surprised like, whoa, shocked. Then they then they usually kind of jump into conversation. It's kind of fun. Yeah. Very quick heads up. I have a telegram channel where I share my insights up the interuse with billionaires, celebrities, politicians, also right there. How I grow my YouTube channel is basically more raw and unfiltered opinions because I can assure everything on YouTube due to their platform regulations. So if you want to follow me there, scan this QR code or click the link in description. So you, do you call it home now? Yeah, I'd say so, you know, work, you kind of have this culture. You've probably, I think other people discuss this with families and, you know, living abroad is this idea of this third culture kid or TCK. It's like, I don't really belong in America. I don't really belong in China. You know, I'll never be considered a Chinese citizen everywhere I go. Like no matter how much fluent my Chinese, I'll always be called Lao Wai or old foreigner, which is not a term of disrespect, but it's just a term of identification. You are a foreigner. You don't belong here. And yet I also don't feel like I belong in America. So I kind of live in this almost weird crisis between America and China as a third culture being. And I'm okay with that. I don't necessarily find my identity and where my passport is or where my visa is. But yeah, so for us, this is something, X-PAT struggle way. Then you probably struggle with living in Singapore. Am I Russian? Am I a Singapore guy? Like, who am I? And yet I'm not really part of either of these cultures. So where do I fit in between? Would you move back to the US? Probably not. Not if we didn't have to. There's not much, very much career-wise for us in America anymore. I have a backpacking and adventure travel business. My wife has a CrossFit business. We built our lives here. Our kids' educations here. Their friendships are here. If we ever just couldn't live in China for some reason, if we couldn't get a visa to live here, or policies changed, or whatever, we probably stay in Asia somewhere, maybe Bhutan or Nepal, or places like that, that still have that Tibetan Buddhist culture, but in a different place. So ultimately, I think we relate it, is there? And we like it. This is where our life is. What's the meaning of life? I don't know if you figured it out. But... Wow. I didn't know that one. You're such a deep guy. That's what I mean. The meaning of life. So you have this thing called the Westminster Cataclysm, which is just this big religious document that asks this question, what is the meaning of life? There's a longer version, but the shorter version of this Westminster Cataclysm says, our whole purpose is people is to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. For me, that's what it's about. When I live out here, I'm out in nature. I'm enjoying what God has made for me. It's a job for me, but it's getting out. It's being where I'm supposed to be. And for me, that's the meaning of life. It's just enjoying God and doing what He's asked me to do, and just being who He's asked me to be. And so, that's for me what gives my life, meaning is serving people, enjoying what He's already doing.