---
video_title: "Why This Billionaire Chose Thailand to Raise Family"
video_id: m7FbPZYZ2nk
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m7FbPZYZ2nk
video_date: 2026-05-27T11:00:12+00:00
video_description: |
  🔍 Go to http://www.ground.news/chernov for a better way to stay informed. Subscribe for 40% off unlimited access to world-wide coverage through my link
  🇹🇭 Learn* more about Layan Verde in Phuket here: https://links.layanverde.com/maxchernov Or contact the sales office directly on WhatsApp: https://links.layanverde.com/layanverdewachernov Mention me to get the best offer from the team
  🤝 Thanks to Saga Metals Corp for supporting** today's video. You can get their latest presentation here on their website: https://saga-presentation.com/max-chernov
  🌏 Apply for The Backstage Circle: https://forms.gle/huwR6NQNz5A4XgC78 
  
  *DISCLAIMER. This video includes a paid promotional integration for Layan Verde, a real estate development project in Phuket, Thailand. The host received fixed compensation and also personally owns property developed by the same developer group. This content is for informational and entertainment purposes only and is not investment advice, a recommendation, solicitation, or offer to purchase property. Real estate investment involves risk, including loss of capital, delays, developer default, currency fluctuation, and no guaranteed returns. This paid promotion has not been reviewed or approved by any financial or regulatory authority. 
  
  **DISCLAIMER. PAID ADVERTISEMENT / SPONSORED CONTENT
  This video was produced on behalf of Saga Metals Corp. (TSXV: SAGA | OTCQB: SAGMF) and paid for by a third-party marketing agency. The host received financial compensation.
  This content is not targeted to residents of any specific country or jurisdiction and is for informational and entertainment purposes only. It is not investment advice, a recommendation, solicitation, endorsement, or offer to buy or sell securities. The host and author are not responsible for investment decisions made based on this video.
  Mining and small-cap stocks involve significant risk, so viewers should review official filings, technical reports, disclosures, and risk factors before investing. Forward-looking statements are speculative. No NI 43-101 compliant mineral resource estimate has been established. This ad has not been reviewed or approved by any securities regulator.
  
  
  Meet Fred Mouawad, a diamond billionaire from one of the world’s most iconic jewelry families. For the past 36 years, he has lived in Thailand, building his life and business empire from Bangkok. Fred shared why he made Bangkok his family’s home, how to avoid losing everything over 4 generations and what wealthy parents teach their kids that most people never learn. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  🎙 Listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts: https://open.spotify.com/show/1dktMfOBp11LNp52X3mkuR  or https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/max-chernov/id1875665593
  👥 Sponsorship requests / Guest suggestions: max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST
  ➢ LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/fredmouawad
  ➢ Fred’s family business community: https://fbx.org/ 
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 INTRO
  00:39 Why a Diamond Billionaire Chose Thailand
  05:13 Who Buys $7 Million Jewelry
  07:52 How Family Businesses Move Faster Than Corporations
  08:51 How to Read the News Without Getting Manipulated
  10:22 Why Rich People Buy Diamonds They Never Wear
  13:29 Are Diamonds Actually a Good Investment?
  14:59 Why Lab-Grown Diamonds Have No Value
  16:09 How Family Businesses Survive for Generations
  20:14 Why Phuket Is Becoming a Place to Live and Invest
  21:48 Why Luxury Is Becoming More Experiential
  25:30 Building a Network for Family Business Owners
  28:12 The Hidden Problems Inside Wealthy Families
  31:24 Why Critical Minerals Are Back in Focus
  34:19 Why Most Family Businesses Fail by the Third Generation
  38:38 Why He Left the Family Business at First
  40:11 How Wealthy Parents Raise Children Without Spoiling Them
  42:51 Invitation to The Backstage Circle
  45:14 Why Respect Matters More Than Wealth
  46:31 The Biggest Misconception About Rich Families
  47:34 Why Passing Wealth to Children Is So Difficult
  49:47 What Actually Matters for Success in Business
  51:26 The Most Important Business Lesson He Learned
  52:30 Are Entrepreneurs Born or Made?
  55:12 The Meaning of Life
  
  This channel features raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery.
  
  I sit down with founders, investors, operators, experts, and outliers navigating the biggest shifts of our time, many of them based in or connected to Asia. We talk about money, leverage, relocation, power, tradeoffs, and the real decisions shaping what’s next, not as theory, but from lived experience.
  
  Some conversations happen inside billionaire homes. Some happen remotely with experts shaping global systems. All of them focus on signal over noise. 
  
  If you care about where to build, where to live, how to make better decisions in uncertain times, and what the future demands, you’re in the right place.
---
Meet Fred Moad, a diamond billionaire from one of the world's most iconic jewelry families. For the past 36 years, he has lived in Thailand, building his life and business empire from Bangkok. We're very blessed to be here in Thailand for the many capabilities that exist. Fred shares why he made Bangkok his family's home. I like Thailand because I see opportunities. How to avoid losing everything over four generations? The house is 137 years old now. And what wealthy parents teach their kids that most people level lower? If parents really want to groom their children, they have to make sure that... I'm Max Chernov. I host rock conversations about wealth, global mobility and master. You've been in Thailand since 2021, you're old? Yes, exactly. Was it like your decision to make Thailand your base? Or like why you decided you could technically live like in Europe, in US, anywhere? But why? Why Thailand? In Thailand, people are very creative, people are loyal, people are smart. And so if you recognize the strength of each nation and you leverage their capabilities, then you can build a stronger institution. And so Thailand has been a strong manufacturing base for us. We've been manufacturing in Thailand since 1988. So for a very long time, and we do find tie craftsmen being very skilled and very dedicated to their craft. So that's a strength and advantage that we have, for example, operating in Thailand. We're very blessed to be here in Thailand for the many capabilities that exist. I like Thailand because I see opportunities. I saw opportunities 36 years ago when I first came here. I grew up in Switzerland, which is a lot more stable, a lot more structured at the time. And I loved the opportunities that I saw here in Thailand. I saw the potential for growth, the potential for development. I had studied gemstones and Bangkok is still the capital for color gemstones. So that's one reason I stayed. I traded rubies and sapphires for many years, used the profits to incubate different ventures. I had a coffee chain in Thailand called Coffee World, which I sold in 2017. So I was in the food service business. Now I'm still in the food, but on the manufacturing side. So a lot of opportunities that I've been able to embrace. And as an entrepreneur, I was able to start new ventures in a market that accepted these concepts. Where the market was big enough to welcome creativity and innovation. This chandelier is meant to represent what we do at Mauad. We're vertically integrated. We go all the way from rough to jewelry. So this chandelier is meant to represent rough diamonds. So if you look at the chandelier up here, we have 271 pieces. And each crystal weighs about 273 carrots. So if they were real diamonds and we had to cut them into deflulasses, we would have 45,000 carrots. And the value of the diamonds would be 9 billion US dollars. Okay. So I just like to show this, just to show how diamonds are rare. Yeah. It takes billions of years for diamonds to grow in nature. So it is rare and it is very valuable. You would need some additional security here in this place if you do it. If these were real, I put them in my pocket and run away. So you mentioned that sometimes there is a clash between the corporate culture and the country culture. Can you give me an example and maybe how you resolved it when it was a clash with the corporate culture and like local Thai culture? Correct. So a great one is that Thai typically do not like to get feedback to their bosses because they don't want the bosses to lose face. So in a meeting, they will most likely listen to what the boss has to say, but sell them, challenge the boss in front of other people because that would be disrespectful. And I appreciate that. I appreciate that. You know, this could be perceived as disrespectful. But in our corporate culture, we want to make sure that everybody has a voice. We want to make sure that people feel safe. We can debate matters and make the best possible decision. So when you ask people to do this, when they've grown or their life respecting their teacher, their parents are never challenging them, then it can become difficult. And so there is a learning period where the team members from a local culture need to adapt to the corporate culture. And sometimes that gap is big, where it can really be very different from the principles you grew up with. If you grew up with certain principles and suddenly you move in a corporate culture where you're required to behave in a very different way, it becomes very hard to adapt. Some people can adapt, some people cannot adapt. It's also for the corporation to adapt, not to expect everybody to behave the same way. So it's all about balancing. The Viridi Emerald, which is Colombian Emeralds, from Muzul. This is one of our masterpieces and this retails for seven million years dollars. Okay. The... This piece. Yeah. The whole set. The whole set. Yeah, the whole set. Yeah. Who would buy this? Like, what type of clients? Like Royal Family, Billionaires? So Mawa, Mawa Kitters, to Royal Family, to High Net Worth Individuals, to collectors. So we do have a lot of jewelry collectors and royals that buy from us. That have been buying for us for many years. Just think about royalties and the Middle East, think about the head of states, very wealthy individuals, collectors. So those would typically be the Mawa customers. Let's talk a bit about how different clients from different backgrounds and cultures are behaving and how you deal with it. For example, I guess the clients from the Middle East would be very different from Chinese clients. Is it the case? Or... Like, if you can compare who's your biggest demographics? I don't know. Chinese, Russians, I don't know, Europeans, who buy your jewelry diamonds. And what is the second part of the question? What is a specific approach that you would do towards the clients from China versus the clients from Saudi Arabia, for example? You know, in the old times, you had trends. You could say this design is for China, this design is for Europe, this design is for America. Today, I don't think it's the case anymore. Because international brands are influencing customers across all markets. So you have these global trends coming in. And the very wealthy people and the collectors have their own specific taste when it comes to jewelry. So more and more, we're finding out that being able to customize our product based on what the customer wants. But also making sure that we have the most exceptional gemstones. So, Mawa is known for crafting the extraordinary. So when a customer comes in, we have to make sure we have these important yellow diamonds, the big white diamonds, the sapphires, the emeralds, the rubies. So we need to collect a lot of rare gemstones and that takes years to do. Then we have to put them in jewelry and wait for the customer to come. And then we have to be able to show the right piece to the right customer. So it's no longer about what do different countries want. But it's more about how can we make sure we have enough exceptional gemstones and jewelry for the right connoisseur who comes in and says, I like rubies. What do you have in rubies? And you want to be able to show a ruby set or a ring that they like and close that sale. So it's becoming more customized, more personalized. I remember once we had a wedding, a royal wedding. And we made some designs to the client and the client said, well, I needed delivered in 10 days. And that was practically impossible to do. But we did still pull it off. We worked 24-7 non-stop and then we divided the work across 15 craftsmen. So each one of them did the part. And then we're able to assemble it very quickly. So we have that kind of capability because we are fully integrated. We're a family business and we control our craft. I guess it's like easier to make decisions when it's a family business. Exactly. More vertical. More vertical. The typical corporation. Correct. Yes. We have far fewer steps in between. As family members, we can move in very quickly. We can finalize a deal and we can manufacture as well. Hmm. Quickly to cater to our clients. Are you sure you actually know what's happening in the world? You might say, of course, I read the news every day. But can you really trust the news you're reading? I'm not sure. Over the past decade, online news and ad-driven algorithms have made it profitable for news outlets to drive clicks using polarization and overt bias. That's why we always need to compare different perspectives, question what you are being shown and understand who is behind the story. Before, that meant digging through internet for hours. Now, there is ground news. There is a website and app designed to make reading the news easier and more data driven. Every day, they gather thousands of news articles from around the world and organize them by story. Each story comes with visual breakdowns of the reporting bias, reliability and ownership. All to help you understand why you're seeing what you're seeing. For example, here's a story about Bangkok street food vendors being pushed from the street. Ground news shows the bias comparison summary, where you can see how left leaning and right leaning sources explain the same news differently. And here you can see which specific sources are covering it. How reliable they are and who is behind them. Ground news is subscriber-funded, with no ads inside the product. I'm grateful to them for supporting this video, and I think what they are building is genuinely useful. Subscribe by scanning this QR code or go to ground.news-chernove to get 40% of the vintage plan. Link in description. Enjoy. You mentioned that in the Middle East and Gulf countries, maybe there are less collectors but more for personal use. Yeah, to well done. Yes, wearing is important. Some of them will certainly collect very fine diamonds. They're also connoisseurs. Yeah. But I would say the market usually is more wearing the jewelry, whereas the Chinese maybe, what is more rare, what is more valuable, what is likely to go up in value. It probably also depends on how safe the country or the place where people live. For example, if they're in Middle East, it's pretty safe, yeah. So they can wear it in China also safe. But for example, in Europe, it's probably for special occasions. They put on this, right? You cannot wear it like Opinvine, London. That's an issue. That's an issue. In some places, you can't even wear a nice watch because you get stolen. Yeah. So it is risky. But the wealthy people always have their own occasions, their own parties, their own dinners, where they can still wear their fine jewelry, their fine watches. But today you have to be careful about what you wear in public, especially in places that are not very safe. Yeah, from a safety point of view, but also from the PR point of view, also it's important. Is there a case when sometimes people want to be low-key? They want to have the diamonds, but they don't want to show it to public? Absolutely. Yeah. Those are the collectors who love opening the safe, looking at the beautiful diamond they have, knowing that they have it, that it's in their ownership, and not necessarily to wear it. But just as an asset. What was the most expensive piece that you sold ever? We have sold for up to, I believe, the biggest transaction in one go was about $80 million. $80 million. $80 million, yes. What was it? Color diamonds. Color diamonds. Yes, technically it was like one transaction that went through to the bank account, or it's like several transactions. It is one sale. Yeah. It is one sale. When I say transaction, it is one sale to a client. Yes. We eventually paid the entire amount in one transaction. Yes. In one transaction. So it's not over a period of time. Yeah. Because there's a difference between lifetime value of a client, and then a transaction. So lifetime value of a client can be much higher, client buying from you over the years. The answer that I gave you is basically just one transaction from one customer that we have. Technically, how does it work? Do you need some special track in the bank to accept 80 mil? You know what I mean? Yeah, you just have an invoice, and usually the people that buy are credible people. And we just let the bank know that we invoice that client and the client pays in, and usually there's no issue. Yeah. Any bank can accept 80 mil in one transaction? I think so, yes. Yeah. Yes. How the investment math works? For example, I buy a $1 million yellow stone. Now in 2026. Can you predict in 2031 in five years time what would be the price of a piece? I cannot predict. I think there are multiple factors. What I can predict is that diamonds, especially larger diamonds, five carrots plus yellow diamonds are rare. Why can I predict this? Because we track the number of rough that's discovered every year. And when it comes to larger rough diamonds, like some of the diamonds I showed you, which I would say anything 20 carrots above, there are only maybe 50 stones at the most per year. Yeah. And that has been consistent. So that number will not increase. That number will not increase. So there are very few large diamonds, especially in the vivid, intense yellows, that are of a substantial size. And this is why we like to collect them because we know they're rare. We know they're valuable. In fact, their value has been stable, increasing over time. But if you ask me, where will the market be five years from now? I don't think anybody can. Dunyawer it will be. But I know they're rare. And I know they're valuable. And if anything, they should go upwards and not downwards. And that's exactly what you often talk on your social media. That's there's a big difference between like nature, grown diamonds and like... Labgrown. Yeah, labgrown has no value. And you know, let me be clear about this. A lot of people say they're the same. Yes, they're optically the same. But it's not the same product. It's a copy. It's a synthetic product. Labgrown is a synthetic diamond made in a laboratory. The cost of producing a diamond seven years ago was far higher. It was about $1,500. Today you can produce them for less than $10. I don't care. So anybody, anyone buying labgrown for $1,000, $2,000, $3,000, for me is buying sand for $3,000. There's no value. Why? Because you can distinguish between a synthetic, a man made diamond and a natural diamond. Natural diamonds are formed over millions of years. So I believe that rarity is what creates value. The more rare an item, the more valuable it is. A manufactured product that is being manufactured at ever lower costs, at almost near zero cost has no value. So I would not recommend for anybody to buy a labgrown. It's just a copy. What's the balance between like preserving what you have already, the nature of the business and the features of the business? And to be allowed to make changes, basically. For example, for Jimmy, he's young. So he's probably thinking maybe how to adapt like in social media. Why so this kind of stuff? I don't know. Like, but still you need to keep what was there, the core of the business. Yeah. The essence. How do you find this balance? I think financial discipline is the most important. It's not only about trying to change something. It's understanding the finances of the company, the assets that you have. And understanding the financial implication of any decision you make. A lot of companies actually make these big decisions. And if the decision goes wrong, then it has a big financial impact on the organization. But if you're running small experiments, or you're launching small products that have a very small downside on the financial impact of the organization, then it's fine to try these experiments to continue innovating. So understanding finances, understanding strategy, and the weight of each decision you make is important. So in the case of Jimmy, or any of the fifth generation, whether it's my niece, Anas Haazer, my son, Jimmy, whatever they do is going to be measured against the downside and the upside of what they can do. So if they take on a project, what's a downside that you lose X amount? Yes. It's not going to take the family business down, because it's going to be limited. But then is there a good upside? So always having that financial visibility, or the financial analysis to be able to measure downside versus upside. What do you see already that Jimmy or Anastasia are bringing to the business that you did not or your father did not? I think in any business, it's important to capture the vision of all generations. At Jimmy and Anastasia are from a different generation. They talk to their friends, they see things we don't see. So having them like trends, what people were and not where, they're a lot more sensitive to buying trends, and also to lifestyle, luxury, what luxury means for the next generation is probably different than for our generation. So they bring a perspective of their generation back into our business. By having the next gen provide their input and adding it to the conversation around the table, it allows us to think more broadly, because otherwise as individuals, no matter how exposed we are, we always have a limited perspective. And so we try to put people around the table that can expand that perspective. And so they add a lot to the conversation, whether it is the desirability of new designs that we're planning on launching, whether it's marketing initiatives, whether they think it is relevant or not relevant, whether it would connect with their generation or not. So they do bring a lot of perspective to the table. And then here in the back you have a whole collection around the illuminated wonders, which is a division of the Sun on the Seven Wonders. And this inspiration is by Petra, one of the Seven Wonders in Jordan. This is another one by the Machu Picchu in Peru. Inspired by the elements of the temple. And then you have the Taj Mahal here with the sapphires. And then you have the Colosseum here as well. Oh wow. So it's inspired by the Seven Wonders in the world. Exactly. Wow. That's cool. Who designed it? Like your experts. Yes. Your jewelry. We have creative director. We have a team of different designers. This collection actually, the whole idea was driven by my son Jimmy, who's 29. He started working in the business just finishing his MBA at Bapson. So he came up with this whole idea on Son of the Seven Wonders. And worked with our design team to create this whole collection. I bought two apartments in Pouquet in a project built by my old friend Vadim. And his development company, Villa Cart. Vadim has been a real estate for over 20 years. Has lived in Thailand for more than 13 years. And is now developing a half a billion dollar mini-city in Pouquet. Called Lianverda. It's located in Banqtao, one of the most desirable and fast-growing areas in Pouquet. Lianverda is a 7.5 hectare complex with 200,000 square meters of nature-inspired architecture. It was designed by an international studio with 40 years of experience, with large green areas created by one of the Thailand's leading landscape studios. Inside, there are panoramic-seview apartments and more than 65 top-level facilities. It's also designed to use up to 35% less energy than a standard building. Offers a hotel-style management and has a team of more than 400 professionals behind this project. Pouquet is no longer just a vacation destination. More entrepreneurs and families are now looking at it as a place to live and invest. So if you are thinking about it, I would take a closer look at Lianverda. Of course, this is not a financial advice and always do your own research before making any investment decision. I bought properties in the current Vadim's projects myself and I know him personally, he's a great guy. And I believe in Pouquet long charm. And that's why I think Lianverda is worth looking at. Scan this QR code or follow the link below to learn more about the project and the investment details. Also don't forget to mention Macs to get the best deal from the guys. And yeah, maybe we'll become neighbors someday. How do you think the luxury is perceived by younger generation versus your generation, or your father generation? What's the biggest differences? I think what the difference is is more experiential. Maybe in the older generation it was about the product. Today it's a lot more than just the product. It is what feeling does the product give you? Who's associated with that product? What experiences does the brand provide? So marketing is becoming more complicated and more experiential in my view. And that makes it more challenging for any organization because things can shift fairly quickly. One observation I have is the influence that celebrities have on the new generation. I believe we live in a society where individuals are influenced a lot more. You think so? I think so. I think more and more people want to wear the same brands, the same bags, the same jewelry. And so, yes. Sorry. I think it was always like this. Even bigger, like I don't know, the celebrities like Michael Jackson or Elvis Presley had even bigger impact because it was scarcity of celebrities. Yeah, absolutely. But I think today when it comes to purchasing, people want the confidence of a celebrity wearing or endorsing a product. When they see someone they look up to, a celebrity or someone they follow, an idol wearing a product, whether it's a shoe, whether it's a clothing, whether it's a jewelry, it has a big influence. And these celebrities are able to move the needle in terms of what people buy. So, I do think people are more and more influenced by social media, by what they see, what they hear from other people, and they rely less on their own individuality or their own judgment. That, not sure if it is more today than it is in the past, but social media and technology enables, I think, allows for more influence on people than in the past. Yeah, probably there are more tools. There are more tools, a lot of different angles. It's a lot more fragmented, as you said earlier, you had only a few celebrities. Today, there are a lot more. So, we're bombarded by different celebrities. I think when we were young, we had maybe four or five idols. Today, you can follow 500 people and they're all people you look up to. We have a lot more choices. This is actually one of the nice pieces that we have. And we have an 18-carat fancy vivid yellow in the middle. And this is part of the Sun on the Seven Wonders Collection. Why Sun? Because of the yellow diamonds that we have. And then all these pieces are inspired by the Seven Wonders in the world. So, this is a very nice, very innovative bracelet that we have. Can I hold it? Yes, of course. So, the price for it would be... How much? The price for this one would be about 2.5 million US. It's absolutely beautiful. Wow. The biggest part of the price is... It's definitely the diamond, yes. Yeah, right. Because that's where most of the value is. Here you have a piece as well that's a longer necklace on a chain. And here we have a 50-carat yellow diamond in the center. You know, it's... It's massive. Yeah. It's a, I guess, not for everybody. No, it is definitely a masterpiece. Wow. And let's talk about FBX. Yes. You mentioned it already. So, FBX is the organization for family businesses. You originated from here, from Bangkok. Then you also expanded to Singapore. Singapore, yes. We're opening a Singapore this year. Then we're going to Malaysia, Indonesia, Philippines. So, I'm very passionate about family business exponential. It is an organization that is created by families for families. And the whole idea is to bring the whole family along. The family members that are working in a business. Making them part of FBX so they can all learn together, grow together to make sure that they leave the business to the next generation. So, for generational success. So, we empower business families for generational success. That's the mission of FBX. And we do it collaboratively from family to family by sharing experiences. We have what we call the Matrix, which is a small group of 8 to 10 of us. Intergenerationally in the same group. And we talk about the challenges we face. And then we have a special protocol that allows us to actually get feedback from the group. So, it's been transformative for all the families that have come together. And we're all learned so much from one another and so much about the common practices of family businesses. Is it important to surround yourself with the right people? I guess that's the big idea. So, not to let it form by itself organically. Sometimes it's good to form a social circle organically. But sometimes you actually need to put an effort. And like, yeah, I need these people around me. And I want to spend more time with them because it's valuable for me, for my business. That's absolutely right. Sometimes if we're alone, we can choose to be alone thinking that the problems we have are particular to us. And no one can help us. So, that's typically what we do. Leaders are lonely. Family members are lonely. But suddenly when you engage with individuals that are in a similar situation, that are willing to share, one, it gives you comfort. It gives you comfort that I'm not alone on this journey. Two, it gives you ideas on how to deal with it. And three, it helps you grow because you're taking action. So, instead of just feeling that negativity and taking it upon yourself, now you're able to actually use a group of peers that are willing to exchange information, open your mind, and give you thoughts on how you can deal with your situation. And that is empowering. What are the biggest challenges that people admit, the problems that they admit privately, when the trust is created, where they don't want to publicly reveal? I think no one wants to reveal public issues. You may have a problem between a son and a father. You may have a problem between siblings. You may have problems among scusons. No one wants to get out there and say, I don't get along with my family members. It's not something that would be respectful towards your family members. It's not something that you would share openly with other people who are not in family business, who may not understand it. In fact, that vulnerability can actually backfire, because people can gossip possibly about the problems that you're having as a family. So, people stay protective. They don't necessarily share. And so, FBX does resolve that problem by saying you're in a safe community, where you can come together and you can share your experiences in the spirit of growing, in the spirit of trying to make a difference in the family business. And that's the power of groups such as FBX. So, I guess the trust is the main thing. The trust is like... The trust? The trust and your ability to want to share. So, are you willing? Are you willing to engage? Are you willing to share? Because only if you're open to sharing, can you get into that interactive, into an interactive mode where you can learn from other people where you're also providing your perspective to others? So, it's a two-age dream. Yeah. But it's also, I guess, it's hard to sometimes open up. Absolutely. It does. Not everybody can do it. Some people do it naturally, and some people have a hard time doing it. The place is absolutely stunning. I mean, it's like... It's very nice feeling to be here. You know? Thank you. You come in and then you want to stay. That's the whole idea. We put a lot of thought into creating a boutique environment to represent our brand. And there are a lot of branded elements, including the Chandelier. For example, here what you see on the left is what we call the Legacy Wall. And here on the top left you have the family. Five generations are ready. Okay. So, I am the four generations with my brothers, Alan and Pascal. And the fifth generation is my son, Jimmy, and my niece Anastasia. They're already involved in the business. Then we have a picture of the JAA campus. In 1997 we had the honor of making a contribution to the JAA to build the World Headquarters and cause bad. And as a result, the campus was named the Robert Maui campus. So we're very proud of that legacy. At the bottom here you see the Maui, the Robert Maui Museum, and Lebanon. And here on the right, we show the whole journey. How we go all the way from rough. We buy our diamonds. Most exceptional diamonds directly from the rough. We have offices in South Africa. We buy from Botswana. And other sources. But then we manufacture, design, and sell our pieces in our stores, in our boutiques. So we go all the way from rough. We manufacture the polish. We design our jewelry, manufacture, and retail in our own boutiques. Yeah. Quick update for my audience following investments and critical minerals. Saga metals trading as Saga Maff in the U.S. and Saga in Canada is one of those stories that keeps building. And now it has taken another major turn. Recently, the company released news that confirms it may be a sitting on one of the largest titanium vanadium systems on the planet. To put it into perspective, I'll bring up a comparison on screen, showing how it stacks up against the Panjihwa deposit in China. A state-linked system valued in the multi-billion dollar range, supplying over 40% of global vanadium supply. And a cornerstone of China's critical minerals dominance. According to the company, the global vanadium and titanium market is worth a combined $1.50 billion per year. And the Panjihwa deposit alone is responsible for over 40% of global vanadium supply. Now enter Saga metals with the radar project, which stands out as a potential replacement, operating on a significantly different level. That puts this entire system in perspective. We're talking about a multi-tenths of billions dollar global industry each year, with the radar project right in the pass of the capital. According to Saga, radar doesn't just compare. It could rank among the largest vanadium titanium systems currently being explored. This matters because it may shift the conversation from exploration into strategic supply security at a continental level. If radar continues to confirm what early data is suggesting, it would point to a potential large-scale titanium and vanadium systems located in North America. This matters for national security because titanium and vanadium are both on US critical minerals lists, and titanium is widely used across aerospace and defense supply chains. The US government is already putting serious funding behind domestic critical minerals supply chains. These programs are designed to reduce reliance on foreign sources and strengthen long-term strategic independence. The Saga Metal's radar project is being positioned as a potential North American replacement for the Chinese project. To be clear, this is a scale benchmark, not a valuation comparison. But remember, the state-link company associated with it is valid over three billion US dollars. Roughly 6,000% larger than Saga Metal's current market cap. Haltting just how significant that benchmark is in scale and capital terms. North American critical mineral exploration is back in focus with government policy supply chain concerns, a new company reported drill data pushing projects like this into the spotlight. It didn't look like the momentum around Saga could accelerate any further, but with the latest update, it just did. And in a big way. If you want to learn more about this critical mineral story, check out the link in description. A special thanks for Saga Metal's for making today's video possible. Statistically, most generational businesses they don't cross third generation. So they get bankrupt. Business just, fade away. What are the main reasons? What are the main reasons for that? I think there are multiple reasons. I think a lot of people simplify by saying, well, usually it's hard to continue because you grow up in wealth. You're not the wealth creator and suddenly you're handed over wealth. And if you don't know how to manage wealth or even preserve it, then you lose it. And I think there are two main factors. One is the industry in which you're in. Some industries actually don't last. On the technology front, if you're in a tech company or if you're in a business where the environment changes or your technology is no longer relevant, then it's normal for an industry to evaporate. As an example, in the jewelry business, it's not uncommon to have people that have been running for multiple generations. Why? Because the business itself is not changing or the product is not changing. In the diamond business, you have many people that have managed for generations. Because it's a business that's not changing. Takes millions of years for a diamond to form. Right? The environment may change the way you market, the way you manufacture using technology, but the product doesn't change. So in industries where the product doesn't change, there's a higher likelihood of being able to pass the business over to the next generation. So industry is important, whether you're in a stable industry versus one that's likely to be disrupted. The second is preparing the next generation. It has to do with human capabilities. And also the vision and the mission of what the family wants to do with the family business. If they want to continue, then they have to take the mindful decision of preparing the next generation. And that involves two components. One is the right structure. You've got to build the right structure to enable the next generation to come in. And then you have to give them the time and you have to groom them. How will they continue? What role will they play? How will the business even survive? So even before talking about the role of family businesses, we talked more about what will it take for our family business to survive over the next two to three decades? How are we going to adapt and position ourselves to be able to continue thriving? And who's going to be involved to steward that entire process? And this is where the ownership comes in. And in my view, what is becoming more important is how to groom the next generation to be good stewards. Not necessarily as a CEO because if you have many children, not everybody can be the CEO. But how can they as a family make sure that they have enough knowledge to act as good owners, working in collaboration with professional management in order to continue running the business? And I think that's really key. How does it feel to be standing next to your family name and the number 1890? It's pretty insane if you think about it. But do you still have emotions about it when you're like, wow, definitely, definitely. The house is 137 years old now. So it's quite a period. We're very proud of our heritage. But I grew up in the family business. So that responsibility that I feel today was actually shoulder since a very young age. And it's a journey when you're in a family business that's in my case, for generation, handing it over to the fifth generation. You realize that you are just continuing what was built by your predecessors, by my father, grandfather, great grandfather, and that are responsibilities to prepare, to prepare the organization for the next generation. That's why we call ourselves co-gardians. We guard our heritage. We're guarding it for a specific period of time in the history of the company. By honoring our predecessors and trying to prepare the organization for success with the next generation. So this is how we view it. It's a journey and the impact we make in the present, hopefully, position as the company to be in a better position to create value in the future. It wasn't you who chose this path. It was chosen for you before. Is it like do you always have this psychological burden that basically now you can choose what to do? But the first step was it was basically assigned to you. Yeah, I think this is why I did not stay initially long in the family business. Because I felt I didn't have enough room for my own creativity, for my own leadership style. So I worked in the family business for about three years and then I decided to go to business school and after that build my own businesses. Because I wanted to experiment. I wanted to have more control. I wanted to test some ideas. And then only in 2010 my father decided to retire from the business and then we started becoming with my brother's responsible for it. So it's been about 16 years now. We've been looking after the business. And it's an evolution. It's an evolution. As a family business, it's not the same from my experience as owning your own business or starting your own business. When you start your own business and you're the sole owner, you can take a lot more risks. You can make quick decisions. But when it's a family business, we have to be a lot more cautious. We have to honor our past. We have to understand what made us successful in the past. We need to adapt in the present and then we need to prepare for the future. It is a completely different mindset working in a family context versus being entrepreneurial and building your own business. How to grow children from children born into wealthy family without them become entitled. Because they have a lot of money and they basically have choices. And then if they not proceed with their family business, they can get spoiled again. I think it's the role of the parents to teach them real life lessons. Not to spoil them. To give them limited resources. To encourage them to develop themselves. Enable them to gain experiences that will help them grow individually. I think that's really important. So it is a process that has to be managed. If parents really want to groom their children to continue in the family business, they have to make sure that one, they gain the right values. So the parents have to convey these values. They have to talk to them, make them explicit. They have to teach them in many ways through storytelling, through conversations. Communication is extremely important. They also have to make sure that the children gain the required experience to be able to continue. Overseeing the business. So as owners, as project managers, as managers potentially. But they have to be groomed. They have to be involved in order to gain the skills that will enable them to continue operating the family business. If that's what the next generation wants. Yeah, probably in the ideal world, yes. But in the real world, maybe if they fly private or always fly, even business class. And then it would be hard to separate, okay, you kids go to the economy and then we fly, like, first class. It kind of maybe doesn't always work. So what I've seen many families do is teaching the children the difference between when you're with a family and the family has well versus when you're on your own. So for example, if you go on a vacation with your family, you may go to a five-star, you may go to the best possible resource and you may spend a lot more per person. But if you're on your own without the family, then you have limited resources because you haven't earned them yet or maybe you have an allowance, a monthly allowance that will not allow you to live at the same level. So this is where parents can teach their children at a young age, the access to the resources they have. And if they give them certain resources when they're young, the next generation will understand that on their own, they can only operate a certain way. But then when they're spending time with the family because the family has more resources, they will have different experiences. I mean, that's fine. It's important to understand the difference between the two. In my interviews, I always try to get people's real, unpolished opinions. And that's why I never share a list of questions beforehand, even if they ask. But interviews are still the public layer. The real layer is what happens off camera. The most valuable conversations and the most important decisions in life never take place in a public setup. They happen in small private rooms behind closed doors, between people operating at a high level who actually trust each other. I recently brought a selected group of founders and investors to hook up. Very strong operators. One of them, for example, was he and Gough, maybe you saw him on my channel before, a variable known VC who sold his previous business for $65 million. I spent a few days together in a private setting building real relationships and sharing experiences. One of those experiences was visiting Mohon Morghani at his house, a billionaire who created the Tommy Hill figure brand. We spent several hours together with him talking about life, business and decisions in a completely private setting. And after the trip, one participant is now about to invest $300,000 into another participant's company. That's what happened when the room was right. But most people never get access to rooms like this. This stuck in surface level conversations, random networks and low-signaled environments. Okay, this is important. The leverage is not more information. The leverage is being in the right room with right people. And that's what I'm building with the backstage circle. It's a private curated group of founders, investors and operators who want to level up their life, business and relationships, surrounding themselves with the right people. It's a closed-door environment with real decisions about business, life philosophy, capital, positioning, big ideas and next moves. No pitching, no shell networking, only people who are open, thoughtful and operating at a high level. A big part of the backstage circle is access. I'm bringing exceptional founders, investors and billionaires, I meet personally, to join these private sessions and conversations. If you're already operating at a high level and making real decisions, you can join the waiting list. The number of seats in the group is very limited. And if it's a fit, you'll get the details. I guess it's also very important how the family communicate with people lower to them, I mean to the outside world, how they treat waiters in the restaurant, this kind of stuff. And it's not to be communicated directly to children. So you can say, behave or treat people well. They see how you treat other people, how they treat employees, how you treat restaurant staff, etc. You know for me, yeah, it's really interesting. For me, the way you treat others is a question of education, not necessarily of wealth. So you can be wealthy but not educated your children well. And sometimes people misbehave or some children don't necessarily treat others well without wealth, right? You do see that. You see people talking down to a waiter and they're not in a position of wealth. So I would separate the two, I would say, if you're wealthy today, you have more of a responsibility to be nice towards people, to respect other people if anything. But education is at the core, no matter how wealthy you are or whether you have limited means, it's extremely important to learn how to deal with others and society. And for us as a family, respect is at the core. What do you think people misunderstand about being born into a successful family? What's the biggest misconceptions? I think people think it's usually easy. They say, well, they're born wealthy, it is easy, but it depends how you look at it. It can be easy if you're just living off the wealth, but then it can be hard if you're trying to actually preserve the wealth or even grow it. And you're trying to move forward in a ever-increasing, complex world. Today, any organization finds it even more challenging to stay relevant, to thrive in a changing environment like the one we're facing. So it comes with both benefits and responsibilities. So the misconception is not understanding the responsibilities, the misconception is only looking at the bright side and saying, well, they're lucky, they're continuing what was given to them, but I do think continuing and growing requires a lot of sacrifices, a lot of work. I'm pretty sure you saw examples when the business was passed to the children, children just like lost it. I think there's always a risk. Absolutely. Absolutely. So it's not simple. That's why in family business is leaving a legacy and passing on your business is a process. It's a journey. It's not something that happens by coincidence. It's not something that you do overnight. And in fact, I'm so passionate about the topic that I created an organization with other families called Family Business Exponential FBX. And what we do is really pull together as families, by families for families, learn together specifically about how to assure generational success. So you're right. It is not easy. There's a different solution for each family. As an example, a lot of families professionalize instead of keeping it in the family. If no one in the family is interested in continuing or they don't have the capabilities, then there's always a possibility to bring in professionals and for the family to be owners at the board level. Is it a common case when children don't want to proceed, don't want to continue? It is more and more. I think children nowadays have options. Children don't necessarily want to make the same sacrifices their parents made. Or they may simply not have the same passion for the business their parents have started. So there are multiple reasons, but it is absolutely common. We also produce a lot of objects of art and we have factories, a lapparderry, where we actually get the hard stones and craft these items. We've been doing this for decades now. Here you see smaller items, although we've created some very large ones in the past. And here on the side you see elephants here, which are traditional from Thailand. This is just to showcase that in every country we're in, we're able to manufacture specific products based on the local customs. And here we have the Emerald Buddha Temple also crafted with lapis lazuli, coral, mother of pearl, malachite and different gemstones. Is it for sale? Can I? These are for sale, yes. People often ask like what's important to be successful in business. I want to ask you what's not important? What's not important for success in business? Formal education is not important, but being able to learn is important. So I think a lot of people assume that because you have a formal education that the chances of succeeding are higher, but a lot of successful entrepreneurs never had that formal education, but they were smart enough to learn on their own, to adapt and to create a lot of value. So that's maybe one assumption. The second one is we underestimate luck. You know the timing, meeting the right person, seeing the right opportunity at the right time, I think is critical. So I would say luck plays a big part of success in business as well, which is underestimated. I believe in hard work, I believe that everything that I do based on my actions is what I deserve, but I've learned in life that you could work very hard, but sometimes you're also unlucky. So if you're unlucky, it means luck also exists, right? So you need to have the right condition sometimes to be able to capture an opportunity and create value. And luck also can be that you end up in a growing industry or growing market. That's absolutely right. You may start a business in the right market, the market is growing and suddenly you're growing with it. Or the opposite. So a lot of things you don't control and sometimes they're in your favor and sometimes they're against you. Maybe you can give me one or two biggest business lessons that you learned through this year, maybe that you passed to Jimmy, something that's super, super important for success. I think people, who you have around the table, so I always imagine the table for any business. Who are the people that are running the business? Do they have the right capabilities? Can they be trusted? Are they working hard enough? Who's missing around the table? What capability do we need that we don't have? It's a lot about the people running it and do you have the right capabilities? The second one is are you in the right business? And is there a way for you to potentially pivot into a different industry, a different product because not all businesses are equal. Sometimes you can have very smart people, a great team working in a business that's declining as an example. And unless you make a significant shift, you'll not be able to grab that opportunity. So it's the ability to have the right people pursuing the right opportunities. Do you think you're born as an entrepreneur or it's something that you can grow? I think if you're not an entrepreneur at heart, you can never be an entrepreneur. So I really do think it's a function of nature more than nurture. You can teach people, but if you're not born an entrepreneur, if by nature you don't have the traits of an entrepreneur, I think it's very difficult to develop. That's my personal view. To what extent you can grow yourself? Do you believe that there are two different extremes? One, you can say, why can anyone be an astronaut or a cosmonaut? And some people say, I cannot change my nature. Where do you think this line? I've seen people that are able to learn, adapt, and work in multiple industries and others that have not been able to. So it's a very personal matter. Some people have that ability to grow, the appetite to grow, the willingness to grow, and some simply from an aptitude standpoint don't have it. Even if they say, I want to grow, they're not able to physically or mentally grow. So again, I think it's a question of nature. It depends on your character. It depends on multiple factors, but some people do it much more easily than others. You have 57. I'm 57. How long you will be actively working in business? You think? Yeah, I don't know. I think when I turned 50, I said, oh, I want to slow down at 57. I'm 57. I'm now saying, well, maybe I slow down at 65. I have no idea. One thing I know is I get bored and I can't not have anything to do. I need to be challenged. I think that's what keeps me alive. So I think things evolve. I may be doing a different type of work, but I clearly see myself as always having responsibility, always trying to make an impact and not being just focused on myself and doing nothing. So retirement for me is not being inactive. It is how can I continue living a life of meaning and a life where I can give back, make an impact? And that will evolve over time. Maybe you will be doing more cycling. Maybe. If my knee can handle it. Because my body is also falling apart. It's like cycling and skiing as well. I love cycling also. I love cycling harder than me. Skying, I'm okay, but cycling sometimes I'm having some issues with my joints. But yeah, trying to keep fit for sure. What's the meaning of life for you? For me, it's about how can I wake up and make a contribution in line with my own values and in ways that make me feel useful or in ways that give me energy. So you wake up and you say, what can I do to feel fulfilled? What can I do to make me happy? But even if happiness also means sacrifice, compromise. So it's not about making myself happy. It's how can I make a difference on those around me or on my environment? So for me, it's always outward. The impact I can make externally brings the satisfaction back internally.