---
video_title: "American in Hong Kong Reveals Why the US Fears China"
video_id: YiXW13nVjT4
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YiXW13nVjT4
video_date: 2026-07-15T11:00:08+00:00
video_description: |
  🌏 Apply for The Backstage Circle: https://forms.gle/huwR6NQNz5A4XgC78 
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on Telegram: https://t.me/friendsofmax 
   
  Meet Brian Wong, Alibaba’s first American employee and one of the rare people who can explain China and America from the inside. Born and raised in California, he studied US-China relations in Nanjing, and joined Alibaba in 1999, before China became a tech giant. During his 30 years in China and Hong Kong, he worked closely with Jack Ma, saw Alibaba grow from the inside, and watched China become one of the world’s most important economies. In our talk, Brian explains why China and US struggle to understand each other, and what America’s biggest challenge is right now, what Jack Ma is really like behind the scenes, and how he makes big decisions and why China suddenly looks more attractive to investors again. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  🎙 Listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts: https://open.spotify.com/show/1dktMfOBp11LNp52X3mkuR  or https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/max-chernov/id1875665593
  👥 Sponsorship requests / Guest suggestions: max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST
  ➢ LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/bwong
  
  WATCH NEXT
  ► Tech Multi-Millionaire Shares How He Built His Wealth Using AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O10NKwSJMek 
  ► Wealth Strategies of American Multi-Millionaire in Singapore: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Nz74s44wsQ 
  ► Singapore’s multi-millionaire on China, America and AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tP7QksbJVQ
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 INTRO
  01:14 Singapore vs Hong Kong: Where Business Works Better
  02:52 Why Hong Kong Still Attracts Entrepreneurs
  06:20 Is China Becoming Investable Again?
  08:24 Invitation to the Backstage Circle
  10:47 Why America Feels So Divided Right Now
  14:43 Hong Kong’s Role Between China and the World
  16:28 Why Brian Left Mainland China for Hong Kong
  19:16 American in China, Chinese in America
  20:33 What China Taught Him 
  22:19 Where Traditional Chinese Culture Survived
  25:22 Why China Is More Diverse Than People Think
  26:30 American Values vs Chinese Values
  28:10 Freedom: China vs The US
  31:07 Behind the Scenes of My Interviews
  31:32 How Brian Became Alibaba’s First American Employee
  34:23 Why Early Alibaba Had No Business Model
  36:45 What Jack Ma Was Like Before Alibaba Became Huge
  38:22 Lessons from Working Closely with Jack Ma
  40:00 How Jack Ma Thinks Differently
  43:17 Why He Didn’t Retire After Alibaba’s IPO
  44:02 Why the West Misunderstands China
  47:18 Advice for Young People in an Uncertain World
  49:27 Why Your Circle Shapes Your Future
  51:04 How to Build Relationships with Successful People
  54:40 Brian’s Investment Strategy
  56:20 Where He Buys Real Estate
  57:03 Why Buying Your Home Can Be a Bad Investment
  59:32 How to Manage Property Across Countries
  1:00:25 What Still Drives Him Today
  1:01:43 The Hidden History Between America and China
  1:04:46 Why China and America Are More Connected Than We Think
  1:06:09 The Meaning of Life
  
  This channel features raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery.
  
  I sit down with founders, investors, operators, experts, and outliers navigating the biggest shifts of our time, many of them based in or connected to Asia. We talk about money, leverage, relocation, power, tradeoffs, and the real decisions shaping what’s next, not as theory, but from lived experience.
  
  Some conversations happen inside billionaire homes. Some happen remotely with experts shaping global systems. All of them focus on signal over noise. 
  
  If you care about where to build, where to live, how to make better decisions in uncertain times, and what the future demands, you’re in the right place.
---
Both the United States and China are great nations, but if we don't solve this problem, we're going to be in for a very, very tough ride. Meet Brian Wong, a Libaba's first American employee, and one of the rare people who can explain China and America from the inside. Warren and Raisin in California, he studied U.S.-China relations in Nandrink and joined a Libaba in 1999 before China became a tech giant. All of China had yet to discover the internet. During his three years in Asia, he worked closely with Jack Ma, so a Libaba grew from the inside and watched China become one of the world's most important economists. Everybody just laughed, like this guy is crazy, nobody took him seriously. In our talk, Brian explains why China and U.S. struggled to understand each other and what America's biggest challenges right now. Jack Ma is really like behind the scenes and how he makes big decisions. And why China suddenly looks more attractive to investors again? Those who can invest in China are getting very excited about it. I'm Mark Chernov, based in Singapore. I host rock conversations about global mobility and mastery. What's the glasses and minuses? For business and for people, next Singapore versus Hong Kong. I think Singapore is fantastic. It's easy place to live. It's safe. It's very functional. The problem right now with Singapore is it's been over-inundated with capital and influx of money to the point where everything is now becoming very expensive. You have a shortage of talent to staff your businesses, your family offices. And I think... It's like more capital than capacity. Yeah, exactly. And so as a result, the cost of everything has gone up. And it's hard to find talent. But also there were some tightening of laws due to some financial issues that came up, money laundering and whatnot. So then the regulatory hurdles now become even higher. And for some, that's a deterrent, not because they're trying to break the law, but because it's just so much more bureaucratic work. And so I think when it comes to capacity to take these businesses, Hong Kong still has plenty of capacity. It's also proximate-wise closer to China, which is increasingly an area of interest now for investors. Five years ago, people would have said, China is uninvestable. And suddenly now you go to these investment conferences and hear these talks. It's now risk on China. China looks very cheap. China looks very attractive with the whole AI competition. Suddenly China looks like it's neck and neck with the United States. Then it has all these advantages with regard to supply chain, robotics, integration with AI. And those who can invest in China are getting very excited about it. Hong Kong has the reputation of being a sexy place, interesting, cool place. So I guess, I don't know if I'm right, but it's easier to get people moved to younger entrepreneurs or professionals to Hong Kong compared Singapore. Because Singapore is stable. It's cool place. I like it a lot. The reputation is like chewing gum and this kind of stuff. Which is not that strict anymore. I mean, it's just normal place. But the reputation is still there. Singapore is not trying to change this. And Hong Kong is pretty similar, but the reputation is very different. So I don't know what do you think. It's easier to get talent to hear. Well, I think it's the part of it is the history of these two regions and how they evolved. Hong Kong is very entrepreneurial from the start. I mean, it was a place where a lot of people fled during the war and had to rebuild themselves. It was a laissez-faire market. The British didn't really manage much except just make sure that this place was low tax and highly efficient. And so anyone could come here and make a fortune and start a new life. And I think that spirit remains. Despite some of these disruptions in 2019 and afterwards around riots and this national security law. I think some of these things were overblown and that spirit still remains. There were people who felt uncomfortable with what happened. But I would tell you, Hong Kong pretty much is the same place in many ways from a business perspective than it was before. You just don't touch the red line, which to be honest is a common sort of policy for any sovereign nation. They don't want people trying to disrupt a territory in that sort of way. I'd say 99.9% of people doing business here have no interest in doing disrupting the society. They just want to create successful businesses. And I think that is very much what happens here in Hong Kong. Singapore, it builds itself on the fact that it's stable. It's surrounded at the time it was built by adversaries who threatened its existence. So it had to exert immense control over its society. So one, it can survive in two, so people could get along. I mean, it's a diverse society of many religions, many languages, many ethnicities, and what Singapore has created under those conditions is a miracle. And so I think that's the legacy it comes from. If you loosen it up too much, you might end up having chaos break out in a way that's going to send it back into this kind of time when things were not stable. And you're going to lose all the benefits of what Singapore represents today. So I think you have to look at where they come from, the legacy, and what it is you're looking for as a person, as a business, and select. By the way, Singapore is a gateway into Southeast Asia, right? China is a gateway into mainland China. Hong Kong is a gateway to mainland China. So you're going to have different functions for these different territories. I think all those play into consideration. Yeah, yeah. No, you're right. I mean, there was a selling point in the stability in Singapore. It was a selling point for an investor to come to a country and to invest there. Exactly. Yeah, it was built on that. It was the big project of Lik Van U. And why are the capital markets so successful relative to say Indonesia or Malaysia? It's because that capital is the perception is secure, it's safe and stable. If you compare where China is going and the US is going, you're more positive about China or it's uncertain, or what's your use on that? Well, I think China uses different approach, but they have their own challenges. I think one of the big challenges for China is whether or not they can keep the economy going. They have so much capacity in terms of production capacity. But at the same time, they have a large population that they need to employ. And the consumer market has not really, in terms of the consumption as a percentage of their GDP has not reached a level that can power itself, given how much capacity is there. So a lot of this now is starting to move overseas in terms of the efforts to export product, globally, hoping that the international markets will sort of pick up that excess capacity and keep the engine running. I think there is a confidence issue in consumers and investors in China because of policy changes that have reduced the value of real estate, which was a big chunk of stored private wealth. And once that drops, people feel less wealthy and able to spend. I would say China is much more sensitive to things like regulatory policy changes because that in the blink of an eye can either spur a new industry or actually tank an entire industry. And so there's always that people are unsure of when things are going to change, where things are going to happen. So I think can China as an economy continue to move forward and grow at the rate it needs to but also provide the jobs it needs to and build the confidence of the consumers is a big question. In my interviews, I always try to get people's real, unpolished opinions. And that's why I never share a list of questions beforehand, even if they ask. But interviews are still the public layer. The real layer is what happens off camera. The most valuable conversations and the most important decisions in life never take place in a public setup. They happen in small private rooms behind closed doors between people operating in the high level who actually trust each other. I recently brought a selected group of founders and investors to Puket. Very strong operators. One of them, for example, was he and Gok. Maybe you saw him on my channel before. Very well known VC who sold his previous business for $65 million. I spent a few days together in a private, setting, building real relationships and sharing experiences. One of those experiences was visiting Mohon Morghani at his house, a billionaire who created the Tommy Hale figure brand. We spent several hours together with him talking about life, business and decisions in a completely private setting. And after the trip, one participant is now about to invest $300,000 into another participant's company. That's what happened when the room was right. But most people never get access to rooms like this. This stuck in surface level conversations, random networks and low signal environments. Okay, this is important. The leverage is not more information. The leverage is being in the right room with right people. And that's what I'm building with the backstage circle. It's a private, curated group of founders, investors and operators who want to level up their life, business and relationships, surrounding themselves with the right people. It's a closed-door environment with real decisions about business, life philosophy, capital, positioning, big ideas and next moves. No pitching, no shell networking, only people who are open, thoughtful and operating at a high level. A big part of the backstage circle is access. I'm bringing exceptional founders, investors and billionaires. I meet personally to join these private sessions and conversations. If you're already operating at a high level and making real decisions, you can join the waiting list. The number of seats in the group is very limited. And if it's a fit, you'll get the details. Leaving permanently outside of the US for many years, how you see the change, you have this helicopter view, how you see the changes in the US when you go there like four times a year. I think the US is going through a pretty challenging time right now because nobody's happy. I think on the left people feel that there is this sort of conservative movement that is ignoring all the things that they feel are important, whether it's environment, whether it's minority rights, whether it's health care for all, you name it, all the key issues. They feel that their beliefs and their rights are being trampled on. Migrants and immigration, all these things that in a lot of ways were things that the left or the liberal side really celebrated. Diversity should be a form of strength, right? Taking care of one another is something we should take pride in as a wealthy, affluent community, the richest country in the world, how can we allow our own people to kind of be uncared for. Then I think the right feels that the issues have become far too extreme. We're focusing on things that this whole term of wokeism has now become derogatory. It's become a pejorative kind of a negative term because we're almost bending over backwards for a very small percentage of America's population. They would say it almost forcing those beliefs onto other people who may or may not believe in them. We're allowing migrants to come and take advantage of the society and free ride off of everything that the country's been built on. We've got those two extremes, but the problem is they're not able to talk to each other. They're talking at each other. An interesting comment from a friend was that we seem to all be complaining about one another, but nobody's really asking themselves what can they do to solve this problem themselves. If we're at that state, this is all compounded then by the social media because that drives views to more extreme, extremism because of the algorithm and you have your echo chambers. Then we can talk about technology disruption as well, but things get exacerbated. The stakes become very high. Then I think what you're having now is people feeling like they can barely survive. They don't have enough money to pay their daily bills yet they're looking at their future and saying what's going to happen when I retire. Some people are saying, oh my gosh, I don't even know what the world holds for me in terms of future job opportunities and I feel helpless. That cuts across the board whether you're black, white, Asian, Hispanic, whether you're on the coastal cities or in the middle of America. I think everybody now suddenly feels with the exception of a few of these tech billionaires, I think everyone feels that things are feeling very difficult and uncertain. It's like a mood you can feel it when you're there. Yeah, I feel it. Even in a fluent place like Palo Alto, someone who's making $800,000 a year said, I can barely keep up. I'm looking at them saying, are you serious? It's like, yes, because first of all, you have tax which cuts half of that. Then you have your mortgage. Then you have your kids' schools. Then you have the cost of food and you have everything else and it adds up and you barely have anything left. I'm just saying to myself, well, there's definitely something wrong. Let's talk about healthcare costs and how that's skyrocketing. For the richest country in the nation, you have to ask yourself, what can we do differently? What can we do better to help the people? What is Hong Kong on this map? The Hong Kong plays a very important role in bridging China to the world and the world to China. I think given everything that's happening, it probably is going to play an even more important role. Mainly because after COVID, a lot of China sort of closed off, a lot of foreigners left China and moved back home. Some of them came here, moved to Singapore. The entry point into China, I think, is sort of coming back to Hong Kong because it's an easy landing point. It's a system that has familiarity because of common law and English language used as the official language. I think that increasingly, there are Chinese companies also coming to Hong Kong to set up to provide an interface between the world and China and the China businesses. I feel that in the last three years as I've been here, I've seen a lot of change in terms of the inflow of foreign business people, Chinese talent, more family offices setting up here. Some even that went to Singapore and then they're coming to Hong Kong for various reasons. You have other regions like Middle East and other Southeast Asian countries coming to Hong Kong. I think this recent conflict in the Middle East has also caused people to rethink, okay, where do they want to put their offices, where do they want to focus their investment, where do they want to domicile their family offices, and Hong Kong increasingly looks like an attractive place. So you lived in China for how many years altogether? Like my life China. Maybe 12 years. 12 years. Yeah. Why you decided to move to Hong Kong? My first time in Hong Kong was after grad school. My grad school was in Nanjing and Hong Kong is where all the jobs were. So I came back here and worked for about a year and a half as a management consultant. But most of the projects I did were in China and other parts of Asia. I was quite familiar with both. But in my working life, I spent a lot of time in Hongzhou because I was with Alibaba. But our international offices were here at one point. So I spent about eight years here working for Alibaba, but again, back into China. I'm happy in either mainland China or Hong Kong, to be honest, because I like both areas. They're different in terms of what they offer. But after spending, I think it was about 10, 11 years in the mainland post-COVID, I felt it was time to come to Hong Kong mainly because the international connectivity was important to me. A lot of the expatriate population, a lot of the international related businesses that I was interacting with, sort of moved out or shut down in China at that time. And so coming to Hong Kong allowed me that connectivity with the different groups and businesses that I was interested in. And that was three years ago. I sort of miss China now and China is coming back. But my children are in school here. So it makes sense to be here for the time being. If you moved to China, which city would you move to? I think it would still be Shanghai. Shanghai? Yeah. It's not to me. Yeah. Well, it's like one big Hong Kong. Yeah. Shanghai is amazing. Yeah, yeah. For me, it's like I'm from the cold climate, but I don't want to live in the cold climate anymore. You choose. Shanghai is a little bit too cold for me. Yeah, yeah. No, I mean, it's good. The summer is a little hot, but the winter is a little bit wet and cold, but now that they've started to install floor heating, it's much more bearable. You know, there was... You mean in Shanghai? In Shanghai, yeah. There was a rule during the... During the, I think, early days of the communist era, anything south of the Yangtze River, you would not install floor heating because it wasn't necessary. That was considered like the south, so it was warm. And anything north, you could do that. So Shanghai being south of the Yangtze, you had these cold wet winters, but you didn't have floor heating. So, insane with Hangzhou. I remember, like, I would be scared to get out of bed in the morning in the winter time because the floor was so darn cold. You know, concrete floors freezing. Yeah. Yeah. But now we're here. Yeah. You don't have to be afraid of it anymore. Identity wise, you identify yourself as like 100% American oil, now it's more Chinese, so back to the roots. Also, I... I would say I'm very much American with Chinese heritage. And I think I've learned more and more about that heritage over the last 30 years to the point where I have great appreciation for that aspect of my history and my family. As much as I would like to maybe become more local, I think ultimately I just feel American. Yeah. But that always is like a contrast. When you go to another place, oftentimes the differences get more accentuated. So when I'm in China, I feel very American, but when I go back to America, I feel more Chinese. Yeah. When I'm back to the East, probably something is off. Yeah, it's like for you. Something is very different. It's something that's like... I mean, you see things from a different perspective that maybe your local friends don't see just because of your lived experience in China or Asia, right? And so I think it gives you better appreciation for things in general. In the same way that when you go to China, a lot of your local Chinese friends take things for granted, but then you appreciate it that much more as an American living in China. Yeah. What you opened about your roots and your identity, your Chinese identity, when you start... When you move to China and then live here for a while, what layer was brought to the surface? I think a few things. One is just my understanding of myself in terms of culturally what I actually was. Again, that becomes more defined as you have something in the contrast. I always thought I was very Chinese when I was growing up in America, different from my West, different from what I would say Caucasian friends who culturally grew up probably with a different environment. I mean, I grew up Christian, which also made it easier to relate to my American Caucasian friends. But then there are all these other things that come from the Chinese tradition, whether it's philial piety, whether it's certain customs and things that you eat. When I went back to China, as an American, sure, I felt much more Western, but then there was a lot of things that were familiar that felt like almost they were missing from my life in the States outside of my family. Whether it's the food, whether it's how you interact with elders, whether it's the way that you relate to the different people in your family, structure, have relatives say in Macau or in parts of China, all those things were second nature. So I think I just gained a better appreciation for all of that when I moved back to China, but it also took some adapting and adjusting living in the society because there were things that I discovered about Chinese culture. I didn't know living in the States. You have to distinguish between China and Chinese culture because the two have a lot of overlap but are not always the same thing. And I can get into that more later. Yeah, like what? Like, give me an example. Let's just say a lot of this superstition that comes from more of the Southern Chinese custom like Feng Shui or Baotze or even things like face reading. That's very much a Southern kind of tradition of believing in these things. Up in the north of China, there's much less interest or even adherence to that. A lot of that traditional, what I would call traditional Chinese culture has actually been preserved in places like San Francisco, Chinatown, Hong Kong, or Thai Wan, or even in Singapore or Penang, Malaysia. So there are elements of Chinese culture that are actually more authentic and closer to the traditional beliefs outside of China than inside China. And I found that to be quite fascinating. I think there's, yeah. So that's probably a good example to relate that Chinese culture has actually been dispersed to many parts of the world. Much of it has remained in China, but also some has been lost because of the cultural revolution you recall from 1960s, 1970s. There was a big move to actually eradicate what was considered feudal beliefs that were not good for modern society. That included some of the traditional philosophical thinking. You know, even things that were from Confucius were kind of looked down on because it was too structured, maybe they felt like it was holding back society. And so if you look at that time period, there was a whole sort of attempt to kind of erase a lot of that. But in places like Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Singapore, they remained. Even in, as I mentioned, San Francisco, Chinatown, New York, Chinatown, you see a lot of that still there. Yeah, I can relate. There is a place called in New York City, it's called Brighton Beach, I've heard about it. I know Brighton, yeah, yeah. What about it? It's like Russian people there. People who speak Russian language. And they came in the Soviet Union times, there were several waves. So basically, the Soviet Union culture and lifestyle preserved there, conserved there, I would say. That's neat. So it's crazy. It's stuck in time, right? Yeah, it's stuck in time. If you go there now, it's like, what the hell? I've not seen there for many, many years, maybe when I was a child. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Even like the type of the shops that they have. The words they use. How the words they use. The beliefs that they have, which is like quite insane. Yeah. It's very interesting that you mentioned exactly the same about Chinese culture. Yeah. Yeah. It is fascinating. And so like, I always make that distinction. Chinese culture is almost larger than China, but much of it is still in China. It's just, it's been modified. Yeah. I guess also what people don't understand, Chinese very diverse. It's like there are so many like lifestyle, I think, in a small province, in a small town in the village, would be so much different from life in Chenzhen, right? Yeah, yeah. They will definitely. Two different universities. So then you have the rural and the urban life, and even within urban cities, you have differences. Because yes, as you said, north and south, Chinese culture has distinct characteristics. Like if you go to Fujin versus Hainan versus Harbin versus Chendu, not only is the food different, but there are cultural traits within the people that are also different. Yeah. Yeah. Which makes it fun. It makes it fun, yeah. Yeah. Funny, I grew up, I grew up in Vadybostok. Oh, okay. It's near Harbin. Yeah. Sorry, I remember from a childhood memory, there were so many people going back and forth to Harbin by stuff there and selling it back to Russia in the market. That's right. Yeah, so Harbin was like nearby. Man, you can take the cold weather then, huh? I can take what I don't like. I can't. That's why I live in Singapore. That's right here. It's a pretty big change. How's your values changed through the years? Like, living here. Because American values are strong. I have American friends and I treat a lot of American people. Many of them say it's hard to get rid of being American because it's so engraved. It's so strong. You grew up with it. Maybe for you it's a bit different because you grew up like being outside or being Asian in a white society. But American values engraved heavily. What's your take on that? So I would say there are certain values that I would consider American that remain. I think it's this sense of what the importance of freedom, also with freedom comes the importance of being able to express yourself and express your opinions. There is a slight, I'd say, individualism that also comes with that. But I think because I had the Chinese heritage, there's the counterbalance to that, which is, you know, much more collective in terms of thinking. The importance of harmony and structure and abiding by certain hierarchy. When I say hierarchy, it's really within a family structure. How do you respect your elders? How do you see yourself within a larger society in the role that you play? So I almost feel gifted in that I have both perspectives and that I can appreciate both. But I would say I was never one extreme to the other. And that is why I feel comfortable in both places. I can appreciate arguments on both sides when it gets to US China kind of debate. But I do think that the societies have differences in terms of how people see themselves and relative to the larger society. And I would say one of the big differences is individual versus collective. Yeah. So how you balance it? Like the sense of freedom would be different as I was explained. Yeah. Western people, like it's ungeneralizing, but in the religion, freedom for Western person is like to be able to express anything I want. Yes. And freedom in Chinese or like Asian culture is different, right? Yes. So if you asked me maybe 10 years ago what I thought would be kind of the where I sit on the spectrum, I would have leaned more towards the importance of freedom of expression and just freedom in general. I think what I've seen in the probably last decade or so is that there are, I would say, limits to the amount of freedom that you want to exercise to the point where it can disrupt societal harmony. And what I mean by that is whether it's the media, whether it's individual behavior, you have to say, okay, at what point am I actually harming society, but fulfilling my rights to freedom versus ensuring that society remains stable, but also maybe stepping back a bit on my freedoms. And I would like to think that I have a choice in making that, which is probably the American side of me. But then you also see that there are situations where having some sort of system that guides that behavior so that the society can better function are sometimes required in situations where those lines might not be as clear or individuals will take advantage of those freedoms for self-benefit at the expense of others. So I think that that's kind of how my views have sort of evolved over time, but I still think both are important. And in life, there's never a fixed answer to any of this. It's always a continuum that's moving left and right. And I would say that for a long time we had too much control and not enough freedom. And then we started to move to too much freedom and not enough stability. So I think you're going to see a shift in the pendulum back to the middle because that's just how societies work, that's how the world evolves. And as long as we're conscientious of that, hopefully we as a community, as a group, as a humanity can then start to say, okay, what do we need to do to ensure that we're all safe, that we're all able to survive properly, and we don't end up harming ourselves. We know there is a censorship on YouTube, so I cannot share all my raw opinions and thoughts and insights from meeting billionaires and high level operators here on YouTube. But I can do it on Telegram. So if you want to see the backstage from my interviews and very fresh raw opinions after most incredible people I meet, and how I run this YouTube business, join the Telegram channel. And then you can go to the top right corner of the screen or link below. Can you guide me through your career? So your famous to be the number 52 in Alibaba? Yeah. Yeah. Maybe in a large brush strokes, can you guide me through your business career? My career? Yeah, your career. Well, it's really not a traditional career. It's very windy and complicated. So let me just try and simplify it and say that my career was a career that was one more of discovery than planning. And I was supposed to be a doctor originally because my father was a doctor, and I thought I would do public health and work for the WHO. That was my ideal life. But instead it was a mixture of management, consulting, city politics, technology in China, and then a little bit of education. I've gone in and out of Alibaba three times. I was the first American. I was the only person to leave three times. In 1999, right? 1999 started. I moved from San Francisco. I was working for the mayor of San Francisco at the time. Really enjoying that life in terms of understanding how government and city interacted. I actually think municipal government, city government has the most rewarding because you can interact with people directly and do real things. So that was a really exciting job for me. Also, I always wondered why San Francisco had 30% Chinese population, but never had a Chinese American mayor at the time. I worked for a guy named Willie Brown. There were a lot of Chinese in the community, but they had yet to be a Chinese American mayor. So I said, what would it take to actually reach that leadership role? Unfortunately, I never stayed around long enough to find out because I met Jack in 1999 and then moved to Hangzhou. The reason I did that is because I understood that technology was going to be a real force of change in society. But I wanted to be in an emerging market where I could use that technology to affect that change in that market. And I believe that China would be the most exciting place to do that. Jack had a fantastic vision. I thought it made a complete sense what he wanted to do because much of my job as a management consultant in Asia was to help international businesses find business partners. Do do diligence, do searches for them, either to find suppliers or to find, you know, join venture partners. And what Jack was creating through Alibaba was exactly the kind of stuff companies were looking for, but they were hiring humans, human consultants to go and find it. So I'm like, well, if you can make it easier, at least in that first step to find your business partners, you don't have to go to the Canton Trade Show. Like I would go to the Canton Trade Show on behalf of large multinationals and find suppliers, one by one going through that whole warehouse full of exhibits. And like Alibaba seemed like a brilliant idea at the time. So I did that for a few years, but it was very frustrating because we didn't know what we didn't have a business model. We didn't have a business plan. What Jack said was true. It was like, we don't have a business plan. We had a little bit of money. We didn't have any technology. We had probably half our team was sales. And they were direct sales, door to door sales. I said, why on earth are we hiring so many salespeople offline when we're an internet company? Can't we just sell the product online? And what I failed to realize is that all of China had yet to discover the internet. And so what you needed to do was actually have a door to door salespeople, not just to sell product, but to educate small, medium sized business owners that the internet existed. Yes. And so what Jack and the team effectively did was educate China and Chinese business owners about the internet vis-a-vis the sales team. And then in return for that, they got paid because these customers would actually buy Alibaba product. So anyhow, that was just a crazy time. And I said, maybe I need to go back to school and learn what businesses. And then I can go back and work at a normal company. And so I left after two years and went to Wharton. You know, that's supposed to be a really good business school. And learn something. And then I went to go work from a Grau Hill companies, which was a unique conglomerate. It was education, financial services, and media. And I thought those would be the building blocks of a modern society. I can learn about all of that. But after about two and a half years, I realized I was going to be in New York for another three years if I wanted to move back to China with McGraw Hill. And that's when Jack actually came to New York and we had dinner and he said, Brian, we needed to come back to Alibaba because we're going to globalize the business. And so I looked at three years versus right now, the startup versus this very mature sort of conglomerate. And I said, I'll take growth and excitement over stability. It was a hard decision, by the way, at the time, but looking back as a no-brainer. So I went back to Alibaba. And so, you know, that's kind of how things played out. I won't get into details about the third time I left, or the second time I left. But I would say that the experience delivered what I had aspired to achieve, which was be a part of this societal change in which technology was the engine of growth. How was Jack Ma back then in 1999? And what might you believe that, okay, this guy probably has vision? The Jack Ma that you might have met in 1999 was not that different from the Jack Ma that you would have met, like, I'd say, in 2020, right? He was very much his visionary, aspirational. The things he said have not changed in terms of the vision of the company and what he hopes it would do. I would say that he not only achieved what he said out to do, he even went even beyond that, because we didn't know things like cloud was going to exist. We didn't know what AI was going to do. We just thought we were going to create a platform to make it easy for businesses, to make it easy to do business anywhere, whether it was for commerce, payment, logistics. But then the whole computing side of cloud and AI came afterwards, which you can't foresee everything that's going to happen, but I think what was really important is his focus was always on the small, medium-sized enterprises. And whatever we did, functionally, for businesses, was always applied to the small, medium-sized enterprises. And I think that's what made the mission far more noble than just serving large corporations. Because that's where motivation came from, for the employees. That's where you had loyalty of your customers. And that's, I think, what was really truly a social mission that integrated business into a meaningful cause for the larger society. You've been pretty close with them, working with them on many projects, right? What did you learn from him, like being super close to him? I think one of the things that really stuck out is his authenticity, like who he is behind doors versus who he is on stage, very similar. I mean, he's very confident on stage and sometimes will make large grandiose statements, but it's not arrogance, it's a belief in something that he feels is important. But at the same time behind doors, he is very cognizant of people and how he treats them. Whether it's the guy at the door man or the driver or people that you would think these rich, important people aren't going to pay much attention to. He cares as much about those people as he does the high profile people that he's meeting. And I find that to be an admirable trait, I also think someone who says what they truly believe is very hard to find in this era, particularly when you become that successful. But that's how he's always been. He has not changed fundamentally from the time that I met him in 1999 till today. And I think part of that comes from his life experience where he realized that, you know, there are those who are overlooked, there's those who are mistreated and that somebody needs to look out for them and that's kind of how he gears his time and attention. And I think that's very, very admirable in a business leader in today's world. Yeah, 100%. How does it function, like observing and working, like does he has like a specific routine, or like how does he make decisions, like this kind of stuff, like what you can? Well, I always thought like, you know, these really successful people have their gurus, you know, like, or some sort of theory of belief. And I found with him, he's the kind of person that will meet people from all walks of life. You know, everything from like, obviously he's very excited in the early days that he can meet like Jack Welch or he can meet Bill Gates and these people. But he also really enjoyed going on a museum tour and talking to a curator or talking to the policeman who guided us, you know, during, you know, one of our, when they set up the caravan to get us to the airport and just to understand their thinking. And why is that important? Well, he's the kind of guy that will take ideas from many different people and then synthesize that into his own view of the world. And he does that with such clarity, but his ideas are novel. He hates it when you tell him something. It's like, oh, well, this is what everyone's doing or everyone's thinking. So maybe we should do this. He's like, that's exactly why we shouldn't do it. It's because if everyone's doing it, it's probably the wrong thing to do. And, you know, he talks in riddles or these paradoxes that maybe to most people would be puzzling at first, but then you realize the guy's pretty deep. I mean, he's got a very daoist mindset. And the example I always bring up is like, he said, Alibaba is successful because we have no money, no business plan, no technology. And he said that at a Harvard conference when the company was starting out. And everybody just laughed. And like, this guy's crazy. Nobody took him seriously. But his whole point was like, you don't want to lock yourself down to a business model in an industry that's just emerging. So you have to be highly adaptable. Money is not too much money for your company if you raise it. It's not good because it makes you stupid. You make dumb decisions because you get lazy. You choose the easy way out. And he doesn't understand technology. It was actually a good thing because what Jack allowed was for his technologists to come up with the best solutions that he as a common person would test. But like, not overly dictate, oh, you should use this kind of computer language to write it. You should use this sort of database and so that. Because what happens is you become the limit to your company based on how much you know about the technology. And you come a ceiling, right? And so he never was that. He was more the tester and said, okay, if I can use this as a normal guy who doesn't understand technology, it's easy enough for every other business user to use. That was the beauty of Alibaba. Is it simplicity that allowed small business owners who had no technology background to be able to use it for their everyday use? What was the highest position in Alibaba? The highest? Minor? Yeah, yours, yours. Oh, I was, I don't know. Like vice president? Yeah, vice president, I guess, in head of like the International Business Unit. Afterwards, there were other levels that they created, but I was managing the International Business for a number of years. Everything outside of China. Yeah. And Alibaba did IPO in 2014. Yeah. Were you able to retire after the IPO? I was able to retire, but I didn't retire. Yeah. But I mean, you like made like a lot of money, like hundreds of millions. I don't, if you're like, no, I mean, I look, I think everybody has their needs in life. My needs are pretty simple. I'll just say that, yeah, I could have retired after the IPO and lived a very comfortable life. And I think for me, it was more about the work that needs to be done. And having enough to fund the things that are of interest to me. So, you know, looking forward, like if I were to leave the company, would I have enough to actually invest in other businesses that are going to keep me engaged? What was your projects after that, after Alibaba? So I mean, today I have a few projects. One is this media company I started called Radii, RADII.co is the URL. And it's really a, it's a content, digital media content platform that provides a window into youth culture in China and the rest of Asia. And that is important to me because I felt, during my time living in China, working at Alibaba, and then traveling back to the US, there was a growing disconnect in terms of understanding what's actually happening in China today and the region versus what people were understanding through, the media that they were reading and consuming in the West. And I think that part of the reason why suddenly everybody's shocked to see, oh, suddenly the EV cars are so advanced and robotics are so advanced and China's technologies so on par with the US is because they weren't watching it closely and they weren't paying attention. But also you need to understand what's underneath that. What drives this population of people to be able to create at such a speed to work so hard, to innovate at the way they do? I heard so many times that, oh, they don't innovate in China, they just copped. Yeah, that's what they'll say in the comments. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And it's like, guys, that changed like a decade or more ago, you know, two decades ago. So it's, see, this is where I put on my American hat. I said, you know, it's really incumbent upon us as Americans to understand how the world is changing so you can stay competitive. Don't create a scapegoat out there and blame someone else for the things that you haven't done. Start investing again in yourself and your capability so you can stay competitive. But I think culturally it's also important so we don't fear one another. I think a lot of this conversation around this existential threat to America that China represents is misplaced because if you talk to a lot of Chinese young people today, they have very positive impressions of America. Most of them want to go to study in America and they'd like to live in America. And if they actually go and study, you know, prior to the recent time before they started to get discriminated against and all the anti-China stuff, they came back with a very positive impression of China. 300,000 or more Chinese students go to America every year to study and how many go from America to China? About 30,000 at most. Now it's even less. So there is this huge lack of understanding of China in America, but the Chinese they adore and they really respect America. And so radii was an effort to at least provide a window into all the cool things that are happening in the country, whether it's from entertainment, music, fashion, but also technology, wellness, so that young people can see this and say, well, those young people in China are not that different from myself and what they like to do. They get tattoos. Oh, they like hip-hop music. Oh, they're into wellness and they are eating things that I think would be, you know, really interesting to try out. Those flavors, those recipes, whatever. In the fashion is cool. I want to get a pair of those shoes or whatever. So I think that that's important and so I created that company. It's called radii. If you advise like young people how to be like, if they ask you, okay, how I get successful life with all this uncertainty, like economy and fears, what would be your advice on how in terms of the skills that you should learn or in terms of their, how they should make decisions for the future life. I think three things I would say, number one is ask yourself, what is it that excites you and what are you curious about? Because the desire to learn and constantly sort of recreate yourself is an important driver in terms of motivating you, but also that will help you achieve success. Like there's no formula that one needs, it's going to follow that's going to be foolproof given all the changes that are happening. So number one is find things that spark your curiosity. Number two, I think is really have a set of values that help guide you. Like what is important in your life? What are the things that really will help you make decisions? And for me, it was doing the greatest good for the greatest number of people. That could have been achieved through medicine and healthcare. And the reason I said I wanted to do public health and not be a physician is a physician you help people one by one, public health you can help impact that scale. Okay, I didn't go into medicine, but why did I choose technology is because you can impact a society at scale using technology. That was also the reason why I tried politics and government because government can affect that scale. So you can see that thread that tied through all this seemingly random decisions, but it was driven by a set of values that were very clear to me from the onset. And I think every young person should have some purpose defined through their values. And then the third thing I'd say is choose your friends wisely because you are the product of your seven closest friends. Maybe it's eight, I don't know the exact number. But who you spend time with shapes, how you believe it shapes, how you see the world, but also shapes it your trajectory of who you meet and how you your life unfolds. So I'd say those three things. No, it's like with the third thing I mentioned that we are like having this backstage circle is a private club. So basically the big idea was because I met so many entrepreneurs and like the higher people go, the more lonely they become. Yes. Because they can relate to less people around them. Like to sometimes you can relate to like your employees anymore. And then your family is like different stories. Yes. You can share everything with your family. Yes. So basically we start like creating this group of like very high level entrepreneurs and investors in a region with the big focus of in a region in Asia. Yeah. That's great. Singapore, Hong Kong, Thailand, that's the most like for now is the majority of members. Yeah. And we do this event. So for example, we did this event in Poukiet, what well founders and investors. The people also, I don't know what's what's your takes on that. But when you're in your own routine, it's kind of hard to detach yourself and like make a big decision. You need to basically go to some other place. Like spend time without phone. Spend time with like talking to people on your level. Yeah. And then the decision came you made. So that's why we do this events in Poukiet and in Singapore in Hong Kong when people can, okay, for three days, you'll spend time with the same level of people very high level. And also, for example, we met this Mohan Morghani, a founder of the Fingert. So I guess it's like important sometimes to detach yourself from your routine to have like a bigger vision. Yes. Yeah. Makes sense. I agree. Yeah. You met so many like incredible people through your like business life and career. Do you have some approach how you like build relationships or how you network or how you do this? I wish I had a routine that I could tell you I follow. You know, if I meet someone famous or successful, I try and do research beforehand to find the common interests or things that I would like to talk to them about. I look at it as an opportunity to learn from someone who's achieved greatness and probably has something really meaningful to share. So that's how I would approach these interactions. And I've been inspired by many people like just this last week I met this musician, John Betis, who's this Juilliard train jazz classical musician. And I played music for 20 years, a classical musician. But I never really delved into jazz music. And just the whole world that that opens up because he takes classical pieces like he has a an album called Beethoven Blues and Black Mozart. These are albums, basically layers like blues and jazz on top of classical music pieces. Just the genius of that just opened up a whole world that said to myself, wow, you know, if we can improvise in other ways of our life that we get outside of these standard structures and just allow our creativity to flow, like that is just so liberating but also so enjoyable. And he's a very nice guy. We talked a bit. I met his father and there were all these other really important people at this event. And we all sat around and he had this small recital. And the kind of joy and just excitement that his music brought to that group to me was just, it was amazing. And I think it just made me realize we often live in the cerebral space much of our time. But we have to also engage the heart and remain playful in our lives. You know, I've made more of an effort to do things I probably didn't have time to do before since I was working full time at Alibaba. And some of the things I try and do are things that take me out of my mental state and put me more into the flow. Yeah. Yeah, I call it like asymmetric people. Yeah. It's actually my friend, he and Gorg, he runs one of the biggest VC fans in Southeast Asia space. So that's his concept basically that I stole asymmetric people. Yeah. Okay. It's, for example, if you, your first social circle is like in West Bankers. Yeah. So that's your world. Yeah. But then if you meet like someone's super successful but from the very different niche. Yeah. It can be business but it can be like arts, for example, or sport. You're like, okay, that's what you can basically get from these people and from how they live. Yeah. And then you can really apply it in your business and your area. Absolutely. Yeah. I think there's a lot to be learned from that. And I think that when you talk about industries, you can talk about disciplines. But this interdisciplinary kind of wherever there is an overlap of two very different ways of thinking, I think it's where you get breakthroughs and innovation and creativity and things that are very valuable for your, for new thinking. Yeah. Yeah. We are wrapping up on the backstage circle. We will leave a link in description and a QR code on the screen. We are having the next event in Puket for the members in September. So check it out. Where do you personally invest in? Like, do you have a, what's your strategy? What are you believing right now to invest in? I have different kinds of investment. I'd say some are for longer term wealth creation. Others are for more stable. So that's maybe, you know, you could say those are just index funds. And then you have something that's more tangible, more stable, that's real estate. But diversified, not just in one country. You have to spread that out, given everything that's happening. Then you have some for cash flow that could be real estate plus a private credit. And then you have, you're more speculative investments, but also use them for learning. That's the venture side. And I'd say venture is probably like the smallest allocation of that. But it's the most interesting for me. Because you're in there with the founders, you're learning, you're growing together. And you could potentially make returns, right? But more than anything is you're staying in the flow. And so a lot of that is now AI related. Even invested early stage in a hyper-scaler that, I mean, it's astronomical to see how that industry is changing. But that allows you to see things from both the kind of infrastructure side up to the applications. And then you've got to just use the stuff to learn it. And I think that that's kind of how I structure my investment portfolio. And hopefully it will allow me to sleep comfortably at night, but also continue to learn, right? Yeah. So you invest in real estate? Real estate, yeah. Real estate, yeah. Which countries, which like regions? US, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, had some in China before. So really the regions that I spend my time. And you might say, well, that's not as diversified as you should be. Why don't you have some in London or Portugal or something? Real estate is very local. You have to be in the market and understand at a very local level what's happening. And for me too, it's like you have to enjoy going to visit these places. I would love to have stuff in Europe, but it's just too far for me to fly. So I just go to the areas that I spend time but try and diversify it. It's mainly residential. It's all residential, not like industrial commercial. No, I have some commercial and residential. Yeah, interesting. And then you said like you displace your renting. So you're renting the place that you like to be in, like the area and stuff. But then you put your money to invest like in real estate. It's like a psychological thing. Many people say, OK, you have to, when you made money, just buy place and live in it. But your approach is not... Well, you have to understand the place you live is probably the worst investment you can make because you can never sell it until you decide you're going to move somewhere else. But everyone say, well, you can save money on rent by putting it into the mortgage. In this case, you have to decide if the amount that you put in as a down payment is going to be worthwhile in terms of the appreciation, the capital appreciation versus putting it elsewhere. Yes. Right? Because I think I would love to live in the place that I own full time. But in Hong Kong right now, given where the market is and given the price of the real estate, it may or may not make sense to lock up that much cash in that place you live, whereas you can maybe put it in another investment and actually get great returns. The yield is not great, that's what I said. The yield is terrible. Especially if it's a luxurious or more premium place, more specialist place, the yield is like 1-2%. That's right. Super small, is it? That's right. So you have to get in at a really good price. You can get a higher yield or expect that the capital appreciation is going to be significant. And I think there's probably better places to invest. But again, like you said, it's stability. Who wants to get the rent jacked up and then have to move? So it's a balance. I mean, if I need to, I have a place in Hong Kong that we can move to, but the south side is a really beautiful part of Hong Kong and to find quality properties that come online and are available at a good price is very rare. So I think you just, you got to enjoy your life. Just do whatever you need to do to have the right environment for yourself. But then just think about how to be practical about how you manage your finances. You said that you like to go to places where you have property. Then you stay there or do you rent out in the meantime? Yeah, I usually rent them out. One of them I made into a hotel. But at least I can go and check on the space and see. I enjoy going to that location because it's a wonderful destination. If you have residential property, you can go check out the area to make sure everything is developing well or if there's new developments next or how is that going to impact your supply in that area. If you have commercial, you can see how those streets are doing in terms of the retail business, the foot traffic, etc. And at the same time, it's a vacation because you enjoy going. You can eat and see sights and whatnot. What keeps you motivated still? What drives you these days? I think it's purpose. It's trying to find things that are going to fulfill my lifelong mission, which I told you. And the reason why I spend so much time on US-China relations is I think for the betterment in the sanctity of not just US and China, but the whole world, we need to figure out how to get along. And no one person can solve that problem, but we can all do our small part in this. I can contribute to that conversation in a constructive way. That's going to be the biggest bang for my buck. I don't know how many years left in my life. I've got children that I hope will inherit a safe and stable and peaceful world. But if we don't solve this problem, we're going to be in for a very, very tough ride. Because both the United States and China are great nations with great aspirations, but they don't understand each other. So that's what keeps me up. It drives me. That's what motivates me. And also it's fun, right? Because there's a lot of opportunities to engage this culturally in terms of community, building, political, and economically. There's a lot of topics, even philosophically. I'll tell you one thing I discovered in this process, if you don't mind. I always wondered why what kind of relationship US-China had with one another, because my ties there for so long. I actually came to realize through my research that America's early economy was heavily dependent on or involved with Chinese trade. Because after America's independence from Britain, the Boston tea rebellion, the tea they were throwing into the Boston Harbor, you know what it was? Wu Long tea from China. And there was this vibrant trade between US and China. It was a lot of the British trade routes. They had something called the British East Indies Company, which actually Hong Kong, Singapore, Penang were all part of that route. And so the American ships would kind of utilize that trade route. After the independence, America couldn't use them. The British cut them off. So what do they have to do? Find a new trade route. What was a big driver of the move west for America? This manifest destiny, the war with Mexico to take over California, it was to find a direct trade route to China so America could continue to trade. And because of that trade, you had a lot of these brahmins, these wealthy elite American families like the Delanours, the Russells that made a ton of money off China trade, which also included opium by the way, not just beaver pelts and jinxing tea. And a lot of that money is what funded Harvard, Yale, and a lot of the elite universities. The first trading clipper ship out of America after the independence, the war of independence, is the Empress of China. And so there's so much intertwined between US and China from onset. You know what, I think it's the Eastern Gate of the Supreme Court. There's a statues of all these great thinkers, whether it's like Socrates and all the different thinkers. There's also a statue of Confucius in that set of statues. Because Benjamin Franklin and a lot of the great American thinkers believed that this Eastern thought the Chinese philosophers merited placement within this sort of pantheon. And then I could go on and on about American philosophy, transcendental movement. This is one of the defining philosophical movements in 1800s America, Henry David Thoreau, Ralph Waldo Emerson. And you know, it was philosophical movement behind the environmentalist movement, women's suffrage, anti-slavery, and also civil rights. And if you look at the text, a lot of the texts that they quote is actually Chinese in Eastern philosophy. You have menchists, you have Confucius, you have Hinduism, you have Buddhism, all mentioned. Because it was the transcendentalist that actually translated Chinese philosophical texts into English and then brought them to America. So our links to America or our China and American links from the early days are not insignificant. And a lot of what defines American culture today was partly due to influences from Eastern thought. And so we shouldn't think of ourselves as being that different from one another because we're actually interlinked. And once you start to recognize this, then you realize there's a lot to be learned from both sides. And we should not be holding each other as these arch enemies, but actually people that we can help one another to become better at civilizations. Yeah. And I bet people don't know it. People don't realize. They don't. Even when I was, so this whole philosophical tie with transcendentalism and Chinese philosophy was my college thesis. But I had a heart, I read the text like in Theroux, you see the Chinese quotes of like Mentionst and Dows. But when you look up academic critiques of this, there's very little that they talk about it in the US publications. There's a lot of people that write about it in Malaysia, in Korea, and whatnot. But there wasn't a lot in the Western text. But I think hopefully over time, you know, this will grow and people will acknowledge it. Because it's important. Like, we need to understand where we came from on both sides. And I think America is more diverse than people realize in terms of its founding heritage. What's the meaning of life? Oh my god. There's a question. What is a Tuesday afternoon question? Do you ask this to everyone that you talk to? Yeah, I try to ask this question. I guess I'm very interested. I introduce so many successful people like yourself. But I'm always curious like why, like why, the big why, why they doing it, what you're doing. Well, I think the meaning of life in my view is to gain as much experience as you can to enlighten yourself so that you can answer that question ultimately at the end. You know, a friend of mine has this whole theory. I think it's based on a Buddhist belief. But you know, there's different stages of life. But the last stage is about transcendence. And I was like, what does that even mean? And you know, because there's a learning stage, there's a giving stage, and there's a transcendence stage. I think when you, the meaning of life, when you come to realize the meaning of life is when you're able to integrate yourself and your identity and your, probably your spirit with the world around you. And you have to go through these processes, learning and then giving and then in order to transcend. And so I would say that as you get older through experience, you know, there's the intellectual learning, and then there's the experiential learning. And then when you teach and share with others, there's a learning there as well. Like I find with my children, I learn new things about myself just by sharing and caring for them. I think at one, at some point, then you start to recognize the connection with nature, with your surroundings, with, you know, maybe spirits with the Cosmo, you know, the Cosmic world. And maybe at some point you reach that level of awareness. And so maybe that's the meaning of life. But until you go through these processes, you may or may not know. So for me, it's one big, how should I say, journey that excites me every day because you wake up. You're like, what am I going to experience today? What am I going to try today? What realizations am I going to come up with today? And you just hope that you'll be around long enough so that you can come up with that answer in some form before you leave this earth.