---
video_title: "Will China Overtake the US? | George Yeo"
video_id: uDyy-sJU5Fg
channel_name: "Max Chernov"
channel_id: UChpB0OZBEbXLdSLZtvkbC6Q
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uDyy-sJU5Fg
video_date: 2026-04-29T12:59:11+00:00
video_description: |
  🌏 Apply for The Backstage Circle: https://forms.gle/huwR6NQNz5A4XgC78
  ✈️ Go to https://holafly.sjv.io/4aJDXG and use code MAXCHERNOV to get 10% on Holafly plans for the first 12 months or 5% off on any other Holfafly eSIM
  🤝 Thanks to Saga Metals Corp for supporting* today's video. You can get their latest presentation here on their website: https://saga-presentation.com/max-chernov
  😏 Unfiltered opinions on Telegram: https://t.me/friendsofmax
  
  *DISCLAIMER
  PAID ADVERTISEMENT / SPONSORED CONTENT
  This video was produced on behalf of Saga Metals Corp. (TSXV: SAGA | OTCQB: SAGMF) and paid for by a third-party marketing agency. The host received financial compensation.
  This content is not targeted to residents of any specific country or jurisdiction and is for informational and entertainment purposes only. It is not investment advice, a recommendation, solicitation, endorsement, or offer to buy or sell securities. The host and author are not responsible for investment decisions made based on this video.
  Mining and small-cap stocks involve significant risk, so viewers should review official filings, technical reports, disclosures, and risk factors before investing. Forward-looking statements are speculative. No NI 43-101 compliant mineral resource estimate has been established. This ad has not been reviewed or approved by any securities regulator.
  ***
  
  Meet George Yeo, Singapore’s former Minister for Foreign Affairs and one of Asia’s most respected statesmen. For over two decades, he worked at the highest levels of government, dealt with China’s senior leadership and helped navigate a changing global order. George Yeo breaks down how China wants to shape the world, what Beijing really thinks about Singapore and whether China will go to war in the future. Enjoy! 
  
  LET'S BOOST OUR RELATIONSHIP
  📷 Casual daily life on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/chernov_networking
  🧩 Trips with Max in Phuket, Singapore, HK: https://apply.thebackstagecircle.com/phuket
  🎙 Listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts: https://open.spotify.com/show/1dktMfOBp11LNp52X3mkuR  or https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/max-chernov/id1875665593
  👥 Sponsorship requests / Guest suggestions: max@maxchernov.sg
  
  TODAY'S GUEST
  ➢ Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/georgeyeopage/
  
  WATCH NEXT
  ► Tech Multi-Millionaire Shares How He Built His Wealth Using AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O10NKwSJMek 
  ► Wealth Strategies of American Multi-Millionaire in Singapore: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Nz74s44wsQ 
  ► Singapore’s multi-millionaire on China, America and AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tP7QksbJVQ
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 INTRO
  00:51 What the West Still Gets Wrong About China
  03:11 How China Sees the Outside World
  04:25 Why China Keeps Such Deep Historical Records
  06:27 How China Views Russia, Ukraine, and the Middle East
  09:00 Why China Thinks Differently About Governance
  11:09 Private Membership for Business Owners and Investors Across Asia
  13:34 China’s Vision for a Non-Western Future
  15:08 Will China Go to War? Taiwan, The South China Sea
  19:06 Japan, Korea, and China’s Hardest Regional Challenges
  19:56 Why Learning Chinese Still Matters
  21:44 The Hidden Rules of Chinese Culture
  22:46 What Beijing Really Thinks About Singapore
  24:01 How Singapore Balances the US and China
  26:17 Travel Hack You Need to Know
  27:33 Singapore’s Strategy for Survival
  31:41 Singapore vs Hong Kong: Why They Are Not the Same
  34:04 Singapore’s Biggest Challenge
  36:43 Hong Kong’s Future Inside China
  39:23 George Yeo About Lee Kuan Yew
  41:23 Why Lee Kuan Yew Understood Singaporeans
  42:46 What Investors Should Know About The US
  44:56 The Private Side of Lee Kuan Yew
  46:57 Why Lee Kuan Yew Could Not Lead Today
  48:49 How to Stay Grounded in Uncertain Times
  52:32 Can People Really Change?
  53:37 Regrets in Life
  55:32 The Story Behind the Russian Orthodox Church in Singapore
  59:56 What It Feels Like to Be 72
  01:02:00 Why You Should Never Stop Learning
  01:04:56 The Meaning of Life
  
  This channel features raw conversations about wealth, global mobility, and mastery.
  
  I sit down with founders, investors, operators, experts, and outliers navigating the biggest shifts of our time, many of them based in or connected to Asia. We talk about money, leverage, relocation, power, tradeoffs, and the real decisions shaping what’s next, not as theory, but from lived experience.
  
  Some conversations happen inside billionaire homes. Some happen remotely with experts shaping global systems. All of them focus on signal over noise. 
  
  If you care about where to build, where to live, how to make better decisions in uncertain times, and what the future demands, you’re in the right place.
---
Me, Georgio, Singapore's former minister for foreign affairs and one of Asia's most respected statesmen. For over two decades, he worked at the highest levels of government, dealt with China's senior leadership, and helped navigate a changing global order. There is a non-Western way to the future. You don't have to follow the Western way to get into the future. Georgio breaks down how China wants to shape the world. They always expect to be very important, very central, very powerful. What Beijing really thinks about Singapore? The Singapore is not an extension of China, but will never be unfriendly to China. And whether China will go to war in the future? Today we have a conflict over Taiwan and China. I'm Mark Chernov, based in Singapore. I host rock conversations about wealth, global mobility and mastery. So I want to start with China. Because I started going to China like two, three years ago, and I'm fascinated about how China is growing. And you go to first time to China, it's like, what's going on? Completely different world. But what do you think the outside world don't understand about China? What's the biggest misconceptions in the US or in the West about China? How China functions? For much of the world, they used to seeing China struggling. Not always able to get things right for a long time. So it's as if they have not pressed the refresh button on the screen. And so many people are trapped in all views of China. Still. And the country is changing very fast. And if you have not visited it for two, three years, it would be surprised by the changes that have taken place. I don't know, maybe you wouldn't talk to your counterparts in the US, like colleagues or friends in the US. Are they still thinking, well, China is it's like very, like, as it's old China from... No, no, the thing of China as a country in these early days of industrialization, copycat, stealing the natural property, low quality products. This time you... This time you... The idea of China is a technological power and in some areas overtaken the West. It's hard for many to accept. Maybe it preferred to judge China rather than to accept it for what it is. Maybe they're like refused to believe that China is strong and modern now. Because if you live in the US and you've been taught to have many US American friends and they grew up, they told me they grew up with the notion that America is the best, it's the best country in the world. And then they see China rising, maybe they see TikTok or Instagram, YouTube, they see content about like robots in China and it's like, ah, probably fake, fake. It's like... Someone going through stages of grief, it begins with denial, it's not true, the data is false, it's fake. Then it's anger, you know. Oh, they're stealing from us. It's our intellectual property, they're just copying. They're being unfair. I think now they're going through a bargaining phase. There will be a period of depression before this acceptance. And the real response will come only after this acceptance. How China sees the outside world? How China sees the US like the world outside? Because sometimes it feels like China is like the universe on its own and they kind of don't care what's going on in the outside world. Well for most of its history, because it's a big country and people are homogeneous. Yes, sometimes few that they could get on without the rest of the world. It's a universe until itself is self-sustaining. It gets you continue to grow and progress. But they also know that in the 19th century, when outsiders came knocking and they thought they had everything, that's when the decline was the most precipitous and dangerous. So they know that it's very dangerous to shut your doors to the world outside. But at the same time preserve the tranquility of your own internal ocean. So you remember sitting, being talking about the two circulations, the external circulation and the domestic circulation. The external circulation will always be subject to political changes, all kinds of crises, maybe even sabotage sometimes. But the internal circulation should be self-sustaining and protected. The internal circulation is much bigger than the external circulation. It's always been. The frustration for many countries is, why is it that when I relate to China, I need you more than you need me? People don't like it. But the reason for this is the homogeneity of the Chinese population. I wish it's a phenomenal going back centuries, way over 2000 years. I mean, why is that case for historians to analyze? Civilisation has always been around the great plains, the great rivers. They had an idographic script, it's an alphabetical, so it's fixed value. It's almost digital in De Rican. And they're paper, paper which enabled them to record, to manipulate data. It's always been the most data-intensive society. Without data, you can organise irrigation, you can organise grain control in order to overcome bad habits, the distribution of salt, communication. So for centuries, they had the means to process and store information. All those are magnitude above any other civilisation. Because others were still writing on parchment or on palm fronts, and they produced paper in abundance, and the programmers were the scholars with their precious. They were educated, they kept records, they kept records about everything. And the amount of codification in China is completely different from any other part of the world, going back a very, very long time. When Covid happened, they said, we have complete records of every epidemic that swept to China. Over two thousand and a half years, how it started over the same terms as progression, their responses. So in everything they do, they go back to the past. It makes them, in fact, very predictable, because it's very conservative. Every new drama is connected on the same stage, the same mountains, the same rivers, and they say, well, okay, this is how ancestors did it. Those were the challenges, but we tried it this way. But learn from the past. What does it tell us today about how China behaved? How China sees the Iran War, or like Russian-Cran War, based on what we know about China, how China historically behaved? The preoccupation is always internal, because it's such a vast internal universe. The problems are endless. So if you're governing China, it is, every day, they report this civil disorder, not by particular incidents, but statistically. Also, in this part, there's a few thousand, what I would say last year, or a year before, why is there a change? Then we need to go into it more deeply. Then when they do, then they actually see what happened, who involved. But otherwise, it's just too big for them to monitor everything, specifically. So if you imagine repeating every day, receiving feedback, you go to know what's important, what's not. What's outside is important, only to the extent that it may affect the internal stability. If it's something which is, which has an effect China, it could be on the moon or on Mars. It may be interesting in it, out of curiosity or intellectually, but until it affects you, you will not give it their attention. But of course, an event happens in Ukraine. It's a distant war, but it's like, oh, Russia is involved, Russia is a neighbor, and the West will get us if they have a chance. We don't want to make enemies of anybody, but at the same time, we don't want Russia to fall. So they triangulate very carefully, to find a sweet spot for themselves. But it's not life and death for them. Same to the problem in the Middle East, a girl. It's not life and death for them, but do they want Iran to fall? No, they get oil from Iran. It's important. They are vulnerable to the almost trace. But they knew that decades ago, and they've been preparing for it. So they're not too excited, even if the streets are closed. I mean, they all reserves, which have tied them over for months. And from a long time ago, they decided that they should never be undiversified in terms of energy type or energy source. So they're pretty diversified. And this is not something done recently. So something done prepared for decades ago. That's a great strength to think long-term. And they can only think long-term, if they can govern long-term. And they dress as strong sense of unity. So it's like a very balanced approach, compared to US approach to things. More long-term, more balanced, trying to find the common ground. For them, it's an imaginable to govern a big country with the US deaths, where all the blue, somebody stands for their primaries, gets spoilt, voted into elections, becomes president. For the governing, it's complex responsibility. You have to be prepared for it. I mean, a top doctor, senior judge, a lawyer, they must go through the pieces. They must learn from experience, they must learn from the mistakes, from others, step by step gradually, be prepared until you have the qualifications to govern. And that's what they do, before you can be at a top. You've got to go through your pieces in different parts of China, in different jobs, and constantly being assessed by people at the bottom, from the side, from the top. And they finally say, okay, you're good for this. And then you're inserted. It's a highly, in this pure form, in the ideal form, it's highly metacritic. Emory autocracy is kind of an expectation. They are high official. You must be very qualified. You must be very smart. You must be very educated. And you must be very balanced. So the phenomenon of Trump, in China, is just unthinkable. Maybe a foreign invader, then okay, fair enough, but then it's just a phenomenon which comes in goes. But to govern, but to govern is systematic, it is complex. And throughout history, the most brilliant minds in China, address their intellectual energies towards the challenge of governance. I mean, in the West, speculations about the afterlife, about religion, about theology, and people getting very angry, and fighting wars, over the nature of God and so on. For the Chinese audience, very puzzling. Their concern is, how do you govern? How should people relate to one another? What is just? What can be accepted? How do you handle conflict? So it's a different civilization. And just as it's difficult for the Chinese to understand the West, sometimes, it's very difficult for the West to understand China. Very often, unless you go deep and understand them in their past, in their culture, in their history. In my interviews, I always try to get people's real unpolished opinions. And that's why I never share a list of questions beforehand, even if they ask. But interviews are still the public layer. The real layer is what happens off-camera. The most valuable conversations and the most important decisions in life never take place in a public setup. They happen in small private rooms, behind closed doors, between people operating in the high level, who actually trust each other. I recently brought a selected group of founders and investors to Puket. Very strong operators. One of them, for example, was he and Goh. Maybe you saw him on my channel before. Variable-known VC, who sold his previous business for $65 million. And we spent a few days together in a private, setting, building real relationships and sharing experiences. One of those experiences was visiting Mohon Morghani at his house, a billionaire who created the Tomahel figure brand. We spent several hours together with him talking about life, business, and decisions in a completely private setting. And after the trip, one participant is now about to invest $300,000 into another participant's company. That's what happened when the room is right. But most people never get access to rooms like this. This stuck in surface-level conversations, random networks, and low-signal environments. Okay, this is important. The leverage is not more information. The leverage is being in the right room with right people. And that's what I'm building with the backstage circle. It's a private, curated group of founders, investors, and operators who want to level up their life, business, and relationships, surrounding themselves with the right people. It's a closed-door environment with real decisions about business, life philosophy, capital, positioning, big ideas, and next moves. No pitching, no shell networking, only people who are open, thoughtful, and operating at a high level. A big part of the backstage circle is access. I'm bringing exceptional founders, investors, and billionaires. I meet personally to join these private sessions and conversations. If you're already operating at a high level and making real decisions, you can join the waiting list. The number of seats in the group is very limited. And if it's a fit, you'll get the details. How do you think China will want the world to look like, let's say, in 20, in 2040, in like 15 years' time? In their own history, they always expect to be very important, very central, very powerful, vis-a-vis other powers. But never to become an impure power over people who are now culturally similar to you. You may have to be controlled because you're at a border region and therefore a strategic interest to them. But beyond that, the urge to colonize and to make you subject people. I think that is an achievement to them because it's very troublesome. It's very troublesome to deal with foreigners in their mind because the Chinese people know how to behave. So if they lock down, people will cry blue murder, but they will behave, they will comply. But the foreigners will revolt. So they say, okay, go, go, go. Go. No, it's alright. Come back when all is well. That's their approach. But if you're Chinese, well, you comply. So the Chinese system works when the people are Chinese. It doesn't work. When the people are not Chinese. So when some scholars said that China wants to export its model to other countries, I don't believe that. They don't believe that other countries can ever be Chinese. I mean, export in the sense that there is a non-western way to the future. That is what they would like others to know. You don't have to follow the western way to get into the future. And China shows that there are non-western ways. Do you think China will be involved in any war in within 10 years, Taiwan or anything else, like what would be your prediction? There could be minus commissions, but Beijing was not likely. Because they are already becoming very powerful. And the regions of the the regions strategic to them, around them, they are likely to preview if there's a hot war in this region. Further away, they will not want to get involved in distant wars. I mean, not over Panama or Venezuela or Cuba. I mean, they're not going to get involved in those things. I mean, they'll take political positions. They will have their friends, they may extend assistance, but in terms of getting involved, militarily sending aircraft carriers and aircraft planes and soldiers, I doubt it. But if it's in the region, yeah, they'll find. If they feel threatened. But Taiwan, I don't think... It will be a... It will be a problem because the Americans know they can win. And today, we have a conflict over Taiwan. You can kiss goodbye to your NBA trips with GPUs. And that stranglehold is even more critical than almost race. How these critical minerals which China can decide not to supply to you can destroy your industry. So, I don't think they'll be conflict over Taiwan. I don't think they'll be conflict over the sub-charmacy. I mean, look at the visit of the the enemy's leader to China recently, Toulam, you know. He was just a point-to-expresident. It's been a long time since, if ever, the general secretary of the Communist Party is also president. So, the power that is centralized and they're cracking down corruption and reorganizing the country. And the first thing he did was to go to China. And China, of course, we're going to him with great respect. It is subsumed under something called Li, you know, in Chinese, in Confucianist culture, Li, proper behavior. It is proper that Vietnam should visit China. It's proper that China extends the utmost hospitality to a visiting dignitary who should use so much respect. And after that, he took the train from waiting to the landing. It was many hours. Now, it's not as if the general secretary the president of Vietnam is such a free man. He was signaling to his own people that this is a deep friendship. And that China will help us build a real road from hard-knighted, whole-training city. That was a signaling. You were sent to your own people. So, we are seeing now a relationship which will be stable and friendly for easily another 20 years. And if Vietnam will not have a fight with China over the sub-China Sea, but will find ways to resolve the conflict in the spirit of compromise, the only other country, the Philippines. Because Malaysia and Brunei already had their own arrangements with China. And the Americans, of course, won the Philippines to take on China. But when the Philippines looked behind, they knew the Americans are not behind them, not fully. So, they were settled with China. So, on the second Tamil show, so that this LST which is beached, which was beached onto an et al. And we said that the how it's rusting away, they want to repair it, but China won't let them repair it. But China allowed the Philippines to change crews and to supply them before the water. So, there's some kind of a working arrangement now. Economically, the Philippines knows that the bread is buttered on the Chinese side, not on the American side. And before happening in the Middle East, the Britons are affected. So, I think they will find a way to settle China. And China, I think, would not be ungenerous. I tell the Philippines, China will settle 60, 14 in your favour. If you're talking about a joint exploitation, at least, I say, in your favour. Because the brother had the Philippines, he knows as a friend, the Philippines is a friend, then it's anniversary. And partly because they don't want the Americans to come in and take advantage of any quarrel. So, I don't see major conflicts over the South China Sea or Taiwan. Now, the stage is more complicated because it involves North Korea, it involves Japan and South Korea. Each of which has tens of thousands of American GIs. Station there. I think Korea, when in the end, find a modest vivende of China. Japan will be more complicated because they've been under American or not rogue influence for so long. They need the nuclear umbrella. So, it will be more difficult for Japan. They want to be a normal country. They are unable to completely face up their own history. They will bow to the Americans, but they will not do the Chinese. But at the same time, they know that their past and their future will require them to go to China. So, there is this tension in Japanese society. So, it's a phase you have to go through. Do you have to learn Chinese to understand China better? Oh, it certainly helps. It's not the necessary notion. We should. But of course it helps. Do you think, out of curiosity, because both of my daughters, they learn Chinese. My older one, she's nine. She goes to bilingual school in English Chinese. That was my kind of prediction, like few years ago, that it would be great if she knows Chinese language in like 10, 15 years' time. We'll give her more opportunities. Do you think it's still the case? Or not really? No, absolutely. Yes, absolutely. To learn a language is to go much deeper into the soul of a people, than to do a business there, and build a career if you want. But it's not just language. Language is only a means to access culture and civilization, to understand how people are able to work with one another, what is the basis of trust? Trust requires a sustainability in human behaviour. And what is expected in human behaviour changes from culture to culture, from country to country. And China has very specific norms. Let me if you say a good picture in China. Every Chinese knows immediately how they should stand. If you are a junior person, and you are somewhere in the middle, you quickly move to the side. Because you're not supposed to be there. But if there's a foreigner there, he doesn't know, he's okay. Let's take a picture. He's in the middle. Anything that's normal. Now, the Chinese were accepted because there's a foreigner there. So they don't expect him to understand these things. Yeah, why? Yeah. But if there's no foreigner, then they're all Chinese. And maybe even overseas Chinese, there is an expectation. And if you do not conform, then you are not educated or cultured, then they will assess your culture. Yeah. So the person who knows how to behave, gets more respect than the person who doesn't know how to behave. Yeah, that's a big difference. It's a high-context culture versus low-context culture like in the US. You need to know how things are done. So it's not only transactional. Like, for example, in the US, if you do business in the US, like, okay, I like the price, I like the conditions. Let's go for it. In China, it's like more layers, right? Well, the reason for this is the time perspective. If I'm meeting you today and I may never meet you again, then well, let's optimize for today for both the two of us. But even in a settled community, and we're going to meet each other again and again, the old age, then you think longer term. I mean, they have traders too, and they deal with traders. Then it's one of, like, ships passing the night and never meeting again. Let me finish. But even in the same community, then you can't do it that way. You have to optimize longer term. And those who optimize longer term, will enjoy advantage over those who optimize shorter term. How China sees Singapore? Because also for China, as you mentioned, Chinese ethnicity is a big thing. So they kind of care about Chinese and Singapore is predominantly Chinese ethnicity. And then it has, like, such a strong ties with China. How China sees Singapore? It's mixed feelings. Sometimes they say, oh, we are so Chinese, we are all Chinese. And there is a point of advantage for us. But then from time to time, Singapore acts differently, and it disappoints them. They also remind them, hey, we are politically independent, separate from them. And then we have our own strategic and paradise, with respect to the Americans and the region. I think even though from time to time, they may assume more than it's justified. They are realistic. So Singapore is useful to them. Singapore is comfortable for them, but they do that Singapore is not an extension of China. But it will never be unfounded to China. Probably also predictable. Singapore is predictable, country. We try to be predictable. But because of the Chinese connection, sometimes they assume more than it's possible for us. Okay, from Singapore's standpoint, like how Singapore should be, should behave, should be between this two superpowers China and the US. What's the strategy for the small nation as Singapore should be? We try to maintain balance, but sometimes the sweet spot is shrinking, so it's hard and hard. We're very proud, guys. The sweet spot is greater if we can get us to be united. Then there's an accent position behind which we can find more room for maneuver. If the accent is divided and the sharp conflict between America and China, they were in a tent position. When you play with big powers, it's a small country. It is unpleasant business. I remember in the earlier period, there were a bunch of school kids who had the life-public property, true rocks at cars, and sto traffic license. So they were charging corn. They were to be keen. One of them was American, but they called me co-fee. He was to get six of the best on his buttocks. Then the Clinton and the Pugh, and Americans were very angry, saying, oh, he's a fabulous man. Went through all streets and so on and so forth. How can we help? There, we do such a thing like that. So in the end, we reduced the number of strokes from six to four, and we reduced the sentence for everybody else. And then go to a Hong Kong visit the White House for many years, for at least three years. He was bad. Although there were many Americans who said, you did the right thing. What I didn't realise at that time was, while the Clinton administration was angry with us, our esteem, the eyes of others, the Indians, the Chinese, went through the roof. They said, it's so courageous. What you did, they said, if you're in our case, you would just have bundled that young man and sent him home. But you took him to court, you charged him and you wreck him. But you know, a few years later when Clinton came after a state-owned from office, he took a truck down. He did the right thing, because that boy when he went home, he fought with his father, the father, the court of police. But when you're a small country, you could worry about these things. With all my travel, I've realised how important it is to stay connected when I'm away from home. That's why I use an E-SIM every time I leave Singapore. So today, I want to tell you about whole of life plans, which is kindly supporting this video. What I like about whole of life plans is that you arrive in a new country, your internet is already working. Whether you need maps, translation messages, a hotspot for your laptop, or just want to let someone know you arrived safely, you know you're covered. Whole of life plans offers monthly plans, covering 160 plus destinations, with two flexible tiers, light and unlimited. It's one E-SIM installation with easy setup in just a couple of minutes. And you can cancel anytime with no hidden costs. And if you want extra comfort, there is also the always-on feature, which gives you one gigabyte of backup data per month, after your E-SIM expires in 70 plus destinations. So you've not left without coverage. Plus whole of life plans offers 24-7 real-person support, and you can keep your WhatsApp number while you travel. Click the link in description and use my cold mixture. To get 5% off, E-SIMs and 10% off whole of life plans for the first 12 months. I've been in Singapore for eight years. I really love the place. What I'm trying to wrap my head around is, what's the big idea now for Singapore? I mean, I read the history of Singapore. Before it was like, we're building this strong country, new country, new economy, you know, we should like work together on it. But now Singapore economically is on top. What's the big idea for the society, for the country? Singapore can never escape the fact of its small size, and its dependence on the world, which is the other side of the same coin. You take say the revolution in warfare, AI, drones. It'd be Singapore very difficult to defend. You have a few thousand drones, and see the wire guided, so you can't jam them. And they are used to attack your data centers, your telecommunications network, your air shaft system, your power system. We are extremely vulnerable. And we do a position that's used at home most because we are worried for the streets of Malacca. And the streets of Singapore. So the defense of Singapore is not easy question to answer. I was in defense for many years. I was here, I was planning, Director General Operations and Planning. So I asked myself, if I was still exercising those responsibilities today, how are our answers? Differentifical questions. So in the ultimate defense and national security, during COVID we found that, hey, even the food we eat, it's a problem. When you're such a small country, you may have the money, but you may not have the access. Then the streets of our homes, what if our ceilings are closed? What if our airways are interfere with? Then we are a heterogeneous society with a large number of foreigners. A few of whom might be agents of powers, which may not be just well. How do we handle this? Why is our own internal security system to ensure that we retain our unity or confidentiality? So you never be secure in Singapore. Never. So what's our progress? Never be a troublemaker. Be a peacemaker. Be a stock advocate of regional unity. That gives us an inner circle of power. And try not to be in the same room with one major power, because it's very dangerous. Always create a platform where a few major powers are around. Then they can balance each other out and leave us alone. But make a living, how by serving others. But to serve others, if you don't serve others, you don't eat. To eat, you must do something for other people. Then they'll give you a few crumbs. And if you are serving others, you have to be humble. I mean, whether you are white or black or brown or blue, I accept you as a human being. Your money is good. You need my service. I provide you a good service. I'm black to you. And I hope you come back for more of my services. Which means that I must accept you for what you are. I should not, when I'm dealing with you, want to change you. And if you want to change me, well, it is good for me. Thank you. But if it's not good for me, I must say sorry. That's me. Then you push me. Well, I may be able to fight back. I may not be able to fight back. If I'm not able to fight back, I better have other big guys around. They will move closer to so that you will not take liberties with me. So this is Singapore. But the key is, we ourselves must be united. Because if we are infiltrated and divided, in the whole game is lost. But if the game is lost, who benefits who loses? We must contrivate such that it is in no one's interest. Or it is not in the interest of more than one party to see each speaker. That you mean one, you mean one to break a set. But others want us to stick together. So you talk to them. From the ex-part point of view, like people compare, for example, Singapore and Hong Kong. But what you're explaining is like, it's very different situations because Singapore need to defend itself. Hong Kong is part of China. So it has this bigger, like, father, mother. It has China. But Singapore has different, for example, Hong Kong, you don't have national service. Singapore has it. Because they don't worry that the water supply may be cut. They don't worry that they will be without power. That people may deny them all, I guess. Because they are part of one big country. Whereas in our case, in every area, we have to worry. Can we defend our soldiers? So we train in Taiwan, we train in Australia, we train in many countries. Where do we get our energy from? And food. Water. Which is so fundamental. These are all worries which never go away. They are part of our daily condition. So I tell my Hong Kong friends, I go there quite often. I have a apartment there. I see you talk about rivalry with Singapore. You know, we spend a few percentage points on GDP and defence. We need that from our ministry. We need an intelligent service. We need to devote land for military bases, for runways, for power stations. We need to demoral rivers or reservoirs, to be in decision plans. I see Hong Kong doesn't pay one cent of taxation to the mainland. Just in terms of the overheads, Singapore has to incur. Hong Kong is easily 5 to 8% each point that Singapore has to pay. So when people say that Singapore society is always stressed, it cannot, you cannot let it go. Because it comes from the top. Country needs to be defended, needs to be supplied. I think it's not only from the top. The top can only persuade people in a stomach, feel the understanding. I think we all do. Singapore, you don't worry, don't eat. You can get some charity. But hey, this is a real world. You got to provide the service or product. Who's going to build you out? Who's going to... Yeah, I mean, some people with thoughts, a few crumbs in your way out of their kindheartedness. But... Yeah. Their consciousness. What's the biggest challenges for the Singapore society for the next 5 to 10 years that you see? We are not reproducing ourselves. And even if we are, it is a small population. So the city exists by constantly bringing in talent from a wider hinterland, which if we are sitting in a country, will happen naturally. But in this case, we have passports that you need to show to come in. Yes. So we need a system where you bring in talent, absorb them, and local people are comfortable with them to constantly refresh the population. But it creates a lot of tension. You bring too many Chinese or Indians or foreigners, people here are very unhappy. So... You... and too... But the iron fact is, we are not reproducing ourselves. And it's very dangerous. And even if you do reproduce yourself, but you do not constantly bring in top talent, after a while, your overall capability will diminish. You take a say, the AI challenge. If you depend only on Singaporean talent, to me, the AI challenge, I think we won't cope. Many people, the advisors, people who come here and say, you know, this is a way to do things. And these are the links to other places. You need your international connections. So there's always a town-gown tension. I like this analogy because I was from Cambridge and you read the history of Cambridge. When the gown, think that they are God's gift to the town. The town will say, you... You get out. Because the town doesn't want to be loaded over better gown. But if the gown doesn't misbehave, the town knows that it needs a gown. To give it its position and its quality of life. So Singaporeans know this. When they go to see a doctor, when they attend a concert, they know that talent is global. They know that. But the people who come here and work here, please know that you are a guest here. You're not our masters. So you are a Russian, you live in Singapore, you don't misbehave. And people will welcome you. And you make many friends. But you can't be thinking that you are a gift to Singaporeans and you can push away around. Very quickly, there will be a reaction against you. And the government must make sure that this signalling is clear both to foreigners and Singaporeans. The foreigners are here to bless us, not to oppress us. And if we can tweak that well, then this place will be fantastic. How do you see Hong Kong now? Like, what's your take on? Where Hong Kong is going? Because it was like many people left actually Hong Kong to Singapore, for Singapore during Covid. Now I went there and it feels like the energy is back. So people are actually going back to Hong Kong. Like foreigners mainly. What's the role of Hong Kong will be in the next years? Now, how come it's bouncing back? And Hong Kong plays a very unique role in China, which is the city outside the wall. China is always a war society. The wall maintains its homogeneity. The gates are open most of the time, but the emergency is the gates are shut. Or control. Hong Kong is outside the gate. So when the gates are shut, Hong Kong is a controlled portal connecting China to the wall. So for the external roaming bee, for a certain kind of contracts, it moves China to have this facility called Hong Kong. The same way as Macau. Macau was not taken from Ming China. Macau was given to the Portuguese by Ming China, so they don't cause trouble in China proper. So you can cause trouble in Hong Kong, it's okay in Hong Kong. But if you try to cause me trouble from Hong Kong, then I'll come to harm you. But the national security law has solved that problem. So 2047, which was the end of the 50th period for Hong Kong as SERR, no longer an issue because China's interest is to maintain Hong Kong as it is for the long term. So I hope to be mistaken for Hong Kong. But Hong Kong, the character has changed because it's less western, and westerners who thought that they could true Hong Kong influence or interfere in the mainland. They've been very disappointed. But if you're there to make money like Wall Street, that's fine. So Wall Street is back. Business men are back. But if your purpose is to use the media and the country institutions to somehow change China or to convert the Communist Party, forget it. They will find out who you are and throw you out. Yeah. If not impressive. First. So China, I think China will be keeping the status quo for Hong Kong. Because in China's interests, not our charity. They always have walls. Their walls were everything. So when you have walls and gates, you need something outside the wall. It's Hong Kong, maybe for the various Singapore. But Singapore is a bit far. Yes. But even a distance station has other uses. I want to ask you about Lik Van Yu and his, like, your involvement in, like, what's going on with Lik Van Yu and like, how he ruled the country. First of all, you kind of, you dealt with them on a daily or weekly basis when you were actively in politics. Well, he was my prime minister, then my senior minister, then my minister mentor. Yeah. He was doing three years in government. So I had a lot of dealings with him. For the first few years, he took me on almost as assistant. I followed him for many of his trips. He wanted to teach me and I was very grateful for that. What are the biggest lessons that you learned from Lik Van Yu? It's a very complex figure and he thinks far ahead. He thinks many moves ahead. Can you learn strategy from another person? I'm not sure. Because a lot of what makes a strategic man is inborn. You know, every can read all the books you want on strategy. It doesn't mean you're good strategist. But Lik Van Yu was a great strategist. He was fun watching him. Maybe he and they pick up some tips. He understood power. So in any relationship, I always felt that his first consideration was, what was the power relationship? I saw the way he dealt with his battler of ordinary people. With, let's say, Indonesia Malaysian leaders, with Chinese leaders, with European leaders, American presidents. He knew what was the power relationship. And he knew what they could do to him and what he could do to them. So he was utterly realistic when he came to the power equation. But within it, he was a very good tactical operator. He was a formidable tactical operator. So he was blessed with a mind that was both tactical and strategic. He could zoom in, he could zoom out. That was his great gift. He had a sense of history. Even though he was not knowledgeable in history, but he has a sense of history, which is an important quality in the leader. What is most important is he has a sense of his own people, of Singapore. So even though he was in the Istana and just a security around him, because of his own history, struggling during the war, struggling for independence, having been doing over support from the local population, he had a sense of Singaporeans. And he knew that if you raise bus fare by five cents, he affects a lot of people and it's very political. One day, there was a report about people not wearing motorcycles, not wearing crash helmets. And he made a remark which was to me quite power, not point me. He said, many of the motorcycles are Malays. If they didn't know when they got into an accident, who looked after the family? To me, he was absolutely right. He was not just falling a law, he was thinking in terms of, you're a young man, you just got married, you got young children, something happens to you as a brick winner. What happens to your family? So what at least think about not wearing a helmet? So he had that sense of his own people, and a good leader must have a sense of his own people. It may be of a different race, a different religion, of a different socioeconomic class, they may not be educated like you, they may have a different mother tongue, but he must somehow feel for them. And that he had. If you are interested in investing, I want to show you a company called SagaMattles, trading as SagaMaff in the US and Saga in Canada. Back in January, we covered their message drill program in Labrador, and how they were positioned to answer the US government's billion dollar push for domestic critical minerals. What they've done in the last four weeks has changed the scale of this company. They didn't just hit their targets, they achieved their 100% drill success rate in all 36 drill holes. And the big news is Saga just acquired another titanium asset. In the same district, as the largest titanium mine in the world, it gets even more interesting. They scooped it from Underriotinto, a top five global mining giant worth over 100 billion dollars. If a company like that was circling the same ground, it's a pretty strong signal the story deserves your attention too. The Trump administration recently launched project Vult. A 12 billion dollar critical minerals stockpile plan aimed at breaking foreign dominance and reshaping the mining sector. And that's not all. An additional 30 billion dollars was announced at the critical minerals ministerial to accelerate domestic production and secure strategic supply chains. Saga Metals sits right in the path of that incoming capital. As the US and its allies move to secure the future, Saga is positioned exactly where the money, the mandates, and the momentum are flowing. This is more than a resource story. It's a geopolitics. The Pentagon is actively funding domestic supply chains. For the exact minerals, Saga has an aground. This isn't wishful thinking. It's a White House directive. And Saga isn't sitting still. There is a systematically assembling what's shaping up to be a massive North American titanium district. With the potential for one of the largest discoveries the region has ever seen. Saga Metals is a company you should watch very closely. If you want to learn more about this critical minerals story, check out the link in the description. A special thanks to Saga Metals for making today's video possible. What was the most memorable memory of Lik when you had some trip together or something like that stick to your mind? Something like very memorable. Well, his wife was very devoted to him. They were very exemplary couple. I mean, they married secretly. The wife had a series of strokes. It became for him to look after her. So one day I was attending the UN General Assembly in Rio, invited me to this hotel room for a chat. It was there for some other reason. And I went to his hotel suite. Every edge had marker tapes. So that the wife had difficulty with a vision on one side. Just would not trip her herself. He had to remind her to take a medicine and put it over to get her pills. He was looking after her. Later on when she was either comatose or semi-comatose, because he always believed that she could listen to him. He was very devoted to her. And even when he was traveling, he would read to her long distance. I said this to him in the camera room. And one day he came in. He said, a plaster always face. I said, I mean, what happened to you? I said, now I was reading to my wife. The boat was on the piano on the music stand, which is all these protruprances. He first hit himself in the stand. He put him in different places. That to me was very inspiring and very emotional. What do I think people don't get about, like when you don't understand about him or his personality? No, he understood power. And as he just said, if you are in his way, he would just... Who knows you? Or the way? If you are in the knife at with him, he doesn't intend to lose. So there are people who have been hurt by him. I myself suffered at his hands, I mean, in small ways. But yeah, it's power. If he was alive now, what he would advise to, I don't know, the current government, what to focus on? No, you cannot pay that kind of intellectual game. It doesn't go. Even towards the end, he was losing touch with young people. I remember when the social media became important, one day before Cabinet started, we were talking about Facebook. He said it's a waste of time. It was already losing touch. And another occasion, it told us almost humorously that he spent having our watching MTV, trying to understand, how many minutes he gave him a headache. And one of his last encounters with young people, televised was a failure. He did not convince the young people. So he was right for that time, as a personality, as a strong leader back then, when Singapore needed. A leader is a product of the times. There's no such thing as the leader for all seasons. So he was the leader, thrown up a history, and needed at that time. And by his leadership and his actor will, he created modern Singapore. Some people in the comments on YouTube, they are nostalgic about Lik Van U. They're like, if Lik Van U was here right now, you know what I mean? No dream-walking in Singapore. No, even in China. Or become very nostalgic about Mauter Tom. Mauter Tom took China through all kinds of twists and turns. And many people suffered. But of course, without India, it's no more than China. So through the lens of the past, certain things are softened. Certain things are romanticized. No, it's like styling also in Russia, in Soviet Union. Indeed, many people are nostalgic. But all styling was such a powerful leader. But it's a complex figure. Yeah, there is a high level of depression. In not only Singapore, across the globe, I think. And people are worried about the future, I think. Because the future is not certain now. It's very easy to live when even Soviet Union, when the communism was like a big idea. So people knew where to go. And when the world is uncertain right now, there are so many wars, there are so many things that you cannot influence. People start to be super worried about the future, about the future of their kids. Any advice, like how to cope with it? You're right. These are anxious times. We're in a great transition. There are so many unknowns and uncertainties. So people will realize, I think the best response is to go back to basics. Not to take liberties with yourself. We don't need that much to live to survive. So don't get caught up with ephemeral things. Don't want anything too much. Except things which happen, don't spend too much time crying over spilled milk. Move on and be grateful. Don't go, arrive yourself. And treat people well. The family is important. And where you can help. RoboCorp once talked about how a plan you offer to another person may change his life. For you, it's just a plan. But for the other person, at a critical moment, it may change his life. So if you offer a plan to somebody in need, give it to him. And maybe he will come back and reward you. He may not. It doesn't matter. So don't be selfish over little things. One thing is advantages. When a person is sent in, I think he feels happy about himself. Even if he calls him something, they shot them. I may recall, so I lost a contract. I may even lost a job. But at least I kept my principles. I'll try again. And my children are watching me so they know how I decide. Can you develop this side of yourself? Can you teach yourself to do this person? Or it's already engraved in you by your parents or by your brain? More dilemmas, I think it's a free choice in the visual. Yes. And it's a daily struggle. It doesn't go away. Because we confine it all the time. Do we cheat? Do we cut a corner? Do we take advantage? Because no one knows. So it's an internal compass. If you have it, people are sensing in you. Maybe you'll be rewarded with more contracts. More advantages. Or it may not be. No guarantee. No guarantee. But you're probably that happy. Do you think life is simple or life is complicated? Life is a struggle. Life is struggle. Life is struggle. How was your parents' life? Was it like your parents were tough? No, my parents did not. I was self-motivating. They didn't have to tell me to do things. I never had arguments. I didn't have my father and my mother. Never in my entire life. Oh wow. No kidding. Kailing maybe once. Maybe I'm not sure. But my mother. Yeah. Okay. Both the youngest. They were already getting older and maybe probably more mellow. And this, even proactive from the beginning, is like your natural feature of you as a person. You born with it. I think so. Yeah. I think so. Yeah. I was much influenced by my mother. But it may be because of me. Because of many siblings. And the old influence to the different degrees. But our parents. So what extent do you think one can change himself or herself? Like being a better person. Like what's the speaking of this free will? What exchange you can change your life? To some extent. But there is an inheritance which a genetic or cultural inheritance which you have to respect. We make resolutions every year. Army and other resolutions that we keep. And that we continue to make resolutions which we cannot keep. You know, obviously it's not less realistic. That's what makes resolutions which are achievable. But I'm a bit of a tourist. Meaning that I recognize cycles which are beyond our control. There are things you can control where you are put in a position to affect. You have choice. You have agency. Very often you can't do much. Sometimes you can. It may be risky. It may be dangerous. It may be expensive. You may do it. It may feel foolish afterwards. But sometimes you don't. You can now. So there are choices. You may make all the time. Do you have any regrets in life? I tend to see things in the light of flow. Even in the flow, you succeed because you're in the right flow. Yes, you make some right choices. You've got even that flow. And then if you fail, it's because there are forces leaving you to fail. You might have been able to emulate the effects. But you can't blame yourself either. Therefore, I don't take credit for all my successes. Neither do I blame myself for all my failures. Which is why I tell people I'm philosophically a tourist. Not religiously a tourist because people get confused. They say you're castling. How can it be a tourist? I say no, a tourist has a philosophy. It's a science. Yeah, maybe that's why you became so successful in your career. And being a minister in several times, different ministers. Because you're like that. You kind of process if it's a failure. Okay, let's move on. If it's success, okay, let's move on. And then just go up and up. Well, I'm quite passionate. I always chase causes. Causes, you know? Yes. And people think be somewhat romantic, even idealistic. My officials often thought that of me. That is now onto another windmill. No, I do have passions. I do have causes. If I succeed, I don't take full credit. I say because it's something whose time has come. And if I have a gift, the gift to see things to meet the times. You can say. But not to take credit because I can't be responsible for the times. If I feel it's because I'm ready wrongly, or the time has not yet come. So you have to be realistic and romantic at the same time. Yes, yes, it's very important. And not one ending too much, so you don't get to disappoint them. I mean, you take seat in the Russian of the Rocks Church in Singapore. It started when Lavrov and I attended party celebrating some anniversary in Singapore. So there's lots of Khabir and Vodka. Yes. And Lavrov said, the Bishop of Lidivostom. I want to see you. I said, Bishop of Lidivostom. They say, here, yes. So Bishop Sergei came along, complete with full beard and square hand, our black. I say, what can I do for you? Bishop, they said, can you help me establish a parish in Singapore? I say, what's the problem? They said, well, we've applied in the foreign ministry and the home ministry has done this. I said, what do you need a parish in Singapore? They said, no, we have so many patients from the Russian Far East, from Sassalin, the Vodivostom. Like Singapore, they come here. They need ministering to some day. They need funeral. I said, oh, so I call up the home ministry. They spend to them why? They have this application. They approved it merely. They didn't think it was a very serious application. They thought it was some political act. So after that, it was gratitude. And on my official visit to Russia, he accompanied me. He brought me to Sergei F. Posah. It was cold in January. It was grey and rock white. And suddenly I saw golden domes pop up on the horizon. We were arriving. So we had lunch first. After lunch, we bought a cross. And suddenly, they came up with the church to procession's meeting. May have a small one. Then the birds flew overhead. The scene was imprinted in my mind. We prayed at the tomb of Sensage, and later, a Moscow I caught on. Kiril. Kiril said, I want to be a church in Singapore. He really had a church. He said, no, no, I want to be a puppet church. He said, no, no. Complete with golden domes. He said, okay, good, wonderful. On the equator. No, from the Arctic to the equator. I... But our problem is, in Singapore, we don't allocate land for churches. You... you bid for land. And the plots are only available. In the suburbs, I started over and I discussed my prime minister, who learned Russian. Lise and Lung, when he was a kid. Because he told you, so you not become a great part. I know about him. So, I said, no, no. We... We have a Russian cultural center and in... In fact, it's the church. Then, it's within our norms. Because we have American cultural center, Japanese cultural center. And since the church is an integral part of Russian culture, naturally, it's inside the center. So, I wrote a cabinet memo. It was approved. Then, we had so many difficulties. Because, that man bringing together in Russia, the church, the cultural ministry, the foreign ministry. And they had three different countries. We had some bureaucratic problems on our side. We said, okay, you can have a cross on top of a crescent. That's sensitive. But you can have a cross on top of a globe. The footpath cannot be decorated by religious images. You know, you can have it behind the wall. Not facing pedestrian. Little things like that. Then, we had COVID. Then, we had a Ukraine wall. There were sanctions. Then, the deal broke down. The contract opened in the bus or something. The project is still not done. They will go through the renewal process again. Sometimes, I say, oh, we'll never be done. No, we must have faith. Some years ago, when Putin was here, they did the foundation stone lane with my president. So, the Russian church invited me to come back from Hong Kong for the event. My own people asked me what I was doing there. Drinking vodka. For cotton, I was very much involved. Yes. So, I had passion. The bishop has become a metropolitan and an ex-up. We have very close friends. I'm still helping him in whatever way I can. And I'm still looking forward to the consecration of the church. Eventually. Hopefully. And Kiro told me that he will himself come down to do it. It's been 2010. This is 2026. It's 2026. 16 years. But I've not lost faith. You are 71. 22. 72. Yeah, I'm a hoth. How does it feel to be 72? I just said it with my sense of birthday. He's a hoth, he's 36. He's exactly half my age. I now interact with him as a head-out, which is fun. I'm relatively healthy, so I don't believe few old. But I know that, well, the body has become old. Because if I do an exercise, I get my muscle fatigue, not the day afterwards, but two days afterwards. Sometimes three days afterwards. Because the body is slower to heal. And every year when I go for my medical check-up, there are little things which I can attend to and worry about. But you could accept that everything has a beginning and an end. They say, well, okay, now we want to medicine. Maybe people will live up to whatever age. Maybe. Whatever it is, the last period won't be fun. And you can also. So we pray that it will not be too difficult when the time comes. When the meantime, you ask yourself, when the day comes, what will make you happy or unhappy? What will be a source of regret of pain? And sometimes I do this and exercise that if my accounts would be close today, what will look like? And I try to tell myself, okay, assume the account is close and end of the day. Make sure it looks okay. Are you afraid of death? Of the concept that life has turned? Oh, I'm sure I'll be afraid of death. I mean, intellectually missing, no. But of course. And you don't know how it will be like. My sister who lived alone in San Francisco died during COVID. And the body will only discover a few days after she had died. I still wonder how difficult it was for her during the last days. Because when you're in pain, and how, even five minutes is a very long time. Do you think you'll be actively working till what age? What do you think? I'm no longer actively working. I'm a bit busy. I'm busy with time. Okay, not like actively, actually. But you are, you have lectures, you give speeches. Like, you want to do it as long as you can. Or at some point, no. I don't want to do it anymore. I just want to relax. Or not to relax. I think you should be growing. You should not stop growing. In one way or another. You should not stop being interested in the world. Learning new things, talking to people. So I spend half an hour everyday learning Latin. I do a lingua. Because I'm Roman Catholic. And I sit. Well, why am I doing this? But at least now I get to understand my prayers in Latin. Much better. And so every Sunday when I go to Mars, I carry the Latin, Mars along. So I try to follow everything in Latin. What's going on in English? And now, I mean, I never understand other declensions. But at least I have a sense of what's in Latin against what's in English. And I think that's nice. And because you're looking at the same reality through a different language, certain things come alive. Which have become dead in your mind because of repetition. When I read the nice, I see in creed, the creed of Onum De Om, in Latin. It has different feelings from English. And recently I read it in Chinese. Oh, it's got different feelings again. Interesting. Because in the translation, certain things for sure are sharpened. So learning languages is fun. During COVID, I attempted to learn the Erhu with very poor results. But I've said I should have the consistent decisions which I did not. My wife's a musician. But I also picked up Chinese calligraphy. And that's given me endless pleasure. I still read, I keep up with the news. And of course, not the same degree or intensity as one could in the different period of one's life. But now it's important to stay active, just to meet people. And don't always meet people in your own generation because there's very little new that you can learn from them. Before they open their mouths, you already know roughly what they want to say. So it's good to meet younger people and people from other countries where different lenses and different perspectives. And they say, ah, so it looks very different from where you are. And then you yourself learn. And maybe in some ways you influence them as they influence you. And then that's the chemistry. And the chemistry in relationship gives you a special pleasure. What's the meaning of life for you? Oh, there was a last chapter in my book, musings, you know. I once met a grand-eye to a line, Com, this was in 2008 or 2007. His parting words were, when you found what you seek. Today, if you know what you seek, AI will give you the answer. You will find it. So the most difficult thing is to know what you're searching for. You can have all the AI at this post, so it can be in the greatest library on earth. But you know what you're looking for. What is your question? What is your problem? That no one can teach you. And a Buddhist friend of mine wrote the book, said, it was searched inside yourself. It's a question that is inside you. The hour ticket is set further. It is inside you, but it is how you impact your fellow men. Because unless it impacts others, it does not come alive. You're just living for yourself. But when it comes out of you into the child, the child smiles or cries, your young friend suddenly impacts on an adventure because of an inspiration from you. Because here, there, you should still need a flicker. What do we seek in the end? And if we seek the right things, life has been in. If they are mindless, problems are searches, then then your life has made little difference to the world. For the period, 70, 100 years, which you have lived. So I think you can be born down syndrome. You can be an Einstein. You can be an ordinary man on the street. Make a difference. The difference is around you. So if you have not been there, you will have looked different. Then, okay, that is your contribution. And maybe that would be also the judgment of you one day when you meet your maker.