---
video_title: "These Dusting Tools Actually Work!"
video_id: 6IxxIPVjmjE
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6IxxIPVjmjE
video_date: 2025-12-18T23:20:43+00:00
video_description: |

---
there are a ton of different dusting tools on the market. So let me show you the best tools that actually pick up dust around your house. The first tool is just a simple swiffer duster. But the reason I recommend this is because it actually picks up the dust from the surface instead of just spreading it around or even pushing it up into the air so that it settles back on the area you just dust it. Make sure to always give it a good spin and fluff. That way the duster head can pick up as much debris from the surface as possible. The second tool is the damp duster from scrub daddy. And this is probably the most unique duster I have in my cleaning kit. Maybe the most unique duster I've ever used, it actually picks the dust right off the surface and really leaves nothing behind. And you might be noticing a little bit of a theme here with my dusting tools. If they don't actually pick up the dust from the surface, they're not going to be in my cleaning kit because that is key to keeping your home dust free. It will get full with dust, but just give that a quick dust off in the trash and then it rinse in the sink and you're ready to keep dusting. The next tool and you probably already saw this one coming and that is microfiber towels. These are amazing for dusting. Now the way I like to use my towels when I'm dusting around the house is I'll take one and just get a damp in the sink and use that first to kind of go over the surface and then I'll come through with the dry, clean microfiber towel and just buff the surface there, making sure there's no dust or streaks left behind. Now if you want my very favorite and I'm just going to say it, the best microfiber towels you can buy, these ones right here, the clean that up towels are now available over on my website. Definitely check the link down below. But the more quality towel that you use, the more dust you're going to pick up. The last tool I'd like to recommend kind of depends on your home and the area that you're cleaning, but that is an extendable duster. The reason these are very helpful is it helps you obviously get those areas. You can't quite reach. Now you can get a lot of these on Amazon. You can even get the Swiffer extendable duster. Really, whatever one works best for your space is the one I suggest. When it comes to picking what dusting tool I like to use, it kind of depends on how dusty the area is or even the type of surface. But the nice thing about all of these is if you have them in your cleaning kit, you can pretty much dust anything you come across.