---
video_title: "The Best 3 Tools To Remove Pet Hair In Your House!"
video_id: GHFji1EvxXY
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GHFji1EvxXY
video_date: 2025-12-02T23:04:04+00:00
video_description: |

---
When you're looking for a pet hair removal tool, you want to find one that has rubber components because really, pet hair can be very fine and it can just weave itself into various things like your furniture and even your carpet fibers. These are the ones I really like and use on a regular basis. The first one here is the Chom Chom Roller. This does a really good job again to pull all that pet hair out. But the other thing I really like about this, especially on like furniture and things, is that it actually captures the pet hair inside so it picks it up. It's not a vacuum or anything. It just kind of has a little compartment in there that when you roll over the furniture, it all collects in there. And what's nice about that is let's say you have friends coming over and maybe they don't love pets or don't love pet hair and you don't have time to vacuum. I'll just bust this out. Give the furniture just a quick Chom Chom. It's nice. It picks it up quick and don't have to worry about it. Now the other one is this one here called a lily brush. Now the reason I like this one is kind of similar to the Chom Chom, but it's nice and compact and small and this works amazing on kind of those areas where the Chom Chom can't quite get in there, but pet hair is really starting to build up. I also love to keep one of these in my car. This does an amazing job to pull it out of your car poultry and even the carpet in there as well. For some reason, car carpet is just so tough to get pet hair out of sometimes. It's almost like a magnet or like Velcro and these do an amazing job to pull that out. Now when it comes to your carpet, rugs or hard surface floors, this is the tool you want to get right here. It's called a fur remover or rubber broom. If you look at it here, it's got a bunch of rubber bristles on one side and on the other side, it's got a squeegee and this does an amazing job again pulling out all that deeply embedded pet hair that many times even after vacuuming still remains. Now I will say though, the first time you use this, it's kind of addicting because you use it in one area and you're like, wait a second, I wonder if there's hair over here. Maybe there's hair over here and before you know it, you've used it throughout your entire house and the other thing I like to use it on as well is just hard surfaces because sometimes hair can be hard to sweep up with a broom. It just kind of flies up in the air and goes everywhere. This does a good job of grabbing it again with these rubber bristles, getting it into a nice pile so then you can easily vacuum it up.