---
video_title: "How To Dust Without Spreading It Around"
video_id: ygWUg-wMiec
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ygWUg-wMiec
video_date: 2026-04-29T13:02:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome back to Day 14 of the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree.
  
  Today we are dusting and cleaning the ceiling fan, light fixtures, and other dusty surfaces in the bedroom.
  
  When dusting a room, always start at the top and work your way down. This helps prevent dust from falling onto areas you already cleaned.
  
  Start with the ceiling fan, then move to light fixtures. Dust can build up inside light fixtures over time, so take them down, clean them thoroughly, and put them back once dry.
  
  For general dusting, I recommend using a damp microfiber towel first to capture dust instead of spreading it around. Then follow with a dry microfiber towel to dry and buff the surface.
  
  Other great dusting tools include Swiffers for quick cleanup and damp dusters for window ledges, trim, and other detailed areas.
---
Welcome back to day 14 of the spring cleaning spree. On the checklist today is a dust and clean the light fixtures in fan in our bedroom. The number one rule when it comes to dusting is to always start at the top and work your way down to the floor, so I always like to start with the fan. Now the light fixtures can get a little dusty as well, especially on the inside, so I like to give those a quick scrub and rinse and put them back in place. Now when it comes to dusting the rest of the room, there's a few tools that I like to recommend that can really speed up this process. First is a classic Swiffer with a work rate, and I always have one in my back pocket, just in case I need it. Second are my microfiber towels. These things work amazing at picking up dust from the surface and not just spreading it around. Now what I like to do is grab one microfiber towel and have it damped. That way it can wipe everything down and pick up as much dust as possible. And then the finishing touch is a dry, clean microfiber towel to not only dry the surface, but buff it and make sure there's no streaks left behind. And third is the damped duster from Scrub Daddy. These work great on window ledges and things, and I love that you can just clean off the dust and keep going. And that's a wrap on day 14. Join me tomorrow when we finish up our bedroom.