---
video_title: "I tested a hack to remove sharpie"
video_id: 9R6cZ1jXBoE
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9R6cZ1jXBoE
video_date: 2026-04-03T21:15:08+00:00
video_description: |

---
You got Sharpie all over your leather seats. What are you supposed to do now? Grab your spray sunscreen. It's about to be so easy. All right, so I've never seen this hack before, but I am intrigued because Sharpie is like one of the hardest things to clean off with pretty much every single surface. And she goes on to talk about it on leather, even on walls and things, just by using simple sunscreen. So first, let's test it on leather here. We're gonna do it on this belt. It's gonna put a line like so. That feels so wrong. I don't like this. Okay, now we're just gonna let it dry completely. Just make sure, okay, a little bit there. Just make sure it's completely dry before we do anything. All right, nothing on my finger. All right, we're just gonna spray on some sun tan lotion. This also feels wrong for some reason. Ha, ha, ha. Oh my goodness. Okay, it literally, just like she said in her video, starts to release the bond there. Wipe it away. Okay, that's crazy. That is wild. Okay, where is this hack band all of my life? That is absolutely amazing. Okay, let's try this on my wall. All right, I've put it on the leather felt wrong. This is like insane, but okay, there it is. Let's let it dry for a second here. I really hope this comes off. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to explain why there's a Sharpie mark on my wall to my wife. All right, here we go. Take a try. Let me just make sure. Yep, completely dry. Spray on the sun tan lotion here. Pfft, pfft, pfft, pfft. What the? That is, I pretty use this at so many cleaning jobs over the years. It's a little bit still there. Let's put a little bit on there. Quick scrub here. Wow, that is insane. Okay, now I gotta clean up the sun tan lotion though on my wall, which I'll just use a little dish soap to remove kind of the greasiness of it here. I don't know, I think that works pretty good. This hack is good. If you have Sharpie on pretty much anything, give this a try.