---
video_title: "Are You Cleaning Your Toilet Wrong?"
video_id: YqI2jfvbUPU
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YqI2jfvbUPU
video_date: 2026-04-21T13:01:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome back to the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are deep cleaning the toilet the right way.
  
  The first mistake I see is not dusting the toilet before you start. Hair, dust, and lint are much harder to remove once they get wet, so taking a quick minute to remove that first makes the whole job easier.
  
  The second mistake is cleaning the toilet bowl last. After dusting, you always want to start with the bowl since this is where the most scrubbing happens. This helps avoid splashing onto areas you already cleaned.
  
  Another mistake is never removing the toilet seat to clean underneath it. You do not have to do this every time, but over time grime and bacteria build up and can cause odors. Spring cleaning is a great time to take care of it.
  
  One of the biggest mistakes is not letting your cleaner sit long enough. Disinfectants need time to work. For example, many sprays need around 30 seconds, and toilet bowl cleaners often need up to 10 minutes to fully break down buildup and disinfect.
  
  The last mistake is skipping the floor around the toilet. This area tends to collect splashes and buildup, and if it is not cleaned regularly, it can lead to lingering odors in your bathroom.
  
  Don't  forget to spray down your toilet brush with disinfectant and let it fully dry before putting it away. This helps keep it clean and makes it last longer.
---
Don't make these five mistakes the next time you clean your toilet. Welcome back to the Spring Cleaning Spree. On the checklist today is a deep cleaner toilet. The first mistake is not dusting the toilet before you spray your cleaners down. Hair, dust, and fuzz is really hard to remove from porcelain, especially once it's wet. So when you remove that with an old swiffer or some toilet paper, you really make your clean so much easier. The second mistake is cleaning the toilet bowl last. You always want to start with the toilet bowl after dusting because usually this area is pretty dirty. And you do a lot of scrubbing that sometimes will splash. So that way if you make a mess, you don't have to clean it a second time. Another mistake is never taking off the seat and cleaning underneath it. Now I will say you don't have to do this every single time you clean your toilet, but you should do it every so often because grime and bacteria will start to build up underneath the seat and it can even start to cause some stinky odors in your bathroom. So spring cleaning is a great time to get this done. Another mistake I see is not letting your cleaner sit on the surface long enough to disinfect. For example, the Chlorox Cleanup I'm using here needs 30 seconds to sit on the surface to disinfect, along with the toilet bowl cleaner we used earlier needs a full 10 minutes in the bowl to do its job. The last mistake is not cleaning the floor around your toilet. Unfortunately, this is a bit of a splash zone and if you don't clean this, your bathroom will start to stink. And don't forget to spray your toilet scrubber down with your disinfectant and let it completely dry before you put it away so it lasts longer. And that's a wrap on day 8. We'll see you tomorrow for day 9 of the spring cleaning spree.