---
video_title: "Are You Missing These Spots When Cleaning Your Fridge?"
video_id: HYIHjEU5Vbg
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HYIHjEU5Vbg
video_date: 2026-04-14T13:00:27+00:00
video_description: |
  Let me show you a few hidden areas on your refrigerator that need to get cleaned.
  
  Welcome to Day 3 of the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are deep cleaning the refrigerator.
  The first step is to empty everything out. I like to remove all the shelves and drawers, but before I do that, quick pro tip, take a picture of the layout so you know exactly where everything goes when you put it back.
  
  Anytime you are removing glass shelves, make sure to let them come up to room temperature before cleaning. If you wash them while they are still cold, they can crack or shatter.
  For the shelves and drawers, I like to let them soak in warm water with a little dish soap and white vinegar for about 20 to 30 minutes. This helps loosen up any stuck on food or grime so it is much easier to clean.
  
  For the inside of the fridge, I use a simple vinegar cleaning solution. It helps cut through grime and also neutralizes odors. I pair that with a non scratch scrub sponge, then follow up with my three towel system. One towel to wipe, one to rinse, and one to dry and buff so everything is left streak free.
  
  Once your shelves are done soaking, give them a light scrub, rinse them off, and most importantly, make sure they are completely dry before putting them back.
  Do not forget to clean the freezer using that same process.
  Now for the hidden areas.
  
  Behind the refrigerator is one of the most overlooked spots. Pull it out, vacuum up any dust and debris, and clean the floor.
  The top of the fridge is another one that collects a lot of dust, so give that a quick wipe while you have it pulled out.
  
  And finally, your refrigerator coils. If those get covered in dust, your fridge will not run as efficiently. Every model is a little different, so I recommend doing a quick search for your specific fridge to see the best way to clean them.
---
Let me show you a few hidden areas on your refrigerator that need to get clean. Welcome to day three of the spring cleaning spree. On the checklist today is to clean our refrigerator. The first place to start is to empty all the food from your refrigerator. Now I like to grab all of the shelves and drawers and remove them. However, before I do that, a quick pro tip is just to grab your phone and snap a picture of the layout. Now anytime we remove glass from the refrigerator, it's very important to let it warm up and come up to room temperature before we clean it. What can happen is you run the risk of it shattering and we definitely don't want that. Next I like to go and fill up my bathtub with some warm water, two or three teaspoons of dish soap, and about two cups of white vinegar. So we can let it soak for a minimum of 20 to 30 minutes. It's time to clean the inside of the fridge. For cleaner, I like to use this one here, my DIY vinegar mix. The vinegar is going to help neutralize any funky odors in the fridge, along with just having some great cleaning power. I like to use a non-scratch scrub sponge like a scrub mommy. Then once everything's nice and scrubbed up, I'll come through with a three towel system. One to wipe down and just remove that vinegar. A second one to come through and rinse, and then the third dry clean microfiber towel to dry and buff the surface, making sure we leave no streaks behind. So now that everything has been soaking here for a bit, all the grime that was on the surface should be nice and loosened up. Now this is a big job. There's a lot of pieces here, but stick with this. The nice thing about letting it soak is that just the scrubbing is that much easier, and you really don't have to put too much elbow grease into it. I will give it a quick rinse under some water. Then the most important step is to get everything nice and dry before we put it back in the fridge. Then I follow the same process for the freezer. Behind your refrigerator is often an area that's hidden and forgotten. So I like to make sure to pull that out. Usually you'll find some dust buddies behind there, give it a quick vacuum, and then make sure to clean the floor. Another area is the top of the refrigerator. Usually this gets pretty dusty too, so as long as you have it pulled out, give it a quick wipe down. The last hidden area is your refrigerator coils. Now these are important to clean, because if they get filled with dust and debris, your refrigerator won't run as efficient. Now I do suggest just do a quick google search of your make and model of your refrigerator, along with refrigerator coils, to find out exactly how to get those nice and clean. That's a wrap on day three. We'll see you tomorrow for day four.