---
video_title: "The Most Overlooked Bathroom Cleaning Jobs"
video_id: ylri6vB-WRY
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ylri6vB-WRY
video_date: 2026-04-24T13:02:02+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome to Day 11 of the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree.
  
  Today we are finishing up the bathroom by cleaning the walls, trim, doors, and floors.
  When cleaning a bathroom, these are some of the most overlooked areas. While most people focus on the shower, toilet, and sink, dust, grime, and residue can build up on walls, baseboards, and doors over time.
  
  For walls, I like to use a simple mix of dish soap and water with a damp flat mop. This makes it easy to clean large areas quickly without making a mess.
  
  Got flat or matte paint? I’d skip this. It can absorb moisture and damage the finish.
  
  For painted trim and doors, you can use the same solution. If you have wood surfaces, Murphy Oil Soap is a great option.
  
  If you notice scuffs, a melamine sponge can help remove them. For sticky residue, like hairspray buildup, a foaming wall cleaner works really well.
  
  To finish, vacuum your floors and mop them thoroughly to complete your bathroom deep clean.
---
Welcome to day 11 of the Spring Cleaning Spree. Let's finish up the last few items on the checklist in our bathroom. Now when it comes to cleaning this area, I know for myself sometimes the main focus is only on your shower, toilet, and sink, and we don't always clean things like the walls, trim, and doors, so spring cleaning is the perfect time to get this job done. Now when it comes to the cleaning process, I like to keep it super simple. For instance, I just use a little bit of dish soap and water in a spray bottle with a damp, flat mop to clean the walls, and for the trim indoors, because they're painted, again, I can use the dish soap, but if you do have wood, I recommend Murphy's Oil. Sometimes you might find a few scuffs and a mellamyne sponge works great for this, or you might find some sticky residue maybe from hairspray on the walls, and zep foaming wall cleaner will break that down and get it cleaned up. And the last thing to do is give the floors a thorough vacuum and then come through and get them nice and clean. And that's a wrap on our bathroom. Give yourself a big high five. It's looking great. We'll see you next week when we start our bedrooms.