---
video_title: "Your Dishwasher is Dirtier Than You Think"
video_id: OHZPFDdb-yM
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OHZPFDdb-yM
video_date: 2026-04-16T13:00:43+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome to Day 5 of the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are cleaning the dishwasher, sink, and countertops.
  
  Start with your dishwasher by removing the filter and spray arm. Let them soak in warm water with a little dish soap and white vinegar to help break down grease and grime. Then give them a good scrub, make sure the spray arm holes are clear, rinse, and put everything back in place.
  
  Next, wipe down the inside of the dishwasher door and all those nooks and crannies using a simple vinegar mix. I like to use a mix of  1 cup white vinegar, 1 cup water and a teaspoon of Dawn dishsoap in a spray bottle. It helps cut through buildup and freshen things up at the same time.
  
  Then run a cleaning cycle with a dishwasher cleaning pod to finish the job.
  
  When it comes to countertops, it really depends on what you have. For natural stone, I recommend using dish soap and water. For laminate, you can use that same vinegar mix. Scrub any areas with buildup, then come through with a damp towel to rinse and a dry microfiber towel to buff and prevent streaks.
  
  Don't forget your backsplash. This is a great time to clean that as well.
  
  For the sink, start with a degreaser like Dawn Powerwash or dish soap. Give it a good scrub and rinse. If you have a garbage disposal, clean that now too using a disposal cleaning tablet.
  To remove hard water buildup and bring back the shine, I like to use Bar Keepers Friend Soft Cleanser. Scrub, rinse thoroughly, and make sure no cleaner is left behind. To really level up your clean, finish by drying and buffing the sink with a clean microfiber towel. This helps prevent water spots and leaves a streak free shine.
  
  If you have a black composite sink, you can finish with a small amount of food grade mineral oil to bring out the color and make it look like new.
---
Your dishwasher can get kind and nasty, so let me show you the best way to clean that up. Welcome back to the Spring Cleaning Spree. On the checklist today is to clean our dishwasher, sink, and countertop. For the filter and spray arm, I like to first let them soak with some dish soap and wipe vinegar to break down all the grime. Then give everything a good scrub and make sure the spray arm nozzles are clear. Then rinse and put them back in place. Then I grab my DIY vinegar mix and wipe down the sides of the door and those nooks and crannies were grime really likes to hide. Then just grab a dishwasher cleaning pod, throw it in, start a clean cycle and let it do its thing. When it comes to cleaning the countertops, it kind of depends on the type that you have in your home. For instance, these are natural stones so I'm going to use a little dish soap and water in a spray bottle. However, if you have lemonate countertops, you can also just use the DIY vinegar mix we used on the dishwasher. Give a good scrub to those areas that you notice have a little bit of buildup, then come through a two towels. One damn towel to rinse everything and then a dry, clean microfiber towel to dry and buff the surface. And if you have a backslash in your kitchen, it's a great time to clean this too. For the sink, what I first like to do is come through with a degreaser, like a dawn power wash or dawn dish soap, spray that down and then give it a really good scrub and rinse. If your sink does have a garbage disposal, I also like to clean this now too, just grab a tablet, follow the instructions and let it do its thing. To really bring out the shine and remove any hard water buildup you might have on the sink, I then like to come through with some barkeepers friend soft cleanser and give that a really good scrub. Then make sure to give everything a really good rinse because we don't want to leave any of the cleaner behind. Now to really level up your clean, what I always like to recommend is come through with a dry, clean microfiber cloth and dry and buff the sink. This will prevent water spots from building up and leave behind a beautiful shine, especially on stainless steel sinks. If you do have a black composite sink, I always like to finish with some food grade mineral oil and apply a thin layer on the entire sink to really bring out the shine and make it look amazing. And that's a wrap on day five. We'll see you tomorrow for day six.