---
video_title: "Are Your Cleaning Your TV Wrong?"
video_id: tjuhdnONx0I
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tjuhdnONx0I
video_date: 2026-05-05T21:01:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Three common mistakes people make when cleaning their TV.
  
  Welcome back to the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are cleaning TV screens the right way.
  
  One of the biggest mistakes is not dusting the screen before wet cleaning. Dust and debris left on the surface can scratch the screen while wiping.
  
  Another common mistake is thinking you need a fancy screen cleaner. In most cases, all you need is a damp microfiber towel with water to safely clean the screen. It is also important to avoid alcohol based cleaners, as they can damage certain protective coatings on TV screens over time.
  
  If you have greasy fingerprints or stubborn spots, you can use a simple DIY screen cleaning mix of distilled water and a few drops of dish soap. Just never spray cleaner directly on the TV. Always spray your towel first.
  
  Using the proper technique helps prevent streaks, scratches, and damage while keeping your TV crystal clear.
---
Three common mistakes people make when cleaning their TV. Welcome back to the Spring Cleaning Spring. Let's knock out another item on our checklist. The first mistake is not dusting the TV first before they start wet cleaning. Because if you don't do this, you could potentially scratch the screen. The second is thinking you need a fancy special cleaner. When honestly all you need is a damp microfiber towel with water only to clean, just go up and down very gently and don't push too hard and a dry clean microfiber towel to dry and buff the surface, leaving no streaks behind. Now as a reminder, we don't want the towel to be dripping wet. We just want it damp, so make sure to ring it out really well. And if you want to be super gentle and careful, you can also use distilled water. Now many times at this point your TV should be looking nice and clean and you're done. However, you might have a few greasy fingerprints and spots that just didn't come off. For this, I like to mix up in a spray bottle, one cup of distilled water, and a few drops of dish soap and give it a good shake. Now the third mistake comes when using a cleaner like this because many times people like to spray the TV, but if you do this, the cleaner can run into the internal components and cause damage. So always spray your cleaner on your towel first, never on the TV, then clean the area. The reason I don't use this mix on the entire TV is to be honest, in most cases, you really just don't need it. But for those times when you find a few greasy fingerprints or some buildup that's just not coming off, this will work great. Just always make sure to rinse the surface and dry once you're done. And that's a wrap on day 17 of the Spring Cleaning Spree. We'll see you tomorrow when we clean our upholstery.