---
video_title: "The Secret To Streak FREE Mirrors"
video_id: HBMyISB53VM
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HBMyISB53VM
video_date: 2026-04-20T13:00:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome to Week 2 of the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are kicking things off in the bathroom by cleaning your mirror, sink, countertop, and vanity.
  
  When it comes to cleaning your bathroom, always start by dusting first and working from top to bottom. This helps remove loose debris so you are not just pushing it around once you start cleaning.
  
  The key to streak free mirrors is my two towel system. Use your first towel with glass cleaner to clean the mirror, then come back with a second dry microfiber towel to dry and buff the surface. This is what removes streaks and leaves a crystal clear finish.
  
  For sinks and countertops, I like to use a simple vinegar cleaning mix to break down toothpaste residue, grime, and buildup. Just remember, do not use vinegar on natural stone. After cleaning, come through with a damp towel to rinse everything, then a dry microfiber towel to buff and prevent streaks.
  
  My DIY vinegar mix - 1 up white vinegar / 1 cup water / 1 teaspoon of Dawn dish soap.
  
  For the vanity, I use my three towel system. One towel to clean, one to rinse, and one to dry and buff. If you have painted cabinets, a little dish soap works great. If you have wood cabinets, I recommend Murphy Oil Soap.
  
  You can use that same process to clean the inside of your drawers and cabinets too. It is also a great time to declutter and reorganize while everything is out.
---
Let me show you the secret to get your mirrors streak free. It's week two of the spring cleaning spree, so to kick things off, let's take care of the first item on the checklist. Now, when it comes to cleaning your countersink, mirror, and vanity, it's always a good idea to first dust everything really good. And I always like to make sure to start at the top and dust my way down to the floor. Now, the secret to get your mirrors streak free every single time you clean them is to use my two towel system. The first towel you use with your glass cleaner to clean the mirror, but this will get wet from the glass cleaner, so then I like to come through with a second dry clean microfiber cloth to dry and buff the surface. And this will get rid of any streaks that might be left behind. For the sinks and countertops, many times you find toothpaste residue and all sorts of grind that can start to build up. So the cleaner I like to use for this is my DIY vinegar mix. If you need that recipe, I have it in the comments below, but just remember, you can't use it on natural stone. The final step is to come through with a damp towel and give everything a good rinse than a dry clean microfiber towel to dry and buff the surface. Now, for the vanity, we're gonna use the same three towel system that we used on the kitchen cabinets. The first towel is dipped in the cleaning bucket to clean. For this, I'm just using a little Dawn dish soap, but if you do have wood cabinets, I recommend Murphy Oil. The second towel is dipped in the water only bucket to rinse, and then the third towel is there to dry and buff the surface. I also like to use that same process to clean the inside of the drawers and cabinets, and usually I'll reorganize them a bit because when I take everything out, I find some stuff I don't need. And that's a wrap on the first item in our bathroom. Join me tomorrow when we deep clean our toilet.