---
video_title: "How to Clean Blinds Fast and Easy"
video_id: N-hqne8Wee8
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N-hqne8Wee8
video_date: 2026-05-13T13:00:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Always start by dry dusting first. This removes loose dust and debris so it does not turn muddy once cleaner is applied. I like using a Swiffer or a vacuum with dusting attachments for this.
  
  If your blinds are lightly dirty, clean them in place using my three towel system:
  
  One towel with cleaning solution
  One towel with water only to rinse
  One dry microfiber towel to dry and buff
  
  For most blinds, I use warm water with a small amount of Dawn dish soap.
  
  Mini Vinyl Blinds:
  If removable, take them down and wash them in the bathtub. Just do not submerge the top mechanism.
  
  Wood Blinds:
  Clean in place and use Murphy Oil Soap instead.
  
  Faux Wood Blinds:
  Can usually handle a little more moisture than real wood, but still avoid oversaturating them.
  
  Metal, Vertical, Roller, and Most Other Blinds:
  Clean in place using the three towel system.
  
  Fabric, Roman, and Cellular Shades:
  Always check manufacturer instructions first. Many require specialty cleaning. If allowed, spot clean only and test a hidden area first.
  
  Plantation Shutters:
  Clean in place with a damp microfiber towel and dry immediately.
  
  Bamboo / Woven Wood Shades:
  Use minimal moisture and focus on dusting or vacuuming when possible.
  
  To finish, dry blinds with a clean microfiber towel.
---
Let me show you a few tips to make cleaning blinds quick and easy. Welcome back to the spring cleaning spree and you guessed it, on the checklist today is to clean our blinds. Before we start spraying cleaners on the blinds and get them wet, it's always a good idea to come through and give them a good dry dust. Now if the blinds are not super dirty, I do like to just clean them in place with my three towel system. The first towel is dipped in the cleaning solution. For this, I like to use about a tablespoon of Don dish soap and a gallon of water mixed in a bucket. Then the second towel is in water only to rinse. And the third towel is a dry, clean microfiber cloth to not only dry the surface, but get rid of any streaks that might be left behind. It seems like anytime there's blinds in the bathroom, they always have some sort of sticky residue on them. Usually it's from hairspray and things, so it's best to let them soak for a little while with a little dish soap. That way you can cut through that grease and grime, getting them nice and clean. Now I do know there's a wide variety of different types of blinds out there, so I did share a few more helpful tips in the description below. So definitely check that out so you can clean that up.