---
video_title: "The EASY Way To Clean Your Shower and Tub"
video_id: KvkTYbK5SEk
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KvkTYbK5SEk
video_date: 2026-04-22T13:00:40+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome back day 9 of the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are finishing up a few more items in the bathroom by deep cleaning the shower and tub.
  
  Start by giving everything a quick rinse to remove any loose dirt, soap, or debris. This makes the rest of the cleaning process much easier.
  
  For cleaner, I like to use my DIY vinegar mix, or a store bought option like Bar Keepers Friend More Spray. Both do a great job breaking down soap scum, grime, and hard water buildup.
  
  For my DIY vinegar mix, I use 1 cup of white vinegar, 1 cup of water, and about 1 teaspoon of dish soap.
  
  One tool that will make a huge difference is a drill brush scrubber. This helps do the scrubbing for you so you do not have to work as hard. It is especially helpful on textured tub surfaces where grime can build up in those small grooves. I have links to all the products I am using in today’s clean in my bio.
  For tougher areas, like the non slip base of the tub, I like to use Bar Keepers Friend Soft Cleanser and scrub thoroughly.
  
  During spring cleaning, it is also a great time to check your drain for any buildup or clogs and give it a quick clean.
  
  Hard water buildup is very common on faucets and shower heads. Make sure to scrub your faucet well. For the shower head, remove it and let it soak in white vinegar to break down mineral buildup.
  Once everything is clean, rinse thoroughly. This is one of the most important steps because leftover cleaner can dry sticky and attract more dirt.
  
  To finish, dry everything with a clean microfiber towel. This helps prevent water spots and leaves a streak free finish.
  
  If you have tile, grout, or glass shower doors, you can scan the QR code on the Spring Cleaning Spree checklist for step by step videos specific to your setup.
---
Let me show you the easiest way to wash your shower into. Welcome back to the spring cleaning spree. Let's finish up a few more items on our checklist. To get started, I like to give the shower a quick rinse, get rid of anything that's on the surface there that can easily be washed away. When it comes to cleaner, I like to use my DIY vignager mix that we've been using throughout this entire spring cleaning series, or if you're looking for more of a store-bought option, the other one that works really well is Barkeeper's Friend Morsepray. Now, the one tool that will make this job so much easier and I highly recommend is a drill brush scrubber. Because these will do the scrubbing for you and you don't have to work as hard. You can either get the scrubber like I have, or just buy the brush attachments that you can use with your drill at home. Another area where these come in super handy is the non-slip textured base on your tub. I like to apply a little Barkeeper's Friend Soft Cleanser and start scrubbing and the brush gets into all those nooks and crannies and grooves and cleans it up with ease. Now, during spring cleaning, I also like to check the drain and make sure there's no clogs and give it a quick clean. My experience, there's a few areas that can have a lot of hard water buildup, one of them being your faucet, so make sure to give that a really good scrub. In the second is your shower head. I like to take it off, let it soak in some white vinegar to break down all the hard water buildup. Once you're done cleaning, the most important step is to make sure to rinse everything really good because we don't wanna leave any cleaners behind that could dry sticky and attract more dirt. I also like to come through with a dry clean microfiber cloth to dry the surface that way I don't leave any water behind that could potentially cause water marks or even streaks. Now, if you do have tile and grout or even glass shower doors in your shower, don't worry, I got you, I have a ton of helpful videos to walk you through the process to get those nice and clean, to scan the QR code on the checklist. And just like that, our shower is nice and clean, make sure to join me tomorrow for when we clean. I hit an area in our bathroom.