---
video_title: "Does This Baking Soda Hack Actually Work?"
video_id: seYo6i3taiw
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=seYo6i3taiw
video_date: 2026-01-28T22:00:49+00:00
video_description: |

---
So I recently saw this hack where you take parchment paper, baking soda, and an iron, and it's supposed to remove those hard to clean up grease spots on clothes. I gotta be real. I'm a little skeptical that this actually works. So let's give it a try and see what happens. So as you can see, my Bucky sweatshirt unfortunately has a grease spot here that has not cleaned up and it's been there for a little while. I spilled some taco meat on there. So what we're gonna do is grab the parchment paper like in the video and place it inside like so. And then we're gonna take our baking soda and apply a little bit of that to the grease spot. I take the parchment paper on top here and then we got our iron warmed up. I'm gonna see how this does. Now I think the idea of this hack is that baking soda is very absorbent. So we're trying to pull that up into the baking soda, the grease there and things. But sometimes I just don't know. Usually you need a little bit of a degreaser to cut through that bit here. All right. So... See? I mean, it looks pretty good right now, but the only thing I would say is that I think we need to wash it first, get it let it dry, and then see how it looks after that. So let's do that quick. So it is the next day. And as you can see here, the sweatshirt is nice and washed up. And it looks much better than where we started. It's kind of faint there. You can see it a little bit, but the Heather does a good job of hiding that for us here. I would give this hack like a seven out of ten. It worked pretty well. Now my go-to would still probably be a little bit of dish soap or like dawn power wash just because those have much better degreasing qualities. But if you have a really challenging stain that you can't get out, I'd say give this hack a try.