---
video_title: "Should You Wash or Buy A New Pillow?"
video_id: LKVFZNNeoHk
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LKVFZNNeoHk
video_date: 2026-04-28T13:00:29+00:00
video_description: |
  If your pillow looks dirty or yellowed, should you wash it or replace it?
  
  Welcome back to the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are washing pillows the right way.
  
  Start by checking the care tag to make sure your pillow is machine washable. Most standard pillows can be washed, but memory foam pillows typically cannot go in the washing machine.
  
  Before washing, spray the pillow with a stain remover or laundry pre treat and work it in with a soft bristle brush. This helps break down sweat stains, drool stains, and discoloration.
  
  When washing pillows, always wash two at a time to keep the washer balanced.
  
  After washing, fluff and shake the pillows before drying. Add dryer balls or tennis balls to help prevent clumping and keep the pillows fluffy.
  
  If your pillow still does not clean up well after washing, it may be time to replace it.
---
If your pillow looks like this, do you wash it or replace it? Welcome back to the Spring Cleaning Spree. On the checklist today is to wash our pillows. First, check the tag to make sure it can be cleaned in the washing machine. Then I like to grab a stain spray like this one here from Tide and spray the entire pillow down. Now, if you do have a memory foam pillow, unfortunately, these cannot be washed in the washing machine, but many times they have a cover that's removable that you can wash with this process here. Once I'm done spraying the pillow down with the pre-treat, I do like to grab a soft bristle brush and just work that in, and this will help lift those really stubborn stains. When washing your pillows in your machine, I always recommend washing two at a time that way everything's nice and balanced. Now, I am not one to ever turn away a cleaning challenge, but when it comes to pillows, I will say there does come a time when you're better off replacing it rather than cleaning it. However, if you're unsure, I say give this process a try and see how it cleans up. Once the wash is done, I do like to give them a quick fluff and shake before I put them in the dryer, and then always make sure to add either tennis balls or dryer balls because this will ensure that they don't get clumpy and lumpy while they're drying. And just like that, this pillow cleaned up absolutely amazing. Thanks so much for joining me today and we'll see you tomorrow for day 14 of the Spring Cleaning Spree.