---
video_title: "Are You Cleaning Your Floors Wrong?"
video_id: _3SydaathL0
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_3SydaathL0
video_date: 2026-05-07T13:01:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome back to the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are finishing up the living room by cleaning the floors the right way.
  
  The first step to clean floors properly is always vacuuming or dusting first. If you skip this, dust, hair, and debris get wet and turn into a muddy mess that is much harder to clean.
  
  When choosing a floor cleaner, I recommend using a neutral pH floor cleaner. Two great options are Zep Neutral Floor Cleaner or Ecolab Neutral Floor Cleaner. These help prevent sticky residue and keep floors cleaner longer.
  
  Work in sections as you mop so you do not miss any spots. If your floors have a grain pattern, clean with the grain to help avoid streaks.
  
  Most importantly, keep your mop head clean throughout the process. A dirty mop head will stop absorbing dirt and start spreading grime right back across the floor. Rinse your mop often and your floors will clean much better.
---
Let me show you a few tips to make cleaning your floors quick and easy. Welcome back to the spring cleaning spree. Today we're finishing up our living room so we're just taking care of anything we've yet to clean. When it comes to cleaning your floors, the first step is to always vacuum or dust before you get them wet with cleaners or your mop or spray anything down. If you don't do this, that dry debris and hair that's on the floor essentially gets wet and turns into mud and really sticky and it makes it that much harder to clean. When it comes to cleaner, I always suggest using something called a neutral pH floor cleaner. Essentially what that means is it's not going to dry sticky and attract more dirt. I do like to work in sections that way I don't miss anything. Now if you do have floors that have a grain to them, it's always a good idea to clean with a grain. That way you don't leave any streaks behind. The most important step throughout this entire process is to keep your mop head clean. Whether you use a spin mop or a flat mop, it really doesn't matter. The goal here though is just to rinse it out on a regular basis because what happens over time when you're cleaning your floor is they fill up with dirt and debris and then essentially once it's full, it just starts spreading evenly across your floor and your floors don't get clean. So make sure to give it a good rinse after each section that you clean. And that's a wrap for the living room. Give yourself a big high five and I'll see you next week for the home stretch of the spring cleaning spree.