---
video_title: "The Easiest Way To Clean Your Microwave | Day 1 Spring Cleaning Spree"
video_id: GJoIBoCTlsM
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GJoIBoCTlsM
video_date: 2026-04-12T13:00:26+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome to Day 1 of the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are starting in the kitchen and focusing on small appliances.
  
  For the microwave, I use a simple mix of lemon, white vinegar, and water. Pop it in the microwave for about 5 minutes and let the steam loosen up all that baked on food and grime. After that, it wipes away super easy.
  
  This is one of my favorite methods because it is fast, simple, and it works. The whole thing usually takes about 10 to 15 minutes.
  
  Quick pro tip, do not forget the outside and the top. Those areas collect a lot more grease and dust than people think.
  
  For the rest of your small appliances, it really depends on what you have. I always like to deep clean my coffee maker and toaster on day one so everything feels fresh right from the start.
  
  If you want to follow along, you can grab the full Spring Cleaning Spree checklist over on my website. There is a free PDF version, or a reusable physical version if you want something you can use year after year. Supplies are limited.
---
Let me show you the easiest way to clean your microwave little to no scrubbing. Welcome to day one of the spring cleaning spree. On the checklist today is to clean our small kitchen appliances. I start by cutting up a lemon, then add a cup of white vinegar, and a cup of water to a microwave safe bowl. And place that in the microwave for about five minutes. Now it's cool about this is that mixture will steam up in the microwave and loosen any baked on food or grind. This makes it super easy to wipe away and clean, and I love that it's fast. Usually it only takes me 10 to 15 minutes. One quick pro tip is don't forget about the outside on the top, so make sure to give that a good wipe down to. Now, as for the other small appliances in your kitchen, it kind of depends what you have in your space. I personally always like to deep clean my coffee maker and toaster on day one. If you're wondering where to get this super helpful guide, it's available over on my website, cleanthatup.com. I have both a free PDF download available, or a physical version like this one here that's reusable, but I will say supplies are limited. And just like that, we completed day one. We'll see you tomorrow for day two.