---
video_title: "The Right Way To Clean Windows, Tracks and Screens"
video_id: 6TOvQuuGjLc
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6TOvQuuGjLc
video_date: 2026-05-14T21:05:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Let me show you how to get your windows sparkling clean.
  
  Welcome to the final day of the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are cleaning windows, window tracks, and screens the right way.
  
  Start by cleaning the window tracks using a toothbrush or small paintbrush to loosen dirt and debris before vacuuming it out.
  
  Then wipe the tracks down using a simple DIY vinegar cleaning mix.
  For the windows, use a small amount of dish soap mixed with water along with a washer and squeegee. Start at the top of the window and work your way down to help prevent streaks.
  
  One of the biggest tips when using a squeegee is to wipe the blade clean after every pass. This helps keep the glass streak free and sparkling clean.
  
  For screens, scrub them gently using dish soap and water, then rinse and allow them to air dry completely before reinstalling.
  
  Thanks so much for joining me for the Spring Cleaning Spree. And if you want to grab the checklist, I have both a free digital version and a reusable printed version available on my website.
---
Let me show you how to get your windows sparkling clean. Welcome to the final day of this spring cleaning spree. On the checklist today is to cleaner windows, tracks, and screens. To clean the tracks, I like to use either a toothbrush or an old paintbrush to loosen up all the dirt, so that way it's easily vacuumed up. Then I like to spray and wipe down with my DIY vinegar mix. Now when it comes to cleaning the windows, I like to mix up a little dish soap and water in a bucket, then grab a washer and a squeegee, and start at the top and work my way down. I also like to recommend only doing one window at a time, that way the cleaner doesn't dry on the surface and create a bigger mess. I will say using a squeegee can take a little getting used to, but start at the top and pull straight across the window and after every pass, make sure to wipe off about an inch of the squeegee. So that way you don't leave any streaks behind in your windows, look great. For the screens, I like to use that same mixture of a little dawn and water in a bucket and give them a really good scrub, then rinse, and then let them air dry in the sun. Give yourself a big high five. You did it. I'm sure your house looks absolutely amazing. And thanks so much for joining me again on another spring cleaning spree. Now, if you wanna get your hands on this super helpful checklist, I have a free digital download available on my website, along with a physical copy linked down in the YouTube shopping tab. So definitely check that out. And as hell we say, I'll see you on the next clean.