---
video_title: "The Best Ways To Clean The Top Of Your Kitchen Cabinets"
video_id: yd8GWF7kuvg
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yd8GWF7kuvg
video_date: 2026-02-04T22:49:48+00:00
video_description: |
  Your kitchen cabinet tops collect more grease and dust than almost anywhere else in the kitchen. If you’ve never cleaned them, this is how to do it the right way.
  
  Start by giving everything a dry dust. Next, spray a degreasing cleaner directly onto the surface and let it sit for a few minutes to break down built up grime. For this, I like to use 1 teaspoon of dish soap mixed with water in a spray bottle. Use a non scratch sponge to loosen everything up, then wipe it clean with a damp microfiber towel. Finish with a dry towel so nothing is left behind.
  
  Always use a sturdy step stool or ladder, never a chair or countertop, and keep both feet planted while you work. Take your time and don’t overreach.Save this for your next deep clean!
---
Now, the challenging thing about the tops of your cabinets is that you have that greasing grime, but the dust mixes with the grease, so it makes it very challenging to remove from the surface. I usually like to start by giving it a quick dust to remove that first layer there and then come through with a degreaser, give it a quick scrub, rinse, and then dry with a towel. But I will say, if you haven't done this in a really long time, like I mentioned, the challenge kind of comes in because the grease and that dust mix together and it's almost like a cement paste almost that builds up on the surface there, that's really challenging to clean and you can't dust that initial layer off either. Usually, you have to spray your cleaners down, give it a good scrub, let it sit for a while to kind of attack that area. So if you do have this, it's one of those things where you might have to clean it section by section and it might take a little time to clean. Now one quick pro tip after you get your tops of the cabinets nice and clean, something you can do is either use some parchment paper or old newspaper and lay that out over the tops of the cabinets here. That way, the next time they get all dusty and things, all you have to do is take the paper, throw it away, replace it, you don't have to clean it.