---
video_title: "I Tested Cleaning Products From Japan"
video_id: ZXVl6O40p4c
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZXVl6O40p4c
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |

---
I'm in Japan looking for the most unique and interesting cleaning products I can find to test them out and see how well they work. Let's see what we can find. The first item I found is probably more cute than useful, but that's this little teeny mini cleaning car. Now, my daughter and I found this at an art supply store that we absolutely loved. And the moment I saw it, I'm like, I need to pick that up. Now, the whole way

it works is that it has two little brushes on the inside, and when you drive it over things like eraser shavings or just pencil shavings and things, it's supposed to pick it up. It totally does. because it's very satisfying. As you can see here, you just drive it over the little mess here and it picks it up. Super satisfying. I

honestly wish I could get a full-size version of this car and just drive it all over town. This thing is so cute. It's probably not something you'd use every single day, but on a cuteness and just satisfying and just fun to use, it's a little toy that cleans. I'm giving it five out of five stars. The next item I found is designed to help you scrub those hard-to-reach areas behind your faucet in your kitchen or bathroom. Now, I will say it's a very

interesting shape of a scrubber. That's really what intrigued me about this. It has two sides as well. One soft and one more a little aggressive for scrubbing here. And what's really interesting is it actually has a sewn in cord right in the middle of the scrubber to kind of help you get into that back groove behind the faucet. Now, I will say

though, the one thing I don't love about it is it's just not long enough and the shape is a little small and it pretty much does the same as just a rag or even a toothbrush. I will say if you have a smaller faucet, this probably works great. I just wish it was a little bit bigger. I love the idea. It's a very specialized tool, but not super practical. I'd probably say two out of

five stars. The next item kind of falls again on that scale of more cute than practical, but I had to get it for my daughter's bathroom, and that is this little cat sponge right here. Now, the way I understand it is this is made to just kind of help you polish up your mirror, just kind of spot clean things as needed. But then my favorite part is the backside is sticky. So you can stick it down here. So that way you always

have it if you need it. Again, probably not super practical, but on cuteness level alone, five out of five stars.