---
video_title: "You’re Not Ready for the Next Phase of Your Career."
video_id: RzNYgyPqkP4
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RzNYgyPqkP4
video_date: 2025-11-17T15:15:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Become Irreplaceable with AI (Free 5-Day Email Series): https://the-ai-playbook.com/phase
  
  In this video, I reveal the 5 biggest career trends reshaping work in the AI era—from the end of task-based roles to the rise of the allocation economy. You'll learn the exact formula for staying irreplaceable, discover why in-person connections are becoming your most valuable asset, and understand how to avoid intellectual obesity as AI transforms every industry. By the end, you'll have the strategic framework to position yourself on the winning side of AI disruption.
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - Next Phase of Your Career
  (0:42) - The End of the Worker Bee
  (4:22) - Allocation Economy
  (7:08) - The New Opportunity Space
  (11:16) - The In-Person Moat
  (14:42) - Intellectual Obesity
  
  
  If you’re new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese. I’ve been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full time job and today, I’m building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over $18 Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me breakdown how I got here because on Youtube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here… 
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor 
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called “The Incubator” all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  
  To everyone who’s spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  •⁠  ⁠Instagram: [https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/](https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/)
  •⁠  ⁠Youtube:  [https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese](https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese)
---
In work 1.0, everyone worked from the office. In work 2.0, people went remote. Now we're entering work 3.0, working

directly with AI [music] co-workers. Not chaot as a tool. AI as your colleague, your manager, and your mentor. For marketers, engineers, sales reps, it doesn't matter. Your career is about to change forever. And I know this because

I've been on the front lines helping scale a tech startup that recently raised $18.9 million. I've [music] seen firsthand what separates winners from losers. and I'm noticing some nonobvious trends that are massive opportunities. So, in this video, I'm going to be revealing the five biggest career trends that I see coming in the next few years.

And if you care at all about capitalizing on the next phase of your career, you're going to want to pay attention. Trend number one is the death of the worker B. Worker Bes are people who are really good at executing tasks. You give them something to do, they get it done. But here's the thing. As AI

automates tasks like writing emails, building websites, or analyzing spreadsheets, task completion becomes simple. And the thing with worker bees is this isn't reserved for junior employees or factory workers in one way or another. Everyone, including founders of companies, are a worker B. And this because getting task done was fundamentally how you were able to be successful. But AI is now automating the worker B across every industry. And in

the next phase of your career, value won't come from your output. Instead, it'll come from your impact. I have an exact formula breaking this down that I'll cover, but I want to address the urgency. This isn't something that happens overnight, but you have to remember how AI improves. It doesn't get better linearly. It gets better

exponentially. And as companies like OpenAI are trying to maximize profit to justify their billiondoll valuations, it's a simple equation for them. The more tasks they can automate, the more valuable they become. In an article by Forbes, the headline reads, "Sam Alman's Open AI is coming for Wall Street's grunt workers as AI continues to transform the entry level." OpenAI has enlisted more than 100 exinvestment bankers to help train its AI models on how to build financial models that could automate hours of entry-level tasks.

They effectively plan to remove the worker B from the financial industry. And this isn't an isolated occurrence. According to recent reports, 20% of entry- level engineering jobs are gone. And the World Economic Forum says that by 2030 67% of jobs will be either entirely AI or people will be augmented by AI. So how can you capitalize this?

Well, the death of the worker B will divide people into two. And this will create a K-shaped trajectory. 20% of job skills will become 10x more productive enhanced by AI. 80% of job skills will plummet to zero replaced by AI. And that creates that K shape. So how do you make

sure you're in the top 20%. It's critical to understand what actually drives an impact for the business, which is normally pretty arbitrary, but I created a formula which is inspired by interviews with Robin Hood CEO. The equation is impact equals solutions identified time solutions delivered divided by time. Let me break down each variable so you can start optimizing today. Solutions identified is your ability to think critically, spot real problems, and create strategic plans to solve them. These are people who think

strategically and push a business in the right direction. To optimize this, leverage AI as your thinking partner, not just a task executor. When you're facing any challenge, ask AI something like, "You're an expert consultant in field. Analyze a situation and identify the top three strategic opportunities I should focus on." So that's solutions identified. Solution delivered is your

ability to take that strategy and bring it to the finish line. And this isn't tasks completed for a reason because tasks alone don't drive business impact. To drive business impact, you need to have multiple tasks executed at a high level and combine strategically. For this, I tell people use what I call the Henry Ford assembly line approach. Break complex projects into three to five individual components. Optimize each one

with AI, then combine them strategically. The last variable is time, and this is how quickly you can execute. In the AI world, speed is critical. If you're not moving fast, other people are. So, establish what I call forcing functions to try and force you to think of faster ways to build.

This is how you become irreplaceable in the AI era in this next phase of your career. And once you understand this equation, you can finally see if what you're doing is actually moving the needle or if it's not really making an impact. Because at the end of the day, busy doesn't mean valuable anymore. Impact does. And this brings us to the new economy that we're working in. Trend

number two is we're moving to an allocation economy. Back in 1776, Adam Smith published Wealth of Nations describing division of labor. The more specialized you were, the more valuable you became. And for over 200 years, the game was simple. Specialize deeply in one thing and make lots of money. Be the

best doctor, the best lawyer, the best engineer. You're going to print. And this is what is called the knowledge economy. But that game just ended and we're entering the allocation economy where you get compensated for directing AI systems, not necessarily for having knowledge yourself. Here's how you can think of it. Compare the chef to the

restaurant owner. The chef is in the kitchen cooking every dish themselves with complete control over every plate. It's time inensive and they can only serve so many customers. The restaurant owner sets the menu, trains the kitchen staff, and manages multiple cooks working simultaneously. Less direct control over each dish, but can serve hundreds of customers. Here's the

critical difference. In the next phase of work, the chef competes with automation. The restaurant owner manages the automation. In the AI era, be the restaurant owner, not the chef. [snorts] This is just an example to visualize it, but for this trend, the core skill is no different than being a manager. Just in

the next phase of work, you're managing an AI employee instead of a human employee. So to get great at this, it really requires two skills. First is context engineering. Context engineering is the art of providing the right information to AI so that the output is exactly what you want. If you're able to provide AI with the right context, it will be able to give you high quality solutions. Quality in, quality out. The

second is clear feedback. You have to use concrete examples like this section is too generic. Here's what good looks like. Example, rewrite using this as reference. Step two is understanding the reasoning. Ask AI to show you its

thinking before the final output. Step three is iterating with specific direction. Keep section 1 to three. Rewrite section 4 using this framework. Every feedback cycle trains AI on your specific work. You're building an

employee that improves forever. Jensen Huang from Nvidia said, "The IT department of every company is going to be the HR department of AI agents." I fully predict companies will be hiring for a role that's titled head of AI agents. And that's something that you want to be qualified for. Here's the bottom line. What's valuable is knowing

how to allocate resources and orchestrating AI to produce the outcome. And if you want a test that you can run on yourself, ask yourself, if AI got better, would I become more or less valuable? If the answer is less valuable, then you're competing with the tool. Historically, we've seen this many times when cards came out. If you were in the horse business, you were screwed.

But if you're in the transportation business, you got rich. When streaming hit, Blockbuster died. Netflix skyrocketed. What's needed in this next phase is position yourself adjacent to AI's growth. So, as it gets better, so do you. Trend number three is the new

opportunity space. AI has fundamentally changed what is possible for individuals to accomplish. And I'm not talking about just being more productive. I'm talking about doing things that were literally impossible before. Technical barriers that locked people out of certain fields are disappearing right in front of our eyes. What used to take years of

Photoshop training now can be done by nano banana in seconds. What required a computer science degree can now be built with a vibe coding tool in minutes. Here's how I think about this trend. Think of skills like levels in a video game. You start at level zero, completely new to something. AI has made

it so you can get to level one and level two in hours, not years. And there are two ways to look at this. On one hand, and this is uncomfortable admit, your existing expertise provides way less protection than it used to. And on the other hand, fields that were previously offlimits are now accessible. You can provide value in completely new areas.

Let's address the downside first. This erosion of requiring expertise is making basic knowledge work less valuable. I covered this in a previous trend, but it's important to hammer home. If you just have level one or level two understanding of a topic, anyone can get to that level very quickly, making that specific knowledge less valuable. That's a downside. But let's discuss the

opportunity. This change is creating what I call an evergreen area of innovation, where each AI advancement opens up possibilities that weren't possible for most people just months before. And the first area of innovation is creating the next level of value. When people think about AI, they generally think productivity. get more done in less time and save money. But

that's only part of it. What AI also allows for is creating next level value and improving the quality of output. Better engineering solutions, medical breakthroughs, enhanced media production. There's going to be a completely new opportunity space for people who can do things that were previously impossible before AI existed. I'm talking about curing cancer, space exploration, building cities underwater.

Yes, Atlantis is coming. Create personalized versions of your favorite TV shows. all new innovations that AI will make possible. If that doesn't sound exciting, then I don't know what will. So that's one benefit of this. But

the second is the rise of the generalist. These are people who can take their understanding in one vertical and translate it to another seamlessly. They'll leverage tools to build products they couldn't previously, which is opening up the doors to both entrepreneurs and employees. One specific example for entrepreneurs, let's say you want to build an app. These apps usually would only get built if there was massive upside if it succeeded. That's because it costs a lot

of money to build these things. So if you're going to build it, it better be worth your while. But because tools like Cursor and Replet have made it so anyone can build an app in minutes, that's completely opened up what apps can get built. And by removing this friction, it has created a new opportunity space for you to provide value that you previously couldn't do without knowing how to program. And so my advice for anyone watching this is go from 0 to one in as many skills as possible. Spend two hours

learning the basics of vibe coding with cursor or replet. Play around with tools like midjourney for design. Learn the fundamentals of email marketing. Get a highlevel overview of various industries. For vibe coding specifically, there's an awesome course called vibe coding 101 which is on deep learning.ai entirely free. It's like an

hour and a half. Check it out if you want to learn more. I also have a video where I build an app in under 3 hours. So you can watch me actually use these tools. That's on my YouTube channel. But

by learning these different skills, this will increase the surface area where you can provide value and a new category of full stack builders will emerge. These will be people that can do almost anything pretty quickly. There's an old saying, luck is when preparation meets opportunity. And by going 0 to one in as many skills as possible, it positions you to get lucky. And the more skills you understand at a foundational level, the more opportunity you're going to see to provide value. Zooming out the three

trends that I've covered, the death of the worker B, the progression to the allocation economy, and the new opportunity space. It's effectively removing the need for knowledgebased work and specific technical skill sets. All this is eroding the value you can have behind your computer. So, if the value you're providing behind a computer goes down, what about things that are inperson, which brings us to trend number four, the in-person mode? AI is fundamentally changing what work is valuable and what isn't. Back in 2021,

before Chat GBT came out, Sam Alman made a prediction that seemed counterintuitive at the time. He said, "AI will cause the price of work that can happen in front of a computer to decrease much faster than the price of work that happens in the physical world." The opposite of what most people expected. And now in 2025, this prediction is playing out exactly as he said. It's much easier for AI to take over work that's mostly done by clicking buttons on a computer. Writing code,

analyzing spreadsheets, drafting emails, all of that can happen remotely. And all of that is getting automated fast. But jobs that are needed to be physically present, plumbers, electricians, surgeons, people managing physical operations, these jobs are much safer from AI disruption. But here's where it gets interesting. In person doesn't just mean the physical work you do. It's

about the connections you cultivate. In a world where AI produces the outputs, your network has never been more important. Let me give you a concrete example from my own experience. At IK, we work with some of the biggest people in music. Tate McCrae, Ed Sheeran, Chance the Rapper. And I can tell you

right now, we didn't land those deals because we had a perfect AI generated pitch deck. The music industry is 100% relationship based. Going to shows, working with management, meeting them at their office. This is a peopledriven business. You don't get deals by sending a million cold emails from an AI bot.

You get them when you show up in person and build real relationships. The relationships you're able to build your network that can't be replicated. There's an old saying, your network is your net worth. And that's more true now than it's ever been. So, we know traditional manual labor and humanto human connections are hard to replicate.

So, here is my prediction. We're going to see a massive renaissance of blue collar work. For the past 10 years, everyone wanted to build a SAS company, startups, digital products. Software is eating the world was the mantra. Everyone learned to code. But we're

seeing a trend reversal happening right now. Plumbers, electricians, HVAC technicians, these roles cannot be done remotely. And if you think that these jobs will be replaced by robots, I don't think that will happen overnight. Physical things can only be built so quickly. There are supply chains, manufacturing constraints, safety testing. But on the other hand, software

doesn't have those limitations. You can iterate and deploy instantly. As a result, these physical jobs will continue to be at a premium. And we're going to see people pivoting into these roles. And as people see in person as a differentiator, they're going to start to realize how valuable in-person relationships will be. The smartest

people will go to events, have in-person meetings, and focus on their network, something AI can't replace. And what I'd say to any young professional, think seriously about whether remote work is setting you up for success long term. In an AI world where anyone can build anything, the people who win are the ones who understand that relationships are the ultimate moat. But this new world is giving rise to a new set of issues. If AI is doing the work for you, what will happen to your brain? Before

we dive into the final trend, which is all about keeping your brain healthy, I do want to address something. I don't want you worried about AI. I want you to feel excited about it. And this is why I created a 5-day email course, how to use AI to become irreplaceable. Each day breaks down one major trap that I've seen people fall into and how you can avoid it. It's the first link in the

description. It's entirely free. No upsells. It's my gift to you. And if it's not helpful, just unsubscribe at any time. Because you're coming from

YouTube, if you reply to any of the emails with a question, I will personally respond to all of them. Shout out everyone here watching. Let's get to trend number five. Intellectual obesity. There's a massive rise of what I call intellectual obesity. This is where your

skills atrovate so badly that you need AI to complete the task, but over time, you can't evaluate whether AI is doing good work. And this is revealing a massive issue for businesses. And I'll get into that, but this happens because you're not exercising your brain muscles. And over time, it gets out of shape or obese. Let me walk you through the exact cycle that's going to happen to people. First, AI will complete

expert level tasks in minutes. Work that normally took people hours to do, and the output is good, if not great. Second, you can't know if the work is error-free without checking every detail. But checking requires the same expertise and time you were trying to save. So, you either quickly review it or you don't at all. Every time you

delegate to AI, you lose an opportunity to build your own judgment, which is the very skill needed to evaluate AI's work. This creates a vicious cycle that leads to complete dependency. And in order to stay valuable, you need to be able to evaluate, improve, and direct AI. If you can't do the work at all, you can't manage AI doing the work. You become unemployable because you can't do it yourself, and you can't verify AI did it right. And to avoid this, you'll have to

make a conscious effort to flex these muscles. And the reason why this is becoming a massive issue for businesses is because if everyone is using the same model for the final output, then everyone's going to start looking the same. Imagine you had a 100 companies using the newest chat GBT model to generate ad copy. Over time, those models will converge on the same answer and everyone is going to look the same. So there won't be any differentiator unless you've been flexing these muscles and you're able to tweak them to a better final product. This is a

convergence that we're going to see that's driven by AI responses. If everyone has the same AI employee, they're going to get the same AI output. And if you don't flex these brain muscles, you won't be able to discern what's good and what's bad. So, here are two ways that you can flex them. First, you sometimes want to run to the location, not drive. And what I mean by

that is, let's say you had to travel one mile. If you drive, you'll get there quicker, but you won't get the exercise. If you run there, it will take longer, but you get the exercise. Sometimes you need to run to the location, i.e. not

use AI instead of driving there using AI. Find things you genuinely enjoy and just do it yourself. Read, write, journal, whatever it is. Flex your brain muscles. Then in your day-to-day, start working on things yourself that's in your specific domain. Cut out AI and

just do the whole thing manually. The second thing to do, your personal brain health is impacted by the people around you. And AI is going to make a clear divide amongst three sets of people. And I personally think this will be something as controversial as politics or religion. There will be three people.

The AI pessimist, the AI optimist, and the AI realist. The pessimist will be the person who hates AI and refuses to use the tools. Being around this person will slow you down and position yourself to be on the wrong side of change. The AI optimist will blindly accept AI outputs, not think critically, and not understand the urgency and downside that AI will have. They're just going to use AI for that last final response without thinking critically. The AI realists are

the people who acknowledge what it can and can't do and understand it will be a mix of good and bad. This is the sweet spot. You don't get paralyzed like the pessimist or blindly optimistic like the optimist. You're preparing while everyone else is debating. So, these are all the trends that I'm seeing right now, but there are other trends happening that relate to the specific industry you're in, which is why I made this video, which goes over 17 high-paying jobs that AI won't replace and the jobs that it will replace.

You'll learn more information about the job market and what industries are worth doubling down on and which are worth pivoting out of. If you like this video, you will love that one. I'll see you over there. Pace.