---
video_title: "I do not recommend doing this"
video_id: UU6Ub4GvaF4
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UU6Ub4GvaF4
video_date: 2025-12-20T16:15:03+00:00
video_description: |
  You can now get free food in seconds by using Google’s AI.
  
  And this new technology is already costing businesses millions of dollars.
  
  People are using Googles new Nano Banana Pro to generate altered images of their food to make it look rotten. And by sharing these photos to customer service, they are able to get FREE Food from delivery services.
  
  Harmless right? You’re just stealing from Doordash or Uber Eats.
  
  Well what if instead of food, it’s a fake AI generated images of you and it’s your parents getting scammed.
  
  Scary right? And as new technology comes out - how are we supposed to adapt quick enough for these changes?
  
  First it comes down to responsibility.
  
  As tech companies release new technologies they have to provide safeguards. In Googles defense they released Synthid which adds a watermark to images that is indistinguishible to the human eye but is easily detectable. This way it may Look real, but it isn’t.
  
  Second you have to educate the people around you. Scams will get more and more intricate, and the older generation is cooked unless you inform them.
  
  I made a tool to help people out. Just go to isthisreal .ai and you can upload a photo to see. If you want me to send you the link comment fake below.
  
  But just make sure to tell the people in your circle about these issues, because they’re very real.
  
  If you want to capitalize on the AI movement, make sure to follow me  @austin.marchese
  
  #ai #artificialintelligence #technology #nanobanana
---
You can now get free food in seconds by using Google's AI. And this new technology is already costing businesses millions of dollars. People are using Google's new Nano Banana Pro to generate altered images of their food to make it look rotten. And by sharing these photos to customer service, [music] they are able to get free food from delivery services. Harmless, right? You're just

stealing from DoorDash or Uber Eats. Well, what if instead of food, it's an AI-generated image of you and your parents get scammed. Scary, right? As new technology comes out, how are we supposed to adapt quick enough for these changes? There's two ways. The first is

it comes down to responsibility. As tech companies release new technologies, they have to provide safeguards. In Google's defense, they released SynthID, which adds a watermark to images that is indistinguishable to the human eye, but is easily detectable by AI detection systems. This way the image may look real, but it isn't. The next is you have to educate the people around you. Scams

will get more and more intricate, and the older generation is cooked unless you inform them. To help people out with all this, I actually made a tool. Go to isthisreal.ai, and you can upload a photo and see. If you want me to send you the link, comment fake below and I'll share it to you. Which makes me

think,