---
video_title: "How Alex Hormozi uses AI to Grow His Business"
video_id: -fgOxI7gu-k
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-fgOxI7gu-k
video_date: 2025-10-23T22:45:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Become Irreplaceable with AI (Free 5-Day Email Series): https://the-ai-playbook.com/hormozi
  
  In this video, we reverse-engineer Alex Hormozi's hidden AI strategy by analyzing hundreds of interviews and job postings to reveal 10 powerful systems his companies use behind the scenes. From building AI clones and automating content production to scaling deal flow analysis and creating specialized sales agents, you'll discover the exact AI playbook that's helping him dominate—and how you can apply these same strategies to your own business.
  
  If you’re new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese. I’ve been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full time job and today, I’m building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over $18 Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me breakdown how I got here because on Youtube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here… 
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor 
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called “The Incubator” all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  
  To everyone who’s spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  —- If you want to follow me on other platforms
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - How Alex Hormozi Use Ai to Grow His Business
  (0:45) - The Hormozi Clone
  (2:43) - AI First Media Production
  (5:16) - AI for Deal Flow Analysis
  (6:44) - AI Sales Development Reps
  (8:44) - AI Voice Sales Calls
  (10:28) - AI Powered Software Engineer
  (11:55) - AI Resume Screening
  (13:05) - Betting on Intelligence Arbitrage
  (15:34) - AI Funnel Scanner
  (16:55) - Multi-Agent Business Operating System
  
  •⁠  ⁠Instagram: [https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/](https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/)
  •⁠  ⁠Youtube:  [https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese](https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese
---
Alex Hormozi is one of the biggest entrepreneurs on the planet, recently making $106 million in 72 hours. But despite creating content almost 24/7, he rarely reveals how his businesses actually use AI to grow. So, I did the work for you, analyzing hundreds of interviews and every job posting from his company's website to reverse engineer his exact AI strategy. I've broken this into two sections: what he's currently doing and what he plans to do next. This will cover the AI tools automating his content to system scaling his portfolio companies. And for every

system I cover here, I'm going to give you actionable insight that you can implement today. And a lot of those insights I use myself to help scale a tech startup that recently raised $18.9 million. So, first, let's cover these seven AI systems that Hormozi is using right now. System number one is creating the Hormozi clone. Hormozi and his team

built ACQ AI at way to clone himself. It's trained on all of his books and his frameworks, but anyone can do that. What makes his difference is that it has thousands of proprietary consultation notes from businesses he's previously advised. He says he spent two years deliberately training it. And the real play here is they're building a data moat. Every

customer interaction makes the AI smarter. Every question answered becomes training data. While a customer struggles to clone Hormozi's public content, he's capturing proprietary data on what actually works today across thousands of real businesses. This helps him grow his business in two ways. First, customer stickiness. Look at

acquisition.com's business model. According to their website, they make money in three verticals: portfolio, advisory, and content and education. The more people that use ACQ AI daily, the more likely they convert to paid advisory or courses. He stays top-of-mind without lifting a finger.

Second is for employee leverage. Instead of Hormozi fielding every question, employees get 75% of answers from his AI clone. He only gets pulled in for the hardest 25%. It's raising the bar of what requires his actual attention. Now, a system similar to this isn't just reserved for the Hermozis of the world.

You can build your own AI clone today. Here's how I would suggest doing it. First, I would collect your expertise. Call it your client emails, your project docs, your best blog posts, your previous content creation. Second, use Claude projects or ChatGPT projects and upload everything as context. After

doing that, it is all the knowledge that you have and you can share it with your team or use it yourself for 80% faster output. Personally, I use Claude projects for exactly this and I've cloned my writing style so it instantly it can create scripts that sound just like me. But, this is just the tip of the iceberg. You likely know Hermozi because of his media empire. And spoiler, it's all powered by AI. System

number two, AI first media production. If you look at Hermozi's chief media officer job posting, it doesn't say use AI tools, it says AI first transformation. And when you look at his content creator job posting, it explicitly says "Find ways to work smarter. Test and recommend new tools like AI or automation that help us move faster without losing quality." And it also calls out wanting candidates who are familiar with Runway, Google VIO, Claude, and ChatGPT. So, it's clear they

want to use AI in their entire content creation process. But, are they actually doing it? Well, look no further than his Instagram. A post literally from yesterday. This is an AI generated graphic and there are a ton of other examples just like this. So, based on

their job posting and what they're actually posting, we know exactly how they think about AI. Now, I run a marketing agency making thousands of short-form and YouTube videos a month for founders just like Hermozi. So, let's walk through the entire workflow. First comes content ideation. You can feed AI your past videos plus top performing videos from your niche and it'll generate content ideas. Hermozi's

famous for his high output and it starts here. Data is key here and you can use tools like N8N to build full automations, something I've personally done before. Next comes copywriting. Hormozi has thousands of pieces of content that AI can learn his tone and style from. And the best model for writing right now, I touched on it earlier, but it's Claude paired with Claude projects. Then to polish a

script, personally I use type.ai. It's hard to say the specific tools they're using, but the process will be the same. Then to use AI to generate graphics. So, image generation lets you create proof of concepts in seconds. And sometimes

these images are good enough to post directly, and Hormozi actually does this as I've shown. If you want to create something similar, you can just copy a photo, bring it into Nano Banana, and tell you want to change the copy and the colors. If you bring in a photo of yourself, it will create a similar-looking professional graphic in seconds. Here's one that I just created. So, you've generated the idea, you've created the copy, which could be the script or the caption. You've then

created an image. Now it's about creating and editing the video. Premiere Pro and CapCut, which based on their content creator job posting is what they're already using, these already integrate AI. And pretty straightforward, but here's where it gets interesting. As AI video generation improves, I fully expect Hormozi to use AI-generated B-roll in his videos. To do

this, you would generate an image in Nano Banana, bring it into Google's V 03.1, and then that'll turn the image into a video clip. Then you can take that and use it in your final edit. This is a strategy I've used personally for my content, and I've gotten hundreds of thousands of views. Now, part of why Hormozi's content is so good is because of his sales abilities. So, these next

three systems are how he's integrating AI to close more deals. System number three, AI for deal flow analysis. Acquisition.com um probably receives thousands of investment opportunities every year. And the ability to review these thoroughly is a massive bottleneck. And Hormozi's solution is

use AI to process these thousands of deals and surface the few worth pursuing. One of the areas that AI is going to really help is deal flow analysis. You're going to be able to process hundreds of thousands of deals to find the one or two that matter. The workflow is pretty obvious. AI screens thousands of deals and ranks by probability. AI does preliminary

analysis on the top 100, that creates a summary on the top 20, and then a person does a deep dive on the final five that are worth looking at. But, this isn't just about saving time. It's about finding opportunities that would have been missed entirely due to human bandwidth limitations. And, here's why this matters to you. You don't need to be buying companies to use this strategy. Let's say you're looking to

buy a house, probably the biggest purchase in most people's lives. You define your criteria, you write down your must haves, your deal breakers, etc. Then you use that paired with property listings. Then you go to AI, let's say ChatGPT, and you ask which of these listings meet my criteria, any red flags, how does the price compare to comps? AI will then surface the ones that you should actually look at, and this will help you make your final decision. It's the same principle, but

different application. The businesses and people using AI for systematic decision-making will constantly outperform those relying purely on human intuition and bandwidth. System number four, AI sales development reps. Most people are trying to build one AI that does everything. One AI to rule them all. Shout out Lord of the Rings.

>> But, Hermosi did the opposite, and it's quite genius. Here's how he thinks about the sales process. >> It started to make more sense to have like an AI that was only trained on first message, and another AI that was trained only on second message, and then like the more specialized we can make them, like and all of them were optimized for a singular goal, which is how do I increase the likelihood that someone responds. As the like you're not going to get someone booked on the first message. So, then we need to optimize for a different goal. We have to get

them to respond. >> It started to make more sense to have an AI that was only trained on first messages, and then another AI that was trained only on second messages, and then more and more that are specialized for a certain step in the process. He built specialized AI agents for each step of the sales funnel. Not one AI trying to do it all. Separate AIs each mastering a specific step. In practice,

this could look like agent one gets a response. They're not booking a meeting, they're just getting them to reply. Agent two qualifies and builds interest. Agent three handles objections and books the meeting. And when you go and look at the job opening for sales development manager, it explicitly requires identifying areas for automation and AI integration. And here's what Hermosi

loves about this workflow. As AI makes mistakes, you train it to not make that mistake, and it never makes it again. Versus in his eyes, a human who forgets and makes the same mistake multiple times. If you're looking for how you can implement this, first I would map your sales funnel, every step of the process. Then within that funnel, I would find the step that has the lowest cost of error. For example, I would explore

automating cold outreach because it's lower risk than automating responses to your highest paying customer. Cost of error is critical to keep in mind when automating these things. Then I would test prompts manually using tools like Claude and ChatGPT for each stage in the funnel. And then finally, once you're confident, you can use tools like n8n or Zapier to automate the sales funnel. Text-based sales is just part of the process, which brings us to the next system. System number five is AI voice

sales calls. In an interview done about nine months ago, Hermosi said, >> We're getting really close to being able to have uh it take calls. >> Wow. >> Yeah, specifically >> Inbound, I assume. >> Uh no, outbound works too.

>> Wow. >> Yeah, yeah. >> Sales? >> Uh setting. I think it will get sales.

>> Wow. >> end of next year it'll be able to do sales. >> He estimated AI will be able to do appointment setting in three months and sales in the next year. Spoiler, this was nine months ago. So he's likely using AI for setting and soon to use it for sales. The way this can impact sales

is obvious, right? A lead comes in at 2:00 a.m. You don't have to wait to give them a call in the morning. Instead, AI immediately calls them and brings them through the sales funnel. That AI can

have all of Hermosi's sales strategies, everything that you could teach a traditional sales rep, and just make the process better. The same concept can be used for outbound calls. So here is what you can do today with this strategy in mind. Go to Vapi. It's a free product that you can experiment AI phone calls with. Just get your hands dirty, see

what's possible today. Then I would start capturing data for everything sales related that you do. You record your sales call, capture your transcripts from sales emails or sales messages. Start capturing data because that is how you're going to be able to train these tools in the future. Third, this is a nuance, but if you want to bring this to production and actually talk to customers, in my opinion, you need to handle the are you AI question.

For me, nothing is more annoying when I'm talking to what appears to be an AI and I can't get in touch with a human person. Just make a scenario where they can get in touch with an actual person. This way you don't lose the lead entirely. Now, those last three strategies were all about using AI in the sales process. But Hermosi is also using AI to help build custom software.

System number six, AI-powered software engineering. Hermosi isn't Mark Zuckerberg, right? He doesn't run a tech company. He runs an advisory, investing, and content business. But, his company is famous for high-level execution and output. And that's where software

engineering comes in. There's a famous table showing when you should automate something based on task frequency versus time saved. And because of AI, tasks that used to take 40 hours to automate now take two hours, which means way more things are suddenly worth automating. And the truth is, most businesses accept operational inefficiency because the cost to fix it isn't worth it. But, AI has flipped this on its head. Now, the

question should be, should we automate this? And the answer is almost always yes. And yeah, so if you go to the software engineering listing, you'll see them explicitly calling out using AI tools. But, here's what I think is really interesting. Hermosi himself is building software while watching TV.

>> That was yeah. >> Because I could watch I could like watch TV at night and just like just give it the prompt and it comes back in 5 minutes and then you just give it the next prompt. >> He's not a developer, but he now knows that AI handles the technical complex stuff, so he can build proof of concepts while watching TV. With this in mind, here's your blueprint. If you're technical and you're not already, use Cursor or Claude Code. This is what

acquisition.com uses based on their website. In my opinion, Claude has the best AI model for code. But even if you're not technical like Hermosi, you can use it for quick proof of concepts. And for that, I would use Replit or Lovable. Let's go through the final AI

system that he's doing today before going to what he's going to do next. System number seven, AI resume screening. When talking about using AI to review resumes, Hermosi doesn't say it's pretty good. He says exceptionally good. This is the same principle as the deal flow system, but it's for job candidates instead of companies. The

fortunate and or unfortunate truth is every company will use this. If you're applying to jobs, you need to think like LLMs. Run your resume through ChatGPT with a job description and ask, "If an AI was evaluating my resume for this role, how can I optimize it for screening?" There are tools out there that streamline this whole approach. So, tools like ai-apply.co automize resume

customization at scale. Now, all these systems might have you feeling a little worried about AI. But for anyone watching this channel, I want you to feel excited about AI, not scared. Which is why I created a completely free 5-day email course that gives you a complete playbook on how to use AI to become irreplaceable. If you want it, there's a link in the description. Just click it,

drop your email, and I'll send it over to you immediately. If it's not helpful, unsubscribe at any time, no problem. And no, there are no upsells. So, if you're interested, click the first link in the description and join hundreds of other readers who've loved it enough to share it with their friends. Okay, so we've gone through seven AI systems Hermosi is running today. But it's not always about

what's going on today. Instead, it should be about what's going to happen next. Part two, what Hermosi plans to do next with AI. System number eight is about betting on intelligence arbitrage. So, their AI product, ACQ AI, which is what I mentioned in system number one, there's a much bigger play here. Right

now, businesses use ACQ AI and input their real metrics, revenue, customer acquisition costs, margins, etc. They follow the advice, some succeed, some don't. While this is happening, here's what's going on behind the scenes. ACQ AI is tracking which advice actually worked. This way in the future, it can say things like when a $5 million HVAC company with these metrics implemented this strategy, revenue grew by 40% and soon it'll be able to say, "Based on 437 similar businesses, here's what works with 89% confidence." And this is where

it gets genius. Today, you could train AI on Hormozi's public content and get probably 80 to 90% similar results. Literally, if you just go to ChatGPT and you say you're Alex Hormozi, advise me accordingly, you're most of the way there. But in 12, 24, 36 months, it won't be the same because ACQ AI will have proprietary outcome data from hundreds of thousands of real businesses. It'll have industry benchmarks that nobody else has. Proof

of what actually works, not just theory. And every new user will make that moat deeper. This is what I call intelligence arbitrage. Having access to data that no one else can get. Now, I don't think you're going to build a ChatGPT competitor and I don't think you're going to build what Hormozi's building.

But you can build hyper-specific intelligence products in whatever niche you're an expert in. And a niche can be a subject as well as a location. Here's some real examples of people doing this. There's a European VC CFO who built a custom finance tool for other VCs using Replit. He pre-sold it to his CFO friends and had 5 million in commitments before he even quit his job. Or Gen AI.

This guy built an AI certificate platform after watching his neighbor, who's a tractor salesman, struggle with ChatGPT. He had 200K in revenue in 2 weeks. Now he's approaching a million dollars a month. So what could this look like for you? Let's say you have restaurant experience and you know exact food costs, suppliers, sourcing costs from your local market. That information

is extremely valuable to anyone starting a restaurant in your area. You could build something like Restaurant Ops AI with your proprietary benchmarks. New restaurant owners pay you because you have the data they literally can't get anywhere else. And as more local restaurants use it, your data advantage just keeps compounding. This is the intelligence arbitrage era, and Hermosi is making a massive bet on it. Strategy

number nine is AI funnel scanner. A podcast with Hermosi came out yesterday with Replits CEO, and based on how that conversation went, I fully expect his team to build this soon. They talked about creating a tool that automatically analyzes your sales funnel and identifies every issue. But here's the thing. This is already possible. You can

do this right now with ChatGPT agents in seconds, and I actually built this exact system about a month ago. Here's how you can do it. Go to ChatGPT, click the plus, select agent mode, and give your funnel URL and some competitor examples. Then prompt it, "Analyze my funnel as a conversion expert. Identify every friction point and improvement opportunity." Then just review the

recommendations and implement them. It's worth noting a product like this is probably not something you could make money on. Here's what Hermosi said about it. >> A funnel scan, for example, is probably not a tool that you'd use on a consistent basis. You probably use it one or two times. You give it a huge

amount of data to get an inference. Those aren't the types of things I would want to sell. Those are the types of things I would I would want to give away in exchange for tons of data. >> Then he'll use that data and he'll likely upsell you to one of his other offers. As AI advances, it creates new use cases that weren't previously possible. And when you're able to

productize these use cases into services, it opens up the door for rapid product building and massive data capture. And this brings us to the final system, which is ultimately the end game. System number 10 is multi-agent business operating system. AI agents that autonomously run business functions and contract out to other specialized AI agents when they need help. That's a mouthful. I'm going to break this down

in what I call work 3.0. Work 1.0 was working in offices. Work 2.0 was where

we could work remote, and that meant you could work with anyone around the planet. Work 3.0 is all about leveraging AI agents as employees. If you're struggling to understand that, here's what it could look like in practice. Let's say acquisition.com gets sued for

trademark infringement. Traditionally, you need a human to search for a specialized attorney, weeks of back and forth, and six figures in legal fees. With AI agents, the legal agent detects the issue automatically. It says to itself, "I don't have Instagram IP litigation expertise." So, it searches an AI agent marketplace, contracts specialized agent, shares the case data, gets recommendations, and executes the strategy. Now, this concept isn't new.

Anthropic CEO recently went viral predicting there will be a one-person billion-dollar company in the future. >> When do you think there'll be the first billion-dollar company with one human employee? >> 2026. >> Yeah. No, no, I I absolutely buy that.

Um >> And for that to happen, you need people who know how to orchestrate these AI agents. So, here's my prediction. Within the next year, Hermozi will have a job posting for an AI conductor. Someone whose entire job is managing and orchestrating these AI agents. And everyone's thinking about this. I

actually spoke with a top HR employee at one of the biggest US companies. And this company moves slow, by the way, and they're already describing this AI conductor role internally. Here's the bottom line. The businesses that figure this out in 2025 will have 10-person teams doing what takes their competitors 100 people to do today. And the person who knows how to orchestrate those AI agents, that's going to be the most valuable role in the company. As you're

going through your day-to-day, think of what you're doing as being a conductor and lead these AI tools to get the final product you want. Because the AI conductor role is going to be a job opening that everyone's fighting for in the next couple of years. The gap between AI native and AI assisted businesses will look like Netflix versus Blockbuster, or Amazon versus Sears, or Tesla versus GM. And it's not surprising how Hermosi under the hood is building an AI first company. It's just most people don't know it. Now, if you're

using AI to grow your business, to help you start one, or even just to help you out work, click here to check out the next video where I go over 25 different things I bet you didn't know Chat GPT agent could do. If you're able to learn how to use Chat GPT agent, that's your first step to becoming an AI conductor. I'll see you in the next one. Peace.