---
video_title: "Space travel could transform Real Estate"
video_id: 67os7ZwCzHQ
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=67os7ZwCzHQ
video_date: 2025-12-14T16:15:00+00:00
video_description: |
  This number could be the key to affordable housing—and it has to do with launching data centers into space. This is wild.
  
  —
  
  ###
  
  By 2030, data centers will consume as much electricity as Japan. These facilities are taking up massive amounts of land and resources, driving up power costs for everyone.
  
  When data centers compete for real estate, local housing prices rise. When they drain the power grid, your electricity bill goes up.
  
  But with the AI boom, is there a way to avoid this? What if we moved everything… to space?
  
  **A** company called Starcloud just launched a satellite with an Nvidia H100 GPU to test building data centers in space.
  
  —
  
  Here’s why this works: unlimited solar power 24/7. The vacuum of space acts as natural cooling—no water needed. And we have plenty of real estate up there.
  
  Move data centers to orbit, and suddenly there’s more land for homes and less strain on power grids.
  
  —
  
  But here’s the catch. The entire business only works if launch costs drop from $3000/kg to $500/kg to reach Low Earth Orbit.
  
  At current prices, launching a data center costs $30 million but in the future that could be $5 million.
  
  So when you see billionaires investing in space travel, this isn’t just a science project. The cheaper they can make space travel, the cheaper it will cost to move data centers to orbit and suddenly, this can become possible.
---
This number could be the key to affordable housing, and it has to do with launching data centers into space. This is wild. By 2030, data centers will consume as much electricity as Japan. When data centers compete for real estate, local housing prices rise, and they drain your power grid, increasing your electricity bill. But with the AI boom, is there a way to avoid this? What

if we moved everything to space? A company called Starcloud just launched a satellite with an Nvidia H100 GPU to test building data centers in space. You move data centers to orbit, and suddenly there's more land for homes and less strain on power grids. But here's the catch, the entire business only works if launch costs drop from 3,000 kg to $500 per kilogram to reach lower earth orbit. At current prices, launching a data center could cost 30 million, but in the future that could cost as little as 5 million. That's the difference between

impossible and profitable. So, when you see billionaires investing in space travel, this isn't just a science project. The cheaper they can make space travel, the cheaper it'll cost to move data centers to orbit, and suddenly this can all be possible. Now, that's for the billionaires, but if you want a clear strategy on how you can capitalize on AI, comment playbook and I'll send it your way.