---
video_title: "Create Viral Videos/Hooks with Sora 2 (AI workflow)"
video_id: WhjGUVm_73M
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WhjGUVm_73M
video_date: 2025-10-14T21:00:41+00:00
video_description: |
  Become Irreplaceable with AI (Free 5-Day Email Series): https://the-ai-playbook.com/sora
  
  In this video, we break down how to use Sora 2 to create viral videos and strong hooks step-by-step. You’ll see how to turn simple ideas into scroll-stopping content using AI, and how this workflow can help you produce viral clips faster than ever.
  
  If you’re new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese, I go by MacNCheeasy. I’ve been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full time job and today, I’m building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over $18 Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me breakdown how I got here because on Youtube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here… 
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor 
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called “The Incubator” all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  
  To everyone who’s spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  —- If you want to follow me on other platforms
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - Sora 2 Just Dropped
  (0:35) - Create Your AI Avatar
  (1:41) - Generate Your Video using ChatGPT and Sora 2
  (4:14) - Removing Watermark using Magic Eraser
  (4:43) - Use Editing Software to put it all together
  (6:30) - Creating Supportive Assets for Compelling Stories
  (7:35) - Creating the Impossible
  
  * Instagram: [https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/](https://www.instagram.com/macncheeasy/)
  * Youtube:  [https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese](https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese
---
If OpenAI Sora 1 wasn't insane enough, Sora 2 just dropped. And today, I'll be showing you how to make some insane viral videos with just like this one. You're about to learn the exact step-by-step AI workflow that I use to make this in only 5 minutes. So, you can do the same and use it for work, for business, or just to mess with your friends. The processes that I cover here have helped me get hundreds of thousands of views, and it even got me a follow from Jamie Fox this week, which is pretty dope. We're going to be using

Sora 2, Chat GBT, Magic Eraser, and Cap Cut. The best part, every step is entirely free. Then at the end, I'll explain my two favorite ways these tools are being used. All right, let's dive into it. Step one is to create your AI avatar. Previously, this took 15 to 30

minutes on other tools, and usually it was a premium feature, but Sora does it entirely free, and I'm very impressed with the quality. Here's how you can make yours. If you have an iPhone, search for Sora in the App Store and download. As of filming, there's no Android version yet, but my guess is that'll change fast. There's also a desktop version, but you can't set up your avatar through that. You're going

to have to do that through mobile, and I'll touch on some limitations here at the end of this video. Now, once you download it on your phone, Sora walks you through a quick 20- second process to create your avatar. Two things of note, Sora is the app name, but Sora 2 is the AI model that actually makes the videos. And I would make sure to film your avatar with a white backdrop. That just makes the AI's life easier. Now,

one of my features about Sora is you can control who can create videos using your AI avatar. Everyone, mutual friends, or no one, you choose. Then it's as simple as typing your username and writing a prompt into their app. Here's a test video of me saying hi wearing the same shirt. >> Uh, hi. Hey, just wanted to say hi. Hope

you're having a good day. >> It's a good start. We'll get to removing the watermarks and making landscape videos. But first, you need to know how to prompt Sora correctly to make the exact videos you want. Step two is generate your video using Chat GBT and Sora 2. Here's the thing. For me, I

never start from scratch when creating prompts for image or video generation. Instead, I use AI to help me craft these prompts. So, go to ChatGBT and use this prompt format. Create an optimized prompt for Sora 2 to generate a video of insert video details. This outputs a robust prompt that you can then use as a starting point or bring it directly into Sora. For this AI generated video, I

wanted to create three scenes. The first is me dropping a bowling ball off the cliff that says Sora 2. The second scene of me in space talking, and the third is me painting with Bob Ross in front of a giant audience. For the first scene, here's the exact prompt I asked Chat GBT. You can look on the screen for the entire thing. You'll notice how I go

through the storyboard. I'm clear on the setting that I actually want it to be in. All important as you're creating the visuals for the story you're trying to tell. And remember, we're using chat GBT to generate a prompt that we'll then bring into Sora. And to generate the style I want, which is for YouTube, I need landscape. To do that, I click the

drop down at the top, select landscape. I mention myself in the top of the prompt mac and cheesesy. Then I copy and paste the prompt from chat GPT into Sora. A pro tip here is you can queue up three videos at once. And so these videos take 30 seconds to a minute to generate and I highly recommend that you do the same prompt three times. So

there's three versions and you can just pick your favorite one. This streamlines the entire process and it's an absolute game changer. I repeat this process for each of the three scenes and the avatar in each of the videos is wearing the same outfit. In my eyes, the character consistency is key, and that's the major game changer with this Sora 2 AI model. If you look at the screen, here's a prompt I use for the space shot plus the unedited Sora video. And here's the

prompt that I used for the Bob Ross painting video along with the raw video. Not bad. Not bad. Not bad. Bob Ross kind of fresh. When you watch those, you'll

notice a couple of things are off. First, there's a massive sora watermark on the videos. I don't want that in my final product. And the second is that the clips don't work perfectly together yet. So, we're going to fix both of these problems, but real quick, I want to mention something important. A lot of

people watching videos like this get super excited about AI video tools like Sora 2, but then they don't actually do anything with it. And the worst part, honestly, is now they understand how powerful it is, and this leads them feeling like AI will replace them. But for anyone watching this channel, I want you to feel excited about AI, not scared. Which is why I created a completely free 5-day email course that gives you a playbook on how to use AI to become irreplaceable. If you want it, there's a link in the description. Just

click it, drop your email, and I'll send it over immediately. If it's not helpful, just unsubscribe at any time. No problems here. Okay, so step three in this process is about removing the watermark. And we're going to use Magic Eraser. This is a simple but powerful

step, and keep this trick in your back pocket for any tools that have watermarks. Go to magicaser.org, then select Sora watermark remover. Upload your video, then mark where the watermark is in multiple spots. You can see me doing it here for three different locations. Click remove watermark and

boom, you have a clean video without watermarks. Easy peasy, but it's still not good enough yet. We need some basic editing to bring it all together. Step four, use editing software to put it all together. In this case, I'm going to use Cap Cut because it's dead simple and everyone watching it can use it for free, but feel free to use whatever software you prefer. Go to Cap Cut,

create a new account or login, then start a new project. Drag in your videos, and you're creating a timeline. You'll notice though that there's some dead space with pauses, which makes things too slow for YouTube. So, I go in and I cut and arrange these clips so it's a little bit more compact and I get rid of parts that I don't like or that I don't think are needed. In this case, for the first scene where I'm dropping the bowling ball off the cliff or AI me, um, I made it way shorter and just kept the key scenes that I wanted. Then from

the space station, I just had the part where I was walking and talking. And then on the Bob Ross video, I really didn't like how I came out on the zoomed in part and I didn't think that was needed. So, I took that part out as well. I'm going to play this right now. Sora 2 just dropped.

>> I'll be showing you how to make some insane viral videos with it. >> Just like this one. >> I don't love the audio to be honest. To enhance the audio, I want professional sounding audio so it flows better with this entire YouTube video. So, I film myself saying the exact script using my studio setup. Brought that audio into

the actual video. And then I take that audio and align it with the clips when my AI character is saying it. So that's the audio in the background. And I kept the applause at the end of the Bob Ross video because it fit well in the broader scheme of it. So now I play the video.

Sora 1 wasn't insane enough. It looks, it sounds good. I'll make some insane viral videos with it just like this one. >> Okay, we have the video. Let's export it. And boom, you have your viral hook

ready to go. That's everything you need step by step to create these viral videos using Sora 2. but it doesn't show what I think are two of the most valuable use cases for Sora 2. The first use case is how I use it most, which is creating supportive assets for compelling stories. In one of my recent Instagram videos, it got over 18,000 shares. It got a like by Tain and it got

me a follow from Jamie Fox. So, how do I use AI in my shorts? I use it to create supportive assets. Let me break down an Instagram video I recently posted. I'll call out exactly how and where I used AI generated videos, and notice how it's supporting what I'm talking about. Alpha

School has completely reimagined education. Instead of teachers, they use AI tutors for approximately two hours each day. Students are advancing two to three grade levels per year. Which makes me ask a bigger question. What does this mean for the future of learning and how kids grow up? Well, in the past 5 years,

homeschooling in America has doubled and traditional school looks outdated. Your kids or your future kids are going to learn completely different than how you did. You can see exactly how I'm using it. It's supportive to the overall video. It's not driving it, but it makes it better. I think of Sora and any AI

video generation as my creative assistant, and it's really good at this. How to actually implement this is no different than what I outlined in this video. You just likely won't be using your own personal AI avatar when you're creating these assets. Use case number two is about creating the impossible. We're seeing videos like this take off everywhere. Martin Luther King giving I

have a dream speeches about different topics. Sam Alman stealing from Target. But my favorite is creating these extremely creative scenes that are just impossible or crazy. Here's an IG account crushing it with this format. They create reality in reverse. For

example, in this video, instead of a human eating a crab claw, it's a crab eating a human claw. Reality in reverse. Very eerie, but rips views. To do this on Sora, make sure it's set as portrait. And then start thinking up crazy scenarios. Here's an example of me

creating a fish market in reverse where the fish are selling people. Definitely creepy, pretty cool. If you're watching this and getting excited, you're not alone. And the crazy part is that these tools will only get better. today is as bad as it ever will be. But with that in

mind, I do want to call out three limitations. First, you'll notice most of this video use the mobile experience instead of the desktop experience, and that's because the desktop version is pretty buggy right now. They'll fix it soon, but as of filming, it rarely loads. Second is you can't actually use anyone in this tool. There are strict copyrights and IP rules that limit what Sora can recreate, which likely won't be solved in the immediate future. And the

third is that I've noticed Sora is good and bad at certain types of videos, and you have to react accordingly. For example, to start with this video, I wanted two versions of me in the same video, showing multiple angles of this office, but the consistency just didn't work. That's why you'll often see people changing scenes entirely from phrase to phrase, exactly like I did in this video. So, you just saw my whole workflow for using Sor 2. But that's not the only AI tool I've been using recently. I've definitely spent

thousands of hours on ChatGBT. And if you click right here, you'll learn 25 different things that you can do with ChatGBT agent to save time, make more money, or have fun. So, I'll see you in the next one. Peace.