---
video_title: "AI Skills that will Save Your Career in 2026"
video_id: OJkm-Vl91Pc
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OJkm-Vl91Pc
video_date: 2025-11-05T14:45:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Become Irreplaceable with AI (Free 5-Day Email Series): https://the-ai-playbook.com/save
  
  In this video, I break down the World Economic Forum's Future of Jobs Report 2025 to reveal the skills that will save your career in 2026. You'll discover the "Adjacent Approach" to AI, how to master the Allocation Economy as an AI Model Manager, and actionable steps to build your taste library, automate repetitive tasks, and become irreplaceable in the AI age.
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - AI Skills to Save Your Career in 2026
  (0:59) - An Adjacent Approach to AI (Chapter 1)
  (5:38) - The Allocation Economy  (Chapter 2)
  (11:07) - Fight Cognitive Complacency  (Chapter 3)
  (16:00) - Outro
  
  World Economic Forum Future of Jobs Report 2025 - https://reports.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Future_of_Jobs_Report_2025.pdf
  
  If you’re new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese. I’ve been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full time job and today, I’m building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over $18 Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me breakdown how I got here because on Youtube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here… 
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor 
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called “The Incubator” all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  
  To everyone who’s spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  •⁠  ⁠Instagram: [https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/](https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/)
  •⁠  ⁠Youtube:  [https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese](https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese)
---
When streaming hit, Blockbuster competed with the new technology. But on the other hand, Netflix positioned themselves to benefit from it. One's bankrupt and the others were worth 300 billion. With AI, you're making that same choice right now. Are you competing with it or positioning yourself to benefit as it gets better? And that's

where most people ask me, Austin, how do I position myself on the winning side? So, in today's video, we're going to cover a practical step-by-step road map for you to plan your career and business. But first, let's identify the skills that matter. I analyzed the World Economic Forum's future of jobs report 2025, which surveyed thousands of companies globally. There's a chart with the 26 most valuable skills, which showcases a prediction on what will rise the fastest. Using that in combination

with what I saw firsthand as the COO [music] of a tech startup that recently raised $18.9 million, I noticed some clear trends. For this video, I bundled everything into three chapters. In each chapter, I'll cover specific skills and provide a strategy on how you can implement them today. If you're new here, welcome to the squad. Listen

closely. Chapter one, an adjacent approach to AI. So, here's what helps you visualize how to thrive in the AI age. The winning strategy isn't to compete with AI. It's to position yourself adjacent to it. Let me break

that down further. Adjacent means you work alongside AI, hoping AI models get better. You position your career to benefit from AI advancement rather than competing with it. As one gets more powerful, so do you. Historically, we've seen this play out many times. When cars

were first invented, if you were in the horse business, you were screwed. But if you were in the transportation business, you got richer. That's because in the transportation business, you were adjacent to this advancement. More recently, when streaming technology came around, Blockbuster was competing with it. Netflix, on the other hand, built a company that was adjacent to it.

Blockbuster went under and Netflix went to the moon. And so, the question becomes, what is the adjacent position in the AI era? Okay, I know this might sound a bit abstract, so let me give you a visual that will make it click instantly. Think of a sculptor versus a gardener. The sculptor chips away at stone. This is my sculptor

impersonation. Manually creating every detail. The gardener plants seeds, provides the right conditions, and guides them to growth. In today's world, the sculptors will compete with machines. The gardener will manage them.

That's the adjacent positioning. You want to be the gardener, not the sculptor, or the director, not the executor. And Nvidia CEO Jensen Wang said it best. The IT department of every company is going to be an HR department of AI agents in the future. They won't be writing code. They'll be managing AI.

So, what are the skills to help hone this adjacent approach? First, focus on your human differentiators. We need to master skills that robots aren't great at. For example, vision. Knowing what you actually want to build or accomplish. AI can't tell you what to

build. It can only help you build it. Taste. This is knowing what's good. what resonates and what's strategically right. AI can generate thousands of

outputs, but it can't decide which one's cool or strategically appropriate for the market. Communication ability. This is about articulating what you want in clear, precise language. I want to hammer home the second point about taste. A former VP of marketing at OpenAI mentioned that in the AI age, the most successful companies will be the ones that show their craft. Human taste

will become the real differentiator. As AI gets better, these human skills become more valuable. Next, you need to embrace productive generalism. Here's the truth. AI makes basic specialized knowledge accessible to everyone. An

accountant specialized knowledge chatbt has it. The engineers coding patterns just use cursor. Narrow specialists are competing with AI. Generalists are adjacent to it. AI can execute within a domain. If you can synthesize patterns

across domains and articulate them, you're differentiated. The better AI gets at execution, the more valuable cross-domain pattern recognition becomes, which is why a generalist is so valuable. If you look at the World Economic Forum, three of the top six skills on the rise are creative thinking, resilience, flexibility, and agility along with curiosity and lifelong learning. These three skills align perfectly with embracing generalism. With these things in mind, what are some actionable steps to position yourself adjacent to AI? The

first step is you need to build your taste library. This week, open Instagram or LinkedIn and screenshot five posts that made you stop scrolling. In a Google doc, write one sentence for each. This worked because blank. Do this for 7 days and you're going to start noticing patterns outside of what you typically do. Step two is build your cross-domain

pattern recognition muscle. This week, consume five examples of excellent work outside your immediate field. Let's say you're in finance. Explore website design. So, find five websites of top companies. Look at what they're doing.

and is there anything you can learn there to apply what you're doing. Step three, stop competing. Start directing. Make a list of every task you did this week. For each one, ask yourself, could AI do 40, 60, even 80% of this? Pick one

where you said yes, and spend 30 minutes this week figuring out how to automate it using one of your favorite AI tools like Chat GBT. And if you don't know, just ask ChatGBT. Step four is set timeline focused learning goals. Set a specific goal with a deadline, not I'll learn AI. Instead, say, "I will automate my email with ChatGBT by Friday." Then

Google ChatgBT email automation tutorial, watch one video, and just build it. Ship something ugly. It doesn't matter. Step five, get some personalized advice. Everyone's situation is different. So, take the

World Economic Forum document, which I linked in the description, upload it to Notebook LM, and ask, "My current career is in blank. Analyze this report and give me personalized advice." It's a two for one. You'll learn Notebook LM, and you'll get that personalized advice. Now, this next part is where everything clicks. This is the economic shift that

separates winners from losers in the AI age. Chapter 2, we're entering the allocation economy. When Adam Smith released Wealth of Nations, which was published in 1776, shout out the US, he famously described what would be one of the central drivers of economic progress for centuries to come. It's the division of labor. For the last 200 plus years, being a specialist was the path to money.

doctor, lawyer, engineer, deep expertise in one thing. But that game just ended. And here's why. We're now entering what I call the allocation economy, where you get compensated for effectively distributing and leveraging intelligence resources. Not for having knowledge, but for knowing how to allocate AI's intelligence to solve problems. Let's go

back to the sculptor versus gardener example. The sculptor, yes, my personation has came out again, directly creates every detail of their work. The gardener plants seeds, then manages the conditions for growth. In the allocation economy, the sculptor is the task executor, which is doing everything manually, and the gardener is the model manager, and they're directing AI to do the work. And here's what's happening right now. AI is creating two classes of

people. Class one is the AI model manager. These people wake up, tell AI what to do, review the outputs, stack wins, and they're 10x more productive than they were last year. Class two is the task executors. These are people doing the same work they did 5 years ago, but now AI can do it for $20 a month. They're going to get replaced.

But here's the opportunity. Only 10% of workers have managerial skills right now. So 90% of people have never managed anything and the other 10% are likely older and not necessarily honing their craft with AI. So there's an opportunity. But what makes a good AI model manager? To win in the allocation

economy, you have to master context engineering. You've likely heard of prompt engineering. That's creating optimized prompts for a specific task. Valuable, but it's already being automated, and it's frankly as simple as just going to AI and asking, "Make me an optimized prompt for a task. It'll just give you an optimized prompt that you can copy and paste." It's not super

super valuable. But context engineering involves bringing non-digital information, the stuff that lives in your head and in the real world, into the model. It also involves understanding what information is important and what is not, which is where taste, I mentioned in part one, is so so important. Here's a quote from Toby, the CEO of Shopify about exactly this. I really like the term context engineering over prompt engineering. It

describes the core skill better. The art of providing all the context for the task to be plausibly solvable by the LLM. Let me give you an example of this in action. At IK, we worked with Ed Sheeran, Tate McCrae, Chance the Rapper, and some of the biggest artists on the planet doing drops in an entirely new space. By providing our knowledge to AI tools, we cut our legal bills by 75%. We

were able to do this by handling the lowhanging fruit with AI, combining our context with a legal knowledge base that already existed in the AI models. Couple of things in this part. What the allocation economy is, why everyone's becoming an AI model manager, and the importance of context engineering. Now, here's your action plan to start positioning yourself to become an AI model manager in your day-to-day. Step one is mastering context engineering, not just prompt engineering. Pick one

repetitive task. Create a Google doc called task context. Document your goal, your style, three examples of your best work, three common mistakes to avoid. Then give this doc to chatbt before any of your requests. Your outputs will improve immediately. Step two is

position yourself for strategic AI leadership. In your next team meeting, ask yourself a question. Could we automate any part of this with AI? Then spend two hours researching whatever you think is the easiest thing to automate. You can use YouTube for this. Then come

back with one simple prototype to show your manager. Step three is document measurable results. Start tracking specific metrics of automations you're building. For example, process automation saving 20 plus hours a week. AI assisted email responses reduce questions I got by 15 to 30%. Document

this out and now you have proof. And frankly, seeing is believing. Step four is communicate your idea. Once you can show results, not just talk about them, show them, communicate with your team. Here's an example template. Hey manager,

I've been exploring ways AI could streamline our X process. I built a prototype that reduces time from change, say 8 hours to 45 minutes. Can I present this to the team next week? The key here is you're not hypothesizing, you're showing them how to do it. Step five is about volunteering for integration projects. If there are any

opportunities, just volunteer, take on the hard task, and just get your hands dirty. Rewind back to 2018 when I first started at JP Morgan. I didn't know how to code, but I volunteered to lead the team out in building a new tool. I spent 12 hours a day learning how to code, and it was a forcing function that really changed my life. If you follow these steps, you'll be positioned correctly, and you'll start understanding the game.

Before we get to the last section, which is the scariest in my opinion, I do want to address something. I don't want you worried about AI. I want you to feel excited and that's why I created a free 5-day email course, How to Use AI to become irreplaceable. Each day breaks down one major trap and how to avoid it. Day one's about the post AI impact equation. Day two is about the impact

arbitrage opportunity and days 3 to 5 have in-depth strategies that have been game changers for hundreds of others. It's the first link in the description. It's entirely free and there are no upsells. If it's not helpful, unsubscribe at any time. And because you're coming from YouTube, if you reply to any of the emails I send with questions, I'll personally respond to all of them. I want you to win. It's

that simple. Now, let's get to the last chapter, which may be the most important. Chapter three, fight cognitive complacency. This is the part that scares me the most. So, listen, because it's rarely ever talked about.

When you use AI to do your thinking, it deprivives you of routine opportunities to practice your judgment and decision-making. In an article by Forbes, the CEO of Autonomized AI discussed this exact issue of complacency. And this complacency will be the exact way you get replaced because you're not actually doing anything intelligent and you're gradually falling behind. The real risk to your career isn't unemployment caused by AI. It's becoming unemployable because you failed to increase your pace of learning. And so, cognitive

complacency creates three critical problems. Problem one is quality control. AI outputs may include inaccuracies, logical inconsistencies, or completely hallucinated references. I've seen Claude confidently site legal cases that weren't accurate. And I've seen Chat GBT provide financial advice based on 2021 data when I wanted real-time info. And if you can't spot

these errors, you're not an AI model manager anymore. You're just a rubber stamp. And rubber stamps of approval are just going to get replaced. Problem number two is skill erosion. Junior analysts used to build judgment by reading 50 contracts, finding patterns, making mistakes, and learning from those mistakes. And they never build the

muscle to know when chat GBT is wrong. Think about the best managers. They're usually talented enough to do the task themselves. They just have someone else do it. You still need to put the work in to understand what's good and what's bad. Problem number three is blind

automation. Complacency shows up when professionals focus too much on blind automation, AI working without human intervention, and too little on augmentation, which is AI intelligence combined with human effort. And here's the kicker. Blind automation is highly, highly susceptible to being automated by other AI agents. If you're just pressing a button and accepting AI outputs, another AI can just do that, and they will do that. But augmentation, that

requires human judgment, strategic oversight, and contextual decision-making. That's something that can't be automated. So, here's my framework on focusing on augmentation, not automation. Use AI outputs as a first draft, not the finish line. And here's why this matters in the grand scheme of things. If every company just

blindly relies on AI for final outputs, work will start looking identical. They're essentially all hiring the same employee, which is the underlying model. The key is building upon AI outcomes and adding your own unique twist, your context, your judgment, your taste. When I create video scripts, I leverage AI, of course, right? But this final product you're watching is far from the first output AI would create. I use it for a

foundation, right? Call it maybe 50%. And then I inject my own sauce. And the only reason it's able to get to that 50% is because I provide a ton of context. And that's what separates me from the millions of content farms out there. And

here's something most people don't think about, and that's authenticity signals. A perfectly worded email with amazing vocabulary, a YouTube script that perfectly uses every word. Perfection isn't a feature. That's actually a bug. Personally, I can tell almost immediately when something is written by AI. And immediately, I think different

about that response and the person who sent it. I'm not saying be sloppy. I'm saying be human. Let your personality come through. And don't let AI just sterilize your voice. Okay. So, how do

you actually build your judgment muscles and fight this cognitive decline? Step one is start building your AI clone. Document your workflows, thought processes, and definitions of successful outcomes. Every time you document a process, you're collecting the mental documentation needed to build your second brain. And this second brain will ultimately help you in the long run when using AI. Last week, my buddy texts me,

"Yo, I just templated my entire SO document. Now I can fill it out with one chat GBT prompt. Game changer." That's the power of documentation. It forces you to think critically about your process. Step two is challenge the

hypothesis and do a sanity check. Before locking in a generated decision, ask what's the assumption behind this? Also, does the conclusion AI made actually make sense? This is something my physics professor used to teach me. If you were doing a problem about calculating how fast a car was driving and your final answer was 3,000 mph, you probably didn't do it right because you know as a human that cars just can't drive that fast. So, that answer doesn't actually

make sense. Same can be said for AI outputs. Think critically. Don't be brain dead. Step three is build your quality control muscle through deliberate practice. Review AI outputs

with fresh eyes 24 hours later. Ask, "What would a skeptic say about this?" Actively look for holes in the reasoning. We're flexing the muscle here. We're training it. Step four is

about keeping your mind and body healthy. High quality AI work requires high energy. Get your seven plus hours of sleep. Move your body daily. Manage stress. If you're exhausted, no amount

of AI tools will save you. I personally take this very seriously and something I constantly tell my team, especially with how hard they work. You now have an understanding of all three chapters. Adjacent positioning, allocation economy thinking as an AI model manager, and active complacency defense through actively judging and evaluating outputs. My challenge to you is this week, take one task you normally do manually and figure out how to direct AI to do 80% of it. Document the time saved and the

quality difference. That's your first step to becoming an AI model manager. Now, if you like this video, you're going to love this one about the AI tools I use every day. This dives into the exact tools I personally use to hone the skills I covered in this video. I'll see you in the next one. Pace.