---
video_title: "8 AI Tools That Will Separate Winners from Losers in 2026"
video_id: -gDjmHqgN_Y
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-gDjmHqgN_Y
video_date: 2025-10-31T12:45:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Become Irreplaceable with AI (Free 5-Day Email Series): https://the-ai-playbook.com/win
  
  In this video, I break down the 8 ai tools and 4 critical skills that will separate hyper-creators from hyper-consumers in 2026, showing you how to design agentic workflows, manage context strategically, build solutions without traditional coding, and master rapid learning in an AI-first world. You'll discover why betting on AI improvement rather than against it is essential, and learn the exact framework for becoming exponentially more valuable as AI capabilities expand
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - 8 AI tools that will separate hyper-creators from hyper-consumers
  (2:47) - Agentic Workflow Design
  (4:47) - Tool #1 AI Agents 
  (5:46) - Tool #2 Workflow Infrastructure
  (6:45) - Tool #3 Specialized AI Agent
  (7:41) - Context Management
  (8:31) - Tool #4 Context System
  (10:05) - Non-Technical Solution Builder
  (12:46) - Tool #5 Zero-Setup App Builders
  (13:17) - Tool #6 AI Powered Code Editors
  (14:54) - Rapid Learning and Context Mastery
  (16:00) - Tool #7 Real Time Research
  (16:48) - Tool #8 Amplified Learning
  
  Notion Agent Use-cases: https://youtu.be/LrguDe9OoSQ?si=8KrnPqGYW2KR7u7-
  ChatGPT Agent Use-cases: https://youtu.be/f5ldVarry3k?si=Iljdr079h6qQ3wTR
  
  If you’re new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese. I’ve been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full time job and today, I’m building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over $18 Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me breakdown how I got here because on Youtube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here… 
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor 
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called “The Incubator” all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  
  To everyone who’s spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  •⁠  ⁠Instagram: [https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/](https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/)
  •⁠  ⁠Youtube:  [https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese](https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese)
---
Today we're talking about the eight AI tools that will separate winners from losers in 2026. Most people think they'll be fine as long as they know how to use a tool like ChatGBT. But here's the thing. It's not only about the tools you use, it's about the skills you master. So in this video, I'll cover the four skills you need to master, as well as the eight specific AI tools that will help you do exactly that. And after all

this, you'll be positioned to capitalize on the AI movement. By the way, I'm Austin Marches. I previously ran an engineering team at JP Morgan. I was a COO of a tech startup that recently raised $18.9 million. And I ran a 20

person marketing agency called The Incubator that produced over a,000 videos a month. So, managing, operating, and scaling teams is all I've thought about for the past 8 years. Before we dive into the skills, here's the mindset you need to have. Take an orthogonal approach to AI. And what I mean by that is don't bet against AI improving. Bet

on it improving. You need to become more valuable as AI gets better, not less. Think about this. When cars were first invented, if you were in the horse business, you were screwed. But if you were in the transportation business, you got richer. We want to be in the

transportation business. And the people that take an orthogonal approach will align themselves to become hyper creators, not hyper consumers. And hyper creators in the future will be people that have an unprecedented output. They'll use AI to build, create, and produce at levels that were impossible before. This is one person doing what used to take a team of 20 to do.

Hyperconsumers on the other hand, they're going to be people consuming the world and watching it advance by them. Endlessly scrolling social media, seeing the world advance, but their skills stay stagnant while everyone else advances. And the world we're entering, it's not a 1 or 10x difference between these types of people. It's 100 to a,000x. And this split is happening right now. According

to World Economic Forum's 290 page report, by 2030, the entire nature of work is going to be broken down into three categories. 33% of work will be humans alone. High stakes, high context work that requires extreme judgment. 33% of work will be human and AI together. Augmented work where AI amplifies human capabilities. And 34% of work will be AI

alone, fully autonomous. But this isn't just the World Economic Forum. Microsoft agrees with this based on their road map on how companies are transforming. They see phase one of this transformation as human with assistant. This is where most people are now where they're using chat GBT to help them do day-to-day tasks.

Phase two is where there's human agent teams. This is AI taking on specific tasks alongside people. We're currently going into phase two. By the way, phase three is human-led, agent operated. You set the vision and AI executes everything. As we're moving down the

ladder, you have to understand how we're progressing to understand how valuable these next four skills are. And if you properly execute on all of them, it'll position you to be a hyper creator immediately. Skill number one is all about agentic workflow design. This is about thinking in systems and workflows, not just tasks. There's a fundamental shift happening right now. We're moving

from hiring people to designing workflows. The valuable skill isn't doing the work anymore. Tasks are becoming trivial. It's designing the system that does the work. You're becoming the architect, not the builder.

And think about Henry Ford and the assembly line. He didn't try to make cars faster by hiring better craftsmen. He broke down the entire process into individual steps. Each step became a station. Each station could be optimized independently. That's exactly how you

need to think about your work. Don't look at tasks as monolithic things. Break them down into steps. Identify which steps AI can handle and which steps need human judgment. Then design a workflow. But here's where most people

fail. They don't understand what AI can actually do right now. They either think AI is magic and can do everything or they think it's entirely worthless. But the truth is that AI is really good at some things and terrible at others. And if you pick the wrong piece of your workflow to automate, you'll create expensive disasters and you'll likely kill any AI integration at your company.

This is a major key to first get into this agentic mindset and workflow. Start with tasks where the cost of error is very low. For example, bad initial automations would be an AI approving a 50k contract, high cost of error, or AI handling angry customer complaints all alone. This is high relationship risk. A good first automation would be AI drafting email responses that you review before sending. This has a low cost of

error. Or AI categorizing support tickets so that people can prioritize it. People that fail will swing for the fence first. They'll try something that's complex, it'll fail, and now the AI integration dies because people think there won't be a valid solution. And the people that win, they'll start with the low cost of error tasks, get quick wins, build trust, then gradually expand the workflows to be more complex over time.

Okay, beautiful. So, how do we actually design these workflows and integrate these AI agents? Here are three tools that you can use. Tool number one is Chad GPT agent and notion agents. I categorize these as native AI agents.

Yes, this is a two for a price of one, but it's the same concept. Native AI agents are AI agents that are built directly into platforms that you already use. In my eyes, this is the easiest entry point for a workflow design. You don't need to learn a tool and you can start today with the tools you're already using. And the best part is it has all of the context that you've provided previously using that product.

Chachbt agent allows you to take actions for you. It can search web, analyze websites, adjust files, and execute multi-step processes all on your behalf. This is all about execution, not just suggesting solutions. Notion agent lives inside of your workspace, can create databases, enrich data, find gaps in documentation, and it has access to your entire workspace. So, if you're anything like me, I use notion for my entire life. This notion agent is an absolute

game changer. I have entire videos breaking down both notion agent and chatbt agent. So, if you want a deep dive into those, those links will be in the description. Tool number two is NAND. This is what I categorize as workflow infrastructure. NADN is a

workflow automation platform. It connects apps, AI models, and processes it into complete systems. Think of it like a more customizable AI native Zap year. I call this workflow infrastructure because it's a foundational layer that lets you build very complex things, but very customizable, so it can complete whatever task you need. There's a decent learning curve, but once you learn it, you'll see how powerful it is.

Generally, I'll play around with automations using native AI agents. Then, if I think it's something worth building out, I'll move it to NAM. Some example workflows in any of them that I've built is a automatic workflow that pulls my YouTube transcripts and adds it to a single doc and this I use as training data. I've then used that to then generate short form script ideas that I can then post later in the week. If you want to use it, go to nadn.io.

There's free tiers and a great place to start looking is they have templates that showcase you different use cases for the tool that you can just plug and play into. The third tool is Devon, which I put in the specialized Asian category. Devon is an AI software engineer and the specialized agent category is AI agents, but they've been trained for a specific function. I fully expect these to pop up more and more for very specific roles like software engineering. And at IK the tech startup I was a COO for, we would use Devon to write low cost of error code. For

example, changing a website copy or changing the style. And what it allowed for is people in non-engineering roles to write code. The key here is to understand that these three tools, chatbt agent, nadn, and devon, they're not competing. They're complimentary. Chatbt agent for quick, simple workflows within your existing tools. Nadn for

connecting multiple apps and creating complex automated systems. Devon for specialized coding tasks. In the future, hyper creators won't just have an AI toolkit. They'll have an AI agent arsenal, and they'll know which member of that arsenal to call on for specific tasks. And that leads us to skill number two, context management. This is about

strategically loading AI systems with the right information so they can actually help you. Here's the reality. AI is only as good as the information you give it. Garbage in equals garbage out. But if you can feed AI with the right context, your past work, your company's style, your specific requirements, it becomes 10x more valuable. Think of it like this. Would

you rather work with a consultant who knows nothing about your business, or one who studied everything you've done in the past 3 years? That's the difference between AI without context and AI with context. And the people that master this skill, they'll get outputs that feel like magic. My favorite part about this is once you create the correct context, you're set. You build it once and you can continue to outperform the people around you. I'll

dive into what data and how to get that data in skill number four. But first, let's dive into the context system I use. Tool number four is Claude Projects. Claude Projects is Anthropic's way of giving Claude long-term memory about your specific work. You can create a project which is basically a workspace and you can add documents, guidelines, style guides, your past work, whatever you want. Then every conversation you

have in that project, Claude has access to all that context. If you've never done this, this is truly a game changer. Gets your writing style, your company's product, your target audience, your past work, your preferences. It understands everything about you so that the results can be tailored for you. And this isn't just for Claude. A lot of other tools

have it. For example, chat GBT, you can make projects. And the reason that multiple providers have the same feature is because it's so valuable. My pro tip for this is have projects that are very tightly scoped. For example, if you're in content creation, I have one project for YouTube and then another project for short form content. They're similar, but

there's different nuances. And if I want the results to be top tier, I need to specify the differences. It's pretty simple to use. Go to claw.ai/rojects, create a new project, and then paste in whatever resources you need. Then I

would create a system prompt. And one thing I love to do is in that system prompt I say if I don't add any custom prompt do this. That way if I can expect just copy and pasting a specific type of document or a specific outline I don't have to write any prompt. It knows exactly what to do. And the key to these projects is to make sure the data you're providing is good. Don't just provide a

ton of data that isn't actually valuable because that'll make it harder for the AI to discern what's good and what isn't. Once you get the context ready to rip, now comes my favorite thing to do. And that's skill number three, non-technical solution building. This is where you build apps, websites, and tools in hours instead of weeks or months. And no traditional coding skills are required. Here's what's happening

right now. AI is eating into costs that used to require entire teams of developers. And what AI is allowing is for everyone to become a builder. Let me give two examples from my experience that show the old way versus the new way. The old way was when I was at JP Morgan. I led an engineering team that

built a tool for business analysts to analyze employee data. We we actually built a tool that replaced what they were paying Palunteer to build, which is kind of wild and also the reason I bought Palunteer at the IPO. Damn, I should have bought more. But here's the thing with what we built. That tool could have 100% been built with AI today at no risk to the business. And the

reason is because the users were internal. It didn't have to be perfect code. It didn't have to scale to millions of users. If it worked, it [music] worked. But we had a team of engineers build it. So, that cost a lot

of money. The new way is the dashboard I built at my previous tech startup. At IYK, our sales reps needed to know the raw costs of our products so that they could calculate how much discount they could give to their customers. Then the cost for these goods constantly changed, right? Product costs fluctuated, shipping rates change, the tariffs, you have no idea what the prices are. They

constantly fluctuate. So we would just have to live with the issue. But instead I built a simple dashboard in two hours using AI tools. There was no engineering team, no waiting, just solve the problem. And this is a microcosm of the future of business execution and why these vibe coding tools aren't just a fad. And previously the barrier to

building something like this, you had to memorize syntax. You had to learn frameworks. You had to understand computer science fundamentals. And this is a skill that I personally had to teach myself without any schooling. And let me tell you, it was brutal. But if I

had to learn it today, I wouldn't because the barrier doesn't exist anymore. The question is, can you clearly describe what you want? Yes. Can you understand the logic of the solution? Hopefully, yes. Can you test

and refine? I think so. And so, those are all thinking and problem solving skills, which if you're on this channel, every one of you can build an app. And I don't think this is replacing professional top tier engineers for consumer products. This is about unlocking value creation that everyone else can now produce. the business

analyst who needs a dashboard, the sales rep who needs a calculator, the marketer who needs a landing page. These projects a lot of times would never get built because they are too expensive to do. But now anyone can do them. So this brings us to the tools. Tool number five is Replet lovable or bolt. And this is

what I categorize as the zero setup app builders. These are cloud-based coding environments where you use AI to build. You open your browser, you start building. Zero setup, zero installation. You just type in a prompt, I want a landing page that looks like this website that has an email capture. It

does everything. Front end, backend, database, everything. There's no barrier of entry. You can build something in quite literally 30 seconds. This is a hyper creators wet dream. Build fast,

test, learn fast. Be specific in what you want and maybe even bring in a website URL for a northstar reference. Then you can iterate like make my header bigger, add a contact form. If you're happy with it, you can deploy it and visit it like any other website. Now the next tool tool number six is cursor.

This is what I categorize as AI powered code editors. You describe what you want and it writes the code alongside you in real time. This is closer to having a senior engineer sitting next to you writing the code. Replit lovable bolt those products. Those are better for beginners. It has zero setup and it's

entirely browser based. Cursor is more flexible and it's more like traditional coding but with a assistant to help you. For someone who's never coded, stick with replet or lovable for now. But I personally use cursor when writing code because I am a software engineer. So I just prefer the flexibility to use this.

You can go to cursor.sh and download it. I built the entire AI playbook website entirely through cursor. I don't think I wrote a single line of code. It was just all through prompting. It looks

beautiful and it works perfectly with that. Before I get to the final skill, one thing I want everyone who watches my channel to feel is excited about AI, not worried about AI. And for that exact reason, I created a completely free 5-day email course that gives you a complete playbook on how to use AI to become irreplaceable. It goes through the biggest traps I see people fall in. If you want it, the first link in the description will bring you there. Drop

your email in and I'll send it over immediately. If it's not helpful, you can just unsubscribe anytime, no problem. And for people coming from YouTube, if you reply to any of the emails with personal questions, I'll answer them directly. If interested, you can join hundreds of other readers by clicking the first link in the description. Again, entirely free, no upsells. You're going to love it. All

right, so now you can design workflows, manage context, and build solutions. But here's what makes you truly irreplaceable. It's about loading your unique context into AI and streamlining your learning process. Skill number four, rapid learning and context mastery. This is about two things.

Gathering the right information at the right time and learning new capabilities fast enough to stay ahead. Think of it like this. You need to feed your AI system with great context and you need to quickly master new tools as they emerge. These aren't separate skills. They're are two sides of the same coin.

The fact is AI changes so quickly that you have to be able to adapt on the fly. You have to be a continuous learner and these two capabilities streamline that. So one, context gathering is about getting the right information to feed your AI systems. And two, rapid learning is about quickly mastering new tools and capabilities. When you're gathering contracts, there's four things that you typically need. Domain knowledge. What

does AI need to know about your industry? Personal context. What makes your work unique? Three, operational context. What specific information does your workflow need? And four, real-time

data. What's happening now that AI should know? If you have the perfect clawed project set up, but you're feeding it garbage context, you'll get garbage output. Simple as that. Now, here's the key. You need tools that help

you get this context fast. And that brings us to tool number seven which is Comet by Perplexity or Atlas by Chat GBPT. And this is a category of real time research. These are AI powered browsing tools. For me, I use Comet by Perplexity, but ChatgBT just came out with their own competitor Atlas. These

are browsing tools with AI embedded into it. This allows you to quickly summarize websites, have AI navigate pages for you, and get better access to real-time data. I find this works best when I need to feed in current information to my projects. For example, I'll use Perplexity to go and find the top 15 highest paying jobs in 2025. And yes, other tools, ChatGBT even can do this, but I find Perplexity specifically just gets a better result with these more real-time things. But no matter what,

these are all tools to get you to the outcome, which is better contextual information. If you pair this like a tool like NADM that we covered earlier, you can gather all the correct contextual information that you need. The next tool is Notebook LM. This is a learning amplifier and it's also great at gathering context. It can turn any document, PDF, website, or YouTube video into an AI powered knowledge base.

Here's exactly how I use this tool. Let's say you're researching a new industry or learning a new skill. You can find 10 great articles, five YouTube videos, and three PDFs. PreAI, right, you'd have to read everything. You'd have to list everything, gather your thoughts. Day one AI, you'd have to

transcribe all these, bring it into a long Google doc, and then bring it into something like a clawed project. What you can do with notebook LM is you can upload everything into the notebook and it'll create a specific knowledge base based on this information and it has direct integrations with things like YouTube. So you don't have to go take the YouTube video, transcribe it, copy and paste it. It removes all that friction and this container or notebook allows you to access just that information so you don't get bogged down by other information that you don't care about. Think of notebook LM as creating the superpower for gathering context and learning a specific skill or domain. And

the quicker you can learn skills and get a baseline understanding, the more effective you're going to be when building. For me, this is how I like learning. I find sources and creators I trust and binge learn as quick as possible. For example, when I was learning about NADN, I first I found the five best NAN tutorials on YouTube. Two, I added them all to the Notebook LM workspace. Three, I asked it to

synthesize the key concepts. And four, I asked follow-up questions about specific features. Now I have a searchable knowledge base for all things NAN that I can reference back to if I have questions. You can compress your time to learn skills from 10 hours to 1 hour. So that's about gathering info quickly, distilling it and learning, but that doesn't get you all the way there because you might just stay trapped and never actually learn anything. And

that's where I use destinationbased learning. Most people are learning things way too slow. They take a 12week course. They don't actually build anything. It's all theoretical. That's

not going to work in today's world. Instead, pick a specific destination with a hard deadline. It's not learn automation, but it's automate your customer onboarding by Tuesday. Then work backwards from that goal. Use perplexity to find recent tutorials. Add

them to notebook LM to synthesize the concepts. Learn just enough to start and figure out the rest as you build. Ship something ugly. It doesn't matter. That's how you actually learn in today's world. Now, one thing to remember is

don't bet against AI improving. Bet on it improving. build skills and position yourself in things that become more valuable as AI gets better, not less valuable. And if you do that, you'll become a hyper creator, not a hyper consumer. But there's more to each of these tools to utilize them to their full potential. So, in this video, I

dive into 25 use cases for ChatGpt Agent that will help you unlock its full potential. These use cases, I'm guessing you've never thought about before. I'll see you in the next one. Peace.