---
video_title: "In the Age of AI you need to become a purple cow"
video_id: m5uo-G2GmvQ
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m5uo-G2GmvQ
video_date: 2025-12-02T16:15:06+00:00
video_description: |
  this is the exact strategy MrBeast used to become one of the most influential people on the planet.
  
  It’s simple, but most people have no idea what this strategy is.
  
  If people see 100 cows, they won’t bat an eye.
  
  If they see a purple cow, they’ll stop and stare.
  
  And MrBeast says The Purple Cow Strategy is the reason for his success and how he was able to differentiate himself.
  
  But how can you be a purple cow in a world of AI and stand out amongst your peers?
  
  It’s simple, yet something most people miss.
  
  **Turn Yourself Into a System.**
  
  What does this mean?
  
  Inevitably AI will impact your industry. I dont care what you do.
  
  So think of your output like a series of tasks, and if you can systematize and automate what you, and then PROOVE IT, you’ll be at a massive advantage.
  
  Here’s what this looks like in practice.
  
  Imagine you were applying for a Social media manager.
  
  Instead of just saying “I use AI”
  
  Build an AI workflow that automates 20% of the role and bring it to the interview, have them use it in real time.
  
  Create a version of yourself.
  
  This sounds hard, but it’s actually not that complicated. If you’re interested in seeing content on how to make a clone of yourself let me know in the comments.
---
You need to become a purple [music] cow if you're worried about AI replacing you. And this is the exact strategy that Mr. Beast used to become one of the most influential people on the planet. Let's say you see a 100 cows. You won't bat an eye. But if you see a purple cow, you'll

stop and stare. But how can you be a purple cow in a world of AI and stand out amongst your peers? Turn yourself into a system. What does this mean? Inevitably, AI will impact your industry. I do not care what you do. So,

think of your output like a series of tasks. And if you can systemize and automate what you do and then prove it, you'll be at a massive advantage. Imagine you are applying for a social media manager position. Instead of saying, "I use AI," build an AI workflow that automates 20% of the role and bring it to the interview and have them use it in real time. Create a AI clone of yourself. This sounds hard, but it's

actually not that complicated. And if you're interested in seeing content on how to make your own AI clone, let me know in the comments.