---
video_title: "1 in 5 people have had a romantic interaction with AI"
video_id: s7zc7lVixKI
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s7zc7lVixKI
video_date: 2025-10-15T15:15:08+00:00
video_description: |
  and I just discovered the billion-dollar industry that’s secretly engineering this loneliness epidemic.
  
  Dating is collapsing. 63% of young men are single, dating apps are failing, but loneliness is skyrocketing.
  
  So companies like Replika and Character.AI stepped in with AI companions that never reject you, never judge you, always say exactly what you want to hear.
  
  But People aren’t just chatting - they’re having full relationships.
  
  Daily good morning texts, deep emotional conversations, even intimate interactions.
  
  These AI companions are becoming digital boyfriends and girlfriends, providing the emotional connection that real dating isn’t delivering.
  
  Now here’s the opportunity and how this will impact you.
  
  This isn’t just about lonely singles. It’s about creating emotional intelligence coaching. Married couples, business leaders, athletes, parents.
  
  Companies will create Coaches for hyper specific needs in hyper specific categories.
  
  Everyone will have an AI Companion. Now the upside for people. is massive.
  
  24/7 therapy access, judgment-free emotional support, coaching that actually works based on real data.
  
  We could solve communication problems that have plagued humanity forever.
  
  Not to mention the billions to be made building these tools.
  
  But im worried we might be engineering our own social extinction.
  
  Birth rates are plummeting, social skills atrophy, emotional addiction with AI becomes the norm.
  
  The real question is: are we solving loneliness, or creating a generation that only connects with machines?
---
One in five people have had a romantic interaction with AI. And I just discovered the billion-dollar industry that's secretly engineering this loneliness epidemic. Dating is collapsing. 63% of young men are single. Dating apps are failing. And loneliness

is skyrocketing. So companies like Replica and Character.ai stepped in with AI companions that never judge you and always say exactly what you want to hear. But people aren't just chatting with these things. They're having full relationships. These AI companions are

becoming digital boyfriends and girlfriends, providing the emotional connection that real world dating just isn't delivering. This isn't just about lonely singles. It's about creating emotional intelligence coaches. Companies will create coaches for hypersp specific needs in hypersp specific categories. Now, the upside for people is massive. 24/7 therapy,

judgment free emotional support, coaching that works based on actual real data that's a fraction of the price. We could solve communication problems that have plagued humanity forever. But I'm worried that we might be engineering our own social extinction. Birth rates are plummeting, social skills atrophying, and emotional addiction with AI will become the norm. So the real question is, are we solving loneliness or creating a generation that only connects with machines?