---
video_title: "Laziest Way to Make Money With ChatGPT Agent ($300/day+)"
video_id: afam4p3FiQU
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=afam4p3FiQU
video_date: 2025-10-08T17:00:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Become Irreplaceable with AI (Free 5-Day Email Series): https://the-ai-playbook.com/300
  
  In this video, we break down how to build a $10,000 AI agent in just 35 minutes without writing a single line of code. You’ll see the exact steps that make it possible to create something powerful and valuable in record time.
  
  If you’re new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese, I go by MacNCheeasy. I’ve been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full time job and today, I’m building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over \$18 Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me breakdown how I got here because on Youtube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here… 
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor 
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called “The Incubator” all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  
  To everyone who’s spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - Laziest Ways to make some d*mn good money
  (1:02) - AI Implementation Consultant
  (7:03) - AI SEO Consultant
  (12:39) - Website Building
  (17:11) - Real Estate Assistance
  (23:21) - Funnel Analyzer
  
  —- If you want to follow me on other platforms
  
  * Instagram: [https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/](https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/)
  * Youtube:  [https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese](https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese
---
So, there's no such thing as get-rich quick or get-rich easy, but thanks to OpenAI's new ChatGBT agent, there are some pretty lazy ways to make some good money. So, in this video, I'll be going over five ways that you can make money this year using Chat GPT agent. I'll show you the cost, the effort, the earnings potential for each one, plus show you live demos of Chat GPT Agent actually doing the work. But let me warn you, these aren't get-richqu schemes, and these won't be some of the opportunities that other YouTubers will share that just seem too good to be true. As a COO of a tech startup that recently raised $18 million, I'm only going to outline things that solve real problems with real money behind them.

Now, before getting to the five opportunities, here's what most people don't realize about ChatGpt agent and why it's a complete gamecher. Think of using normal chatbt like asking a consultant to give you advice, but the reality is you still have to go and do the work. What chat GBT agent allows you to do is work with that same consultant, but now they can actually go and solve the problem for you. And by using ChadByd agent to create these lowcost AI employees, business models have changed overnight and there are new ways to get paying customers. The first opportunity is AI implementation consultant. Here is

an uncomfortable truth. Businesses are drowning in AI tool choices and most are paralyzed by decision fatigue. It's literally wild. There's thousands of new AI tools launched every month and they don't end up using any of these new tools and it creates a graveyard of things that maybe might have been helpful, but they'll never actually know because they never gave them the proper chance. What you become is the shortcut.

You give them confidence and you help them save time because they know what they're doing is the right thing. Now, I'll dive into the best ways to make money on this. But first, let's go through the cost, effort, and potential for this opportunity. And this is something that we're going to do for all five of them. So, you have a scoring rubric. The cost to do this is

essentially zero. You really just need access to the AI tools and a lot of them have free tiers for testing. Your investment is really your time learning the tools and what's best for each industry. Now, the effort is pretty low for this. If you're watching this video, you're already AI curious. You stay up

to date with these tools by default. So, you're really just monetizing your knowledge. In terms of earning potential, it's pretty high, right? So, you can charge somebody anywhere from $150 to $300 a month for these monthly consulting calls. And very quickly, this is the beauty of this opportunity is you have the opportunity to upsell to actually implementing what you're suggesting. So they start off by

listening to you and hearing about how to implement these. Very quickly, they'll realize they don't have time to actually do what you're saying and you can offer a solution that helps them implement it. And that's where you get into the 1 to 2k a month retainers with these clients where you're actually going ahead and implementing these AI solutions. My first client ever was actually in a role similar to this where I got paid $1,000 a month to have weekly meetings and then I eventually gained her trust and was able to upsell a service where I was charging over 6K a month. Okay, before getting into getting clients and making money, how can ChatGpt Agent help you with this? Well,

if you've never used Chatbt agent, it's pretty simple. Go to ChatgBT, hit the plus, and now it's in agent mode. That's the basics, but now let's build off that for becoming an AI implementation consultant. Step one is you can use chatb agent to understand the current tools and start categorizing them. An example prompt here could be research and test the top 10 AI tools for a specific industry. In this case, content

creation. Categorize by a specific use case and how it can be implemented and include price, learning curve, integration difficulty, and ROI potential for businesses under $1 million in revenue. I also added at the bottom of the prompt a link to a notion database. So when it runs the whole prompt, it'll actually write it to this database. This is the beauty of chat GBT agent. It can integrate with different

tools and take actions on your behalf. So if you go and then check out the link to this database, you can see all the different tools and I'm creating a directory and chat GPT agent did this on my behalf. As you're prompting chat GPT agent, one thing to keep in mind and what I like to consider is imagine you're talking to an intern. You want to give it clear directions and ideally a step-by-step workflow for what it should do. And if you don't know how to prompt chat GPT agent perfectly, my favorite thing to do is I actually go into chat GPT and I say create an optimized prompt for task where the output is output.

This will create a robust prompt for you. Okay, let's go to the second step in the process here. And then the second step would be to get deeper business understanding and create a custom questionnaire. It's beautiful. It goes ahead, it looks at these pain points and then creates a PDF export that I can then use, send to a customer, send to a client that has informed questions that aren't just like generic. Oh, what are

your problems? Right? It's a it's deeper than that. And Chad GBP agent made the whole thing. Now, my advice for the initial businesses that you're looking to work with, choose an industry that you have experience with because it'll make it easier for you to have like in-depth knowledge of what it's like day-to-day in that actual field. The

deeper your understanding, the more trust you can gain and the more likely your advice is going to be valuable and you're going to get happy and repeat customers. After you do research about all the tools, you understand about the industry you're working in and you gather information, you can then create personalized advice as well as implementation strategies for how the person can implement it into their business. Okay, so that's how you can use chat GPT agent. And if you're subscribed to this channel and you watching this video, the truth is you know more about AI than 99% of people. That's just the reality. So, if you have

the skills to actually fulfill it, it's all about getting clients. And in this case, you have to have a differentiator between you and a random internet chat that's just reaching out to a million people. And there's a bunch of strategies to get clients. And I'll walk through what's called an audit to deal process in the next opportunity, which can be reused for this. But for this opportunity, the most important differentiator to converting someone to a paying customer is trust. They're not

paying you just to give them recommendations. These customers know that they can just go to chat GBT for that. They're paying you to review the tools that are out there, have a deep understanding of their business and what their potential pitfalls are and what is needed to actually resolve them. And then they're trusting you to make a recommendation and they have to believe in that recommendation. So trust is critical. So how can you gain trust with

people? The first is create content showcasing your AI expertise. And the key here is you don't need to think about creating content like going viral and getting millions of views. Instead, change your framing to thinking about it like building a portfolio. Let's say a real estate agent reached out to you and you're like, "Oh, appreciate you reaching out. Here's a video I did two

months ago about tools you can use to help out with real estate." Instantly, they understand that you've been thinking about this. You're providing them value that applies to their actual day-to-day business. And now, they've gained trust instantly because it's not just some random article that you sent. It's from you. And from firstirhand

experience making these YouTube videos, making content, it really makes a difference. And the second way to build trust is that people still love having humanto human connection and your competitive advantage versus anyone on the rest of the planet is your local proximity to other people. If you're able to say, "Hey, I'll come to your office and we can go through my different AI recommendations. Your the level of trust you're going to gain is like 100x than just some random internet person." Now, this opportunity works for everyone watching this video, but if you want something with even bigger market potential, something that's literally like getting on Google in the year 2000, this next opportunity will blow your mind. Opportunity number two is AI SEO

consultant. Here's something most people don't realize. AI search is converting 5 to 10 times better than traditional Google SEO. When someone askd, "Find me a dentist in Chicago," only two to three businesses get mentioned. If you're not one of them, you're invisible. But if

you are one of them, you get free traffic that converts at astonishing rates. This is like taking advantage of Google in the early 2000s, except the window is smaller and the opportunity in my eyes is bigger. Now, to be an AI SEO consultant, you'll need to first be able to identify how a customer can optimize AI SEO. And then second, create AI SEO content on their behalf. We'll dive into how Chat GPT agent can help with all this, but let's break down the highle details of this opportunity. First, the

cost relatively low, right? You have free tools like Chachevt, Semrush, which has a free tier, and others that can help you analyze. You may find that you need to pay a monthly premium for tools to help you with SEO, but relatively pretty low. Now, in terms of effort, AI does a lot of the research and content creation for you. You really just have to handle the strategy and the client relationships. And in terms of the

potential to start, $500 to $2,000 per month per client sounds pretty reasonable. I'm getting that by comparing it to offers out there. If you go to rank.ai, this is a software. They charge up to $10,000 a month and $100 per AI optimized article. So, if you're

able to add a human touch element, build relationships, getting to that $1,000 to $2,000 monthly retainer is pretty reasonable. The beauty of this whole opportunity in my eyes, it's just reframing an existing billion-dollar industry. People spend millions on SEO today, and so this is just adapting to a new AI paradigm shift. Now, let's walk through how Chat GPD agent can help handle this stuff. First is with keyword and opportunity discovery. Instead of

spending hours researching keywords, ChatGBT agent helps identify these longtail AI friendly questions that people often ask about. And this is key because people prompt Chat GBT different than how they prompt Google search. A simple example is if you were looking for top three restaurants in a city, I would go to Google and type top three restaurants in Miami. Whereas in ChachiBT, I would give a lot more context. I'd say what are the top three restaurants in Miami? If I'm going with

a vegetarian, somebody who likes meat, and I don't want to be there for more than an hour, the robustness that you use in chat GBT is so much different than Google search. Here's the prompt as well as the final output from chat GBT agent. Then you could do research on what are the current AI responses. What are they providing? What are their gaps?

And where can you help and where can you fit in? Here's a prompt chat GPT agent doing its thing as well as the output. Now, the third way it can help with this AI SEO can actually create content for you. So, let's look at this prompt, right? write a a 1200word article optimized for chat GPT citations yada yada yada then at the bottom you can bring in resources so that they can use it as reference information when creating these articles I bring in articles directly from Google that's about succeeding in AI search and then how to create actual content that helps both of these are helpful when doing AI SEO when thinking about AI SEO versus traditional SEO traditional SEO is targeting specifically Google search whereas AI SEO targets specific AI models and how they reference reference data. Different models actually have

different reference patterns. So, we're not operating in a world where there's like only one search engine like Google search. There's now different AI models which are used for different things. There's an article from Proivity that I suggest you check out. But to summarize, ChatGBT, for example, pulls a lot of its information from Wikipedia. Whereas

Perplexity, its most referenced resource is Reddit. And so depending on the business you're working with and what the customers actually do, that could inform the AI SEO strategy you decide to implement for the business. Either way, let's talk about getting customers for this opportunity. I hinted to this on the first opportunity, but here is the audit to deal process. This process is all about providing value upfront for free to potential customers. First, you

want to pick a niche, ideally something you already have industry knowledge in, so it's easy for you. And in the AI SEO world, you have to be able to create valuable content. And you can use AI and chat GPD agent to do the heavy lifting for you, but it will be significantly easier if you know what you're talking about. Next, you need to scrape leads. You can use chatbd agent to do this. So,

for example, research businesses in city that are a specific criteria, plumbing companies with 5 to 50 employees. For each business found, get the business name, website URL, owner, decision maker name, phone number, email address, then upload it to an Excel sheet. Make sure it exists. You can see the whole prompt on the screen. If you'd rather not use chatbt agent, there are services that their entire business is about scraping leads. You could use Apollo or ListKit,

which I actually know the founders of. I've used that in the past. You just sign up and you can pull down a bunch of leads. After you get the leads, you then want to run an audit. In this case, I would audit each business and give them a current status of where they come up in AI SEO and what they're missing. It's

as simple as showing them what comes up when somebody asks a question on Chat GBT about their industry. ChatGBT agent can actually help do this for you. So, at this point, you've picked a niche, you've scraped leads, you ran an audit. Now, it's time to offer your service. As part of your making your offer a $100 million offer, as Alex Herozi would say, it's all about creating certainty that they're going to get the results they want. And a good way to do this is to

provide what's called a risk reversal or a guarantee about your service. In the case for AI SEO, it could be if your content doesn't start appearing in AI responses within 30 days, we'll give you a full refund. In their eyes, it's like, okay, what's the risk? I work with this company. It either works, I pay them, or it doesn't, and I get my money back.

This second opportunity we just went through, AI SEO, is all about content creation. At the end of the day, you're going to have to create a lot of blogs, and ChatGBT Agent can help a lot with that. But if you'd rather go a more technical route, this next opportunity is perfect for you. Opportunity number three, website building for small businesses. This is like house flipping, but for websites. You find the ugly ones

and you transform them. The key insight here is you don't want to target businesses without websites. they probably don't value the website. So, you want to target ones with terrible websites because they know it's important just the product isn't good. And although this concept has been around for a while, ChatgPD agent is a gamecher when it comes to customer acquisition. We'll dive into that, but

let's dive into the highle details. Right? In this case, the cost is what I would say medium. You can use chat GPD agent for analysis and outreach, but you'll need website building tools to build a highquality final product or you may have to outsource. In terms of effort, this is also a medium. There's a

learning curve on website design even though AI handles most of the heavy lifting. And in terms of the upside potential, this is very high. Each project you can charge 1 to 5K plus and there's a clear path to scale. You can reuse things. You can copy and paste code. It translates pretty well. And the

beauty here again is the opportunity to upsell. You're building relationships with these smaller business owners and it gets you a foot in the door with them. And once you're able to help them create a new website, you know that they're going to be open to learning more about new tech or AI services. Okay, so how can we use chatb agent to revolutionize this business? The first step is systematic prospect identification. You can use similar

strategies to pull leads as I mentioned in opportunity one, but instead we only want companies with websites. Then after you get these list of websites, the second step is you can take those links and do a automated audit process. Instead of manually reviewing these sites, the agent can go in identify websites with problems as well as solutions. To do this, here's a prompt. Audit this website, identify issues costing them customers. Okay, that's

cool. But the key to this prompt is actually the bottom part. When auditing websites, note any obvious signs of being outdated, old copyright dates, references to past years, outdated design elements, broken links, or last updated timestamps. Here's an example of my dad's website. He runs an accounting firm, and he's like your classic boomer accountant who knows how the internet works, but doesn't really care. He just

knows how to be an accountant. If you look at his website and you scroll all the way down, you'll see C 2018. It's literally screening, I'm old. I need to be updated. No disrespect to my dad, but it's pretty easy for chat GPT agent to identify these things. Then the third

step is you can have personalized outreach that highlights the problems with their websites. And as I mentioned earlier, think of this like an intern. And much like an intern, you can give it multiple tasks to complete in a row. So in this case, for this opportunity, I'm going to have Chat GPT agent do all them in a row for me. Look at it cooking.

It's cooking. It's cooking. It's cooking. Here is a custom email outbound on a URL and website that very much looks outdated. You'll notice the steps that I walked through for Chat GPT agent was primarily focused on how to acquire clients. In my eyes, that's where Chat

GBP agent is the most effective in this case. For actual implementation, if you have engineering experience and you want to maximize your profits, you can use AI paired with cursor to build these sites in hours or you could use tools like Web Flow, Farmer, WordPress. If you want to see what's possible in a matter of hours, you can click the first link in the description. That's a landing page that I built with Cursor for a free 5-day email series that's all about helping people become irreplaceable with AI. And yes, that is a plug for the course. People love it. It's entirely

free. Go click that link, check it out, and you can see what's possible in terms of a website that you can build very quickly. Now, if you don't have engineering experience and this opportunity still excites you, that's not a problem. This still works. My recommendation would be to learn the basics of web design. You'll be the one

that's interacting and talking with a client. So, it's important to understand what is and isn't possible and what's easy and what isn't. Understanding the basics of design and even creating proof of concepts used to be hard, but now it literally takes seconds. A really cool tool is is Stitch by Google. You go to this website and you can build a design from scratch by just typing words.

There's a ton of no low code solutions like lovable, replet, etc. that can build landing pages very quickly. And if you'd rather outsource, you can hire international talent through online jobs.ph, Fiverr, or Upwork, and they'll be relatively inexpensive. That's enough of that strategy. Let's zoom back out.

We have AI implementation consultant, AI SEO, and website renovation. And across these strategies, we've learned about getting clients, creating trust, and even hiring international talent. And for each of these, we've learned about how chat GPT agent can streamline the entire process for this opportunity. But the thing with these first three use cases is these are mostly applicable to business owners. But this next use case could be sold to anyone on the planet.

And if someone offered this to me, there's a chance they would make tens of thousands of dollars. And I'm not even exaggerating. Opportunity number four is about AI powered real estate assistance. Real estate moves very fast and speed matters. What used to take agents, investors, and everyday people hours of analysis looking at properties now takes Chat GBT agent minutes. Having AI being

able to work while you sleep is an industry gamecher. Now, before I get into how Chat GPT agent can be used in this specific opportunity, let me give you some context as to why this is so exciting to me. I got my real estate license at 23. I have ownership in over 200 plus units across the East Coast. And I'm currently looking at deploying seven figures into new deals as we speak. And I use this exact use case for

myself and I know it works. Now, here's why this opportunity exists. Most real estate professionals are old school and would rather pay someone to integrate AI into what they're doing instead of learning it themselves. A perfect example of this is from literally yesterday. An agent sent me a property link. Wanted me to run the numbers to

see if I was interested. If he had an AI assistant, instead of just sending me the link, he could have said, "You'll need 100K to close, but could make 50K in 18 months on this. Here's the exact playbook you can run with like clear details on an investment strategy." I would have been so much more interested. but instead I'm looking at other deals.

I don't have time to actually look at this. And as a result, he missed out on potentially a 10K plus commission check if that deal had closed. This is the old way real estate agents would reach out to people. And it's exactly what this can solve. You would help real estate professionals as well as normal people leverage chatpt agent to analyze deals and communicate value effectively. Let's

break down this opportunity. The cost is relatively low. A lot of the information is public accessible through like Zillow or Redfin. And your main investment is setting up the analysis frameworks. In terms of effort, low to medium, cha agent does a lot of the analytical work for you, but you have to make sure to ask the right questions and know a little bit about the industry. In terms

of potential, I'd say it's medium to high. To start, you could work with agents for $300 a month, $20 to $50 a month with buyers. But the most exciting part of this is the opportunity to get referral commissions by connecting buyers with agents. So, how can you use chat GBT agent for all of this? Well, we want to think about using chat GBT agent as an assistant to the real estate agent. They will only pay for things

that either help them save time or close more deals. So, we have to think about it from that perspective. So, the first thing that you can do is a market analysis. This would analyze properties across platforms and save time to identify the things that make sense. You can see the prompt on the screen as well as the chatbt agent doing its thing. It

can go look at listings, look at properties on Zillow, on Redfin, and explore what's currently on the market. But what really excites me and why AI is so helpful is instead of having like vague overviews of the market, it can be 100% customized to the individual buyer. As an agent, knowing that you could do these really in-depth individual analysis is you can create an intake form for what someone's looking for, then reference that when chatdy agents doing its analysis. I do this for myself. I have a full notion doc with the type of investment properties I'm looking for. I pass that in. I reference

it into chat GPT agent. I share that URL and it does an in-depth analysis of the type of properties I'm looking for. This is the type of depth that the current real estate industry isn't providing for individual customers. I'm telling you literally that email yesterday, if it was just a different framing, I maybe would be looking at it today. The second way is doing a competitive market analysis. You can pass in an address and

you can find comparable sales, comparable rental rates, uh similar square footage, and you can do research on the property itself. You can have it run investment metrics as well as a strategy for a specific property. I do this all the time. What would an investment look like in this property? Uh what would the expected cash on returns be? What would be a 10-year

IRRa? Key risk factors, etc. You can then have it output what different investment strategies would look like. And the key here, right, it's going to Zillow, it's going to Redfin, it's looking at recent sales, it's looking at recent rental rates, all to put together what is a initial investment strategy. Also, with all this, this is the initial strategy. You will dive deeper 100%.

This isn't like you're not just sending money because chat GPT agent told you. No, but what this allows you to do is look at deals quicker and more frequently. In real estate, right, you look at hundreds of deals, but you only invest or buy one or two of them. In a similar way, you can do weekly reports. You can use chatbt agent and this is a great use of the scheduling function I touched on in the open. You can have the

agent run every week on Monday at 8 a.m. to see a current market report for specific clients and then send them an update so you stay top of mind. So these are ways that an agent could use it for their customers or an investor could use it while evaluating properties and your job is to do it for them and make their life easier. So who would I target and who would I get to actually pay? Well,

first would be active real estate agents. You can use chat GPD agent to find people in your target market. I would start local just because you know the area a little bit more, but this can really be anywhere in your country. Next, I would also look at direct to consumer for home buyers. For this, you could use something like Facebook ads targeting people in your area or just people searching for homes. And the copy

could be something like get personalized property alerts without constantly checking Zillow. And then third is a referral revenue strategy. Once you're working well on the buyer side, you can offer to connect them with other agents and you can take a cut of the commission. All in all, this is a win-win, right? The buyer gets better service, the agent gets better qualified leads, and you get a commission split.

One thing I personally hate is like when I'm doing all the research, and then I send the property to an agent, and then they get the commission. It's like, what did you even do? I did all the search. And so, if you're an agent in today's world, you have to step up your game. And this can be a way to actually do that. And if you help them do that, you

will be able to charge them money. Even if you don't plan on making money from this use case, I still suggest playing around with this because you'll immediately see the value of this and everyone who's watching this lives in a home. I'm not going to make assumptions, but I'm going to make that assumption. These tools and these prompts that I just went through, you can use this to help you find a property to buy or a better property to rent or a different area to live in. It can be very helpful.

You don't have to make a single scent on this. Just go ahead, try it. And I do love real estate. But this fifth opportunity is one of those opportunities that has crazy upside. and chatbt has also changed the game in terms of getting customers. Opportunity

number five is a funnel analyzer where you review product funnels. Most business funnels are absolutely trash. Tiny buttons, confusing copy, zero trust signals, and so your job is you become the conversion detective finding expensive money leaks. The beauty with this opportunity is you're working with businesses that already have traffic and already are making money. You're really just helping them optimize their current funnel. The cost to enter is low. You

just have to understand psychology and funnel optimization principles. The effort, I'd say, is medium. You have to learn what makes people buy, which is easier said than done. Chat GBT agent can help with this, but really just over time, looking at different funnels, looking at what works and doesn't. You'll get a better feel for it, and that will take a little bit of effort.

In terms of earnings potential, initially, charging clients $500 to $1,000 makes a lot of sense. But similar to some of the other use cases, I see the real upside as in the revenue opportunity that you get by improving the funnel. But the real money is percentage of revenue increase. One improvement can mean thousands of additional in monthly revenue. And as you're able to gain confidence in your offer, you can change your payment to performance versus upfront cash. This

actually reduces the risk for the business upfront, but you have higher upside. And okay, so from my side, what type of experience do I have with this? Well, I've sold millions of physical products at IK. I've sold people $3 to $10,000 offers directly from my social media. I've even sold cheaper physical items through Facebook ads that cost about $50 a unit. And through all of

this, right, these different offer funnels, your website's ability to convert is everything. And there's two golden rules of website conversion that I've learned historically. First, abstraction is the enemy of conversion. Every question the customer has that isn't answered will lead to drop off. The more confusing or abstract your funnel is, the fewer people will buy, the lower conversion rate because people will get questions and they'll decide not to purchase. The second is that

social proof is everything. Depending on what you're offering, customers are always skeptical. So, you need to gain trust from them to actually to get them to hit buy. And to do that, you need social proof. Client testimonials, product reviews, people holding the product, brand awareness in their day-to-day life. You need to find ways

to increase the social proof. So, how could chatgpt agent help with this funnel analysis opportunity? The first step is you can use it to create a comprehensive funnel analysis. The prompt would look like create a conversion audit checklist covering page load speed, mobile responsiveness, value proposition clarity, friction points, trust signals, CTA effectiveness, and checkout flow optimization. This will give you a starting point in terms of what to look at when analyzing a funnel.

The second step, which is my favorite, is you can have automated problem detection. You can pass in a URL to audit a funnel and then analyze places to actually improve it. Here you can see the prompt as well as chat GPT agent going ahead and doing it. At the bottom I call out conversion killers to keep an eye on. Then step three, you can use it to have competitive benchmarking. See

what other businesses are doing. Compare it to the business you're working with and come away with solutions to fix their funnel. To get clients for this, the audit to deal process is perfect where you can offer a free conversion audit and you can walk through a screen recording exactly where and when people will bounce. Then once you get customers, you can initially lean on chat GPT agent to make recommendations and create an implementation roadmap for the business that you're working with. Here's a prompt you can use as well as chat GPT agent running through this.

Generally, whenever recommending improvements, you want to find the lowest work, highest impact things and do those first. That way, the customer you're working with can get some loweffort, high impact solutions, and they can have a great first impression. So, I just showed you five of the laziest ways that you can take advantage of Chat GPD Agent to make money right now. But what I showed you here barely scrapes the tip of the iceberg. And if you click here, you can actually learn 25 different things you can do with Chat GPT agent. From using it to come up with

killer YouTube strategy to coding entire websites to doing your grocery shopping, you will learn a ton about how to use ChatgPD Agent to help you in your day-to-day or business operations. So if you want to continue to get ahead with Chat GPD agent, I'll see you over