---
video_title: "How to spend your 20s in the AI Era (Before It's Too Late)"
video_id: 0j91kRWW7o4
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0j91kRWW7o4
video_date: 2025-11-08T14:45:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Become Irreplaceable with AI (Free 5-Day Email Series): https://the-ai-playbook.com/20s
  
  In this video, I reveal the only 3 career paths that survive AI disruption: The Builder (who creates 10x faster), The Storyteller (who engineers viral content), and The Systems Thinker (who automates chaos into order). You'll get exact roadmaps for each path, learn why 41% of employers plan workforce reductions, and discover how to position yourself as an AI Architect who designs systems rather than a worker who gets automated.
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - How to spend your 20s
  (1:15) - Path 1: The Builder 
  (1:27) - Level 1
  (2:32) - Level 2
  (3:28) - Level 3
  (3:53) - Path 2: The Storyteller
  (4:21) - Level 1
  (5:06) - Level 2
  (6:32) - Level 3
  (7:09) - The Systems Thinker
  (7:44) - Level 1
  (8:05) - Level 2
  (8:47) - Level 3
  (9:37) - Step 1: Build in Public
  (10:02) - Step 2: Direct Outreach
  (10:35) - Step 3: Make your work public
  (11:53) - Principle 1: Position yourself adjacent to AI
  (12:30) - Principle 2: Learn Backwards not Forwards
  (13:42) - Being an AI Model Manager
  
  OpenAI AI Agents Guide: https://cdn.openai.com/business-guides-and-resources/a-practical-guide-to-building-agents.pdf
  
  
  If you’re new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese. I’ve been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full time job and today, I’m building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over $18 Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me breakdown how I got here because on Youtube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here… 
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor 
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called “The Incubator” all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  
  To everyone who’s spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  •⁠  ⁠Instagram: [https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/](https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/)
  •⁠  ⁠Youtube:  [https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese](https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese)
---
Everyone's asking, "How do I get an AI job?" Which is the wrong question. AI isn't a job. It's a force [music] multiplier. And in the next 5 years, there will only be two types of people.

Architects who design systems and workers who get automated. And according to the World Economic Forum, 41% of employers plan to reduce their workforce because of AI within 5 years. And if you're watching this, you're probably wondering, "As someone in their 20s, how should I spend the next [music] 5 years preparing?" Here's the reality. Every person watching this in one way or another will fall into these [music] three categories. Path one will be the

builder. You like making things and you're going to use AI to build 10 times faster. Path two will be the storyteller. You understand how to engineer virality and get people to be interested in what you're building. Path three is the systems thinker. You see

inefficiencies everywhere and you find ways that AI can help you execute no matter what industry you're in. And in this video, I'll break down all three paths and [music] give you an exact road map for each. And if you're in your 20s right now, you're in the perfect position to capitalize on this shift. You're old enough to know how the world works, but young enough to take risks. And this isn't theory. Since ChatBT

launched, I've managed an engineering team at JP Morgan, built a 20 person agency, and most recently was a COO of a tech startup that raised $18.9 million. I've been on the front lines and I know what makes people valuable. So, let's get into it. Path one, the builder.

These are people using AI to augment their technical abilities. This is a person who can come up with a prototype in minutes, showcase the functionality, then transform that product into a full-fledged app. Here's a road map. Level one, no code prototyping. The beauty of this level is that anyone can get to this level because AI has democratized basic technical work. This

is all about learning no code and low code AI tools that let you build prototypes from scratch. This includes tools like Lovable, Replet, and Bolt for building apps from scratch. These are what people call vibe coding tools. Or if you want to get into product design, that's tools like Stitch. Your goal here, build a working landing page in two hours using just these tools and YouTube tutorials. It's very doable and

in fact, I built a full app from scratch if you want to watch me actually do it. If you're already an engineer, this still matters because you're able to build specific things 10 times faster. And if you're not technical, getting to this step will be a gamecher, especially if no one else on your team has this skill. I call this going 0ero to one. And the more things you can go 0ero to one in with AI, the better. I'm going

through these tools pretty quickly. So if you have any questions, just take the name of the tool, go to chat GBT or whatever AI tool you use and say explain tool name to me like I'm 12 years old. This is a learning hack to get a foundational understanding and again you want to be able to learn quickly. Level two is production ready development. At this point you're moving from prototypes to real products. This is cursor or

clawed code for coding, Devon for autonomous development, lang chain and hugging face for working with AI models. OpenAI APIs for custom solutions, Pine Cone for vector databases, and Verscell for deployment. The quote that captures this moment comes from the founder of stability AI. Every company has to implement AI, not even have a strategy, implement it. That's the reality.

Companies aren't asking, should we use AI? They're asking how fast can we deploy it, and the demand reflects it. According to Stanford's 2025 report, job posting requiring prompt engineering skills saw a year-over-year increase of 24,047% in the US alone. I see integrating AI as the same way companies adopted the internet. Every company is becoming an AI company, much like they became an internet-based company. A starting goal

here could be to build and deploy one complete AI powered tool that solves a real problem. Level three is ML operations. This is the final level. You're now building infrastructure. ML flow for tracking experiments, fast API for building APIs, Docker for containerization. At this level, it's

about deploying, monitoring, and scaling AI systems in production environments. If you're following this path, you're transforming from front-end engineer to full stack builder. Someone who can conceptualize, build, and deploy entire products using AI as a force multiplier. Path number two is the storyteller. This is the modern marketer. This path is

about recognizing that growth isn't about creating more output. It's about knowing which output to create. You're engineering virality through pattern recognition and deploying AI at scale. Picture someone that always knows which content will hit before creating it. They can create videos in minutes that used to take teams days. They know

everything from Instagram reels to YouTube to marketing funnels. That's what the future looks like for marketers. So, how do you get there? Level one is the creative toolkit. These are tools that let you produce high-quality content 10 times faster.

Quad for creative writing, Google VO, Runway, Clling, and Sora for video generation, 11 Labs for voice cloning, Nano Banana for images. Mark Benoff, CEO of Salesforce, recently said, "AI is doing 30 to 50% of the work at Salesforce now and we can move on to do higher value work." That's the mindset shift. You're not replacing creativity. You're freeing yourself up from repetitive execution so you can focus on strategy. And this is critical to

understand. This isn't about making you work less. It's about reducing your effort from execution to strategy. A good goal, use AI to help with content ideas if you don't already. and use it to cut content production time down by 50% by using AI to do first drafts.

Level two is about context engineering. This is where most people fail. They generate generic AI content that sounds like everyone else. And the reason is that they're not giving AI the right context. The difference between generic content and content that sounds like your brand is the context you provide.

Here's a framework to reproduce. First, identify what AI can't see. unwritten rules, edge cases, human factors, political dynamics. These aren't in the training data, so you need to explicitly provide them. Second is make it systematic. Build rubrics that define

what good looks like in your specific domain. This turns vague quality standards into measurable criteria. Third is iterate constantly. This is another example of learning by doing. But what you think is enough context or all that's needed will never actually be the case because you can always get better. Here's how I think of this, and

I'm showing my Italian heritage with this one. Think of context engineering like your cooking sauce. Your first attempt will be basic, but after 100 iterations, you'll have a secret sauce AI can't replicate. That's your competitive advantage. The context library you build over months of refinement. Here are some good tools for

this. Notebook LM for researching vetted sources. Clawed projects for task specific works. Google Docs as your single source of truth. Your goal, build a context system so good that AI generated content is indistinguishable from your own writing. That's where you

want to get to. So keep on iterating. Level three is automation at scale. Once you have the right context, it's time to build content machines. This is NAN for workflow automation, Plexity for research, and chachi agents for multi-step execution. At this level,

you're not a social media manager. You're a growth engineer building systems that create strategic content while you sleep. Your goal, build one automated content pipeline that comes up with an idea and creates a full post without your involvement. I wouldn't actually have it hit post for you, but it should be good enough that you could just copy and paste it and hit post. The transformation you'll see is you'll go from social media manager to growth engineer, someone who builds machines that produce strategic content at scale.

Path three is the systems thinker. If you're on this path, you see inefficiency everywhere. Repetitive tasks, manual processes, things that should take 5 minutes but take two hours. Your superpower is turning chaos into systems. And AI is giving you the ability to automate 50% of your work week. If you don't identify as a builder

or a storyteller, you'll probably be a systems thinker in the future. Lawyers, accountants, consultants, anyone who sees inefficiency and wants to fix it, that's you. And I'll cover it in level two, but these system thinkers will also be the best at execution for whatever your industry is. So pay attention. Here's your road map. Level one is

personal automation. Start by automating your workflow. Chatbt for drafting and summarizing. Superhum for email management. Chatbt agents for task execution. Notion AI for knowledge

management. Your goal should be reclaimed 10 hours per week by automating repetitive tasks. The key is you're not just saving time, you're shifting your mental framework from execution to design. Level two is about domain specific tools. Now you deploy AI for your own industry. If you're in

legal, Harvey, and case text for contract analysis, accounting, vic.ai for expense tracking, customer service, intercom, or zeneskai for support. If you're writer, type.ai, something I use almost every day. 77% of companies are planning AI reskilling programs by 2030.

The question is whether you'll be ahead or scrambling to catch up. I have a link in the description to resources on industry specific tools. If you want to learn more about your specific industry, your goal should be implement one industry specific AI tool and see how it helps your workflow. I guarantee it's going to save you some time and help produce a better output. Level three is about workflow architecture. This is the

final level and you're designing entire operations run by AI. NAN and make for workflow automations. Lindy for AI assistance custom agents for domain specific tasks. This is where you would use something like Devon if you were a software engineer. Your goal for this step should be build one automation for a specific operational task that you have that does it end to end and you just have to review the final product.

After going through these phases, you'll transform from an operations manager to an operations architect. Someone who designed systems that allow for AI to do the execution but people to do the strategizing. These are the three different paths that we're going to see in a traditional workspace. But how do you actually get these jobs? Well, entry-level hiring is dying. AIS are

screening resumes and you just need a new playbook. So, here are three steps. Step one is build in public. Don't tell people you can do the work. Show them.

If you're a builder, build a tool they need and send them the demo. If you're a storyteller, create a content audit and show them three quick wins. If you're a systems thinker, map a workflow that could save them 10 hours a week. Seth Gooden calls this the purple cow. In a field of boring cows, the purple one gets noticed. Your portfolio is how you

become a purple cow. Step two is about direct outreach. Most CEOs of companies have 500 to 2,000 Instagram followers. They're going to see their DMs. And so, you can bypass HR entirely, but you have to lead with value, not just I'd love to work for you. If it's not the CEO, you

can do the hiring manager. You can do somebody running a team. The people are out there and you can have direct communication with them. You're just providing value. And I like to think if you saw this person and you told them that you messaged them that you would feel prideful about it. You wouldn't

feel embarrassed. That will lead you to actually do this. Step three is make your work public. Historically, programmers have had GitHub where you can showcase the code you've written or they've built their own custom website. In the future, every other role is going to need something similar. This could be

a notion site with your AI projects. This could be Twitter threads documenting your systems. This could be YouTube videos showing the workflows you've built. In a world that's changing so quickly where you can throw traditional credentials out the window, your work becomes your resume. Now, before I give you three guiding principles that determine whether you actually win over the next 5 years, I do want to address something. I don't want

you worried about AI. I want you to feel excited. And that's why I created a free 5-day email course, how to use AI to become irreplaceable. Each day breaks down one major trap and how to avoid it. Day one is about the postAI impact equation. Day two is about the impact

arbitrage opportunity and days 3 to 5 are in-depth strategies that have been game changers for hundreds of others. It's the first link in the description. It's entirely free and there are no upsells. If it's not helpful, just unsubscribe at any time. And because you're coming from YouTube, if you reply to any of the emails I send with questions, I'll personally respond to all of them. I want you to win. It's

really that simple. Okay. So, now that you understand the three different paths, let me give you three core principles that will determine whether you succeed or fall behind over the next 5 years. Principle number one is position yourself adjacent to AI, not against it. Here's what adjacent means.

Be the director, not the executor. If you're a marketer, learn to manage 10 AI writers at once. If you're an engineer, don't try and code faster. Instead, learn to architect systems where AI writes boilerplate code for you and you solve the complex problems. If you're an operator, don't try and do tasks faster.

Design workflows where AI executes them and you just figure out the strategy. You're shifting from a doer to a designer. For step-by-step instructions on how to build these AI agents to automate things, I have tutorials on my page, so you can check those out if you want to learn more. Principle number two is learn backwards, not forwards. The classic playbook of take a 12-week course, get certified, start building.

In my opinion, that's just way too slow. What I prefer is destinationbased learning. Set a goal with a specific deadline. For example, build a landing page using Lovable by Friday. Automate my email triage with Nadn by Tuesday.

Then learn backwards from that. First, search Perplexity for recent tutorials. Then, feed them to Notebook LM to synthesize key concepts. Third, learn just enough to start. Fourth, figure out the rest while you're building it. Ship

something ugly, iterate based on what breaks. This works because learning happens through complete action cycles. Building one full project end to end, even if it's messy, teaches you more than consuming a 100 different tutorials. Partial completion just teaches very little. Bring it to the end. And you need to feel the urgency

when you're doing all of this. Don't rush. Don't feel scared. And know you are not too late. If you're watching this, you're ahead of most people already. But you need to understand that

it's not if AI disrupts your industry, it's when. How I think about it is everyone has a clock ticking for when AI will impact their careers. Some clocks are just longer than others. So I literally visualize a clock ticking down on my wall. Principle number three is about being an AI model manager. Here's

a shift that most people miss. Learning tools is easy. The skill is building workflows. There's three levels of AI usage. Level one is AI tools, right?

That's Chat GBD, Cursor, Notion, etc. Level two is AI automations. This can be make, Zapier, Nadn. In some ways, these are workflow automations. Level three is AI agents. This is autonomous systems

that do tasks. You're going to evolve into an AI operator. Someone who manages both human and AI agents. Microsoft CEO said, "As we build the next generation of AI, we made a conscious design choice to put human agency both at a premium and at the center of the product. For the first time, we have access to AI that is as empowering as it is powerful.

He said it himself. It is [music] empowering as much as it is powerful. The winning formula is having AI handle the 60 to 80% baseline. You add the strategic value that makes it valuable. On top of that, in order to do this, you need resiliency and flexibility, which are non-negotiable skills for adapting to new tools and pivoting when necessary. The tools will change, but

your ability to adapt is what stays constant. So here's what you need to remember. In five years, there will be two groups. Group one will be architects who design systems where AI executes on their behalf. And group two will be workers who got automated because they competed against AI instead of positioning themselves adjacent to it.

There will be builders, there will be storytellers, there will be systems builders. But for all three of those, here are core principles. You have to position yourself adjacent, not against AI. You have to learn backwards from your goals and learn quickly with urgency. And you have to become an AI model manager. You now have your road

map. Pick your path, start building today, and become a purple cow amongst your peers. And if you want to figure out the eight AI tools that I use every single day, watch this video. If you like this video, you're going to love that. I'll see you over there. Pace.