---
video_title: "Augment don’t Automate"
video_id: oj1NryTRrmM
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oj1NryTRrmM
video_date: 2025-12-22T16:15:07+00:00
video_description: |
  You can now analyze excel spreadsheets in seconds with a single prompt
  
  and this new technology could cost you thousands of hours.
  
  Anthropic just launched Claude for Excel, a new Microsoft Excel plug in that lets you use Claude to read, analyze, and even build entire spreadsheets from scratch.
  
  You can type things like “Analyze this data and find outliers” or calculate total expenses for this month. And it does it instantly, no macros, no formulas needed
  
  It even has access to real time data to integrate directly into the sheet so you don’t have to search the internet.
  
  But this isn’t just for Excel. Look at Google Sheets, it has integrations you probably don’t even know about. Go directly into a cell and type =AI(”Categorize this credit card charge in a bucket for end of year accounting”, CELL), drag it down and it will do just that for you.
  
  This is a broader trend of AI injecting itself directly where people work, it’s not Automating, but its Augmenting. Software engineers were hesitant when AI injected itself in their work flow, but people who were first movers quickly became irreplacable. If you want more insight like this, I share deep dives in my monthly newsletter.
---
You can now analyze Excel [music] spreadsheets in seconds with a single prompt. And this new technology could save you thousands of [music] hours. Anthropic just launched Claude for Excel, a new Microsoft Excel plugin that lets you use Claude to read, analyze, and even build out entire spreadsheets. You can type things like analyze this data and find outliers or calculate total expenses for this month. And it does it instantly. No macros, no

formulas needed. It even has access to real-time data to integrate directly into the sheet so you don't have to search the internet. But this isn't just for Excel. Look at Google Sheets. It has integrations you probably don't even know about. Go directly to a cell and

type equals AI. Then categorize this credit card charge in a bucket for end ofear [music] accounting and then select the cell. Drag that down and it will do exactly that for you. But the crazy part about all of this is it's revealing a broader trend of AI injecting itself directly where people work. It's not automating, but it's augmenting. [music]

Now, if you want more insight like this, I share deep dives in my monthly newsletter. Come and playbook and I'll send it your