---
video_title: "What’s context engineering?"
video_id: CEi54NplMBU
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CEi54NplMBU
video_date: 2025-12-06T16:15:04+00:00
video_description: |
  So prompt engineering was the go to skill when ChatGPT first came out.
  
  All about optimizing prompts to get high quality outputs.
  
  But this is old news because you can just ask ChatGPT to optimize a prompt for you.
  
  The real sauce comes from context engineering.
  
  This is the process of feeding an AI model with the right information to get better answers.
  
  Lets say your looking for health advice and you like a lot of what Joe Rogan talks about.
  
  You could take the transcripts of all of his podcasts and have AI reference that for advice.
  
  That’s one example, but the beauty comes when you bring information that isn’t online, like specific information about your situation, your job or your existing workflows.
  
  Context engineering is about injecting your taste into AI.
  
  And it’s really easy to do.
  
  For ChatGPT or Claude, select projects and create one for whatever you use AI most frequently for. Then pull in information, I like using Google docs because it has direct integration.
  
  Remember the better you get at context engineering, the more valuable you’ll become.
  
  Comment “context” if you want to get access to my free monthly newsletter where I help people become irreplaceable with AI
---
I just realized that most people don't know what context engineering is. And if you do, you may not be thinking of it right. Prompt engineering was a go-to skill when chat GBT first came out. All about optimizing prompts to get highquality outputs. But this is old news because you could just ask Chat GPT to write optimized prompts for you. The

real sauce comes from context engineering. This is the process of feeding AI the right context to get the right answers. Let's say you're looking for health advice and you love Joe Rogan's podcast. You can take all those podcast transcripts and have AI reference it for [music] advice. That's just one example, but the beauty comes when you bring in information that isn't online, like specific information about your situation, your job, or any workflows that you do. Context

engineering is about injecting your taste into AI. And it's actually really easy to do. For Chat GBT or Claude, select projects and create one for whatever used AI most frequently for. Then bring in whatever context you want. I like using Google Docs because it has a direct integration. Remember, the

better you get at context engineering, the more valuable you'll become.