---
video_title: "Why 100,000 families just agreed to let robots watch them"
video_id: 93ry6lUFUTk
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=93ry6lUFUTk
video_date: 2025-11-30T16:15:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Figure AI just partnered with real estate giant Brookfield to create the world’s largest humanoid robot training dataset.
  
  They’re getting access to over 100,000 residential units plus millions of square feet of commercial space.
  
  But here’s the genius part nobody’s talking about.
  
  Instead of programming robots to do specific tasks, they’re just recording humans doing everyday things—opening fridges, climbing stairs, doing laundry.
  
  Their AI model called Helix watches all this footage and learns purely from observation.
  
  And this solves the biggest problem in robotics.
  
  See, every home is completely different. Different layouts, different furniture, different obstacles.
  
  Traditional robots would need years of custom programming for each house. But Figure’s robots can now respond to commands like ‘go to the fridge’ in any house, because they learned by watching people in thousands of different homes.
  
  But to me, this answers a question that nobody’s asking: Why do these robots have to look like people?
  
  Well, every door, staircase, light switch, and appliance in your house was built for human proportions. Not wheels. Not four legs. Human bodies.
  
  So by making robots LOOK LIKE HUMANS, they can use everything we’ve already built without changing a single thing about our homes.
  
  It’s backward compatibility for the physical world. If you want these things to be used, you can’t rebuild everything from scratch.
  
  We’re watching the birth of robots that can navigate any human space by simply observing how humans do it.
  
  The humanoid form isn’t about mimicking humans—it’s about fitting into the world we already built.
---
100,000 families just agreed to let robots watch everything they do. And the reason why is actually genius. Figure AI just partnered with real estate giant Brookfield to create the world's largest humanoid robot training data set. Instead of programming robots to do specific tasks, they're just recording humans do everyday things. And their AI model called Helix watches all this footage and learns purely from observation. And this could solve the

biggest problem in robotics. See, every home is completely different. Different layouts, different furniture, different obstacles. Mine has a sauna in the office. And traditional robots would need years of custom programming for each house, but figures robots can now respond to commands like go to the fridge because they learn by watching people in thousands of different homes.

But to me, this answers a question that nobody's asking. Why do these robots have to look like people? By making robots look human, they can use everything we've already built without changing a single thing about our homes. It's backwards compatibility for the physical world. This humanoid form isn't about mimicking humans.