---
video_title: "8 AI Trends that keep me up at night:"
video_id: ChksyQ3J8cw
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ChksyQ3J8cw
video_date: 2025-12-18T16:15:02+00:00
video_description: |
  1. AI Girl friends takeoff
  AI Girlfriends and Boyfriends are going to be a $100B industry that no one talks about. It’s going to be like girls and botox, just assume everyones doing it
  2. The New Vaccine
  Kids will start to be born with a chip in their brain to stay competitive with other kids. This will be no different than getting vaccines.
  3. Anti AI Movement
  The Anti AI movement will be bigger than the AI movement. For the first time in human history, people all over the world have a common enemy.
  4. Death of the resume
  AI will kill the resume. It will look at what you’ve done online (your digital footprint) and determine if you’re a right fit or not.
  5. AI Cures Cancer
  AI will transform the health industry. Cures to things like cancer and alzeheimers. It will increase average life spans to over 100.
  6. Levels Playing field
  Language barriers will completely disappear, leveling the playingfield for workers around the globe. Previously hiring people in the US was better than overseas primarily because of language. That won’t be the case.
  7. Socialism Takes-off
  UBI and Socialism will become more and more widespread. AI will further divide the haves and the have nots.
  8. Exponential, not Linear
  AI doesn’t improve linearly it improves exponentially and no one knows where this thing will go. I love the world we have now, im hopefully it will improve it.
---
Eight AI trends that should keep you up at night. One, AI girlfriends and boyfriends are going to be a hundred billion dollar industry that nobody talks about. Number two, ignore my drawing. Kids are going to start getting born with chips in their brain, and if you don't, you are going to be left behind. This will be no different than kids getting vaccines at birth. Number

three, the anti-AI movement will be bigger than the AI movement. For the first time in human history, people all around the world have a common enemy. Number four, AI will kill your resume. It'll look all across the internet [music] to find your digital footprint and it'll determine if you're a right fit for the job. Five, AI is going to transform the health industry and it's going to lead to an increase in your average life expectancy. For this

reason, your health today couldn't be more important. Number six, AI will remove language barriers, making it so that anybody on the planet can work for any company. Previously, the benefit of hiring people in the US was primarily that they could speak English, but now with AI, that doesn't matter. Leveling the playing field for global employment. Number seven, UBI and socialism is going to start taking off amongst younger people. AI is going to further divide

the halves and the have nots. And as a New Yorker, we're already seeing this in New York City. Number eight is that AI doesn't improve linearly. It improves exponentially. And that means that nobody knows what the world's going to look like in 2 to 3 years. I love the

world we live in today. The fact that future's uncertain makes me a little uneasy.