---
video_title: "In 2026, DON'T 'Keep Up' With AI, Do This Instead…"
video_id: EMLqYgHR4WQ
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EMLqYgHR4WQ
video_date: 2025-12-29T14:45:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Become Irreplaceable with AI (Free 5-Day Email Series): https://the-ai-playbook.com/stop
  Transform your business into an AI-First Operation (get your free business audit): https://www.the-ai-playbook.com/o/business
  
  In this video, I reveal the exact 3-phase framework to build your Personal AI Augmentation System—a foundation that gets more valuable each day—so you stop chasing shiny tools and start building the deep systems that will separate winners from losers in 2026.
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - Use this 3 Phase framework to win in 2026
  (0:34) - Phase #1: Build your AI tool stack
  (3:21) - Phase #2: Optimizing Your Workspace
  (7:52) - Phase #3: Setup AI Agents and Workflows
  
  8 AI Tools That Will Separate Winners from Losers in 2026 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-gDjmHqgN_Y
  
  25 Things You Didn't Know ChatGPT Agent Could Do - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f5ldVarry3k&sttick=0
  
  How To Build A $10,000 AI Agent in 35 Minutes (No Code) - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=85KfkiWK6uI
  
  Full Course on How to Build & Sell AI Agents (100% FREE) - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gZb55B7alF4
  
  If you’re new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese. I’ve been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full time job and today, I’m building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over $18 Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me breakdown how I got here because on Youtube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here… 
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor 
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called “The Incubator” all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  
  To everyone who’s spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  •⁠  ⁠Instagram: [https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/](https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/)
  •⁠  ⁠Youtube:  [https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese](https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese)
---
Keeping up with AI is the fastest way to fall behind. Every time you jump to the next shiny AI tool, you lose the depth that actually matters. And the winners in 2026, they won't know the most tools, but instead they will have built the deepest systems. I'm talking about your personal AI augmentation system, a foundation built specifically for how you work. And once it's built, it gets more valuable each day. This is why I'm

giving you the exact three-phase framework I used as a COO of a startup that raised $18.9 million and now use to help thousands of professionals build these same systems. Let's get into phase one, which is about building your AI tool stack. Your AI tool stack is the set of tools you commit to and you block out everything else. You go deep instead of wide. Most people treat AI like it's

the grocery store. New option on Twitter, add it to the cart. Cool new model, got to try it. Suddenly, you've tested 47 new tools with nothing to show for it. And this is creating an AI graveyard, which is killing your progress because every time you switch, you trigger context switching loss. You

have to relearn interfaces. You have to rebuild muscle memory. And you have to refigure out what prompts work with this system. It's sort of like starting a new job every month. You never get past the initial onboarding. So, how exactly do

you build out your AI tool stack? Well, you make a decision on your tools and then you use that. Then periodically, call it every 30 or 60 days, you search for specific tools that you have a use case for and see if there is a tool that could help solve the problem that you have. This way, you can stay up to date without constantly chasing the next shiny object. And when you are looking, you're looking with intention to solve an actual problem you have. If you want

an exact breakdown of every AI tool I use and why, that is linked in the description. And if you have a specific use case where you're wondering what tool I think is best, comment below. But here are three of my favorites. Claude is my go-to for writing and coding. If you go to claw.ai, it's $20 a month for

pro, which is exactly what I use. I find Claude is the best for creative writing as well as writing code. Tool number two is Gemini/Nano Banana Pro. I use this for image generation and anything that integrates directly in Google Workspace, which is what I use to run my business. The third tool is Superhum, which is specifically for emails. I've sent over

8,500 emails with this. I've marked over 100,000 emails as done. If you spend time on emails, I highly recommend this tool specifically for the keyboard shortcuts as well as its direct integration with AI. And then the last tool is Notebook LM, which is perfect for research. What it allows you to do is upload specific contextual information to a contained environment.

So you can ask specific questions just about the resources you provided. It's like a contained workspace and it ignores all external information. So it just pulls from the information you want. And I know a lot of the people watching this are professionals working in a professional setting. And so if your company mandates specific tools, let's say you have to use Gemini at work, I would try and use that same tool outside of work. This way, you're not

splitting energy, but instead you're compounding all on the same stack. Now, the beautiful part on all of this is that once you commit to a stack, the decision fatigue disappears and you can now just focus on going deeper and learning the tools better. Zooming out, you've now built a foundation of your personal AI augmentation system. Your stack is locked in, the noise is blocked out. But that's only the first 30% of the equation. The other 70% that's

teaching these tools to work like you work, which brings us to phase two, which is my personal favorite. Phase two is about optimizing your workspace. This is where you stop using AI like a search engine and you start using it like a trained employee who actually knows how you work. We're in the middle of a fundamental shift. For the past 200 years, the game was simple. Specialize

in one thing. Make a lot of money. Be a lawyer. Be a doctor. Be an engineer.

This was known as the knowledge economy. But that game has just ended. We're entering what I call the allocation economy, where you get compensated for directing AI systems, not just for having the knowledge yourself. The example I like to use here is think of a chef versus a restaurant owner. The chef cooks every dish, complete control, but can only serve so many customers. The

restaurant owner, on the other hand, they set the menu, they train the staff, and they're able to manage multiple cooks simultaneously, in turn, serving hundreds of people. In the AI era, you want to be the restaurant owner, not the chef, or be the AI manager, not the person still doing tasks manually. Jensen Wang, the CEO of Nvidia, said it best. The IT department of every company is going to be a HR department of AI agents in the future. So, think about AI as an employee. Would you hire someone

and then throw them into work the next day without any context? No, you wouldn't. You would train them. You would show them what a good output looks like. You would give them examples. You

would explain the tasks. And that's exactly what you need to do with AI. You need to give it training data. And there's two types of training data. Type one is your best work. This is

everything that represents what good looks like to me. This can be past reports. This can be emails that you sent. This can be proposals that close deals. This teaches AI your voice, your structure, and your preferences. And

then the second type is your northstar. These are examples that are better than your current work. This could be a colleague's report that impresses executives. This could be a competitor's content that just hits different. Your best work improves efficiency. Your

northstar improves quality. And for these, you need both. Here's exactly how to set this up. I use clawed projects which is basically a workspace where you add documents, guidelines and examples and everything in that workspace or that project has access to all of this context automatically. It's like training an assistant and then continuously working with them versus having to start from scratch every single time. And this isn't only for

Claude Chatbt Grock. They have projects which is the same idea. Gemini has gems. Perplexity has spaces. Use whichever feature matches your current stack. They

all have the same principle of creating a contained environment that you can continuously work with. Here's an example project that helps me ideulate and revise YouTube scripts that I write. I bring in past scripts that I wrote that worked well. I have a brand voice guidelines document. I have a target audience profile and I have Northstar examples from creators I respect. To set

this up, create a project for each major area of your work. And this is a project that you're continuously working on. This can be writing project docs. This could be managing employees. Think about things that you continuously do. Next,

you want to upload relevant documents. This can be your past work, style guides, or examples of good work. The third step is write a custom instruction for how you want it to behave. Think of this like a prompt that gets ran automatically every time you start a new chat within this project. The pro tip here is I wouldn't write these yourself.

Just ask AI to write an optimized system prompt for whatever goals you have. The fourth step is start using these projects. Now, these are the basics, but if you want to go to the next level, I suggest creating a consultant project that can serve as a second opinion about your output. For example, let's say you were a product manager and you were a big fan of Elon Musk and all the product advice he's given in the past. You could bring in transcripts from all of his interviews and make an Elon Musk consultant project. And you use that

project to run ideas by Elon before you go ahead with them. This way, you can get curated feedback from people that you most respect. After you've set up a consultant that can advise on your final output and provide curated feedback, you've set up a foundation that not only streamlines creating the final product, but also can help creating a better final product. And the best part is every time you work on this specific project, you're not starting from scratch. You're building on a foundation that compounds over time. Before we get

to phase three, which is the most powerful, but where people make the biggest mistakes, I created a free 5-day email course that goes deeper on everything we're covering. Each day I cover a specific trap that I see most people fall into. By the end of this email course, you'll have a different swagger and you'll feel irreplaceable in the age of AI. If you want it, click the first link in the description. It's entirely free and based on hundreds of reviews. I'm pretty confident you're

going to love it. All right, let's get into phase three, which is about setting up AI agents and workflows. Your stack is locked in, your workspace is optimized. Now, it's time for the final layer, building systems that run without you. This is where you go from AI makes me faster to AI works for me. But before

you automate anything, you need to understand a massive shift that's happening right now. We're moving from work 2.0 to work 3.0. So work 1.0 was

traditional office work. Everyone showed up, sat at desks, followed hierarchal command structures. Work 2.0 opened up the digital workplace. Remote work.

Companies hired offshore talent, moved customer service to India, software developers to Eastern Europe, humans managing humans across the world. Now work 3.0 is fundamentally different. AI works with humans to complete tasks. A few human employees managing dozens of AI agent employees. And where most

people get wrong about work 3.0 is they think it's all about automation. And in reality, it isn't. There's two ways to use AI in your workflows. Augmentation and automation. Augmentation is when AI

helps you do the work. You're still in the loop reviewing, refining, and approving. Automation, on the other hand, is AI does work end to end. [music] There's no human involvement. But 90% of what you think needs automation actually needs augmentation.

Here's a filter that I run every task through. The first is, is this the sauce? If this task is your value, your judgment, your taste, your expertise, don't automate it. Augment it. For example, if you're a social media manager, never automate the entire content creation process. This is what

you're literally getting hired for, and this is your sauce. Now, you can use AI to help augment the process, but figuring out an automation to do the workflow, that is a no-go. Second is what is the cost of error? Think of AI like hiring an intern. Would you trust an intern to send emails directly to your biggest clients? No. But would you

trust them to maybe draft a report or draft an email? Sure. It's the same with AI. Think of it like an intern. The third is if it's repetitive and it's low stakes, now we're in automation territory. Having this mental framework

connects to exactly how you actually build out these systems. When you're thinking about automation versus augmentation, there are two types of tools that you'll often see people use. AI workflows and AI agents. Think of AI workflows as a step-by-step process to complete a task. Step one, step two, step three. It's clear and defined, and

the outcome is more predictable. Think of AI agents, on the other hand, is you give it a task, it figures out how to do it, and then it comes back with the final product. You don't necessarily know what steps it's going to take and how it's going to complete it, but you expect it to produce a final product that aligns with your initial ask. These two concepts are often thrown around together. But that distinction is really important. At the top level, we have AI

augmentation and AI automation. Depending on what you want to do, you can use AI workflows or AI agents. Those are tools to help you achieve these two things. And then going one layer deeper is how do you actually set up these AI workflows or these AI agents. Now let's look at various tools you can use and I've broken them down into categories.

Category one is workspace AI agents and these live in tools you may already use. One is chat GBT agent. It can take action for you. Search the web, analyze websites, adjust files and execute multi-step processes. I have it searched Zillow for properties matching my criteria. Create comparison spreadsheets

and pull comps. And you can also schedule it to run, let's say, every Monday. I have a full video breaking down chat GPT agent use cases if you want to dive into that. Notion agent, much like chat GPT agent, but it interacts directly with your notion workspace. I also have a video deep diving into use cases on this if you're interested. Category two is specialized

agents. These are agents designed for a specific job. If you think of AI agents like employees, these are employees trained on a specific field. And at the startup I was a COO for, we used Devon daily for low cost of error code. Let's say website styling, copy changes, UI tweaks. And what was wild is that people

who weren't engineers could now fix issues on websites. They would create a ticket, assign it to Devon, and give it instructions like it was talking to an employee. Next thing you know, the code was written and the bug was fixed. This is work 3.0 in action. Non-engineers

managing AI engineers. And then personally, I use claude code for building the 5-day email course that I mentioned earlier. I built that entire website with claude code. Another category is AI workflow tools and this is for fully custom buildouts. The specific tool I use here is NN which is really powerful. Think of Zapier meets

AI meets low code solutions. The prompt chaining and the evaluator optimizer loops that I mentioned earlier. These are things that you can very easily set up with NAND. I also have deep dives on my channel on how to set these up. So you can also check that out. This last

phase is the most powerful, but yes, it is the most complex and it's where most people make mistakes. So if you are a business owner or you are looking to transform your operations into an AI first system, I do offer free strategy calls where I'll audit what you're doing and identify immediate wins. This is entirely free. If you click the second link in the description, we'll dive through your business, talk about what you've done, what you haven't done, and find immediate action items that you can implement right after that call. If that sounds interesting, click the second link in the description. Hop on a call

and let's improve your business. Okay, so your AI stack is locked in. You know exactly what tools you're using and you're not looking at shiny objects anymore. Your workspace is optimized. You've set up projects. You've set up

systems. And you've gathered contextual information that changes AI outputs from good to great. And you also now understand what you should augment versus what you should automate and the ways to do it. Once you go through these three phases, you have something that compounds over time. And by the end of 2026, you'll be on a whole new level.

Now, if you like this video, you'll love this one where I break down the eight AI tools that will separate winners from losers in 2026. I go way deeper into each tool and show you exactly how I use them. If you got this far, you are a legend and I'll see you in the next one. Pace.