---
video_title: "The problem with AI video is simple"
video_id: UJVMFEBS5WI
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UJVMFEBS5WI
video_date: 2025-10-17T15:15:03+00:00
video_description: |
  If MrBeast’s next video was AI-generated—giving away 10 million dollars, completely indistinguishable from real—do you think people would watch it?
  
  personally - i’d immediately stop caring, which reaveals an elephent in the room about OpenAI’s new app Sora that nobodys talking about.
  
  The problem with AI content isn’t that it looks fake. It’s that the stakes disappear.
  
  Let me explain….
  
  When you watch a real MrBeast video, you’re watching actual money change actual lives. There’s risk, there’s impact, there are real consequences.
  
  But with AI? There are no stakes. Nothing real happened, so it has zero weight.
  
  Look at why we watch sports—it’s not the aesthetics of a basketball going through a hoop. It’s the pressure, the risk, the genuine achievement.
  
  Witnessing something real, with real stakes, just hits differently.
  
  But when everyones excited about AI video, they’re ignoring this massive opportunity.
  
  If stakes are what matter, then verification becomes the most valuable layer in content.
  
  Platforms that can prove “this was made by humans” will capture billions. They’re not just hosting content—they’re preserving meaning.
  
  We’re about to see infrastructure built entirely around proving authenticity. Because only real content has real stakes.
  
  And that’s content worth watching.
---
If Mr. Beast's next video was AI generated, giving away $10 million, do you think people would watch it? The problem with AI content isn't that it looks real or fake, it's that stakes disappear. Let me explain. When you're watching a real Mr. Beast

video, you're watching actual money change actual lives. There's risk, there's impact, and there's a real consequence. But with AI, there are no stakes. Nothing real happens, so it has zero weight. Look at why we watch sports. It's not the aesthetics of a

basketball going through a hoop. It's the pressure, the risk, the genuine achievement. Witnessing something real with real stakes just hits different. But when everyone's excited about AI video, they're ignoring this massive opportunity. Then verification becomes the most valuable layer in content.

Platforms that can prove this was made by humans will capture billions. They're not just hosting content. They're preserving meaning. We're about to see infrastructure built entirely around proving authenticity because only real content has real stakes. And that's content worth watching.