---
video_title: "$1,000/m for 3 years (shocked by result)"
video_id: HBYavw6O0MA
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HBYavw6O0MA
video_date: 2025-11-28T16:15:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Free money doesn’t make you happier and a Sam Altman–backed study just proved it.
  
  —
  
  OpenAI funded one of the biggest UBI experiments ever.
  
  3,000 people got $1,000 a month — no strings attached
  
  People did get happier… but just for a moment.
  
  After a couple of months, Their happiness dropped right back to normal.
  
  That initial high? Gone.
  
  This calls to question, is money all we want?
  
  Because HERE’S WHAT THEY DON’T TELL YOU
  
  This was never about money. It was about finding meaning.
  
  Sure those people got paid But happiness didn’t rise.
  
  Because money gives you comfort…not direction.
  
  —
  
  For 70 years, as corporate America scaled, depression scaled with it.
  
  We replaced craft with paperwork. Creation with clicking.
  
  “An honest day’s work” with “meetings about meetings.”
  
  And that’s where AI comes in — the part no one talks about.
  
  —
  
  Everyone’s terrified that AI will replace note-takers and button-clickers.
  
  But maybe… that’s the best thing that could happen to us.
  
  Because when AI removes the repetitive, the pointless, the soul-sucking work…
  
  it forces humans back into the one thing we’ve always needed:
  
  Purpose.
  
  AI might take jobs But it might also give people back the one thing money never could:
  
  A reason to wake up excited.
---
If I gave you free money, do you think you'd be happier? Because a new study revealed a secret that you do not want to hear. Sam Alman and OpenAI funded one of the biggest UBI experiments ever. 3,000 people got $1,000 a month, no strings attached. And the study revealed that people did get happier, but just for a moment. After a couple of months,

their happiness dropped back to normal. That initial high gone. Because here's what they didn't tell you. This was never about the money. It was about finding meaning. Sure, those people got

paid, but happiness didn't increase. Because money gives you comfort, not direction. For 70 years, as corporate America scaled, depression scaled with it. We replaced craft with paperwork, creation with clicking, and honest day's work with meetings about meetings. And that's where AI comes in, the part that no one talks about. Everyone's terrified

that AI will replace notetakers and button clickers. But maybe that's the best thing that could happen to us. Because when AI removes the repetitive, the pointless, the soul sucking work, it forces humans back into the one thing we've always needed, purpose.