---
video_title: "17 High-Paying Jobs AI Won't Replace in 2026 (and jobs with NO future)"
video_id: OuBO-Nl6Zig
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OuBO-Nl6Zig
video_date: 2025-11-02T16:45:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Become Irreplaceable with AI (Free 5-Day Email Series): https://the-ai-playbook.com/17jobs
  
  In this video, I analyze 30+ reports from major institutions to reveal 17 high-paying jobs AI won't replace, 7 jobs with no future, and a complete future-proofing strategy for any career. From blue-collar trades and AI tech roles to human-centered positions in healthcare and leadership, you'll discover exactly where to position yourself to thrive in the AI revolution—plus the actionable steps to become irreplaceable in your field.
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - 17 High-Paying Jobs AI Won't Replace in 2026
  (0:49) - High-Paying Jobs AI Won't Replace
  (1:36) - Job  #1
  (2:11) - Job  #2
  (2:25) - Job  #3
  (3:11) - Job  #4
  (4:16) - The AI Tech Boom
  (5:08) - Job  #4.5 (Bonus)
  (5:34) - Job  #5
  (6:13) - Job  #6
  (6:30) - Job  #7
  (7:36) - Job  #8
  (7:55) - Job  #9
  (8:11) - Job  #10
  (8:35) - Human Connection Powerhouses
  (10:13) - Job  #11
  (10:47) - Job  #12
  (11:34) - Job  #13
  (11:52) - Job  #14
  (12:59) - Job  #15
  (13:11) - Job  #16
  (13:47) - Job  #17
  (14:55) - Jobs that have no future
  (17:34) - Future-Proofing Strategy
  
  If you’re new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese. I’ve been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full time job and today, I’m building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over $18 Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me breakdown how I got here because on Youtube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here… 
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor 
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called “The Incubator” all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  
  To everyone who’s spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  •⁠  ⁠Instagram: [https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/](https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/)
  •⁠  ⁠Youtube:  [https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese](https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese)
---
I analyzed 30 plus reports from the World Economic Forum, McKinsey, MIT, and the US government to break down the current state of the job market. And today, I'm going to be analyzing 17 high-paying jobs that AI won't replace, seven jobs with no future, and at the end, I'll give you a future-proofing strategy that anyone can use. By the way, my name's Austin. I previously ran an engineering team at JP Morgan, and I was a COO of a tech startup that raised 18.9 million dollars. So, I've been in

the weeds of hiring and unfortunately firing a lot of people. Before diving into the 17 high-paying jobs, you need to first understand the AI paradox. Simply put, the more AI replaces people, the more valuable people become. And so, what we need to find is careers where AI augments us rather than automates us. And specifically, where being a human gives us a competitive advantage. Now,

let me show you exactly what those careers look like, starting with the most unexpected category. Part one, these are your high-paying jobs AI won't replace. For this job, I've broken it down into three categories to bucket opportunities. The first category is the blue-collar renaissance. As AI automates those jobs that require repetitive office work or entry-level, base-level information, there has been a resurgence in manual, human-based trades. These are

jobs that require physical expertise and are finding incredible job security and financial appeal. And this is huge for the younger crowd who are increasingly turning away from the four-year college degrees, which give people crushing student debt. And because this category of jobs is physically complex and in unpredictable environments, AI struggles here, and humanoid robots, although I think they're coming, aren't around the corner, and these won't be the first things that they take away. So, therefore, this physical work acts as a competitive shield. The first job is wind turbine technicians, and this has a projected 50% growth rate to the year 2034 with a median salary of 63K. And

these statistics came from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics. For this job, you're working with clean energy infrastructure that's exploding right now. Super physical, super sustainable, and AI can optimize the turbines using the sensors and predictive analytics, but somebody has to physically fix these items. As I go through these, I'm going to continue to be referencing the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, and I may say BLS for short. Basically, these are numbers that the US government puts out based on job statistics and where they see it going. Job number two is solar PV

installers. This is a 42% growth rate and a median salary of about 52K via BLS. Same idea as job number two, except specific to solar instead of wind energy. 100% human. Job number three is geoscientists. You likely won't see this

in other videos or articles, but here's why it's so important. Although this job has a median pay of about 100K, I think the US government is slow to react in this case. Because here's why I'm bullish on this industry. Geoscientists will be very in demand over the next few decades as the rest of the world needs to catch up to China and reduce their dependency on them. Also, as AI grows, we need more of these people, not less.

If you ask me, this is equivalent to computer programming 20 years ago. And just for reference, in China, there's 39 universities that are training engineers specifically in rare earth industries, whereas universities in the US only offer occasional courses on this. So, this is a bet on where the puck is going, and if you position yourself right, I'm predicting that you will be a very happy person. All right, job number four is electricians. This has a median salary of about 63K and a growth rate of 9%. For reference, the average or

typical growth rate is 3% across all these jobs, so 9% is about 3x that growth. The need for this is obvious, right? The trend for electricians is only going to rise. Smart homes are now everywhere, humanoid robots, these are all creating more work for electricians, not less. Sure, AI helps with diagnostics, but you still need a licensed human to do the actual work. I

made a video on my channel about why boring businesses are so sexy right now. And if you get skills of an electrician, the path to starting your own business is very clear, and there's extremely high upside. And so, although the median salary is 63K, I see this opportunity being much, much greater. Okay, so we just went through some physical jobs, and although it's safe, the highest long-term growth and the biggest compensation comes from learning to master the machine itself. Here's how I think about it. When cars were invented,

if you were in the horse business, you were screwed. But if you were in the transportation business, you got richer. These roles in this case are in the transportation business, which is where you want to be. Category two, the AI tech boom. This won't be a surprise to many of you, but wages in AI exposed industries aren't falling, they're rising. And they're rising twice as fast

as any other industry. This creates massive demand for what I call AI multipliers, which are humans who can direct AI systematically and effectively. Now, here's a key distinction most people miss when they're thinking about job security. Employment declines are focused on occupations where AI is used to automate tasks. Think data entry, basic bookkeeping, simple customer service.

But employment will grow in roles where AI is augmented or helpful. Call it task iteration, knowledge validation, strategic direction, system architecture. This is the difference between being replaced and being amplified. And technical fluency is no longer just about coding, it's about directing AI systems to solve complex problems, which means there's a massive opportunity for the people that figure this out today. Let's go to the first job, software architects. The median

salary is about 175K, and this is pulled from ZipRecruiter. And it has about a 15% growth rate. For this job, you're designing entire systems, not just writing code. But it can't architect complex distributed systems that need to scale to millions of users. That requires human judgment and experience.

Not only that, these things aren't perfect, and you need somebody who understands the system, so they can plug it all together, which brings us to job number five, AI implementation managers. They get paid between 80 and 120K, and this is from Coursera. And there's no concrete growth rates in this, but because it's AI aligned, it's up and to the right. These are the people managing AI rollouts across entire companies. Imagine you have an HR system and you're looking to integrate a AI workflow to automate the entire process. This is the

person that coordinates and orchestrates this integration. Every Fortune 500 company needs this yesterday, and frankly there's not a lot of them that probably know what they're doing. To note, when you go and look for job postings on this, you may see it come up as implementation managers, and depending on the role, it may or may not be AI native. Job number six, AI and machine learning specialist. Median gross salary, 160K, and this is from Glassdoor, with a growth rate of approximately 34%. In this case, you're

building and training the actual models. This is creating the infrastructure that everyone else uses. It's clear why this is in significant demand. Job number seven is prompt engineers, and with a salary of approximately 130K. And for this job, when I first read it, I was like, is this a real job? But turns out

it is. I thought this was just YouTube creator clickbait, but the reality is most people still have no idea how to get AI to do what they actually need, especially in enterprise solutions. And companies are paying premium for people who can bridge the gap between what we want and what AI can deliver. For me, I always categorize this in the jobs that seem too good to be true, and that's because I thought it was just people typing up a prompt, but in reality it's not that simple. As a prompt engineer, you're likely going to be responsible for creating end-to-end workflows that create valuable output for businesses.

And as part of this, this likely includes building full-blown automations. For example, if it's an AI content company, you would build an automation that generates a YouTube script, thumbnail title, and social caption in one run. For a customer support app, you might write a system prompt that ensures tone consistency, factual responses, and policy compliance. This role is a little bit tricky because I see it as one of the roles that blends in with every other role over time. Job number eight is data engineers, with a median salary of 130K, and a projected growth rate of 34%.

Every company needs solid data pipelines. It's the infrastructure that isn't sexy, but is absolutely essential. If you have the best AI models in the world, but your data pipeline is garbage, your output is going to be garbage or it's going to be generic. Job number nine is software developers, median salary of approximately 130k with a 15% growth rate. Yes, AI writes code now, but humans still architect the system, they make design decisions, and they ensure everything works well in production. Good engineers are just even

more valuable now. It's the truth. Job number 10 is electrical engineers, which has a median salary of 118k with a 7% growth rate. The more AI and robots we build, the more we need electrical engineers to design, test, and maintain them. And so, if you're looking for a subcategory in this, I would look into robotic engineering. Yes, learning

technical skills is very important, but if you don't have them, that's fine. And that's because AI is amplifying another sector that relies on human-based skills. Category number three is all about human connection. Based on studies from MIT, AI fundamentally struggles to understand emotions, build trust, and navigate complex human relationships. These are the jobs where being a human is your competitive advantage. Now, MIT

identified what they call the epoch framework. I think I'm pronouncing that right, but these are the five skills AI struggles to replicate. E stands for empathy, understanding and sharing the feelings of others. P for presence, being physically and emotionally present in the moment. O is for opinion or ethics, making judgment calls based on values and principles, not just data. C

creativity, generating genuinely novel ideas and solutions that don't exist in the training data. H hope or leadership, inspiring and motivating people toward a vision that they can't see yet. Therefore, fields that encompass all of these skills are becoming premium positions. And at IYK, the startup I was the CEO for, we operated in the music industry and we worked with artists like Ed Sheeran, Chance the Rapper, and Tate McRae. Let me actually show you a couple of things we did. It's pretty dope.

Here's a lanyard we made for Ed Sheeran, helped him go number one. And Chance the Rapper's most recent album, all of them are chipped with IYK technology. All right, so in order to land those deals, it's a relationship-driven business. AI can help us with contracts, logistics, data analysis, and all that stuff. But getting the actual deals, that happens when people just like working with you.

And we called it a vibes business. If we were just AI robots, we wouldn't get any of those deals. And that's the irreplaceable part, the human connection or the vibes. So let me break down the jobs where this matters most. Job number 11 is operation manager, a median salary of about 100K with a 7% growth rate. As

driving operations, I know this role very well. AI can augment operations and better help with data and just execution. But ultimately, people manage people and work with others, and leadership fundamentally can't be automated. You need human judgment to navigate complex interpersonal dynamics. This is also a great example of the AI paradox. As AI replaces more people,

operations managers get more valuable because they're able to execute at a high level. Job number 12 is lawyers, a median salary of 150K with a 4% growth rate. So slightly above the average. To be honest, for this job, I have mixed feelings about it. But here's the case why it's safe. AI absolutely crushes

legal research and document presentation. Truth is, it can review thousands of cases in seconds. But arguing a case in court, reading a jury, negotiating a complex deal, where you need to understand human motivations and leverage relationships, you really can't automate that. And the cost of error in a legal situation is too high to rely on AI. You just can't get it wrong a lot of the time. But as I said, I do have mixed

feelings on this. If you are a top lawyer, I think you're safe and you're likely going to make more money. But like other industries, entry-level jobs here will be replaced. And my gut tells me that lawyers are going to be greatly impacted. Okay, job number 13, nurse practitioners. A median salary of about

120k with a 40% growth rate through 2034. AI will help with diagnostics, pulling up medical records, and identifying patterns and symptoms, but the human touch in complex medical situations, that's irreplaceable. And the demand for this is going to continue to explode. Job number 14 is home health and personal care aids with a median salary of 35k and growth of 17%. Bathing, dressing, medication reminders, companionship for elderly patients, this is fundamentally human work that AI won't touch in the immediate future.

Now, I know you may be thinking that this isn't high paying. And yes, it isn't a lot compared to some of the other jobs, but in my opinion, this falls in the unsexy job category, which has a low barrier of entry, but a high potential. As the demand for this specific type of worker grows, someone will help facilitate it. By combining industry knowledge with modern AI tools, this makes the business very interesting to scale. And if we're looking ahead, as people's life expectancy grows, so will the need for this. And as humanoid

robots come into play, the people that run these businesses and are able to plug in humanoid robots to the operations, will see profits skyrocket. Very interesting industry, and I've also seen this firsthand with my girlfriend. She just quit her job, and she does at-home speech therapy, and within a month, she's actually making more than she did at her full-time job. A slightly different industry, but in-person relationships will really matter. Job number 15 is physical therapist assistants. Median salary about 65k with

a 22% growth rate. AI can help track recovery, suggest exercises, but ultimately hands-on treatment, you're going to need a human for that. Job number 16, financial managers. Median salary of 160k with a 15% growth rate. Apps can automate basic investing, robo advisors can handle simple portfolio allocation, but complex financial advice about someone's life savings, their retirement, their kids' college funds, that requires trust, and trust is fundamentally human. But I'm not going

to lie, this job was the most surprising when I did all of my research. Specifically about the growth number. I just think that there's so much information out there about investing, that my general thought is the growth is going to be much lower than what's projected. So, of all the jobs that I've mentioned, I'd probably avoid this one. But I do see both sides. Job number 17

is medical and health service managers with a median salary of 118k and a 28% growth rate. This role is all about managing in the health industry. This is a orthogonal job that as AI gets better, so will this person's ability. No matter what, for this industry, there's going to be pushback because of the cost of error. In medicine, if you mess up, somebody could die. So, this industry

will be less prone and just slower to make new technical adoption. Now, before we get to jobs with no future, I know you may be feeling a little overwhelmed and it can be scary thing about if AI will replace you. And for that reason, I made a completely free 5-day email course on how to use AI to become irreplaceable. It gives you frameworks for positioning and the five traps I find most people fall in. If you want to check it out, click the first link in the description and drop your email in.

I'll then send it over and if you don't find it helpful, unsubscribe at any time, no problemo. And for people coming from YouTube, if you reply to any of the emails with personal questions, I'll personally answer them. You just need to reply to the email that I send as part of the course. Yes, so if you want to join hundreds of other readers, click the first link, again, entirely free and no upsells. Now, let's get into the jobs with no future. Part two, jobs that are

dead. All right, so 12.6% of current US employment, that's 19.2 million jobs, faces high or very high automation displacement risk. These are jobs that are high in routine, repetitive, and codified tasks. The exact opposite of

everything we just talked about. Let me show you the specific roles that are getting destroyed right now. First is data entry keyers, median salary of 38k, declining 30%. This is fully automated with workflow tools. Most of the times, AI can do it quicker and faster. Number

two is bank clerks. Already seeing 30% decline as banking shifts entirely online. But, not to mention self-service kiosk, mobile apps, automated teller systems, you get the point. You don't want to be here. Number three is travel agents. Median salary is 46K, declining

at 26%. AI can plan entire trips. It's really as simple as just asking it to plan a trip to Hawaii or to Japan, and it'll do the whole thing for you. Number four is customer service reps. Median salary, 38K, declining 8%. Chatbots and

virtual agents are increasingly handling customer inquiries, and soon calls will entirely be automated. Number five is bookkeeping and accounting clerks. Median salary, about 45K, declining at a 15% rate. All these declining rates are from the same resource as mentioned earlier with the growth rates. This one is very similar to the data entry where AI's just doing a lot of the work here.

Categorization, basic finance reporting, bookkeeping, it's all automated. I know this one pretty well because my dad and my sister are CPAs, and so I get the business, but I do think accounting I think is fine for now because the cost of error is so high. Number six is cashiers. Median salary at 29K, and it's declining at 10%. We've all seen self-checkouts. People are shopping

online. It's crazy. But, one of the cooler things that I'm seeing is that people are outsourcing human cashiers to overseas workers. They'll actually have someone overseas on a video call like it's a Zoom meet helping them with checking out. It's like they're there, but they're not actually there. Number

seven is claims adjusters and examiners. A median salary of 69K, declining at 4.4%. This is specifically about insurance, and AI models can process insurance claims faster and more consistently than humans do. You just upload a photo of your damaged car. AI

assesses it. Claim approved. Done. Now, these jobs aren't disappearing entirely overnight, but they are evolving. The truth is that these workers are being freed from repetitive manual tasks, which allows them to focus on more complex human aspects of their roles. As

an AI optimist, I think this is a good thing. People can start doing things with more value. No matter what job or skill you're in, this next section is critical to understand because it really impacts everyone. Part three is all about future-proofing yourself. Strategy number one is develop your human advantage. Focus on the epoch skills

that I mentioned earlier. Empathy, presence, opinion, creativity, and hope. These are skills that remain irreplaceable, no matter how good AI gets. And these may sound like abstract concepts, but these are concrete things that you can work on. For example, if you're working on your empathy and opinion skills, honing in on giving feedback is so important. Here's an

example that I've studied in the past. You'll see a full framework on how to give feedback, and I've used this for employees, contractors, and clients I've collaborated with. This is a way to improve this skill set. Take it serious to get better on the craft of building your human-to-human connection. Strategy number two is become a hyper-creator. In

the future world, there's going to be two types of people, a hyper-creator or a hyper-consumer. Hyper-creators are people with unprecedented output. They're using AI to build, create, and produce at levels that were impossible before. One person can do what previously took a whole team of 20. And hyper-consumers, on the other hand, these are people consuming or watching the world advance past them. They're

endlessly scrolling social media, seeing the world advance, and their skills remain stagnant. And in the world we're entering, it's not a one or a 10x difference between these type of people. It could be a 100 to a 1,000x. Hyper-creators will build careers that grow as AI grows, not competing with it. Strategy number three is embrace what I call the new collar. It's not white

collar, it's not blue collar, it's the new collar. This is about positioning yourself at the intersection of human judgment and AI technology. Whether it's the blue collar renaissance we talked about, the skills and trades that AI won't touch, or technical hybrid roles where you're directing AI systems, success lives at that intersection. No matter how you spin it, the people winning right now, they're learning fast, adapting quickly, and positioning themselves where AI makes them more valuable, not less. Now, if you like this video, you'll love this one about the nine AI tools that will separate winners from losers in 2026. In that

video, I break down the exact tools you need to become a hyper creator. If you like this video, I guarantee you're going to love that. I'll see you in the next one. Peace.