---
video_title: "Why are AI watches set to 10:10?"
video_id: QhrGlJkzghk
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QhrGlJkzghk
video_date: 2025-12-27T16:15:06+00:00
video_description: |
  If you ask AI to generate an image of a watch, the time will be 10:10.
  
  The reason being, most pictures of watches on the internet are set to 10:10 because it makes the watch look aesthetically pleasing because it shapes the logo on the watch.
  
  And these AI Models are trained on these same images. So when AI creates a watch, it thinks it should always be set to 10:10, even if you tell it something else.
  
  It’s a product of the training date it’s provided.
  
  The question becomes, if everyone’s using AI to generate content, will the entire internet start looking the same?
  
  I was searching on twitter for resume hacks for a video, and something crazy happened. I saw what seemed to be 100s of tweets with the exact same wording and phrases.
  
  Is any of this real?
  
  As AI gets better and more widely adopted, we’re going to continue to see brands and creators converge on the exact same topics.
  
  Those who can break from this regurgitative AI Content loop will be the real winners.
  
  If you want to capitalize on the AI movement, make sure to follow me  @austin.marchese
  
  #ai #artificialintelligence #aicontent #aimarketing
---
There's a massive flaw with AI that nobody's addressing and it starts with this picture of a watch. If you ask AI to generate an image of a watch, the time will show as 1010. The reason for this is because most watches on the internet are set to this time because it makes the watch look aesthetic. You'll see the hands shape the logo. It does look nice. But these AI models are

trained on these same images. So when AI creates a watch, it thinks it should always be set to 1010. Even if you try and tell it something else, it's a product of the training data it's provided. Which brings up a question you have to ask. If everyone's using AI to generate the same content, will the entire internet start looking the same?

In fact, I was searching on Twitter for resume hacks for a video and something crazy happened. I saw what seemed to be hundreds of tweets with the exact same wording and phrases, which makes me think, are any of these people even real? As AI gets better and more widely adopted, we're going to continue to see brands and creators converge on the exact same topics. [music] And those who can break away from this regurgitative loop of AI content will be the real winners.