---
video_title: "Is it possible that the 2008 financial crisis is repeating with AI?"
video_id: gwPXlC8easc
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gwPXlC8easc
video_date: 2025-12-12T16:15:06+00:00
video_description: |
  Because Meta just hid $30 billion that they’re spending on AI and it’s time to ask some questions.
  
  But first how’d they do it?
  
  Let say you want a $100 toy but don’t want your parents to see you takeout money from your piggybank. So your friend buys it, you pay them back later. Your piggy bank still looks full, but you still owe the money—it’s just hidden.
  
  That’s exactly what Meta’s doing. They partnered with a company called Blue Owl Capital to hide $30 billion so investors don’t see how much they’re actually spending on AI.
  
  And we only know about this because Morgan Stanley—the bank that structured the deal—published reports bragging about it. It’s technically legal, just buried in the fine print.
  But Meta’s not alone. Morgan Stanley estimates tech companies will hide $800 billion in AI debt by 2028. Tech companies don’t care, build fast and break things right?
  
  In 2008, everyone borrowed for houses betting prices would rise forever. Banks hid the risk. Prices crashed, hidden debt exploded, economy collapsed.
  
  Now? Companies are borrowing billions for AI data centers betting demand grows forever. Hiding debt the same way. But these chips last five to six years—might be obsolete in three because AI moves so fast.
  
  In 2008 the Government Bailed banks out
  
  And in 2025, OpenAI is already asking the government to bail them out.
  The AI boom is real. So was the housing boom in 2006. We’ll see what happens next.
---
Is it possible that the 2008 financial crisis is repeating with AI because Meta just hit $30 billion and it's time to ask some questions? Let's say you wanted a $100 toy, but you didn't want your parents seeing you take the $100 out of your piggy [music] bank. So, what you do is you get your friend to buy the toy and you tell them that you're going to pay them back later. Your piggy bank still looks full, but you still owe the money. It's just hidden. And that's

exactly what Meta is doing. They're partnering with a company called Blue Owl Capital to hide the $30 billion. This is so investors don't see how much they're actually spending on AI. And we only know this because Morgan [music] Stanley, the bank that structured the deal, published reports bragging about it. It's technically legal, but it's just blurred in the fine print. But Meta

is not alone. Morgan Stanley estimates that by 2028, $800 billion of AI investments will be hidden. But we've seen this before. In 2008, everyone borrowed money to buy houses, expecting them to continuously go up. And the truth is that banks hid the risk. Prices

crashed, hidden debt exploded, and there was a financial collapse. And in today's world, these companies are borrowing billions of dollars for data center chips that are supposed to last 5 years, but who knows if they're going to be obsolete in three. So, in 2008, the government bailed banks out, and in 2025, OpenAI is already requesting the government bail them out. I guess we'll just see what happens