---
video_title: "You’re about to be able to create your own Netflix quality shows with a click of a button."
video_id: JWDJ1iT2W9Y
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JWDJ1iT2W9Y
video_date: 2025-10-14T15:15:02+00:00
video_description: |
  And it’s reveling a billion dollar AI trend
  
  This is crazy.
  There’s a company called Fable - an AI version of Netflix where you can use AI to generate shows.
  
  But these aren’t just shows you watch, they’re interactive worlds where you can generate your own episodes.
  
  Think of it like this.
  
  You’re watching one of your Favorite shows, call it Breaking Bad, and there’s an ending you don’t like
  
  You can create a new version of the show with an AI generated version.
  
  And it’s happening today. I was watching CNBC and the founder of this came on and they re-created a cartoon version of SquakBox.
  
  It’s changing how we interact with content.
  
  Today - Fable focuses on cartoon like characters, a couple years from now - they’ll license IP from your favorite movies and shows allowing you to create spinoffs.
  
  But this isn’t just about watching content, it’s opening up a new wave of monetizing.
  
  When fans create spin-offs of your original world, you get a revenue split.
  
  You’ll be able to Create one base show, and thousands of fan versions generate income for you.
  
  It’s like building a franchise where the audience does the work.
  But I predict this goes even further and will transform the entertainment industry entirely.
  
  Soon you’ll be able to inject yourself into any storyline.
  
  Imagine watching Top Gun but you’re the pilot, or being the detective in your favorite crime show.
  
  You become the main character in every story you love.
  
  This is a preview of a massive AI trend.
  
  In an economy where customization previously would cost a premium or in some cases impossible, AI has reduced this friction and allows for people to customize things at fraction of a price.
  
  Amazon invested in Fable because they see the future - everything will be customized to you, from shows to products to experiences.
---
You're about to be able to create your own Netflix quality shows with the click of a button. And it's revealing a billion-dollar AI trend. This is crazy. There's a company called Fable, an AI version of Netflix where you can use AI to generate shows. But these aren't just shows you watch. They're interactive

worlds where you can generate your own episodes. Think of it like this. You're watching one of your favorite shows, call it Breaking Bad, and there's an ending that you just don't like. You or any fan of the show can create a new AI generated version of this ending. And this is happening today. I was watching

CNBC today and the founder of Fable came on and they recreated a cartoon version of Squawkbox, the famous business show. Today, Fable focuses on cartoon-like characters, but a couple years from now, the license IP from your favorite movies and shows, allowing you to create spin-offs. But I predict this will go even further and transform the entire entertainment industry. Soon, you'll be able to inject yourself into the story line. Imagine you're watching Top Gun, but instead of Tom Cruz, you're the pilot or being a detective in your favorite crime show. You become the main

character in every story you love. And this is giving you insight into a massive AI trend. In an industry like content where customization was previously impossible, AI has reduced this friction and allowed for people to customize things at a fraction of the price. Amazon invested in Fable because they see the future. Everything will be customized for you. From shows to

products to experiences.