---
video_title: "14 Jobs AI Replaces Next (and Where To Pivot Instead)"
video_id: tyNZdjxPm7c
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tyNZdjxPm7c
video_date: 2025-11-28T14:45:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Become Irreplaceable with AI (Free 5-Day Email Series): https://the-ai-playbook.com/17jobs
  
  In this video, I reveal 14 jobs facing massive AI displacement in 2026 and the exact pivot strategy for each one. You'll learn the critical difference between what AI replaces (low-cost-of-error tasks) and what makes you irreplaceable (high-stakes judgment), plus a 3-step framework to future-proof your career. By the end, you'll know how to position yourself as an AI collaborator who gets amplified by technology rather than replaced by it.
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - 14 Jobs AI Replaces Next
  (0:39) - Job #1
  (1:39) - Job #2
  (2:45) - Job #3
  (4:17) - Job #4
  (5:11) - Job #5
  (6:20) - Job #6
  (7:14) - Job #7
  (8:16) - Job #8
  (8:57) - Job #9
  (9:37) - Job #10
  (10:10) - Job #11
  (10:38) - Job #12
  (11:25) - Job #13
  (11:45) - Job #14
  
  If you’re new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese. I’ve been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full time job and today, I’m building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over $18 Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me breakdown how I got here because on Youtube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here… 
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor 
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called “The Incubator” all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  
  To everyone who’s spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  •⁠  ⁠Instagram: [https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/](https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/)
  •⁠  ⁠Youtube:  [https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese](https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese)
---
Three weeks ago, I won a $14,650 [music] lawsuit. And the crazy part is, instead of hiring a lawyer, I used an AI chatbot for the entire case. And this made me realize, if one of [music] the most protected professions on Earth can be replaced by AI, then what about every other job? So, in today's video, I analyze 14 roles that will experience significant job loss in 2026. And for each one, I'll break down how you can pivot your career if this is what you currently do. And at the end, I'll give

you a three-step future proofing strategy that works regardless of your industry. Here's a lens you need for everything we're about to cover. AI replaces low cost of error execution. If messing up doesn't hurt much, AI does it cheaper and faster. But AI can't replace highstakes [music] judgment. You'll see

that pattern emerging everywhere. Job number one is entry-level programmers. Since 2020, workers aged 22 to 25 in software development saw employment drop 13%. Entry-level positions nearly 20% decline. And the reason for this is that AI is trained on codified knowledge, textbooks, things that you can find on Stack Overflow and junior developers supply exactly that with zero real world experience. There's two options. The

first one is what I call exploring deep technical roles. DevOps engineers have a 22% projected growth. Information security analysts have a 33% growth. and AI engineering is growing and there's online courses like IBM AI engineering professional certificate and the AWS certificate AI practitioner that are perfect for these people. That's going deeper into your technical skill sets.

Then there's what I call automation engineering roles. These are the roles where you master AI and become a full stack builder. You position yourself as the architect who directs AI, not competes with it. And this is the software engineer who gets more valuable as AI gets better, not less. Job number two is project managers. Project

managers who are updating boards, writing status reports, and scheduling meetings are facing compression. These admin tasks are low cost of error, which again means if AI messes up, it's not a big deal. And these are the type of tasks that AI thrives on. So what you have to shift to is what's called an outcomebased project manager, which are projected to grow at a 10% rate. Future PMs don't update boards. They have AI do

that and they focus their energy on stakeholder alignment and driving business outcomes. One key thing in order to actually drive these outcomes is to start becoming an individual contributor as well. To do this, go zero to one in all technical skills you manage. Now 0ero to one is the process of going from having no skill in that specific domain to having a base level skill. Let me break this down. So let's

say you manage a tech team, right? You want to learn how to use AI agents like Devon to do low-level tasks. If you manage a design team, you want to learn Figma and Nano Banana to help streamline processes. So you transition from becoming a project manager to a contributing project manager. People who can't contribute beyond coordinating will go to zero. Job number three is

basic writers and SEO content writers. Basic writers doing SEO blogs, product descriptions, and listicles are seeing dramatic shifts. And we've seen a 27% drop in entry-level writing roles since 2023. And this will continue to plummet. As I go through all these jobs, pay close attention to the pivot, even if that's not where you work. The reason

for this is that jobs will change quickly and as someone in the workforce, you want to become a cockroach. And what that means is that you just can't die. So the more skills you have that are valuable in the AI economy, the more resilient you'll be. Here's three pivot strategies. First is create, don't report. The truth is just writing about

the news is something AI can do quicker than you and eventually better than you. But it's a lot harder for AI to create stories. For example, do investigative storytelling. Write a story on something that doesn't exist. Number two is understand AI SEO. This is the process

of ranking in AI results. For example, if you ask AI, what are the three best AI writing tools? The ones that come up in that response one SEO. And the third is explore AI video creation. Because of AI, storytelling skills now translate to video content creation. And filming

isn't a bottleneck anymore. Writing the prompt to generate the video is. And this is opening up a whole new medium for talented writers because you know how to write and describe situations and you know how to storytell. As a result, you can translate these skills to create full video production. If I was specifically a writer, this is something I would get into tomorrow. Now, as

you're watching this video, drop a comment on a specific role you're interested about and I can give you my specific thoughts. Job number four is graphic designers. So, graphic designers who are creating logos, flyers, and social graphics face fundamental shifts. And that's because Genai produces unlimited variations instantly at near zero cost. Now, this isn't going to remove this role entirely. Adobe

research says that 94% of creative professionals use AI tools, but 86% say tools enhance their work rather than replacing it. So, what matters now is taste. AI can make the content, but it can't tell if it's good or not. If you're a graphic designer, you likely have taste, which is very valuable in the AI age. But you need to do two things. First is compress time to

produce quality outputs. And second is expand proficiency. If you only did Instagram graphics, learn UIUX. If you only did website, learn motion design. The reason to become multiddisciplinary is this makes you harder to replace. And

while you do it, make sure to use AI. I know a lot of designers and some of them are hesitant, but it will make you quicker. Job number five is social media managers. And this is a lot like the graphic designer job, but specifically for social media ideation, scripting, posting, commenting, AI improves and automates all of this. So value is moving higher up. So it's not about

actually creating it. It's about content strategy, content reveal, brand voice, etc. We now have infinite output capacity, but brands don't have infinite brand equity. Every post moves public opinion about your brand up or down. You need taste and editorial judgment.

Because in a world where there's infinite possibilities, you don't have the option to post infinite times. And a wave that's growing in popularity is community management. When people don't know if content is AI or not, they want to follow and engage with real people. So strategic social media managers are pivoting into one learning how to use AI to automate the stuff that they don't have to do. And to do this, they're becoming masters at context engineering so that they can have high quality outputs that align with their brand voice. Two is they're thinking about

strategy and learning what makes content rip. And three, the smartest social media managers are going to embrace community management as part of their growth plans. Job number six is data entry clerks. Data entry clerks doing manual input and verification face obvious displacement. AI autoingests and cleans documents with 99% accuracy at infinite scale. And the World Economic

Forum predicts 92 million data entry jobs are displaced globally by 2030. So there's two paths. The first is become a human in the loop data validator or AI output QA specialist. Your insert into an AI process to help train models. Take a look at outlier.ai. They'll actually

pay you to review data. And this is saying if it output is good or bad and it helps AI get better. And the second strategy is to upskill and learn data analysis tools. Zooming out. or six jobs in and one of the things that I just touched on is you need to be able to upskill and in order to upskill you have to be a continuous learner. So

constantly try new things and keep learning. Just increase your knowledge surface area and you're going to be in the position to be successful. Okay. Job number seven is customer service representatives. AI can resolve 80 to 90% of inquiries instantly and as a result 2.24 million customer service

jobs can be automated. My friend, she runs a sevenf figureure e-commerce brand and she told me literally yesterday, "I still pay people for customer support and it's just too damn expensive." This is the exact type of role I'm talking about. For these people, I'd try and pivot to customer success roles. You know customers pain points and you know the product well. If you're able to get

into customer success, which is projected to grow 15% through 2030, that's a humanoriented role where the other person that you're dealing with is looking to interact with a human and that becomes more valuable over time. Okay, before I get to the next job, I know this can feel overwhelming, so I made a 5-day email course on how to use AI to become irreplaceable at work. It covers positioning frameworks and the five traps most people fall into. If you click the first link in the description and add your email, I'll send you day one over immediately. And for each of those emails, because you're coming from YouTube, if you reply to them with questions, I'll answer them myself.

Okay, let's get to job number eight, which is retail cashiers. These cashiers face displacement from multiple directions. Over 300 jobs in the US are projected to be lost by 2033. But frankly, I think it's going to be a lot more than that. Computer vision, selfch checkout, and remote overseas cashiers at $3 to $4 an hour versus $18 an hour domestically. It's a type of thing

that's a no-brainer to automate. But there's another thing to consider here. Selfch checkckout theft is exploding. So, the remaining roles will pivot to security, troubleshooting machines, and loss prevention. I'd explore becoming a a POSOS maintenance tech, a warehouse tech operator, and going deeper into the day-to-day operations of whatever business you're working on. Job number

nine, receptionist, and front desk clerks. Receptionists handling scheduling, greeting, and routine calls will see job loss. AI scheduling plus lobby kiosk mean zero manual coordination needed. But the rise of AI will lead to a rise of wanting more in-person events and connections. pivoting to helping with company off-sightes, client visits or team building. These require physical

presence and human judgment and simultaneously dive into those automation tools like notion, calendarly automations and office tech systems to help with the automation while you're leaning into the physical world. Focus on leadership, social influence, and talent management. Which brings me to the next role. Job number 10 is HR workers. HR people working on resume filtering, scheduling interviews, and onboarding are seeing heavy automation.

AI can screen candidates, schedule calls, and document everything. Outside of the basic technical skills that employees are going to need to learn to use AI, a key skill that 90% of employees don't have is managerial skills. And as teams become AI native, they need employees to learn how to manage AI so it can get the most out of it. And as companies become AI native, there's going to be a lot of HR work. If I worked in HR, this is something I'd be focusing on. Job number 11 is travel

agents. AI can plan your whole trip in seconds. It's cooked. But as Alex Herozi says, riches are in the niches. Pivot to a niche luxury travel consultant, corporate retreat planner or community event creator. This is a massive

differentiator for them and you can help them make it happen. For example, I went to run club event that Diplo hosted in New York City and it's a full-blown event and it's all about community building. People will lean into these physical experiences over time as everything goes digital. Job number 12 is warehouse workers. People doing picking, packing, and sorting face high replacement risk. Robots are coming.

It's the next wave. There's a fascinating article at Androiddreams.ai on how humanoid robots will progress starting with hyperspecific warehouse tasks. That is 100% worth a read. It's linked in the description. But I do see

warehouse workers prime for what I'm calling the bluecollar renaissance. As white collar jobs get automated, more manual jobs will become in demand. Double down on any of the current physical skills you have potentially learn a trade. One trade that interests me the most is electricians. As humanoid robots take off, electricians will be like the modern mechanic, and they're going to be in very high demand. Other

industries that are worth exploring is nuclear energy, renewable energy, or rare earth materials. Job number 13, junior lawyers and legal researchers. Remember my lawsuit story from the intro? That's the exact type of legal work that no longer exists. AI can read thousands of pages and draft filings in seconds. If you're in the legal

industry, focus on areas requiring ethical judgment, complex negotiation, or places that lack repeatable and specific training data. Job number 14 is Wall Street analysts. In an article by Forbes, the headline reads, "Sam Alman's OpenAI is coming for Wall Street's grunt workers as AI continues to transform the entry level, where OpenAI has enlisted more than 100 exinvestment bankers to help train its AI on how to build financial models that automate hours of entry-level tasks. Similar to the lawyers, I'd get into specialized areas with a low amount of historical data sets and hight touch relationships. We just covered 14 jobs and specific pivots, but let's zoom out for a second.

Here's the three-step future proofing plan that works regardless of your industry. Step one is develop hybrid skill sets. Combine technical knowledge, that's AI, big data, tech, literacy with unique human capabilities like creative thinking, emotional intelligence, or empathy. The winners will live at the intersection of this. They understand technology well enough to direct it, but focus on outcomes requiring human judgment. Step two is about positioning

yourself as an AI collaborator. Learn to write effective prompts. Develop skills evaluating and refining AI outputs. Shift from manual execution to strategic oversight. This is the difference between being replaced and being amplified. And ultimately, you want to

be in a position where as AI gets better, you become more valuable, not less. Step three is build your evidence portfolio where you can showcase your ability to leverage AI for better outcomes. Not theoretical knowledge, actual projects where you used AI to solve real problems. This becomes your proof of competency in the AIdriven economy. If you like this video, check out this video where I break down the exact skills you need to save your career in 2026. Thanks for watching. If

you like the video, drop a comment. I appreciate the support as I grow this channel. Let's keep building. I'll see you in the next one. Pace.