---
video_title: "17 Things You Didn't Know Claude Design Could Do"
video_id: 7rRVwjzVQsc
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7rRVwjzVQsc
video_date: 2026-08-28
video_description: |
  Start using Claude today - https://clau.de/austin.marchese
  
  Today I break down 17 things you didn't know Claude Design could do, and most of them have nothing to do with being a designer. This is the Claude Design tutorial I wish existed when the tool first came out.
  
  Since I started using Claude Design, it's become a key part of how I work with my team.
  
  From building a reusable design system, rebuilding client proposals, designing HTML emails, the list is pretty extensive.
  
  By the end you'll know the 17 use cases I did not know existed and how you can apply them into their day to day.
  
  !!!Shout-out to Anthropic for sponsoring this video!!!!
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - 17 Things You Didn't Know Claude Design Could Do
  (0:02) - Use Case 1: Build a reusable design system
  (1:22) - Use Case 2: Make animated videos
  (2:01) - Use Case 3: Make a 3D asset and learn how to use it
  (3:03) - Use Case 4: Rebuild old documents in your new branding
  (3:52) - Use Case 5: Flyers for your own events
  (7:09) - Use Case 6: Find winning color pairings
  (8:10) - Use Case 7: Build out email templates
  (9:11) - Use Case 8: Give precise feedback in line
  (9:38) - Use Case 9: Map your funnel to find the problems
  (10:24) - Use Case 10: Get 5 landing page variations, not 1
  (11:15) - Use Case 11: Wireframe the product before you build it
  (12:27) - Use Case 12: Empower cross-team collaboration
  (13:28) - Use Case 13: Systematize outputs with templates
  (13:59) - Use Case 14: Rebuild a proposal in your client's branding
  (14:40) - Use Case 15: Build branded lead magnets
  (15:48) - Use Case 16: Revamp your resume
  (16:10) - Use Case 17: Stop handing people AI slop
  
  What to watch next ⤵️
  Never get a generic Claude response again: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dza_WDoTzRQ
  17 tricks to build 10x faster with Claude: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZzHB2mPHb2g
  The Claude feature that automates any task: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FI4NdYXltA4
  
  --------
  FOR INDIVIDUALS:
  Free 5-day AI playbook (what I used to build a $25M+ startup): https://austinsnewsletter.com/cdesgn
  Use BuildPartner to build 10x faster with Claude Code (try free): https://buildpartner.ai/cdesgn
  
  FOR BUSINESSES, Ways to work with me:
  Apply for my Executive AI Coaching Program: https://www.theincubator.xyz/apply/cdesgn
  Want to build a SaaS product without hiring a CTO? https://www.theincubator.xyz/eng/cdesgn
  --------
  
  If you're new here, I'm Austin Marchese. How I got here...
  16: First business (SAT Math Tutor)
  22: Graduated Stevens Tech, 4.0, College Basketball, software engineering job at JPM
  23: Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (fun story)
  24: Started creating content, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency, The Incubator
  25: Scaled agency to 15+ team members, $75K/M while working full time
  26: Quit my job, joined a startup called IYK
  27: Became COO of a $25M+ tech startup, worked with Ed Sheeran, Chance the Rapper and more
  28: Built a $20M+ real estate portfolio in the background
  29: Transitioned from IYK, re-launched The Incubator, grew it to a 6-figure biz in 30 days. Now building BuildPartner.ai
  29: Became one of the biggest Claude Youtubers, with multiple videos over 500,000 views
  30: Completed an Ironman and just getting started...
  
  To everyone who's spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines but not everyone can build...
---
So use case number one is create a reusable design system for technical and non-technical outputs. We've all been through the process of going back and forth with Claude to create a report, a website mock-up, whatever, until it's the design that you actually want. Then the next time you try that, it feels like you're starting from scratch. So instead of all that, you want to create a design system that Claude can reference for all of its asset creation. To do this, go to claude.ai/design, open

the design system tab, then run this prompt to create a design system. For me, I like adding the buildpartner.ai link end. Then the easiest thing is just to attach a website to get the existing branding. It will then ask you a bunch of questions, which you can answer, or you can just scroll to the bottom and click decide for me. It'll then go

through and create a design system that everyone in my organization has access to, so we can have consistency across everything that's created. Now, that's just the first of 17 things that you didn't know Claude Design could do. And whether you're technical or not, this tool is extremely powerful and can complement anything you work on. Now, before we get to the rest of use cases, how should you think about Claude Design in relation Code, Co-work, and Chat. Those three I bucket in general purpose tools. Design is trained specifically

for design work, so it'll ask you questions that normal Claude just would never think to ask. And as we go through the use cases, this will become obvious throughout the video, but that's just how it's trained. As someone who uses Claude Code every day, when making this video, I was genuinely impressed with all the different technical and non-technical use cases it enables. So use case number two is make animated videos. You can paste in an announcement, a product you made, a blog post, really anything, and it will generate an animated video for you. In

this example, I say animated video on how people can use buildpartner.ai. I then have it connect to our code base so they can see directly in the code to help it learn more. It then goes through, asks me questions, and I provide the answers, and it'll create a visual explainer video that's pretty fire. Now, I wouldn't use this for a video that you want to get exactly right, like a product launch, but it's great for video assets that previously you just wouldn't create. For example, a

how-to video you wish existed, an onboarding video for a team member. These are low-risk, hyper-specific videos that never would have been created before. Use case number three is make a 3D asset and lean on Claude for how to use it. So, when I first did this, I literally messaged someone from my team, "Bro." So, what you can do is make a 3D asset of anything you want.

So, here I redesigned the Build Partner logo. I say, "Model a 3D object. I want it to be a 3D version of the Build Partner logo." It then goes and just one-shots the logo. Now, at my last startup, we used to spend thousands of dollars on 3D renderings that were just like this, and now you can just do it instantly. And this is great, right?

But, how do you actually use this asset it created? So, the reality is I don't really know how to use a spinning 3D logo, but I do love it. And so, I want to lean on Claude Design's taste to showcase how I can use something like this. What I do is I prompt, "Can you put this on a website in the different options that we have?" It'll then create a mock-up of how I could realistically use the 3D version of this logo on my website. And in this case, it'll show me

three variations, and I personally love the slow turntable. One thing before the next use case, as you iterate in a single chat, it'll often create multiple files, which you can switch between at the top left of the design page. So, use case number four is rebuild every old document using your new branding. So, I personally struggle keeping documents up to date, especially when I iterate on my designs. One thing that I just always deprioritize is my client proposals.

Right now, they're in my old branding, and I just haven't gotten to it. So, what I do is I take the design system we made in use case one. I upload the old proposal I built in Canva, and I tell it to rebuild the whole thing. Then, once it rebuilds it, I can go in and tweak it directly on the page to bring it to the finish line. This is just one of the examples of how design empowers you to make customer-ready documents versus AI slop. You can go back and forth within

the deck itself instead of having to have AI make these small micro tweaks. Now, this is a client proposal, but this extends really to anything. This could be an old deck, a research study PDF, a document that you previously had that you want to bring back to life. Take those low-hanging fruit and just rip it through it. Use case number five is flyers for your own events. One thing

about me is I love throwing parties. I'm planning one for me and my girlfriend's 30th birthday, and I throw an annual Christmas party called the CFE with over 150 people. So, I design a lot of creative assets that are fun to make. So, I can do this now in Claude. What I can say is make a flyer for blank, and it will go and start making a flyer with the specific designs. And one of the

things I touched on earlier is how Claude Design is trained to think like a designer. It asked me questions about the host. It asked me about the type of paper we want this on. These are just questions I would have never thought to ask myself. And if I were to bring the same prompt directly into a typical Claude chat, it would just generate an image instantly and not ask me the extra details that only a designer would think of. So, in this case, I can use Claude

Design to iterate on a poster I love. Now, there are some limitations within Design. If you've ever used design tools like Canva or Figma, that's what this tool is a competitor with, or at least that's where I bucket it. It's not an image generation tool. So, Claude Design literally won't let you generate an image. Instead, what it does is it

creates placeholders for photos that you can upload. Now, I've a feeling this will likely change eventually, but right now you can't design images here, so you have to generate the image externally and then bring it into your design. Think about this tool as something that creates the design or the layout, and then you fill in any specific image you want. As we're going through these Claude Design use cases, I want to rewind to the first business I tried starting. My whole life, I've been obsessed with creating products that help people accomplish their goals. And

I've failed more times than I can count. At 22, I tried making a company called Tribe. At 25, a company called The Incubator. And 27, The World Is Yours. Each one has been around the idea of helping others learn new skills and building things. But there was always

something that felt a little off when I was interacting with people. So, whenever I would try and get people to build things, it would always be too intimidating for them. But once I started using Claude and Claude Code, I realized something. Literally, anyone can use these tools to build now, and they shouldn't be intimidated. So, when Anthropic, the team behind Claude, decided to sponsor this video, I wanted to do something a little different. I

want you to rethink what's possible. We're in a new paradigm, and when I asked myself the same question 3 months ago, I was inspired to build buildpartner.ai. This is a product that sits on top of Claude, not to replace it, but to help people get the most out of this tool. At first, when I tried creating build partner, I tried making it the Strava for Claude code, where I looked at your session history and showed off your stats. That failed very

quickly, but thanks to Claude code's voice mode, I was able to talk through the problems and come away with a new strategy. I relaunched it and decided to build directly in Claude by creating a custom plugin. Now, with approximately 4,000 users, it lets people type {slash} build task, and it'll go step-by-step through a tutorial on specific tasks directly on your machine using Claude code. So, building a self-improving system, creating custom Claude skills, creating a landing page, key things that previously may have been too intimidating are now entirely possible. And what was great is this product impacted someone so much that they wanted to work on our team, and now they're part of it. Inspired by Thomas

Edison, "You have not failed. You have succeeded in proving how it will not work. When you have eliminated the ways that will not work, you will find the way that will work." The point isn't that AI and Claude made this easy. No, it's that it made it possible to experiment and learn quickly. So, what

would you build? There is a link at the top of the description to start with Claude. And drop a comment below with the things that you always wanted to build that you can now build thanks to Claude. Use case number six is find winning color pairings. I recently realized how important color pairings are. So, there's a whole color science,

and this video isn't going to dive into that, but we can just let Claude design handle all of those questions. So, I say, "Explore color and type pairings for my YouTube channel," and then I bring in my YouTube. It'll then show me different color options based on my branding. A concept I always talk about with AI is seeing is believing, and in the AI world, don't overthink things. Just have AI create concepts so that you can see the colors in action versus overthinking it. This is if you were

starting from scratch, but let's say you had an existing design you wanted to iterate on. So, in this visual, I'm working on designing a graph for my landing page, and I love how Claude Design has made a first-class feature that allows you to select between different color pairings and see what it looks like on the design. So, I can click through each different color, and it'll show me the different color pairings on the page. This is another example of where it separates itself from Claude Code. In Claude Design, you're able to easily iterate between colors and see it visually instead of Claude Code, where I'll have to go in and change the code, and it's just a lot slower. Next, we have use case number

seven, which is build out email templates. Whether you're starting a newsletter, building a product, or need any sort of email marketing, Claude Design makes it super easy to design these from scratch. And it's not only the design, but we'll get to that. So, first, I say design an HTML email for blank, and in this case, I've been putting off designing a login email for the past like 3 months, and it's looked like this, which is safe to say it doesn't look good. And in the matter of seconds, it redesigns it and creates something that's obviously way better visually. And that's great, but it's not

the interesting part. What I can then do is lean on Claude Design's understanding of the technical back end to optimize it for where I actually need to use it. So, in this case, I use Superbase, which helps me with login. Doesn't really matter, but what I can say is, "How can I take this and bring it into my Superbase for my automated login email?" So, just with that question, it redesigns the email, brings in variables so that I can directly copy and paste it into Superbase and get it set up in the matter of minutes. And now, whenever

somebody logs in to Build Partner, they get an email that actually looks good. Use case number eight is provide more precise feedback. Within Claude Design, it enables you to provide feedback directly in line. So, here you can see me reviewing a website design. I add a comment to change the header so that it spans over two lines. Then, I can draw

on the design where I circle where I want this graphic to move. Then, I can just click through all of the comments, then select send to Claude, and it goes and fixes them. This is a great way to iterate by yourself, but later in the video, I'll cover how this helps you iterate with team members who have no technical knowledge. But first, use case number nine is about mapping your funnel to see where the problems are. So, you're able to connect any project or code that you're working on directly to Cloud Design. That means that it can

understand your funnel and the components that drive people to click. So, what I do here to show you a general response, I say, "Create a YouTube product funnel." And it creates a generic one. Then I ask it to break down Bill Partner's funnel, which it has access to the code. It then creates a visualization of the whole funnel and each step in the process, including the design components that people interact with. If I wanted to take it a step

further, I could ask, "Can you make two different designs at each stage of the funnel optimized for conversions so I can see the variations?" And it'll now showcase different visualizations for each call to action, and I can select the one that I like best. This is looking at the funnel as a whole, so you can optimize it when you're looking at the entire thing. Now, getting into use case number 10, which is get five variations of your landing page instead of one. This is building on the last use case, but one of the best things about AI is that you can have it create variations with ease. So, just have AI

make five entirely unique versions of a design and then converge on the concept you like most. And you can do this on a component level or a page level. So, you could say, "Make five variations of this specific component." Or for an entire website, you can say, "Make five variations of this landing page." Now, the number five is arbitrary, but that's usually what I like when I first start with projects. I want it to fan out on

concepts so I can have it create five designs. And then I'll say, "I like one and three. Make five variants like those." And over time I'll slowly approach the design I love. And then once you land on the version you like, you can connect your code base and it can directly port it over for you, making that design to implementation handoff seamless. Use case number 11 is

wireframe the product before you build it. A typical question is, "Why should I not just use Cloud Code to do all of this?" And at this point, you definitely see the distinction and the benefit of design, but what about for actually creating a product itself? So, one concept that people would do before AI is they would make wireframes. So, at IOK, my last startup, we worked with top artists like Ed Sheeran, and we would often pitch them custom products. Now,

for these pitches, we would make wireframes. So, they wouldn't just see the designs, they would be able to actually click through as if it was mimicking the actual experience. So, it was a way for us to quickly iterate and give them something that looked and felt like the product without having to do all the engineering back-end work. And yes, Claude Code does make it easier to build things, but it's not that easy. Let's keep it real. So, a lot of times,

a wireframe is good enough. And so, what you can do when you're in this ideation process is use Claude design to make you wireframes. On screen, you can see a prompt on how to actually create wireframes. And in this case, I'm just having it create a workout plan product. It'll then ask you a bunch of very smart questions, but in this case, I'm just going to say decide for me, and it'll go ahead and create wireframes. Then, I can

actually click through the buttons, and you get a feel for how the app would work. This is the lowest cost and lowest effort to make something that looks and feels like the product you want to make. Use case number 12, empower cross-team collaboration. If you're working on something and you want to get team members' feedback, you can share it directly with them, and they can add comments directly on it. And unlike Claude Code, it makes it so easy for you to collaborate on that specific design.

These team members don't have to spin up an app, they don't have to get the up-to-date code, they don't have to send screenshots back and forth. You can just have comments directly on it, which removes any of the friction. Now, before we get to the next use case, if this is your first video of mine, welcome to channel. But if this is your second or more, here's our anti-slop agreement. This video, the visuals, the testing, the hours of research that went into it, it's entirely for humans, not for AI robots. So, all I ask is that you

subscribe as part of this agreement to help my content reach more people. And if you've already subscribed, like the video and turn on post notifications, it really helps this channel. And as a thank you, every video I give away a Claude Max subscription, and this video's winner is Dream Phoenix. He's building a workout buddy that will sync with a music player. Shout out Dream Phoenix. Shout out everybody who

subscribes. You guys are legends. And to this giveaway comment below with what you're building. I'd love to hear more about it. Now, use case 13 is systematize outputs. Within Cloud

Design, there's a feature called templates. And in my eyes, designers should now focus on creating the design systems, and then non-technical people can use those systems to create high-quality outputs. So, in this case, I'm going to be the designer, and I create an Instagram graphic template. Now, anybody from my team can create an Instagram graphic whenever they want. And this can extend to client proposals, weekly reports, lead magnets, landing pages, really whatever. You're

templatizing a design. On screen, you'll see a prompt which will create a template that will live within the design system. Getting into use case 14, which is rebuild a proposal in your client's design system. So, the first use case was about creating your own design system. This is actually the inverse. Now, one of the fastest ways to

make someone feel like you actually want a deal is handing them a proposal that looks like their own company made it. It's that extra step. And so, now you can use your proposals and then redesign them based on a specific company's branding. Here, you can see me taking an example proposal we had before, and then I say, "Remake this proposal in this company's branding." And then I bring in a company that we work with. It will

then recreate it so that it's customized to their branding and style. These little extra steps show someone that you care and you're willing to go the extra mile, which will make them that much more likely to actually go ahead and work with you. Use case number 15 is build out branded lead magnets. Real quick, a lead magnet is something you offer a potential customer in return for their contact information so that you can then sell them other things. And as a creator myself, every video I make is essentially a lead magnet opportunity.

If you're wondering what a lead magnet is, I have a five-day email series that walks you through how to go from renting AI to owning it. That is a lead magnet that's absolutely bangers, and it helps bring you into my ecosystem. And I could create other lead magnets very easily. For example, a one-page PDF with these 17 Cloud Design use cases and how to use them. That's a perfect landing magnet, which I'll just never make because I don't have time. And this leads to a

massive backlog of assets that could be repurposed to help get more customers. What Cloud Design does is it allows you to take this content and package it up in a branded visual that can be offered to people, and it creates a template that you could then reuse. So, on screen I say, "Create a lead magnet that can perfectly complement this YouTube video." And then I bring in the YouTube video. So, it then goes, creates it, and then I can create a PDF and then send that to people, and that's a full end-to-end lead magnet in a couple of seconds. These are the type of use cases

where you want to get creative and use the structure to help empower things that you previously wouldn't have done. Use case number 16 is revamp your resume. So, I haven't updated my resume in about eight years. So, let's give this a go. I say, "Make me a resume for me and all of my AI work." Then ask me a

bunch of questions. In this case, I share my LinkedIn. And then in seconds, it creates a pretty solid resume with all of my different work. I probably need to update my LinkedIn, too. So, if anyone wants to connect over there, feel free to send me a connection request.

Now, use case number 17, it's stop handing people AI slop. I stress this all the time in my videos. AI slop is destroying what people think about what you produce. I just can't. Like, if you send me a Slack message and I'm like, "I know AI wrote this," I don't even read it, and your personal brand is impacted as a result. And so, Claude Design lets

you easily collaborate with AI and make and edit things directly in line to make sure it sounds and feels like something you would produce. And the reason that people end up sending out this AI slop is something that I call doom prompting. They'll go to Claude, they'll ask it to create a report, they go back and forth a couple of times, it won't get to exactly what they want, and then they just say, "Screw it." They export it and then hit send. By removing that friction, Claude Design empowers you to make the design and then adjust it so that the text is exactly how you would speak. That's my biggest takeaway from

this tool. It removes the friction for non-technical people to create on-brand products while giving them the power to make it their own output. Stop sending these PDFs of a full breakdown that were just AI slop. Make something that is visually good and the content itself is good, too. So, that's the 17 things that you didn't know Claude design could do, and I was genuinely surprised at all of the use cases this enables. Now, one

problem that you'll run into when designing things is getting Claude to actually sound like you and write high-quality copy. So, to fix this, click here to watch my deep dive on how to make Claude stop giving you generic AI responses. Pair what I cover over there with the design tools I covered here, and you'll start absolutely crushing it. I'll see you in the next one. Peace.