---
video_title: "9 AI Tools to Double Your Productivity in 2026"
video_id: h0eAJTCDT7s
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h0eAJTCDT7s
video_date: 2026-01-02T15:15:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Become Irreplaceable with AI (Free 5-Day Email Series): https://the-ai-playbook.com/double
  Transform your business into an AI-First Operation (get your free business audit): https://www.the-ai-playbook.com/o/business
  
  2026 is here. And In this video, I break down the 9 essential AI tools specifically selected to help you double your productivity in 2026—shifting from passive chatbots to active agents that execute work for you—so you can eliminate context switching, master your workflow, and build the personalized systems that will make you irreplaceable.
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - Tool #1
  (1:05) - Tool #2
  (2:39) - Tool #3
  (3:54) - Tool #4 
  (5:49) - Tool #5 
  (7:50) - Tool #6 
  (8:51) - Tool #7
  (10:10) - Tool #8
  (12:38) - Tool #9
  
  Tools Covered: : ChatGPT Agent, Gemini Canvas, Domain Specific AI Tools, Superhuman, Claude Projects, Claude Browser Extension, Notion Agents, Whispr Flow, N8N
  
  19 Things You Didn't Know Notion Agents Could Do - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LrguDe9OoSQ
  25 Things You Didn't Know ChatGPT Agent Could Do - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f5ldVarry3k&sttick=0
  Full Course on How to Build & Sell AI Agents (100% FREE) - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gZb55B7alF4
  
  
  If you’re new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese. I’ve been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full time job and today, I’m building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over $18 Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me breakdown how I got here because on Youtube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here… 
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor 
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called “The Incubator” all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  
  To everyone who’s spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  •⁠  ⁠Instagram: [https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/](https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/)
  •⁠  ⁠Youtube:  [https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese](https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese)
---
Okay, tool number one is chatbtd agent. And this isn't just chatbt with a fancy name. It's fundamentally different. Normal chatbt, it responds to your prompts, but chatb agent takes actions on your behalf. It searches the web, clicks through websites, adjusts files, and executes multi-step processes automatically. I like to think of AI

agents as interns that don't complain. Let me show you exactly how to do this. For real estate investing, I have it search Zillow for properties matching my specific criteria, create comparison spreadsheets, and pull comps. all automatically. I then schedule it to run every Monday morning. But this isn't

just for real estate. It extends to any profession. For sales people, you can have it research prospects before calls. You can have it pull their LinkedIn recent company news, draft personalized talking points. For content creators, you can have it analyze competitor videos, extract common themes, generate content ideas based on what's performing. To use this, go to Chat GBT,

click the plus button, and then select agent mode. This is a crazy rabbit hole that I'm not going to dive into, but you can check the link in the description if you want more. Now, that's just one of the nine tools that you can use today to double your productivity in 2026. If you're new here, welcome to the squad. Let's get into it. Tool number two is

Gemini Canvas. The beauty of this tool is it unlocks the ability for anyone to build functional apps by writing a single sentence. You've likely heard of Vibe coding tools, but this is Google's interpretation that's even simpler. Here's an example use case I built this week. Since transitioning from IK, the tech company I was a COO for that raised $18.9 million, I've been helping

businesses scale using AI. To showcase the process of helping these businesses grow, I need to visualize the three pillars that I help these businesses in, which is strategy, implementation, and training. Instead of hiring a designer or fumbling through PowerPoint, I just opened Gemini, wrote create an interactive visualization showing three connected pillars. I brought in details about the pillars, selected canvas, and how to create a clean, professional graphic in about 2 minutes. After a couple back and forths, I now have a visualization that I can use for my clients to showcase what the exact process is. What would have taken

probably days and something that I never would have done because of the time suck is now a simple process and it's unlocking a new possibility which is what I callformational micro sites. Instead of sending a PDF or a doc, you can create a single page interactive site that explains your offer, showcases your work, or walks someone through a concept. Once you go, you use Canvas and you create something that you like, you can deploy it so that anyone can access it. To do this, at the top right corner to get the code, go to aistudio.google.com,

select build, then paste the code in, and it'll create a sharable app with this code. My challenge to you is make anformational site using Gemini today and share it with someone. Honestly, it. Make a meme micro site. Rick roll your friend. It's worth learning

the steps. Tool number three is superhuman, and it's all about streamlining email. I don't have to explain to you how much responding to emails sucks. We all know it. It's it's a fact. But that's why I use Superhuman.

I'm not affiliated, but it's by far my favorite email client. I've sent over 8,500 emails through it. I've marked almost 180,000 emails as done using it, and I use it every single day. Here are a couple reasons why I love it. The first is AI is baked directly in your inbox. So total draft emails for you

using your tone of voice. The second is it has hotkeys that let you quickly archive, reply, or mark emails as done. And then the real unlock, which took me about nine or 10 iterations to figure out, is the split inbox. This lets you partition emails based on specific rules. And once you set that up, Superhum will automatically funnels emails into folders. Let's say urgent,

not urgent, and hand it off. I address urgent immediately. Everything else gets a specific 15-minute window twice per day. And by setting up a system that allows me to do all my emails at once, it limits context switching. If you've been watching this channel, you know that I think context switching is the new cigarette. And I'm only slightly

kidding about that. Context switching is killing your productivity and superhuman helps limit that. To use this, go to superhum.com and there is a free trial so you can just test it out. Tool number four is Claw Projects. And this is

probably my most used feature in any AI tool. This is my workhorse. This is my LeBron James of AI tools. And if context switching is the new cigarette, Claude Projects is the new avocado toast. It takes a lot of things you're already doing, combines them, it just works, and it's a fire product. What it allows for

you to do is set up a work environment to contain all of the project specific information you need. And not to mention, I can bring in books like Get Scalable or Alex Herozy's $100 million offer to help direct the answers of the consultant based on people that I respect. The difference is truly truly massive. I want to show you this in practice just to see the difference in responses. So I create a project named about Austin and within that project I bring in my life story. I then ask

Claude to tell me about Austin Marquesy. Within the project it proceeds to say I'm a legend. I have a huge and some more information about me. All right. It might have not said the second part, but it provides a ton of information about me that I previously provided that context. Now, I go ahead and ask this

same question outside of Clawed Projects, and it has no idea who I am. Jokes aside, I can't stress how valuable projects can be. And a pro tip here, and what most people get wrong, is they create one giant project and dump everything in it. Don't do that. Create tightly scoped projects. I have one for

my consulting business, one for my YouTube, another for short form, etc. To set this up, go to claw.ai/rojects. Create a new project. Name it clearly.

Be nice to your future self. Then use AI to write custom instructions to help direct the project. Ask Claude, create an optimized system prompt for your goal. Take that prompt, bring it into the project. And then finally, add any resources from your past work, your style guides, templates, etc. that could

be valuable context for this specific project. If you don't use Claude, that's fine. ChachiD and Grock have the same feature called projects. Gemini has gems and Perplexity has spaces. Use whatever matches your AI stack. Tool five is

clawed browser extension and this just came out so I'm excited to talk about it and it's giving insight into a massive shift that's happening right now. Before this year, browserbased AI was basically just Perplexity. Now there's three major players, Perplexity, Chachd, and Claude that are in this browser extension game. So this competition is going to drive insane innovation, which means better products for me and you. And what I like about the Claude browser extension is it extends everything that I know and love and use in Claude, but on my browser on any web page, I can ask it to summarize questions. I can ask it additional

questions about what I'm reading, all without leaving the actual web page. And the feature that I love the most that I haven't seen in any other product is teaching. So, you can literally teach the Claude extension how to do specific tasks. It'll watch you as you're doing them so that it can recreate exactly what you did. You show it once how to do something and then it just remembers. I

talk about work 1.0, 2.0, and 3.0 a lot. 1.0 is the original work environment

where you would go into the office, everything was local. Work 2.0 is when it became remote and you can work with anyone internationally. And work 3.0 is when humans start working with AI agents and AI employees. And this clawed

browser extension is a perfect example of what work 3.0 will look like in the future. And if you want to use this, and I highly recommend you just experiment with it, go to the Chrome Web Store and search Claw browser extension. Download it. Really simple. Zooming out, we've

covered five of the nine tools, and the last four have some of my favorite. But I do want to address something. The tools that I'm covering, I've given all actionable advice, but there's a lot more to AI than what fits in this video, which is why I created a free 5-day email course, How to Use AI to become irreplaceable. And each day I break down non-obvious traps I see professionals fall into and how to avoid them. If you want to join that, it's the first link in the description. It is entirely free

and if it's not helpful, you can unsubscribe anytime. But if you're anything like the thousand plus people that have gone through this, you're going to love it. First link in the description. Go check it out. All right, that's enough of that. Let's get to tool

number six, which is Notion agents. As a Notion fanboy, I love this tool. And if you use Notion, this is a no-brainer. If you don't, you should really think about it. So, Notion agents take actions across your entire workspace. So, they

can create databases, enrich data, find gaps in documentation, and reorganize pages. These are just some of the use cases, but here's one that I thought was the most impactful. I have Notion agent scan my workspace and flag where information is missing or outdated. The prompt I use is, "Review everything in this workspace. What resources are missing that could be helpful for our team?" It'll go through, look at all of

your documentation and resources, and identify gaps. The reality is that most teams don't even know what they don't know. And this allows you to successfully surface these blind spots. If you want to use Notion Agent, it's available in Notion with their AI add-on. If this product excites you, which it should, I have a video which is linked below where I dive into 19 notion agent use cases. High level. If you want

to use it, click the button in the bottom right. That's Notion's AI agent toggle. And then ask it a question. Tool number seven is Whisper Flow. And this one unlocks something most people don't talk about. And I'm surprised this tool

doesn't have more buzz. Honestly, it's a voice to text tool on steroids. It doesn't just transcribe what you say, it adapts your voice to different contexts. So, if you're looking to double your productivity in 2026, this is a way to 4x your speed. It is a little awkward once you first start, but once it becomes a habit, then you really see the benefit. My personal favorite use case

for this is open a new Google Doc or Apple Note and have Whisper Flow open and start talking through your entire life story. Just do a data dump of all the information about you. Of course, you could type all of this, but I'm saying don't do that. Just speak it out loud and use a tool like Whisper Flow to translate it, make it look nice, and have a resource that can easily be fed into AI to get better responses. To use this, go to whisperflow.ai. It's

currently free, which is great. It works on Mac and Windows. Before we get to tool number eight, quick note for founders and business owners. If you're watching this and thinking, I don't have time to integrate these tools or build out all these systems. You are not alone. That's why I help founders scale

their business by transforming it to an AI first organization. If this sounds interesting to you, click the second link in the description and I'll provide a free audit on your business. We'll see if you're a fit and if you are a fit, I'm looking forward to helping your business scale. All right, tool number eight is NAN, which is an AI workflow tool. This tool connects apps, AI models, and it takes this and processes it into a complete system. And it end

specifically is like Zapier on AI steroids. There's a chance that you've heard about NAN or Zapier and all these tools, but here's my hot take about all of this. In 2026, people are going to downgrade from crazy AI automations to things that actually work. Over the past 2 years, everyone's been building sexy full-scale automations, entire processes automated end to end. and most of them break or they produce garbage results because nobody's reviewing them, and they don't actually go into production.

The reality is that simple workflows that save you 30 minutes a day are worth more than complex automations that take weeks to build, constantly need fixing, and you don't actually use them. Here's an example of how I use NAD. I have a workflow that runs every morning. It checks my calendar, checks my emails for anything urgent, and checks asset prices, my investments that I'm tracking. Then it sends me a personalized recap. When I wake up, I

don't check each thing individually. I get one update all at once. I don't have to spend 15, 20 minutes looking through all the information. Another workflow I have is I pull my YouTube transcripts into a Google doc that I use as training data for my clawed projects. These workflows aren't these sexy AI automations that will go viral, but they will transform your productivity. And

so, here's how I think about this. Don't try and automate everything. If it takes weeks to automate something that you do once every six months, don't automate it. Focus on workflows that make a real difference and then try and break up tasks into many manageable microtasks that are easy to complete. A quick story about trying to automate things that you never should. In the 1980s, GM spent $45

billion trying to automate processes they didn't understand. And this led to having robots that would literally weld car doors shut. And this cost them billions of dollars. And the key reason is that they didn't understand what they were actually automating. And today with AI, MIT found that 95% of these AI automations never go into production.

And that's because we're repeating the exact same problems that GM did in the 1980s. You're trying to automate things that you don't actually get. That's my little ramble, but very, very valuable and it could cost you thousands of hours if you get it wrong. But if you are ready to use naden, go to naden.io.

There are free tools available and I do have deep dives on my channel into how to actually use this tool. Let's get to the final tool which is domain specific AI tools. This is actually a category and I'm going to give a bunch of tools but here's the gist of it. General AI tools are powerful. That's your chachi, your claws, right? These general tools,

but specialized tools that are designed for specific professions can be absolute game changers depending on your industry. Here are some examples. Let's say you're a writer. Type.ai, AI, which is an AI writing assistant built specifically for long- form content.

Let's say you're a developer, there's Claude Code or Cursor, which is what I use to build my 5day email course website. Let's say you're a lawyer, there's Harvey, which is trained on legal documents and case law. Let's say you're a designer. There's tools like Stitch, which is a user interface, which is all about creating sexy designs. The pattern here is that generalized AI is getting commoditized. And the real

advantage is finding your specific tool for your domain and then going deeper. Every profession will have two to three AI tools specifically built for their workflows. Generalist tools become the normal and where you differentiate yourself is by using these specialized tools. If you're wondering what tool you should use for your industry, comment below with your industry and what your job is and I can make a recommendation. All right, so those are the nine AI tools that will transform how you work in 2026 and double your productivity.

ChVD agent, Gemini canvas, superhuman, clawed projects, clawed browser extension, notion agents, whisper flow, nadn, and then domain specific tools. But here's the key across all these. It's not about knowing the most tools. It's about going deep on the ones that matter and work for you. So pick three to four from the list. Commit to them.

Block out the noise. Build systems that compound. People who do this, the next 6 to 12 months are going to pull far ahead. Now, if you like this video, you'll love this video where I break down the exact three-phase framework I use to set up my own personal AI augmentation. It goes deeper on how to integrate these tools into a complete system that will transform your productivity. I'll see you legends in

the next one. Let's keep building. Pace.