---
video_title: "How Anthropic Employees ACTUALLY Use Claude Code to Grow"
video_id: BX5dLXe6CTI
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BX5dLXe6CTI
video_date: 2026-04-21T12:45:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Get my free 5-day email series (what I used to help build a $25M+ startup): https://the-ai-playbook.com/agcc
  
  In this video, I break down the ways Anthropic's Growth Team used Claude Code to help them grow from $1 billion to $19 billion in 14 months, the fastest growth in tech history. I studied their entire growth team and pulled out the 4 strategies they keep coming back to with Claude Code, plus the one ceiling most people hit that turns AI into more work instead of leverage.
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - How Anthropic ACTUALLY Uses Claude Code to Grow
  (0:28) - Strategy 1: Automating Existing Workflows
  (3:05) - Strategy 2: Sub-Threshold Work Now Worth Doing 
  (5:36) - Strategy 3: Build Tools Only You Would Ever Build
  (9:18) - Strategy 4: AI as Thought Partner
  
  --------
  FOR INDIVIDUALS:
  - Free 5-day playbook on building AI systems that compound (the system behind an 8-figure startup): https://the-ai-playbook.com/agcc
  - Use BuildPartner to build 10x faster with Claude Code (try free): https://buildpartner.ai/agcc
  
  FOR BUSINESSES, Ways to work with me:
  - Want AI systems built into your operations? https://theincubator.xyz/ops/agcc
  -  Want to build a SaaS product without hiring a CTO? https://www.theincubator.xyz/eng/agcc
  --------
  
  If you're new here, I'm Austin Marchese. How I got here...
  16: First business (SAT Math Tutor)
  22: Graduated Stevens Tech, 4.0, College Basketball, software engineering job at JPM
  23: Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (fun story)
  24: Started creating content, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency, The Incubator
  25: Scaled agency to 15+ team members, $75K/M while working full time
  26: Quit my job, joined a startup called IYK
  27: Became COO of a $25M+ tech startup, worked with Ed Sheeran, Chance the Rapper and more
  28: Built a $20M+ real estate portfolio in the background
  29: Transitioned from IYK, re-launched The Incubator, grew it to a 6-figure biz in 30 days. Now building BuildPartner.ai
  
  To everyone who's spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines but not everyone can build...
  
  - Austin
  
  Follow/Subscribe
  
  - Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/
  - Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese
---
Anthropic went from $1 billion to $19 billion in revenue in 14 months. And the masterminds behind all of this is their growth team. So I decided to study everything they've published to see how they actually use Clawed Code to help them grow. That's blog post, internal videos, Twitter threads, podcast, everything. And after bringing it all down, there are four simple, non-technical strategies that just keep coming up. So I'm going to break down each one, show you what they've built inside Anthropic and how you can apply them to whatever you're building. Let's get into strategy number one, which is automating existing workflows. So their head of growth, Amel Avassar, said something on a podcast that sets the tone for this whole video. If you come into Anthropic, you need to understand that 50, 60, 70% of how you operate in the past just throw it out the door. That's the mindset that the whole team has. So that's exactly how awesome LOW, one of their growth leads, thinks about automating his existing workflows. So that's the things that have high overhead, the repetitive stuff like weekly reporting, copy variations, and brainstorming. For how they think about what falls in this bucket, think if you had a full-time analyst where you could give the work to them that you didn't want to do. These are important, but they're not necessarily something that you should be doing. For awesome LOW, he built a figma plugin in about an hour that generates ad variations with a single click. You can see it on the screen going through how it actually works, but what used to take 30 minutes per batch now takes maybe 30 seconds. And I will call out that their growth team isn't technical. In fact, when Claude Cod first launched, he had to Google how to open a terminal on his computer. So as I go through this, these aren't like crazy engineers. He also built a Claude skill for a responsive search ad. He exports his campaign performance data from Google ads, feeds that into Claude, along with his existing ad copy and target keywords, and then Claude generates new ad variations that matches Anthropics brand voice while staying within Google's character limit. It then outputs a CSV, and he can upload that directly back into Google ads. And the result from this is that ad creation goes from 30 minutes to 30 seconds, and you're able to 10x creative output. Now, Austin can focus on deciding which creative to choose, and he doesn't have to spend the time coming up with the ideas. This is exactly what you would have an analyst do to help him scale his output. So your action step here is thing about the task you do every week that you'd normally hand to an intern and create a Claude skill to help you do this. Here is a prompt that you can put into Claude code right now to help with this. I do task every week. It takes me about x hours. Here are the steps I follow. Create a Claude skill that automates this workflow and outputs the deliverable I need. So freeing up time is one thing, but what you spend your free time on is another. And a more their head of growth said that they allocate their time like this. 70% on big swings and 30% on small optimizations. I think that we index a lot more towards larger swings as opposed to smaller optimizations. Like if I think about a traditional growth team, I would have probably done maybe 60, 70% of my time on small to medium bets 20 to 30% on larger swings. And I think that for us, we we we we we we flip it a lot. They're focusing on big difference makers and not micro improvements. Now I'll get to the 70% big swings later. But first, what about the 30% small optimizations strategy to sub threshold work now worth doing. The strategy is about doing things you would have never done before. Lao calls this sub threshold work now worth doing. These are projects that you likely abandoned because it just wasn't worth doing like the ROI wasn't there. But with AI, the investment it takes to complete something is so much lower. So there's a whole new set of tasks that you can start completing. They built a program called cash, which stands for Claude, accelerate sustainable hyper growth phenomenal name, which gives the entire growth experimentation process to AI. So what Claude will do is it'll identify opportunities, build the experiment, test it and then analyze the results. Here's Amel's quote, which is pretty crazy, where he describes it as a system where it just prints money. Cash, which is Claude, accelerate sustainable hyper growth. I did not come up with that. But really it's an it's an effort to to look at how can we use Claude to automate growth experimentation. We've been testing this with pretty small scale right now. It's been a lot of copy changes and some like very minor UI tweaks. It's it's it's it's delivering results, right? Like and it's like you can push a press play with it. And it's like it ultimately prints money where these are experiments that a growth team would never have had the bandwidth to do. But now it's just running automatically. Here's how I've done something similar with an accounting firm that I work with before I I after completing a tax return. They would just send a generic. Your return is done email. And that was really it. But now using Claude code, we were able to build a micro tool that allows you to upload the tax return Claude summarizes the whole thing and then auto generates a personalized client email. Previously nobody would have spent one to two hours per return writing these personalized summaries. But now it's trivial. And let's be clear about this. This is a growth strategy. Better client experience means better retention, better retention means more furls and lower churn. A saying I used to say at my last startup IYK was customer service is our competitive advantage. And little things like this helped us give a great customer experience, which ultimately helped us land Ed Shearing as a client. And we helped him go number one. I don't know if you can see this, but this was an award I was given based on helping him go number one. Pretty fire. But now what can you do? Well, think about the five to 10 things that you've probably abandoned because it just wasn't worth your time. That's likely no longer the case because of Claude code. Here's a prompt that you can run. I spend most of my time and see your role. What are 10 tasks that would improve my customer experience or operations that most your role would never do because the manual time for each one give me a playbook on how I could use Claude code to help achieve this task. You're going to thank me for that. But this next strategy is probably my favorite out of all of them. Strategy three is build for yourself. Also now calls it build tools only you would ever build. This is where the mode gets built. When using Claude code to create skills and adjust your workspace, you're building for yourself. That's it. Also now says you still need to spend the time to write size the template to your stack, your edge cases, your workflows. If you build a skill that sounds hyper specific and a little boring when you describe it out loud, you probably built the right skill. Look at what will allow Bill for his role. A plugin that connects to the Google ads API so Claude can query live campaign data. He can get impressions shared to his phone and then apply budget changes without ever opening his laptop. This is built for him. Nobody else at Anthropic would use this. But who cares? So that's awesome. But what about a mole? He built completely different tools for his role. He created a skill that simulates feedback from his actual manager, basically like making a clone of her in Claude code so he can ask her questions without actually asking her questions. What he did is he feeds in her public writing, their Slack conversations and her frameworks. And every week, Claude tells him based on everything you've done or not done, here's the feedback she would have given you. Here's a clip of him talking about. As well. So I basically, one of my manager, Ami Vora was I think a podcast guest of yours. So I say, hey, based on what you know of Ami, he both publicly, she's written extensively about product and then internally. And then our discussions, what is based on everything that I've done or not done this week, what feedback do you have for me as Ami? And like I get that every week, right? So these two people within growth at Anthropic, they have completely different tools, but it's using the same principle. They built things specific for their roles that are useless to everyone else. And that's the point. I've a ton of skills that are useless for everyone else on this planet. Here's how I've personally applied this. I built a funnel analyzer that tracks my YouTube video views, website visitors, and conversions. So each video has its own unique link to a landing page. I recently had a video get over a hundred thousand views. So first off, shout out everybody watching you guys are legends. Thank you. But when I ran this funnel analyzer, I realized that my conversion rate for the newsletter was 1.2%. And the reason is I never referenced in the video itself for people to go and sign up for the newsletter. And the videos that I do say that, it's about a two to three percent conversion rate. And long story short, my funnel analytics is very specific to me and I was able to provide this information me in a very readable format. A custom setup that works just for my funnel that I built for myself that no one else will use. Now, allow set it best. Growth marketing is going the way of almost like a product manager. We're able to actually build products in order to help us achieve our targets. So what do you need that no one else needs? Because the reality is with Cloud Code, building custom workflows, custom skills, custom apps, the cost to do this is close to zero. So go and ask Cloud Code into your workflow and say, this is the workflow I run every week. Turn this into a Cloud skill that I can run with one command. Ask me questions if you need more details about any step. Now, we've just walked through three strategies that can legitimately 10x your output. And before we get into this last key point, and if you are paying attention, this is to help with my conversions. I built on a lot of the concepts I cover here in a free five day email series. I break down exactly how I'm applying the stuff that I'm covering in these videos, the tools, the workflows, the tactical detail that I just can't fit in this video. And based on thousands of people who have gone through it, just like you, I bet you're going to love it. And if you don't, just unsubscribe at any time. Totally chill. So to sign up for that, click the first link in the description. Now the passable strategies are about automating tasks or improving the smaller tasks that maybe you normally wouldn't get to. But what about using Cloud Code to help with those bigger key decisions that can be massive catalysts for growth strategy four is AI as your thought partner. Here's what a model does to use Cloud to help and make key strategic decisions. For data, I personally have like a coworker runs on a schedule and looks at sort of 20, 25 different charts every morning. And then so when I come in the morning, there's just so many charts, so many products to track. Co-work will tell me, okay, here are the things that you should pay attention to. Here's like, what is concerning in here are just some like interesting insights. What he's doing here is he's using AI to analyze data and come away with issues that it thinks needs to be addressed. Now this may seem similar to having Cloud Code do things. It's actually quite different. So typically most people say, Hey, Cloud, can you do this? And then it goes and does it, which is great. But here it's, Hey, Cloud, can you do this and then tell me what we should do next? That last part is really key. That's where you're collaborating with AI on key decisions. Here's another example that will make it a bit more clear. I built a skill within Cloud that has specific expert knowledge across all the domains that I typically work in. For example, for sales, it's Alex Ramose for viral growth. It's Nikita beer for content. It's Gary V for cloud best practices. It's Boris Cherny, the founder of Cloud Code. And so once I have all their information, I now have specific thought partners who are experts in their respective field that I can use to help me make key decisions that are massive needle movers across my business, my clients businesses, and my content. If you pair Cloud's models with the right expert information, you will be amazed at the results that you're able to get. So to do this, find the experts you want to think alongside you. Go to YouTube, download their transcripts, and upload those into your Cloud Code project. Then suddenly you have a thought partner trained on their actual frameworks. Or if you want the exact skill that I use, you can just go to build partner.ai and download the free plugin. And then you can just reference it just like this. So let's zoom out for a second and revisit the four strategies that helped anthropic go from one billion to 19 billion dollars in 14 months, which is crazy. One, automate the analyst level work. Two, unlock work that was never done before. Three, build tools, only you would ever use. And then use AI to make senior level thinking better for needle moving decisions. If you start doing all these, I guarantee you will start using Cloud Code at a much better level. Now, if you want more content like this, but specific about how to optimize your Cloud Code setup, check out this video where I walk through step by step how to create a second brain using Cloud Code. If you got this far, you are a legend. Welcome to the channel and I'll see you in the next one.