---
video_title: "Are Robot dogs going mainstream?"
video_id: HzdhRTdJOdQ
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HzdhRTdJOdQ
video_date: 2026-01-16T16:15:01+00:00
video_description: |
  You can now have a robot patrol your house while you’re on vacation - and it’ll text you if anything goes wrong.
  
  Robot dogs are going viral in Atlanta right now, patrolling parking lots and construction sites. A robot straight out of Black Mirror that walks, sits, takes video, and alerts you to any security risk.
  
  But this isn’t just for corporations.
  
  These robots are about to enter your home.
  
  Imagine you’re on vacation. You’re worried about a pipe bursting, a package getting stolen, or someone breaking in. Instead of asking your neighbor to “check on things,” you have a robot doing constant patrols, monitoring everything, and texting you the moment something looks off.
  
  Right now, these robots can cost over $100K - but rental programs are dropping that to $2,000 a month. As this technology scales, I’d bet the home version hits under $100/month within a few years.
  
  But it’s not just security. It’s real-time monitoring of anything.
  
  Your elderly parents’ house. Your rental property. Your small business after hours. The ability to get cheap, constant, real-time eyes on anything you care about? That’s invaluable.
  
  Right now it’s parking lots and warehouses. But this is one of the first robots that actually makes sense for everyday people. And once the price drops, I think it goes mainstream fast.
---
You can now have a robot patrol your house while you're on vacation, and it'll text you if anything goes wrong. Today, robot dogs are going viral in Atlanta, patrolling parking lots and construction sites. But this isn't just for corporations. These robots are about to enter your home. When you're on vacation, you're worried about a pipe bursting, a package getting stolen, or someone breaking in. Instead of asking

your neighbor, "Hey, go check in on things." You have a robot doing constant patrols, monitoring everything, and texting you the moment something looks off. Right now, these robots cost over 100K, but rental programs are dropping that to $2,000 a month. And I predict it'll cost under $100 a month within the next couple of years. But this isn't just security. It's real-time monitoring

of anything. Your elderly parents house, your rental property, your small business after hours. The ability to get cheap, constant, realtime eyes on anything you care about. That's invaluable.