---
video_title: "Why 90% of People Use AI Wrong (And How to Fix It)"
video_id: AnZ9HFuM9Ek
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AnZ9HFuM9Ek
video_date: 2026-01-12T15:45:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Become Irreplaceable with AI (Free 5-Day Email Series): https://the-ai-playbook.com/skill
  Business owners - get your free company audit and learn ways you can become AI-Native https://www.the-ai-playbook.com/o/business
  
  In this video, I reveal why delegation—not prompt engineering—is the only AI skill that matters in 2026, and provide a 5-step framework to turn generic AI tools into a scalable team of employees that work without you.
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - AI Skill That Actually Matters in 2026
  (1:05) - Step #1: Understand What Delegation Actually Is
  (3:44) - Step #2: Identify What to Delegate
  (6:11) - Step #3: Delegating to a Robot
  (8:36) - Step #4: Create Data Loops
  (11:36) - Step #5: Hire Your Team to Parallelize
  
  If you’re new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese. I’ve been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full time job and today, I’m building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over $18 Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me breakdown how I got here because on Youtube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here… 
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor 
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called “The Incubator” all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  
  To everyone who’s spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  •⁠  ⁠Instagram: [https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/](https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/)
  •⁠  ⁠Youtube:  [https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese](https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese)
---
Everyone's telling you different AI skills to learn in 2026. Learn prompt engineering. Learn ChatGPT. Learn these 37 other tools that might not exist 3 months from now. But, the reality is the skill that actually matters isn't an AI skill at all, and that's why nobody's talking about it. You see, using AI is

like having really smart employees who are ready to work for you 24/7. But, the problem is that 90% of people have never managed anyone in their life. So, how could they know how to properly manage an AI employee? And after being the CEO of a tech startup that raised $18.9 million and working directly with thousands of people to help them become AI native, I've seen one clear skill that separates the bottom and top performers. The top performers have

mastered the skill of delegation. So, in this video, I'm teaching you how to master delegation, a skill you'll use for the rest of your career, and then show you exactly how to apply it to AI to scale your output. You'll walk away with a five-step plan that will help you today. Steps one to three set the foundation, and make sure to pay attention to steps four and five because that's when your output can go exponential. If you're new here, welcome. Let's get into it. Step one is

about understanding what delegation actually is. Most people think that delegation is just telling someone to do something, but that's really not what delegation is, or at least won't set you up for successful delegation. See, real delegation is giving someone a task with enough context, clarity, and constraints that they can complete it without you at the standard that you require. And whether you're managing five humans or 100 AI agents, the principles are identical. You give clear instructions, you set expectations, and you define success. But, the reality is that most

people, and legit almost everyone, are terrible at this. And because people don't know how to properly delegate, they end up using AI a lot like how they use Google Search. And this is what I call the question-answer framework. In the Google world, you ask Google a question, you get an answer. AI can work like this, but it's way more powerful when you use a different framework.

That's the task-output framework. You give it a task, you provide context, define success, and it produces an output. That's delegating to an AI system. To hammer this home, here's an example that everyone can relate to. Say you're at home and your mom, girlfriend, wife, whoever, asks you to go grocery shopping. So, what bad delegation for

grocery shopping looks like is just saying go get groceries. And so, what would happen is you would go, you would grab things that you thought were needed from the grocery store, come back, and then she would be upset. You didn't get exactly what was needed. So, okay. Next time, she actually makes a grocery list, chicken, milk, apples. You get what she

asked for, but she's upset because you got frozen chicken breasts when she needed organic chicken thighs. Okay, so lesson learned. The next time she tells you get 2% milk, organic chicken thighs, and Granny Smith apples. Now, you go back to the grocery store, you get exactly what's needed, and she's a happy camper. This is what good delegation looks like. And I know everyone watching

this has experienced something similar to this. You thought you knew what someone wanted, you did the task, and they were just unhappy. In the word to Goodwill Hunting, it's not your fault. The issue wasn't you. The issue was in the delegation process. And in the

professional setting, I learned this firsthand. When I first started managing an engineering team at J.P. Morgan, I would assign engineers work, they would create a bad product, and then in my head I'm like, "Oh, they're totally incompetent. They have no idea what they're doing. I need to do it myself."

And in reality, I was wrong. I just didn't delegate it properly. Okay, so that's in the human world, but the exact thing is happening right now with AI. People use vague prompts, they get garbage outputs, and they say AI isn't good enough. But the reality is that you're just not delegating to AI properly. So,

>> [music] >> you now understand what good and bad delegation is, but before you start delegating, you actually have to know what to delegate first. So, step two is identify what to delegate. Knowing what to delegate is critical. And there's a ridiculous example I use, but this will stay in your brain. I guarantee it.

Breastfeeding versus grocery shopping. Yes, you heard me correctly. A mom can't delegate breastfeeding. She can delegate grocery shopping. One is unique to her, the other is a system anyone can follow.

You can't outsource breastfeeding, but you can outsource grocery shopping. And in reality, when you're thinking [clears throat] about what you can and can't outsource, a lot of people think what they do is breastfeeding, but in reality, most of it is grocery shopping. And the best strategy to identify things that you can delegate is what I call a delegating to yourself or playbook creation. Here's how this works. Write a step-by-step process for completing a task. This should be so detailed that a

brain-dead monkey who's never done it could follow the steps. And when you're creating this playbook, first document each step clearly, no assumptions, put it in order, set a definition of done, what does it look like when it's complete, and set clear expectations for the quality that you expect. And for some tasks, this can take as little as 5 to 10 minutes. And when you do this, you'll immediately realize which steps in the process can be delegated and which steps can't. And if you're struggling to actually make this list, it's probably not ready to hand off. Let

me show you exactly what this looks like for grocery shopping. Okay, so here you'll see a grocery shopping playbook that I created. And you'll see at the top, there's a definition of done, groceries have been ordered, picked up, and put away, right? We're defining clearly what we want to delegate and what the expectations are that it's going to get done by Tuesday at 5:00 p.m. EST. And below that, you can see

each step in the process. Now, uh this includes things like make a list of items needed, purchase items, bring it back, text me when you're done. So, this is a clearly documented process. And the key here, before we get to the next step, which is delegating it to an actual robot, is that you've broken down the task into specific steps that you can then further delegate. One of the gotchas here is before you delegate anything, if you struggle putting together this step-by-step process, then it's going to be nearly impossible for you to actually have somebody else, or let's say AI, complete the task for you because you don't even know how to complete the task. Believe it or not,

this process is something that most people, even founders of million-dollar-plus businesses, haven't even thought to do or haven't done themselves because they just think it's a waste of time, but I'm telling you it is not. After that, and only after you've actually documented the steps, it's time to delegate to a robot. So, going to this step-by-step process that we've already created for grocery shopping, we have each step clearly defined, and now we can think about how we can use the current AI tools, cuz ultimately AI is a tool, to complete this task. So, steps one to four, this is something that you could pretty easily delegate to an AI robot. So, in this case, I've actually made a prompt directly in line in this documentation, and that's what I like to do for any task that I'm documenting, bringing the prompt in there so I can update it and maintain it over time. So, analyze this

photo and tell me the groceries that are needed. Uh imagine you took a photo and then you uploaded it. So, check the fridge and pantry, that's you checking the fridge and pantry. This week I want to meal prep ground beef and vegetables, you're telling it what you want. And then see the reference file on what items I always want stocked and my preferred brands. So, steps one through

four, you can actually systematize. Then steps five, six, and seven, you think, okay, go to the store, purchase the items. Is this something I can do with AI? Do I have to delegate it to something else? In this specific case, you would likely use a delivery service.

You can use an AI agent tool like ChatGPT agent to go and add the groceries to your cart and actually check out on your behalf. But this is how you'll start thinking about how to delegate these tasks. And then steps eight and nine, put away the groceries, text me when you're done. Again, these for this specific one, you're probably going to do this. Humanoid robots just aren't there yet. So, let's go through

something you might encounter in a professional work setting like creating a monthly report. On the screen, I've documented these six steps that you might run into and on the right of that, once you've identified those steps, there's some clear ways that you can actually delegate this to AI to complete the tasks on your behalf. Right, step one, gather sales data, you can easily use AI to help you pull CSV. You can easily use AI and integrations to gather information. You can delegate this, right? Step four, identifying patterns.

AI excels at looking at information and identifying non-obvious trends, right? Perfect to delegate. Now, going through the whole process, it's clear you can delegate a lot of this and you go from individual contributor to instead being now the manager. And it's still key, you have to review the final output, you have to tweak things. Much like if you had an employee, you could delegate this report generation, but the manager still has to make sure that it looks good before sending it out. This is the same

process as the grocery shopping example and you can repeat it for really anything that you do. That's the basics of everything, but in order for you to become a master delegator, you have to understand these next two steps. Step four is about creating data loops. When you delegate a task, the first time you do it, it is not going to be perfect. And this is usually why most people hesitate anyway because they're like, they delegate it once, it comes out not as good as they like and they're like, this person is useless, they can't do the task. I have to do this, nobody else

is good as me, I'm perfect. But that's just not the case. Going back to the example of the grocery list, when you send somebody to go get the groceries and you then realize that they didn't get exactly what you want, you take this data and then you apply it to when you're actually creating the grocery list for them. So, it's not get chicken thighs, it's get organic chicken thighs. And the reason that you knew to change that was because you captured data about the output from the initial time that that task was delegated. Another

example, let's say you have AI generated grocery list for you and part of the output is almond milk, but you hate almond milk, you're a whole milk person. So, now you have to update the prompt to say, don't include almond milk. This is a form of creating a data loop. A very simple example, but creating these data loops will be a major differentiator. Here are two concrete professional examples to hammer this home. The

founder of Claude Code recently shared how they use Claude Code within their team setting to build applications. And what they've done is they've created a specific file called Claude.md. And within that file, they'll update it anytime that Claude Code gets something wrong or they get it right. This way the Claude Code agents that are writing the code on their behalf never make the same mistake twice. So, the software

engineers have delegated the act of writing code to these AI agents and they've become the manager. And the way they're able to get a high-quality output is by creating a data loop that improves over time. Another example from a couple of my clients, I work with a financial firm and an accounting business. And both of them want to be able to provide specific advice based on the client's background. If you go and ask Claude or ChatGPT about accounting advice, it doesn't have all the context needed to provide advice for each specific client that they have. So, what

we've established is a data loop that captures all of the contextual information from conversations they have with their clients. For example, if they have a call, that call is recorded, that transcript is then brought into a specific location, I use Google Drive, and then that's then fed into this client context, which helps provide better responses from AI. Again, this creates a data loop that gets better over time, much like training an employee. The AI gets smarter because the data loop captures everything. And this is the difference between using AI and building AI-powered systems that get smarter over time. Now, before I get to

the last step, which is the next level unlock, if you're a business owner watching this thinking, "I don't have time to figure out all these things for my business or I'm just too busy to delegate," the reality is you're not alone. That's why I personally work with founders to help scale their business by transforming it into an AI-first organization and freeing up 10-plus hours of your week. If this sounds interesting to you, click the second link in the description and I'll provide a free audit on your business. This audit is entirely free. I'll give you actionable advice that you can implement immediately. And if you're a good fit,

I'll tell you how we can work together. Going to step five, which is about hiring your team to parallelize. For decades, multitasking was terrible advice. Your boss would be like, "Just multitask." And you'd be trying to write an email, you'd be looking at an Excel spreadsheet, you'd be getting a text message. Nothing would get done. And

this is a prime example of context switching, which, if you're new to this channel, I call this the modern-day cigarette. But today, AI does the tasks. So, this isn't multitasking, it's managing multiple employees working simultaneously, which is a completely different game, and it's a structure that has worked for hundreds of years. And here are two terms to keep in mind. Single-threaded, which is about delegating one task, waiting, reviewing, then delegating the next task, or multi-threaded, which is delegating multiple tasks simultaneously, and reviewing the work in batches. In

practice, this is what it can look like. When I'm building custom tools for businesses, I'll use Claude Code terminal, and I'll have three to four different features being built at the same time. I'll have a cursor agent running for things that I need to be more hands-on with. And if I step away from the house, or I need to go on my phone, I'll actually use Claude Code from my phone to continue to work on these features. I'm not writing code, I'm managing multiple AI programmers working in parallel. And then

periodically, I review all the outputs at once. I provide feedback in a batch, and then I go back to the other work. This is multi-threading, so it's like I have a team of engineers working for me. But this isn't just reserved for coding. I can also use it for writing. You can

have one Claude instant working on a YouTube script for edits. You can have another helping identify content ideas. And then you could use a tool like Superhuman to write email drafts in the background. This is multi-threaded execution, where you become the manager. Now, here is the thing. Parallelization

is powerful, but it's also where a lot of people get overwhelmed. So, if you're just starting with delegation, and you're not necessarily an expert yet, nail steps one to four first. Get comfortable delegating single tasks, build playbooks, create data loops. And once you're solid there, start layering in multi-threading. Pick two tasks that don't depend on each other and delegate them simultaneously. Now, I go way

deeper on parallelization, multi-threaded workflows, and building complete AI-powered systems in my free 5-day email course. It's linked in the description. It's called how to use AI to become irreplaceable, and it breaks down the non-obvious traps I see people fall into when scaling with AI. But, if you nail the five steps that I've touched on in this video, you're already ahead of 95% of people trying to use AI. So, here's what you do today. First,

stop asking AI questions and start delegating tasks. What output do you produce at work and start there. Number two is document one process step-by-step. Make it so clear a brain-dead monkey could follow it. Spend 10 minutes on this, I guarantee it's worth it. Third is identify which steps

aren't unique to you. Where can AI help? Can you use general LLM prompts? Can you have AI agents help you? Can you use automation tools? Do you have to use

external service? Think about ways to delegate. Fourth is create a data loop. After AI produce something, ask, "What context would have made this better?" And then add that to your system. Now,

it never makes the same mistake twice. And the fifth step is once you're comfortable delegating single tasks, start multi-threading. Delegate two tasks simultaneously, review them together, and that's when output scales essentially to infinite. And as you use this delegation skill, it will compound. Every data loop improves future outputs.

Every parallel workflow multiplies what you can produce. Now, if you like this, you'll love this video where I break down the nine AI tools I use daily to double my output. I'll see you legends in the next one. Let's keep building. Peace.