---
video_title: "The $45B mistake you’re making"
video_id: -ksFY5e0yD8
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-ksFY5e0yD8
video_date: 2026-01-17T16:15:00+00:00
video_description: |
  GM made a $45 billion dollar mistake - and most people are making the same mistake with AI right now.
  
  In the 1980s, GM tried to automate their factories with robots. They spent $45 billion. It failed.
  
  The problem? They automated broken processes. The workflows weren’t understood, weren’t standardized, weren’t ready.
  
  They just made bad work happen faster.
  
  Today, the same thing is happening with AI. That’s why an MIT study found that 95% of AI implementations are stuck in pilot phase.
  
  Companies are trying to automate workflows that are messy, undocumented, and inconsistent, and it results in issues, much like what GM experienced in the 1980s.
  
  But there are ways to do this.
  
  From 1955 to 1982, Dr.Shigeo Shingo worked with Toyota to create their exact production system, which is called The Shingo Model, which lead to successful automation.
  
  Their rule: automation only works when the process beneath it is stable, transparent, and manually perfected first.
  
  So here’s the lesson for you.
  
  Before you automate anything with AI, you need to augment it first. Document the process. Create clear steps. Build reusable prompts. Understand the workflow manually before you hand it to a machine.
  
  If you try to automate something dysfunctional, you just get dysfunction at scale.
  
  If you commented and weren’t dmd here is the direct link 🙏 https://www.the-ai-playbook.com/
  
  If you want to capitalize on the AI movement, make sure to follow me -  @austin.marchese
---
GM made a $45 billion mistake and most people are making that same mistake with AI right now. In the 1980s, GM tried to automate their factories with robots. They spent $45 billion and it failed. The problem was they automated broken processes. They didn't have a stable foundation. And today, that same thing

is happening with AI. There's a recent study from MIT that found that 95% of AI implementations are stuck in the pilot phase. And that's because companies are trying to automate workflows that are messy, undocumented, and inconsistent and results in issues much like what GM experienced in the 1980s. But there are ways to do this. From 1955 to 1982, Dr.

Shingo worked with Toyota to create their exact production system, which led to successful automation. Their rule was that automation only works when the process beneath it is stable, transparent, and manually perfected. Here's a lesson for you. Before you automate anything with AI, you need to augment it first. Document the process.

Create clear steps. Build reusable prompts. Understand the workflow manually before you hand it off to a machine. Because if you try and automate something that's dysfunctional, you'll just get dysfunctionality at scale. comment playbook and I'll send you a free 5-day miniourse that covers topics just like this to help you become irreplaceable in the age of AI.