---
video_title: "9 Claude Code Plugins to Build 10x Faster"
video_id: sBF3UumkL4Y
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sBF3UumkL4Y
video_date: 2026-05-13T16:45:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Try Higgsfield's new MCP Tool for FREE Today - https://higgsfield.ai/s/mcp-austin.marchese-naMdfi
  
  In this video, I break down 9 Claude Code plugins that help you build 10x faster and save money in the process. These are the exact plugins I use to cut AI slop, extend Claude with web scraping and media generation, swap models on the fly, and see where my $1,800 in token spend is actually going. Don't install all 9, or do. But make sure to pick the ones that fit what you need today.
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - Plugin #1
  (0:51) - Plugin #2
  (3:20) - Plugin #3
  (4:43) - Plugin #4
  (6:20) - Plugin #5
  (7:55) - Plugin #6
  (9:41) - Plugin #7
  (10:58) - Plugin #8
  (12:54) - Plugin #9
  
  Plugin Install Links:
  Caveman: https://github.com/juliusbrussee/caveman
  Exa: https://exa.ai/mcp
  Firecrawl: https://github.com/firecrawl/firecrawl-claude-plugin
  Compound Engineering: https://github.com/EveryInc/compound-engineering-plugin
  Higgsfield: https://higgsfield.ai/mcp
  Anthropic Skill Creator: https://claude.com/plugins/skill-creator
  Anthropic Legal: https://claude.com/plugins/legal
  Anthropic Frontend Design: https://claude.com/plugins/frontend-design
  Anthropic Security Guidance: https://claude.com/plugins/security-guidance
  OpenAI codex-plugin-cc: https://github.com/openai/codex-plugin-cc
  BuildPartner.ai: https://buildpartner.ai/cc9
  Morph: https://docs.morphllm.com/introduction
  Codeburn: https://github.com/getagentseal/codeburn
  
  
  --------
  FOR INDIVIDUALS:
  - Try Higgsfield's new MCP Tool for FREE Today - https://higgsfield.ai/s/mcp-austin.marchese-naMdfi
  - Free 5-day AI playbook (what I used to build a $25M+ startup): https://the-ai-playbook.com/cc9
  - Use BuildPartner to build 10x faster with Claude Code (try free): https://buildpartner.ai/cc9
  
  FOR BUSINESSES, Ways to work with me:
  - Want AI systems built into your operations? https://theincubator.xyz/ops/cc9
  - Want to build a SaaS product without hiring a CTO? https://www.theincubator.xyz/eng/cc9
  --------
  
  If you're new here, I'm Austin Marchese. How I got here...
  16: First business (SAT Math Tutor)
  22: Graduated Stevens Tech, 4.0, College Basketball, software engineering job at JPM
  23: Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (fun story)
  24: Started creating content, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency, The Incubator
  25: Scaled agency to 15+ team members, $75K/M while working full time
  26: Quit my job, joined a startup called IYK
  27: Became COO of a $25M+ tech startup, worked with Ed Sheeran, Chance the Rapper and more
  28: Built a $20M+ real estate portfolio in the background
  29: Transitioned from IYK, re-launched The Incubator, grew it to a 6-figure biz in 30 days. Now building BuildPartner.ai
  
  To everyone who's spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines but not everyone can build...
  
  - Austin
  
  Follow/Subscribe
  
  - Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/
  - Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese
---
Plugin number one is caveman. Once I installed this, I realized how much time I was wasting reading AI Slap. This plugin automatically condenses everything the clawed says, but literally forces clawed to speak like a caveman, and I absolutely love it. Here's an inaction where I ask clawed, how can plugins help me build 10 times faster? On the left, you'll see a concise response, which is using the caveman plugin. Each bullet is clear and it goes right to the value. On the right, you can see a typical clawed response, where it adds a bunch of additional fluff. This plugin will help you build quicker because it cuts through the noise, and it just gives you the value, but it'll also help you save money because it's using less tokens by sending a more concise response. To set it up, the install is linked in the description, which is where you'll find every plugin I mentioned throughout the entire video. Now, that's just the first of nine clawed plugins that I'm gonna go through that will help you build 10 times faster and save you money in the process. Plugin number two is fire crawl plus exit, which is your web scraping stack. So this is actually a two for one, but there's a key reason for this. Ultimately, why we're installing these plugins is because we want to enhance clawed's capabilities. And currently, yes, clawed can pull information from online, but there are a number of limitations. And I'll get into those, but to fix these limitations, we wanna use exit and fire crawl. Here's how these three work in relation to each other. Clawed's native web search capability is great when you wanna just go and fetch information from URL that you know or just do basic research. But how it works is it's keyword matched, which means if you're trying to do research, it will just return pages that have the exact words you're looking for. And unfortunately, this can just lead to SEO optimized content that isn't necessarily the best, which is where exit comes in, which uses semantic search. Simply put, this looks for articles that are associated with the meaning of what you're looking for, not necessarily the keywords. Let's say you had an intern and you were like, yo, can you find me five resources about how to improve my user onboarding? If they were good, they wouldn't just go to Google and type user onboarding and then pull the first five resources. That's essentially what Clawed would do. But instead, what exit does is it says, okay, what are five resources that are associated with user onboarding that could be very valuable for what we're trying to do? And that's how exit will look at it. If the best pages or best resources uses different words than what you're exactly looking for, exit can better discover them. Once you know the resources you wanna look at, you then need to actually pull the information, which is what FireCrawl is great at. FireCrawl focuses on pulling data from information and it can handle things like JavaScript and also embedded resources within a single URL. It also does the work of removing all the garbage from the resource that isn't needed in Clawed, like your footer, your header, any buttons, et cetera. So to stack them, you have Clawed for Basic web search. You have exit to find the better resources and then FireCrawl to get the actual information from the websites. Here you can see a side-by-side example where I search, find me five articles to help me improve product onboarding. On the left, you'll see native Clawed search and the five articles that it finds. And then on the right, you'll see exit where it finds five other articles. You can see how they have different results. Then we're gonna take these articles and try and fetch the actual content from it. Native Clawed isn't able to fetch all of them whereas FireCrawl is. And one of the things I talk about on this channel is that your AI output is only as good as the information you provide it. By stacking these on top of each other, you're able to get better information to provide Clawed. And this is how we're able to build 10 times faster because our outputs are that much better. Getting to plugin three, which is compound engineering. If you're vibe coding a product, building any internal tool or just experimenting, this is an absolute must-have. Before we get into the actual plugin and what it does, you need to understand these five steps that you have to be following whenever you're vibe coding or building a product. And I know for certain that these steps work because I recently used them to have launched a $481,000 product that was entirely vibe coded. Pay attention to these five steps. First, you need to plan the feature you're working on. What exactly do you want it to do? Second, you have to use AI to actually do the work based on the plan you did in step one. Step three is you have to have AI review the work and you have to make sure that it's actually effective. Four, you have to actually compound. What this means is you have the AI learned from any of the lessons from steps one, two, and three, so it doesn't make the same mistakes again. And then step five is you repeat the whole process again. Now, I personally have made custom plugins to follow these five steps for the clients I work with, but the most accessible one that you can access is something called compound engineering. On the screen, you'll see how the skills pair with each step in the process that I previously covered. Plan work review compound. And the beauty of this is you're gonna build more effectively, you're gonna have less issues and it's gonna get better over time. From the creator of Cloud Code, Boris Cherny, the most important thing you can do is get the plan right so I cannot stress how important planning is before you actually build anything. I'm especially hyped about this one because of all the tools I'm covering, they specifically reached out and wanted to sponsor today's video, so shout out Higgs field. Now, one of the things I've discussed is extending Claude's functionality. And currently, there's a massive gap in Claude which is the inability to create media, so things like videos and images. And that's where Higgs field comes in. So I've personally been using Higgs field for a while to generate images and videos, but now because they launched a plugin with their MCP server, I can integrate Higgs field directly into my Claude code terminal. To actually set this up, you go to settings, connectors, and then you add Higgs fields MCP. Once you do that, you can generate video and images directly from Claude, which unlocks a massive thing. And that's the context it has. Previously, when I was using the web-based app, it didn't know anything about what I was working on. But now, because Higgs field has access to my project, I don't have to repeat things like my brand guidelines or the audience that I'm speaking to. It just knows because it already has the information. And this empowers a use case that I call the content agency killer. You can tell Claude, based on the project I'm working on, use Higgs field agents to generate static images for my landing page. Also create UGC style video I can use as ad creative. It takes the context that you already have within your project, so you can instantly create assets that are complimentary to what you're working on. Another example before we get to the next plugin is you can also do competitor research. Tell Claude to analyze competitors, identify trending formats, they haven't touched, and create content that fills the gaps. Claude can then do the research on competitors and leverage Higgs fields MCP to gather the visual data and execute on final assets. So again, thank you, Higgs field, for sponsoring this video. Y'all are go-ded. For everyone watching, to get access to this, click the first link in the description. You're gonna be happy you added this to your bag. Plugin five, which is Anthropics official plugins. This is a number of plugins, and they're all built directly by Anthropic, the creator of Claude. Two general things before I dive into the actual plugins. The first is the maintainer of a plugin matters. Because these are Anthropic developed plugins, you can expect they'll be maintained and improved over time. So generally, I buy it towards tools where people are paid to keep them working. The second is just understanding that these plugins exist because if you're a builder and you have an idea, if you're just one Anthropic release plugin away from being absolutely cooked, maybe rethink what you're building. Here are the Anthropic official plugins that I suggest you install. The first is skill creator. This is a plugin that streamlines the skill creation process. If you're wondering how you can use it, download it, and you can just say, how can this help me on this project and run the skill? There you can see feedback on how you can improve the skills within your actual project. The second is their legal plugin. This is for legal stuff, self explanatory. I'm not a lawyer, this isn't legal advice. I just kind of grip it and rip it. I say, fuck it and just throw it in the plugin. The third is front end design. And my favorite use case for this is I run slash front end design makes six variants of my landing page optimize for conversion. It'll then create six different variants and I can click through each one of them to pick the components I like or don't like and put together a final page. The fourth is their security guidance plugin. For anyone launching an app, this is great just to run your app through it and just do a security audit yourself. You're gonna find holes and just plug them before you actually launch it. Now these are all clawed specific plugins. But one thing I stress on this channel is owning your AI, not being reliant on specific models, which brings us to plugin six. This is OpenAI's Codex plugin. This is kind of funny, right? OpenAI has their own Claude code plugin where you can integrate codex directly into Claude code. It's kind of crazy at a high level to think about this, but it highlights something that you need to understand. Right now you're operating inside Claude code's ecosystem. But Claude code, the interface you're using is essentially just a way to interact with Claude's AI model. But the reality is you don't have to use Claude's AI model. And this is a way to use Claude code, but to reference a different model. This is a concept of multi-model, which is important to understand. And there are two reasons why multi-model is so important. The first is that different models are better at different things. The same way you go to multiple doctors to get different opinions if you're running into an issue by using a different model, you might be able to solve it quickly or in a different way than the other models suggesting. The second is that model independence is a muscle worth flexing. A lot of the models that you use right now are VC subsidized, which means that investors are essentially paying for tokens, knowing that they're going to lose money in the short term to get customers today. I'll show this later, but I pay $200 a month for Claude Max. And the actual token cost is closer to 1,800. So if subsidizing goes away and this pricing goes up, I want to be comfortable using different models, so I know that that's an option. So there's ways for me to save money. In terms of actually using the plugin, the big one that you can use is slash codex colon rescue. Now, before I get to the last three plugins, which are some of the most powerful ones, if this is the first time you're watching a video of mine, welcome the channel. If it's your second or more, here is our anti-slop agreement. The visuals of the testing, the time I put in to these videos is optimized for humans, not AI robots. So all I ask is you subscribe as part of this agreement to help this content reach more humans. I'm just done with the AI Slop content. Getting to plugin seven, which is buildpartner.ai. This is a plugin that I actually created because it was something I felt was missing in the marketplace. One of the most valuable things still needed with AI is expert advice. Since the internet became popular, information has been abundant. AI doesn't actually change that. But despite this plethora of information, there are still consulting companies like McKinsey making billions of dollars telling people what to do. And it's not because they have information that you can't Google, it's because they're confident. They remove the uncertainty, so you stop second guessing, and you actually go execute. That's my goal with buildpartner.ai. I created a plugin trained on specific experts in specific domains you're likely building in. You just download the plugin, and you can say something like slash BP, expert advice, help me improve the copy on my landing page. It pulls direct expert frameworks and advice to help guide whatever you're working on. I personally love it because it helps me remove hesitation on any decisions I'm making, because generally when I get AI advice, it feels a little bit generic, but this is a way to pinpoint it to a specific expert consultant. And as part of this plugin, I also found that a lot of people don't know how to actually take information and optimize the Claude code project they're working on. So I created a skill improve system that will help improve the system you're actually working on and set up recursive feedback loops so that it improves automatically over time. All right, that's enough of buildpartner. Let's go to plugin 8, which is morph. This tool is a bit more technical, but in terms of plugins that literally help you build faster, this is the one. When you're using Claude, it spends a lot of time and money on three things. First, editing files, second searching through files, and three, managing context, so it has the correct memory. What morph does is it speeds up each of these processes. First, fast apply speeds up editing files up to eight times faster and 90% cheaper. Two warp grab speeds up searching a code base, 50% cheaper, 20% faster, and three compact saves you five to 50 minutes on session compression. I'm saying a lot of buzzwords, I get it. Let's simplify this. Let's say you go back and forth with Claude 50 times working on an app, and it ends up editing 10 files and searching the code base five times. In theory, without morph, this could cost $3.50 and take 25 minutes, with morph, it could cost 80 cents and take about 10 minutes. Now, these are theoretical statistics, and it's a bit hard for me to test this directly, but I have noticed a speed improvement in my own sessions. As an experiment to check speed, I had it look through my buildpartner.ai code base and change an entire file. I said search the code base for where I determine how many free attempts people get. Once you do that, refactor the whole landing page to use green instead of orange. On the left, you can see without using morph, with eight time, with a clock counting how long it takes, and on the right, you can see using morph. In this example, morph is faster. Full disclosure, morph does cost money, but there is a bigger picture thing that I want you to think about. A lot of your token spend is on mechanical work, not actually reasoning. So morph cuts the mechanical waste. That's a massive unlock to save time and money. If you use this prompt, where it'll say, based on everything that I use at my Cloud Code project, is there anything that I can convert to a script that will allow me to use code instead of using AI to complete a task? This, generally, if you can use code to complete something that you're repeatedly doing, instead of AI figuring it out, that'll help you save time and money. Let's get to the last plugin, which is CodeBurn. A lot of you keep commenting on these videos, must be nice having unlimited tokens. Oh, if only I had unlimited tokens. That's referring to the creator of Cloud Code, but I feel like I have unlimited tokens, and I just have a Cloud Max subscription. But I do get it, right? Hitting the limit at 2 PM in the middle of the day when you're working on something and having to wait hours is really frustrating, and this is just a reality of using Cloud Code right now. What CodeBurn shows you is what you're spending your tokens on and how you can actually reduce costs. On the screen is my actual dashboard, and I subscribe to Cloud Max, which is $200 a month. And despite that, it says that I've gone through $1800 of tokens. If you're wondering how that's possible, go back to plugin six, where I explain how these are subsidized right now. Now that is less important. What we want to do is how can you save money and save tokens? If you open your terminal after installing it and type CodeBurn, then type, oh, it'll show you a list of suggestions that will help you save tokens. You just take that and copy and paste the whole thing, bring it into Cloud Code directly, and it'll take those suggestions and suggest ways you can fix it. Just go through each one of those, apply them, and you'll instantly start saving tokens, intern saving you money, and intern letting you build quicker because you're not gonna hit those token limits anymore. If you stack all nine of these plugins together, you will entirely level up your experience. So that's the nine Cloud Code plugins that will help you build 10 times faster. If you like this video, check out this video, where I break down the optimal way to set up your Cloud Code projects so that your system improves automatically, and you can best use the plugins that I covered in today's video.