---
video_title: "How to Build A Self-Improving System with Claude"
video_id: 2fc0NX9vIJ8
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2fc0NX9vIJ8
video_date: 2026-06-28T14:15:20+00:00
video_description: |
  Get my free 5-day AI playbook (what I used to build a $25M+ startup): https://the-ai-playbook.com/sis
  
  In this video, I break down the exact 5-step B.U.I.L.D. Framework I use to turn Claude Code into a self-improving system. After studying Andrej Karpathy, the Anthropic team, and running my own setup, this is everything you need to ingest your own data, automate the pipelines, and let the system get smarter every week. Most people get "self-improving" completely wrong, and I'll show you why.
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - How to Build a Self-Improving System with Claude Code
  (0:20) - Step 1: BASE — Create the Framework
  (1:59) - Step 2: UPLOAD — Bulk Ingest Your Data
  (4:26) - Step 3: INFLOW — Set Up Your Data Pipelines
  (9:39) - Step 4: LOOP — The Improvement Loop
  (14:46) - Step 5: DRIVE — Run It, Don't Over-Engineer
  
  What to watch next ⤵️
  - Loop Engineering, the full deep dive: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YAS4ojuhbW4
  - Build these Claude knowledge projects: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IiZ5HRaeX4s
  - How to set up Claude Skills: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ad-LyammTI
  
  --------
  FOR INDIVIDUALS:
  - Free 5-day AI playbook (what I used to build a $25M+ startup): https://the-ai-playbook.com/sis
  - Use BuildPartner to build 10x faster with Claude Code (try free): https://buildpartner.ai/sis
  
  FOR BUSINESSES, Ways to work with me:
  - Apply for my Executive AI Coaching Program: https://www.theincubator.xyz/apply/sis
  - Want to build a SaaS product without hiring a CTO? https://www.theincubator.xyz/eng/sis
  --------
  
  If you're new here, I'm Austin Marchese. How I got here...
  16: First business (SAT Math Tutor)
  22: Graduated Stevens Tech, 4.0, College Basketball, software engineering job at JPM
  23: Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (fun story)
  24: Started creating content, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency, The Incubator
  25: Scaled agency to 15+ team members, $75K/M while working full time
  26: Quit my job, joined a startup called IYK
  27: Became COO of a $25M+ tech startup, worked with Ed Sheeran, Chance the Rapper and more
  28: Built a $20M+ real estate portfolio in the background
  29: Transitioned from IYK, re-launched The Incubator, and grew it to a 6-figure biz in 30 days. Now building BuildPartner.ai
  
  To everyone who's spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines but not everyone can build...
  
  - Austin
  
  Follow/Subscribe
  
  - Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/
  - Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese
---
I've been obsessed with building my own self-improving system with Cloud Code. And after studying Andrea Carpathi, the Anthropic team, and running my own system, I've identified a five-step build framework that lets anyone create a self-improving system with Cloud Code. Today I'm walking through all five steps, exactly how to implement them, and the lessons I've learned from teaching hundreds of people the same system. Step one is base, create the framework for improving. Before you do anything, you need to create a project. This is where you store all the data so you can enhance it over time. To create this project, there are two parts. One, a knowledge base where you store the data and two, the skills that let you work 10 times faster. So part one, the knowledge base. Andrea Carpathi went viral for his concept called LLM knowledge base. I have videos on my channel diving deep into this, but the concept is fairly simple. You have a raw folder, which includes any raw resources you ingest. For example, this could be a call transcript you record. And then you have a wiki folder, which references files in your raw folder to help AI know where to look. Think this like a table of contents in a book, so AI can locate information without reading the entire book. Here's a prompt, which will help you set this up from scratch, or in an existing project that you're currently working on. And to enforce this, we'll update the claw.md file to explain how it's all set up. This file essentially serves as a consistent reminder to claw it about the framework. Part two is skills for repetitive tasks. If you're doing the same thing twice with clawed, you should create a skill. And a skill is your way of telling clawed exactly how to handle a task. It's the same process every single time, so you don't have to go back and forth. The first skill that I set up with every person I work with is add new resource. This tells clawed exactly how to add a new file into the system. It will take a raw file ingested into raw, and then clawed will analyze it and update or create any wiki entries that should reference it. These utility skills will come in a play later when I go through orchestration skills, which call multiple utility skills together to create a bigger output. To set up both parts, both the knowledge and the skills. Here is a single prompt that combines the two. This prompt will help you create the project, which will set the foundation for the entire system. Now you have the project set up, but step two is about creating your own data lake. Step two, upload, identify your data plus bulk ingest. Before creating a self-improving system, you need to ingest everything you've already done. We want to work smarter, not harder. So let's look at all of our historical training data that's already exists and bring that all together in one place. To do this, we're going to look in three places. Place one is your AI inputs. This is the data you generate just by using AI. So this is your conversation history. And in my eyes, this is the most relevant training data that you'll ever find because it's literally you inside the terminal asking the AI ecosystem questions. And the beauty of this is that clawed already saves all of its session history locally. So there's a file that you can analyze historical conversations with. Here's a prompt that you can run that will analyze your session history for you and provide your project with clear learnings and skill suggestions. The key part here is the phrase, suggest ways we can improve my system. The second place is personal ecosystem data everywhere you interact online. You create your own data footprint. So this is the process of grabbing as much data from those footprints as possible and bringing it into the system. Now, there are a lot of ways that you can do this, but two specific ways to do this that apply to everyone watching this video is the first, which is use clawed to mine your own computer. Open clawed code and say analyze my computer and identify any files you think would be helpful to ingest into the system. This will surface any information you already have on your machine that will be valuable for the system you're building. And the second is to pull your email history. If you use Google, there's a feature called Google takeout. If you use Outlook, there's a feature called Outlook export. You can then take this export and bring it into clawed to analyze your writing style and any potential places to use AI that you're not already using it. And if you are concerned with data privacy, okay, just skip this part. This probably will help you ingest these two data sets. The third place to look is your life story and project goals. This one is simple and most people don't think to do it. Just sit down and record yourself talking about your life, your project goals, and what you want to accomplish. Then upload that recording to clawed and say analyze this recording and interview me to fill in anything I may have missed. And once finalize, add this is training data to my project. Clawed will then interview you. And by the end, you have a file that you can bring anywhere with you that gives context to AI that it probably didn't already have. Here is a prompt that will run the entire bulk ingest in one session. At this point, we set up our system. We've ingested historical data and created custom skills based on what we actually do. Not hypothetical skills. Now this next step is the most important thing to get right so that we can create a self-improving system. Step three is inflow. This is about setting up your data pipelines. Think of your system like a lake. In step two, we fill the lake up. But the problem is if there's no new water keeping the lake full, it will evaporate and no longer be useful. So in this step, we create data pipelines, which will act as rivers for our lake. And these rivers will automatically flow into the lake and you won't have to think about it. The way we'll do this is what I call skill-driven data ingestion. For each pipeline, we first need to set up a skill that is well tested, that we know processes raw data exactly how we want it. In step four, we'll use this to create our automated improvement loops. But you can't do that without this because this is a step where 99% of people get it wrong. There are four different types of data pipelines that you want to set up. Pipeline one is your own inputs. Like I said earlier, there's really no better training data than your own conversation history with Claude. And we process that as part of the initial data dump, but we need to continuously process this to get learnings from our conversation history. So to do this, we're going to create a skill called sync Claude sessions. The skill is pretty simple. It'll take your past conversation history, bring it into your project, and then ingest it into a process folder. Here's a prompt that will create this sync Claude session skill. And with every one of these prompts, when you do create these skills, it's super important that you actually test the skill. Make sure it works on your machine, please. The second pipeline that you'll set up is your personal ecosystem data capture. Again, a lot like the bulk upload, you need to figure out the places where you're creating data on a recurring basis. So for me, I hop on client and team calls. I write Slack messages, and I post videos on YouTube. I'm really a simple man. So to set this up for myself, here's how I would do it. First, for meetings, I would use granola because it records in the background without an AI bot sitting on the call, which feels a little too intrusive for me. And I use their MCP to pull the full transcripts from that call and then ingest it into my project. For Slack, I can set up a direct Slack connection in Claude to pull chat history. For YouTube, I post videos publicly with transcripts enabled. So I can reference the final product to see what was actually said and pull that into my system. The most important thing when you're thinking about all of these different nodes for data capture is make sure that you're actually capturing the content. If you can't figure out the connection today, that doesn't matter, as long as the raw information is there, and eventually you'll figure out the connection. Now, I went through the three of those pretty quickly, but on screen, this will showcase three unique ways to connect to external data sources. Now, this may sound complicated, but you can just lean on Claude to help with this connection. Here's a prompt that will create a sync ecosystem data skill based on whatever you're trying to connect. This will go through each connection source, pull anything that's new, and then process it into our actual project. Pipeline number three is your curated content pipeline. This is data from external resources that can help you create a better output. For example, this could be a book, a blog, or a YouTube video. Now, there are a lot of ways to do this, but my favorite is using newsletters. Because no matter what niche you're in, there is somebody writing a newsletter with a ton of valuable information about your specific topic. And the best part is everyone watching this has an email. So if you don't want to get flooded with topic-specific newsletters, what you can do is add an alias domain. So whatever your normal email is, let's say it's Brad, shout out all the brads out there. You would do Brad plus newsletter at gmail.com, where the plus newsletter creates an email alias that lets you easily filter for emails to that specific location. So for example, if you're looking for AI best practices, you would click the link below, which has my email newsletter, which has a ton of juice, and then you would ingest that into your pipeline, and you would get better insight in how to best use AI. And if needed, you can create that alias domain to help you with filtering. Now, the skill that will power all of this is sync curated content. This will pull newsletters from alias inbox, extract the key claims from each one, and then process it into our wiki. This is specific for email, but it's similar for other resources. You just need to configure it based on where you want to gather the information. Now, when you're gathering the information, be careful not to just pump it with everything. At the end of the day, less is more here. Be very selective with what you're ingesting, because you only want high signal resources. Pipeline number four is periodic data dumps. Similar to the life story step earlier, I try and end my day or my weeks, talking through any lessons that I learned. And this is just me downloading my lived experience into Clawed to help get more context about what I'm doing. So I'll just rant into Clawed code using Hex or Whisper Flow, which are Voice to Text Tools, and then I'll run the Add New Resource skill, which we already created to ingest this information. Now, putting that all together, here is a single prompt that will create all three of these syncs skills that I've mentioned. This helps create a constant stream of data into the data lake that you're creating. Now, one question you may be asking is how do we make it so that it automatically improves over time? And we'll get to that in the next step before we get to that. If this is your first video, mine, welcome to channel. But if it's your second or more, here's our anti-slop agreement. The visuals, the testing, the hours of research that went into this video, this is entirely built for humans, not for these AI robot scrapers. So all that I ask is you subscribe as part of this agreement, tell this content reach more people. Also, every video I give away a Clawed Max subscription. This video's winner is Gregory Horn, who's building an AI native video studio for his Hermes agent. Now, for this video, comment below with what you're building to enter. Now, to step four, which is where most people get self-improving wrong, and I'm going to show you why. Step four, loop. Determine and set up the improvement loop. Most people think self-improving means the system runs entirely on its own without any human input. And yes, that is possible, and I'm going to show you how you can do that. But I do want to explain the downside of this. Let me give you a workout analogy that might hit home a little too hard for some people. Imagine a system that was automatically improving your fitness. So there's scenario one, a fully automated system. This system will work out for you. You don't have to lift a finger and you get jacked without any effort. That sounds amazing, but what if the system only ever trains chest? Six months from now, your chest is huge, and your legs are toothpicks. The system thought it was improving you, but it was actually breaking you. Now scenario two, augmented. You get a workout plan, but before it runs it for you, you sign off on what the workout is. Then it does the workout without you lifting a finger. While these scenarios handle the heavy lifting, but the first one just removes your judgment, which in some cases, unless you love working out only chest, you just can't afford to lose this. So when should you automate and when should you review? Now I'll cover that, but first, how do we actually analyze the ingested data and propose improvements? I like having a single skill called improve system. Here's a prompt to set it up, which once set up, we'll categorize any improvement that you do into three buckets. Bucket one, auto-approved. This is low-risk stuff like data-blow, mislinkages, obvious fixes, and improvements. This is what we'll have Claude automatically apply as part of the skill. It puts it in a change log and you don't see any of these changes unless you want to. Bucket number two is need sign off. This is higher stake stuff like editing a skill or creating a new skill. Anything where the wrong choice could degrade the output quality of your system. These will get written to output slash review with the date.md. And within the file itself, there will be a checkbox with one of three options. Approve, reject, or approve, and don't ask again. Bucket number three is more context required. This is stuff that's analyzed, but the skill can't decide on its own how to handle it. Essentially, it's just things that you need to provide more information on. And both buckets two and bucket three, what needs approval and what needs more context, get added to the same file so you can review it all at once. On screen, you can see what an example review file looks like as the system suggests improvements, which I use in Obsidian to view it. And now you may be asking, what if I want to automatically approve everything? And you can, you can just adjust the skill accordingly, but I do want you to be aware of the spectrum and the pros and cons of it. On one end of the spectrum, you have full automation. This is where you auto-approve anything, and it requires the least amount of work, but it's the most likely to lead to system drift. And then on the other end is review every change. This is safe, but it's too much work and you're likely just not going to do it. The Bucketing strategy, which is what I just went through, is exactly where I said, and it's in the middle of the spectrum. AI handles the low-stake work on its own, and you only handle what is considered high-stakes calls. And over the time, the system will learn what is high-stakes and what isn't. We're having AI make the easy calls, and I prefer making the hard ones. So at this point, we understand the trade-offs, and we've decided to go with a bucketed approach. But how do we begin and start automating the entire thing? We're going to use Claude Code's Desktop app to create routines. Routine 1 is data ingestion. Routines are how you schedule things to run inside the Desktop app. We're going to set up local routines, because this gives it direct access to your file system, so you can easily edit and manage files without worrying about version control. To get to this, you can go to routines and then click the drop-down and then select local. To help simplify all the data ingestion into a single routine, I create a skill called slash data ingestion. This is an orchestration skill that runs the three skills that we created earlier. Sync Claude Sessions, Sync Ecosystem Data, and Sync Curated Content Skills. Using this prompt, which will create it, I then create a new routine and have it run this data ingestion skill on Tuesdays, and then another one for Fridays at 9 AM. And the actual routine is super simple. I just have it referenced the skill I've already created. The key to any successful routine is you want to reference skills so that it's easy to update, and so if you update the skill directly through Claude code, it'll automatically update the routine. The second routine we'll create is System Improvements. I then do the same thing for the slash-improved system skill. This will run at the end of the day on Tuesday and on Fridays, where it will review the data ingested earlier in the day and suggest improvements. The reason I've separated these two is I feel like they're two distinct processes, and I think of routines as an individual process. So rather than bucketing, I have individual, and that way if something fails, I know which part of the process failed. And the third routine is Human Review. This is your human process, and this is so important because you are driving the system. And we've already created a very simple way to do this, where you just have to check boxes on what you actually want to be improved and what you don't want to be improved. If you want, you can make a slash-human-improved system skill, which will help you walk through the process or notify you through Slack if you are getting lazy or if forgot to provide feedback. The important part here is that you are part of the process because this is your system, and you need to own it. So far, we've covered the first four steps and how this will transform how you work. But the reality is that you are the one putting this thing together, which is why the fifth step matters the most. Step five, drive. Run it, don't over-engineer it. This step is the mindset you need to actually run the system you just built. From first-hand experience, you can have all the skills and knowledge, but if you don't apply these four strategies, you are absolutely cooked. The first is slow as smooth. Smooth as fast. Don't try and do everything I want. Move slow, move methodical. Everything in this video is teed up for you. Just go once step at a time and don't be discouraged. Two is you're the leader. The system serves you. If a piece of the system isn't actively making you better, just get rid of it. You don't have to have it. If you added a skill and you don't like it, just delete it. You don't have to wait for someone's permission to do something. Just do it. Three, compress your feedback loops. Self-improving systems are valuable because they compress feedback loops. But the loops only learn if you're actually using the tools. And even though it's automatically improving, don't wait for it to automatically improve. If a skill didn't work the way you wanted, and you already went back and forth with Claw to actually fix the final output, just say, based on this conversation, improve the skill. You are pushing the system forward, so continuously do it. For it is not that serious bias to action. People always ask me, what tool should I use? Should I make it RAW-slash inputs? Should I make it RAW-slash sessions folder? Should I run these things at 6am or 9am? The honest answer for any of those smaller things, it just doesn't matter. The only choice that's genuinely wrong is overthinking it. AI is really good, so just use it and build things. These systems sharpen through reps, not whiteboard sessions. One of my favorite quotes of all time is from Brian Armstrong, the CEO of Coinbase. He said, action produces information. If you're not sure if something works, just do it. And you'll learn faster and you'll have more confidence about the answer because you've already done it and you've seen it through. And that's exactly what we're doing with the build framework here. It's all about action over analysis, so just start doing. Now, if you like this video, you'll love this video where I dive into loop engineering. A process that you can use in parallel with what we discussed here to make your self-improving system go from good to great. I'll see you in the next one. Peace.