---
video_title: "The Top 1% Own Their AI. Here's How To Do It."
video_id: qO597Wf47aY
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qO597Wf47aY
video_date: 2026-03-19T15:15:07+00:00
video_description: |
  Download Tango's extension for FREE:  https://www.tango.ai?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=video&utm_campaign=austinmarchese&utm_term=1
  
  In this video, I break down the 4 principles of AI Orchestration that separate the 1% from everyone else. Most people are renting AI - opening ChatGPT, prompting on the fly, starting from zero every time. The 1% own it, and their AI gets smarter every single day without them.
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - The 4 Principles of AI Orchestration
  (0:58) - Principle 1: You Can't Improve What You Don't See
  (3:36) - Principle 2: Your Documentation Is Your Training Data
  (5:15) - Principle 3: Kill the Friction or Nothing Happens
  (7:47) - Principle 4: The Generalist Wins the AI Era
  
  
  If you're new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese. I've been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full-time job, and today, I'm building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over $18 Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me break down how I got here because on YouTube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here…
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called "The Incubator" all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  29 yrs old: Transitioned from IYK, Launched a AI-Consulting Agency, grew to a 6-figure business in less than 30 days
  
  To everyone who's spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  •⁠  ⁠Instagram: [https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/](https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/)
  •⁠  ⁠Youtube:  [https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese](https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese)
---
Most people using AI are renting it. They open chat GBT, they type in a prompt, they get an answer, and then the next time they use it, they start from zero. But the top 1% they own it. Their AI gets smarter every time they use it and the gap compounds daily. And the skill that makes this possible isn't prompting or vibe-coding. It's AI orchestration. I built a $1 million agency while having a full-time job, helped raise over $20 million as the COO of my last startup, and worked directly with founders of 7 plus figure businesses helping them scale. And I've learned that the top 1% all follow the same process. And so these are the four principles you need to actually get ahead of 99% of people, and the one tool that you aren't using that can power all of it. So there's a shift happening right now. We've moved from a knowledge economy to an allocation economy. Your knowledge is still your superpower, but only if you can deploy it systematically. And the 1% don't necessarily know more. You know how to direct AI at the right problems, in the right order, with the right context. And the foundation of all this, it starts with the first principle. Principle number one is you can't improve what you can't see. So most people using AI are trying to automate processes. They've never actually documented, which actively makes things worse. And this isn't something new. Toyota actually figured this out a decade ago. Before they even thought about automating anything in their factory floor, every single worker had to document and understand the manual process first. And that's because both Toyota and the 1% understand with a 99% skip. They document things first. And two things happen when you map out a process and start documenting. First, you see the holes. Why do I do step three before step four? You realize half the steps aren't even needed. And number two is it rewires how you think. You stop seeing work as stuff I do, and you start seeing it as a system. Inputs, outputs, leverage points. Once that switch flips, you'll stop unseeing it. So let me show you something that makes this ridiculously easy. This is tango. It's a chrome extension. You install it. You hit capture. And then you just do your workflow like you normally would. Every click gets captured, screenshots, descriptions, annotations. You don't have to think. To showcase this, I'm going to capture something I do in my business. And it's something you just can't get wrong. It's client onboarding. Whether you're doing this for a client at work, a new hire, a contractor, or a teammate that you work with, it doesn't really matter. Let me walk you through how easy this is. For my team, we work with businesses to help them integrate with AI. And we have to make sure they have a smooth onboarding experience. So I'm going to document what we do for each client. So someone from my team can do it, so I don't have to. So first, to do this, I click the plug-in. And then I hit start capture. Now it'll record everything I do. From there, I go to the Google Drive, and then I need to create a new folder. Before I show this, one cool feature that I love is if you want to blur things out, well, you're in demo, you can click everything you want to blur. So in this case, I want to blur every email. So let's assume that that's the end of the client onboarding. All I have to then do is hit check. And tango just created an exact SOP of what I just walked through. So you can see each step along the way. So notion, you can see me clicking the actions, and it makes it clear and obvious exactly what needs to be done. Literally every single step, it's freaking crazy. Before this, I was just answering a lot of the same questions, because my team couldn't find the right info. Now it's a system that I can actually work with. This tool tango shouldn't be new to you if you've been around this channel, and I've been using it for over three years, and I frankly don't really shut up about it. And after the tango team reached out to me, I'm excited to say that I'm partnering with them, and they're sponsoring this video. And this absolutely fires me up, because I just love this tool, and I've been using it for years. So for you to start using it, click the first link in the description, and you can access it for free, and start documenting your processes. Now once you've done that, and you start documenting your processes, you're creating the one thing that AI can't generate on its own. Principle number two, your documentation is your training data. Every AI model, for the most part, has all the same training data. And none of them have your workflows, your edge cases, the way you specifically do things. Until you document it, AI can't touch it. This concept is called tacit knowledge. And in 1995, a study looked at why Toyota and Honda were lapping American competitors. The answer was simple. They were better at turning tacit knowledge in a documentation that could be handed off. That was the whole competitive advantage, like literally they didn't skip the first principle. And the reality is, the knowledge in your head, that's useless to you. If you're opening chat GBT and prompting on the fly every time, you're renting intelligence. But when you document your process and build workflows from that documentation, now you own the intelligence. And that can't be replicated and it compounds over time. That's the whole game we're playing. Renting resets owning compounds. And everything in this video is about moving from a renter to an owner. And that's how you get ahead of the 99% when you have access to the same tools. If you're unsure what I mean, I'm gonna walk through it here. That guide, tango just generated, that's not just documentation. That's training data. Think about what you can do with this information. You can feed it into tango's automations and have it literally do the task for you. The clicking, the navigation, the form failing, all of it. And if there's specific things you want to do yourself, you can suck manual at that step so you can review it yourself. And if you want to try and streamline the process, you can also export the documentation into cloud or chat GBT or whatever AI you use and say, here's how I currently do this. Where are the bottlenecks? What can be streamlined? And where does my team keep getting stuck? Your knowledge now workable by AI. So now you've seen the skill and you've seen what it unlocks. But I know what you're thinking. Austin, this sounds good, but I barely have time to do my actual job. When am I supposed to document everything? Which brings us to principle number three, kill the friction or nothing happens. And the 99% optimized for today. The fastest shortcut, the quickest prompt, whatever saves them 10 minutes right now. The 1% optimized for the long game. You already know you should be documenting your workflows, but you're not. And that's because traditional documentation means stopping what you're doing, opening a dock, writing down every step, hanging screen shots, ugh. And by the time you've done that, you've lost 30 minutes and you're like, why didn't I just do that myself? So just don't do any of that. A researcher at Stanford named BJ Fox studied exactly this. You don't need more motivation. You need less friction. This is something the 1% truly understand. So there's this concept that if you get 1% better every day, by the end of the year, you're 37 times better than where you started. That's just math. And whenever I see the graph, my mind just like explodes. And the thing with this, when you're using AI, the only way you can get 1% better is if you're capturing what you're doing because that's how things compound. 1% one day isn't significant, but 1% 365 days in a row, that's the game changer. So how can you remove the friction? Well, just don't have any friction. I don't stop working to document. I just work. Tango runs in the background, captures every click I do, and it generates the full guide for me. The client onboarding process, that's zero extra effort. Every improvement I make gets captured automatically. It's compounding on autopilot. And for people working with others, which is likely everyone watching this video, you can take that walk through and embed it directly into a document. So instead of people asking you a million questions, they can see in the instructions right where they need them. I did this for a client the other day, and he was like, whoa, that was epic. And he stopped asking me questions on how to do what he kept asking me for. And my favorite part when I embed this is that Tango can show people exactly where to click with guided prompts in terms of what to do. That step-by-step right on their screen. And if you want to go all the way, it can actually do the clicks for you. So you go from documenting a process to guiding someone through it to fully automating it. And one of my pro tips is if in the direction, I'll actually throw in a prompt to help them streamline that process. So let's say for that client onboarding automation I made, I could add a prompt in terms of how to draft the email when I go to my Gmail. And that way the prompt lives in that step so you don't have to try and look and find it. This is a way to pair your documentation with direct prompts to solve any issues the person following it might run into. After you do this, you document it once and it answers that question forever. This is time you permanently get back and this makes all the difference. Now most people hear all of this and they think cool, nice productivity hack. But this is way bigger than that. And the data on this is pretty one. Principle number four is the generalist wins the AI era. Here's where owning your AI stops being a productivity hack and becomes a career advantage. Think about what you now have after these first three principles. You see the process as a system. You turn those systems into training data and you can capture improvements so they compound over time. Most people will never learn this but it gets bigger than your own workflows. The best CEOs don't get there by being the best at one thing. They've a broad understanding of each department and what everyone's doing and they're able to direct people at the right problems. And the truth is you're the CEO of your life and AI is now your employee and the person who orchestrates across domains, AI can't replace them. So all the time that you're gonna get back from automating and streamlining your workflows by documenting and handing off these tasks, use that time not to do the same thing. Use it to learn how fields adjacent to work, sales, finance, operations, marketing. If you can build a service level understanding of how each one of them runs, that will be your differentiator. Because the truth is right now, 49.7% of all AI agent activity is in software engineering. Everything else, which if you look at this chart, is literally crazy. It's all concentrated in software engineering. It's less than 10%, which means that nobody's been able to figure out how to integrate these AI agents in the different fields. So if you're the one who comes in, understands the power of documentation, training data and compounding systems, you become the person who can bridge the gap between knowing that AI can help and making it actually help. That's how you climb up and make yourself irreplaceable. Because of skills that you learn in your own field and your own day to day, that translates to what everyone else is doing. But the reality is nobody is thinking about it in the ways that I covered today. So the ability to document and empower AI orchestration is how the 1% is owning their AI instead of renting it. So here's your checklist. First, document your processes. So AI has something real to work with using tools like tango. Second is turn that documentation into training data that compounds. Third is kill the friction so that every improvement stacks instead of disappear. And then fourth, take that skill set beyond your own workflows and become the person in the room that can translate this to other departments. The 99% are renting. They're opening chat JBT, prompting on the fly, starting from zero every single time. The 1% own it and it gets better every single day. So go to tango.ai, install the free Chrome extension and document your first workflow today. That's how it starts. One workflow, five minutes, and you'll immediately see things like you've never seen them before. That's the 1% advantage. If you like this video, then you're gonna love this video where I break down the five levels of AI and how most people don't realize that there's stuck at level two. I'll see you in the next one. Peace.