---
video_title: "How Two 17-Year-Olds Built a $40M AI App From Nothing"
video_id: bV6JhGCvNyM
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bV6JhGCvNyM
video_date: 2026-03-24T15:15:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Get a free 5-day email course on how to become irreplaceable with AI - https://www.the-ai-playbook.com/calai
  
  In this video, I break down exactly how two high schoolers built Cal AI an AI app that sold for $40 million — and reverse-engineer the 6-step playbook they used so you can apply it to whatever you're building right now. Whether it's a side project, an internal tool, or something you're vibe coding on weekends, this system works.
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - How 2 High Schoolers Built Cal AI, a $40M+ AI App
  (1:41) - Step 1: One-Sentence Problem
  (2:57) - Step 2: Content First
  (4:28) - Step 3: Validate 
  (6:06) - Step 4: MVP
  (8:02) - Step 5: Scaling Distribution
  (9:19) - Step 6: Paywall Psychology
  
  If you're new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese. I've been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full-time job, and today, I'm building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over  Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me break down how I got here because on YouTube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here…
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called "The Incubator" all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  29 yrs old: Transitioned from IYK, Launched a AI-Consulting Agency, grew to a 6-figure business in less than 30 days
  
  To everyone who's spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  •⁠  ⁠Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/
  •⁠  ⁠Youtube:  https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese
---
Two high schoolers just sold their AI app to my fitness pal for over $40 million. And look, the playbook I'm about to show you is not about helping you build a $40 million app. That's not the point. The point is, these guys follow a playbook that's a repeatable system. One that I've personally used multiple times to get over 400,000 views on a resume tool and thousands of users on an AI detection game. And I've even used them to help launch products to over 100,000 users. So I'm going to break down exactly what they did, step by step, and show you how to apply it in whatever you're building right now. Whether it's a side project, an internal tool at work, or something you've been vibrating on the weekends. Before diving into the exact playbook, who are these guys? Well, Zach, Yngari, and Henry Langmac, they're not making it easy on me for those names, are two kids from Long Island. Shout out to 631. I'm from Long Island as well. They launched Cali Eye in May 2024, literally from Zach's parents house. And the app does one thing. It takes a picture of your food and it tells you the total amount of calories. That's it. 15 million downloads later, 50 million a year in revenue. And they just sold to my fitness pal. And the crazy part about all this is that they bootstrap the whole thing, meaning that they got zero money from outside investors. AKA, it's something you can do. Meanwhile, my fitness pal, which acquired them has over 200 employees and the product is trash. And Zach's quote about this, is that age does not determine impact, performance does. And that's the mindset to have while we go through all of this. It's not about the resources, it's not about the experience, it's about following a system that works and execute it. So the playbook that they ran has two phases. The first phase is about validation. That says steps one, two, and three. This is everything you think about before you even think about vibe coding or building anything. And then phase two is about execution. This is steps four, five, and six. And the reality is that most people skip phase one and they go straight to building. And this is why most projects fail. So phase one step one is the one sentence problem. If you can't explain your app in one sentence, it's too complicated. Cali Eye, take a picture of your food and get the calorie count instantly. That's it. No feature list, no powered by AI, just the outcome. And Zach said it himself, I focused on one powerful feature. Take a picture of food and get calories and built the whole app around that. And if you then compare it to my fitness pal, what is my fitness pal do? It's a calorie tracker with meal plans, recipes, social media fleet, a barcode scanning app. There's all these things. You see how that feels just more complicated. One concept that I talk about all the time is that abstraction is the enemy of conversion. Every question a customer has to ask themselves reduces the chance they'll actually use your product. If your app requires a paragraph to explain, people will just go back to whatever else they're doing. People are busy and if your thing is too complicated, they're just not going to use it. So your action item from this step is write down what you're building in one sentence. Simply put, if you have the word end in that sentence, simplify it. And if it takes more than three seconds for someone to understand, simplify. And if you look at the original version of Cali, it has two screens, a calories left page where you take the photos and you see how many calories you can still consume in a settings page. That was the entire product. Step two is that content drives product. This is where a lot of people get things backwards. They build the product or they think about the product and then they figure out distributions. Like, oh, I'll build it and then I'll just post about it when it's done. And this is entirely wrong because if you don't figure out distribution, it doesn't matter the product that you built. And Cali, I figured out distribution before they built. They knew from day one that short form content on TikTok was going to be their primary channel. And they designed the product to be content. Think about what they did, right? Someone takes a photo of their food. The app instantly shows the calories. That moment, that wow factor, that's just shareable by nature. So when someone posts a video using Cali, the app is the star of the content. It's not just let me explain the app. It's look at what this app just did. The relationship is very clear. And their short form content strategy worked. They had 12 TikTok accounts simultaneously. They posted over a thousand videos total and one of their accounts, they were able to get over 50,000 followers. But none of that's crazy. What's crazy? They had over 5 million posts on TikTok mentioning Cali. This is because the product naturally is so conducive for organic content. And their strategy wasn't just grow one big account. It was create something that could take off across many accounts. Ask yourself, where does my target audience already spend time? And what content format works on that platform? And can I create content about that problem before the solution even exists? If you're building something and you can't imagine someone filming a 30 second video about it, you're likely going to run into a distribution problem. I really can't stress this enough. Think content first. Then figure out the product. Now step three is validate with that content. Here's an example of a product I built. I posted a video about a resume screen or tool I built. 500,000 plus views across social channels. 5,000 plus people commenting asking for a link. That's validation of the tool. And this is before I built anything substantial. I knew people wanted it. Cali I did the same thing. They called it stealth promos. Influencers would create viral content that's already proven to work. Then suddenly integrate Cali I into the middle of that post. It feels organic, not salesy. And their common strategy was genius. When someone asks what app is that? They would never say download here. They would reply you can find us in the app store Cali I. And this is where the power of their name comes. Notice Cali I. The name is something that people can remember and easily type in. That discovery effect makes people feel like they found something not like they're being sold to. And when your name is simple enough to remember, they can find you without clicking a link on a social media platform. And I actually experienced the impact of this first hand. I built an AI detection game called IsisReal.ai. And the domain itself tells you exactly what the product does. And when I checked the traffic, 90% of users typed the domain directly. Over a thousand people came in not from clicking links and comments, but from remembering the name, typing in their browser, and then going to the product. And the reason I think domains are so powerful is they can't be copied. Someone might be able to recreate your app, but they can't take your domain. That's digital real estate. And that's a form of a competitive mode. So that's phase one. Step one is find your one sentence problem. Step two is think about content first. Step three is validate with content and make it easy for people to find you. Now moving on to phase two, which is about execution. So the first step in phase two is spin up an MVP fast. This is step four in the entire playbook. So you validated your idea of people wanting. Now what? You have to build fast. Shipping days not months. Cali I's first version was embarrassingly simple. A photo goes in. Cali estimate comes out. That was it. There's no meal planning, no recipes, no social features. Just one thing. And the accuracy of this Cali counter wasn't even perfect. They used anthropic and open AI models. And there was about a 10% error margin on calories. But it didn't matter. It was good enough. And it was fast. And so month one, they were able to get 28K in revenue, two 115K six months in 700K per month. That's how fast things can move when you ship and iterate instead of just trying to perfect it in a vacuum. Now look, I talk about vibe coding all the time. You don't need an engineering team anymore. Tools like cursor, claw code, replet. You can describe what you want and play in English and have a working prototype in hours. So when you're building this first product, consider it a two way door decision. Jeff Bezos talks about this a lot. If you can walk back through a door, if the decision is reversible, just move fast. So what this could mean in your life is let's say you're deciding which hat to wear. This is a two way door. You can always just change the hat. But let's say you're going and getting attached to that's a permanent decision. So that's a one way door two way door decisions. You can make quickly one way door decisions. You want to take a longer time to make sure you get it right. And the reality is building an MVP is a two way door. If it doesn't work, you can just iterate. You're not stuck. So here's your action item. What's the one thing your product must do? Just build that ship at this weekend. And one thing you might be thinking from step three to step four is how do I test if people want the product before actually building the MVP? The reality is there's a lot of ways to do this. But the thing that most people do is they just spin up a landing page that has people add their email to join a wait list. They're testing demand before actually building the MVP. So that's why step three is before step four. Test before you spend time building. Okay, that's enough there. Let's go to step five, which is about scaling distribution. We're now getting deep into phase two. And this is where things are going to get a bit more advanced. And I do want to be upfront with you. Most of you watching this aren't going to implement step five and step six tomorrow, which is fine, but it's important that you understand why this stuff works. So when you do get to this step, you know what playbook to run. So CaliI worked with over 150 fitness influencers. They paid them anywhere from $100 to $100k per post, depending on reach. And the metric they used is CPM, which is cost per a thousand impressions. And they tried to get to $5 CPMs. When working with influencers, here's what they looked at. Fowars don't matter. Views and engagement do. Instead of micromanaging creators, they gave them full creative freedom. And one of Zach's quote is, we don't micromanage. And for each influencer they work with, they use the referral code system. And you've heard this before, right? The influencers would say, don't forget to use code Andy on CaliI. And the beauty of this is it turns influencers from one time promoters to brand advocates. And now I don't think you're going to go and pay influencers tomorrow. That's fine. But here's what you should take away from this. When you are ready to scale, and maybe that's six months from now, remember that it's not necessarily the biggest accounts. It's about finding creators whose audience actually care about the problem you're solving. And generally speaking, audience alignment needs to follow or count every time. Step six is paywall psychology. When doing the research, this step really surprised me. And it's something that I'm going to have to start implementing in the products that I build. So CaliI makes about $2.50 per download. And making over $2 million monthly from $800,000 downloads, that's insane efficiency. And the key with how they do it is their onboarding funnel. So they have a 20 plus step onboarding quiz. And your first reaction is like, that's probably too long. People drop off. And that is exactly what I thought. And it's actually based on the famous Hermosi value equation. So a quick summary of what the Hermosi value equation is, you have your dream outcome and your perceived likelihood of achievement. So like, what do you want to happen? What is the chance it's going to happen? Divided by your time delay and the effort in sacrifice. So how long will it take? How much effort do you need? And if you put that all together, that's the value that your offer has. And so now normally, you want to reduce effort in sacrifice. So you want to make the quiz quick and easy. But a long quiz actually increases something else. This makes the perceived likelihood of achievement that much higher. And the reason for that is because a user invested time in putting their weight, their height, their goals, their activity level, and they believe the personalized plan will actually work. It feels like it's custom because it took in all this information. So when they hit the paywall, they're emotionally invested. They're not just buying an app. They're buying into a plan they actually already helped create. Another example of this historically is what's called the Betty Crocker effect. Cake mix didn't sell until they forced bakers to add a fresh egg. By introducing intentional effort, it increased the perceived value. Now, for you, whether you're building something with a paywall or not, remember this one thing. A little friction in the right place can actually increase conversion. Don't always assume that quicker is better. Bigger is sometimes better. Okay. So let's run through it all. Step one, one sentence problem. Take a picture, get calories. If your app needs a paragraph, simplify it. Step two, content drives product. Figure out distribution first. Design your product to be content. Step three, validate with content. Create content about the problem, measure comments and DMs. Only scale what's already working. Step four is spin up MVP's fast. Build the one thing, ship this weekend, and iterate from there. Step five, when you're ready to scale distribution, remember, audience alignment beats follower count. Step six, paywall psychology. Intentional effort increases perceived value. Don't assume shorter is better. That playbook aside, these two high schoolers were able to build this while going to class. And the reality is that most people don't talk about is they shipped five apps before one worked. And Zach's advice was get started, ignore the noise, ignore the people telling you that it's impossible. You have the same tools they had, clog, cursor, TikTok, the whole stack. The question isn't, can I do this? The question is what's stopping you from starting this weekend? If you like this video, you're going to love this video where I do a deep dive on how Peter levels, the famous product builder was able to build and launch a product in a weekend that made over 70K a month. I dive into concepts that he used to do that and it builds on a lot of what I covered in this video. So go check that out. I'll see you over there. Peace.