---
video_title: "25 Things You Didn't Know OpenClaw Could Do"
video_id: 5hq9PMPBJT4
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5hq9PMPBJT4
video_date: 2026-02-20T13:45:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Become Irreplaceable with AI (Free 5-Day Email Series): https://the-ai-playbook.com/openclaw
  
  Link to guide on 25 OpenClaw Use Cases - https://www.the-ai-playbook.com/l/resources
  
  Get a free audit on how to make your business an AI-first operation: https://www.the-ai-playbook.com/o/business
  
  In this video, I share 25 use cases for OpenClaw I've personally tested—from monitoring stocks and flights to building automated feedback loops—and show you how to turn AI into a 24/7 assistant that actually does things for you
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:30) - Usecase #1: Real Estate Monitoring
  (1:24) - Usecase #2: Real-Time Stock Market Analysis
  (2:25) - Usecase #3: AI Collaboration While on a Flight
  (3:39) - Usecase #4: Flight Price Monitoring
  (4:28) - Usecase #5: Make Reservations at Your Favorite Restaurant
  (5:40) - Usecase #6: Make Calls on Your Behalf
  (6:14) - Usecase #7: Control Your Entire Smart Home by Texting
  (6:58) - Usecase #8: Setting Up an Employee That Never Loses WiFi
  (9:54) - Usecase #9: Automated AI Feedback Loops
  (11:42) - Usecase #10: Multi-tool Routing (Remove Context Switching)
  (12:45) - Usecase #11: Product Analytics
  (13:26) - Usecase #12: Analyzing Notion Database
  (14:28) - Usecase #13: Generate Images for Script or Presentation
  (15:01) - Usecase #14: Automate SOPs
  (15:55) - Usecase #15: Build a Website While Running a Half Marathon
  (16:46) - Usecase #16: Todo Lists Reminder/Integration
  (17:40) - Usecase #17: Identifying Gaps in Your Process/Thinking
  (18:37) - Usecase #18: Generate Voice Audio and Sound Effects
  (19:03) - Usecase #19: Pull Podcast Transcripts
  (19:40) - Usecase #20: Remove Watermarks
  (20:17) - Usecase #21: Reading Slack Messages to Make Sure You Don't Drop the Ball
  (20:49) - Usecase #22: Multi Team Member Collaboration
  (21:31) - Usecase #23: Reading my Email and Messages me what Matters
  (22:21) - Usecase #24: Sports Update for What You Care About
  (23:11) - Usecase #25: Analyze Your Workout History  
  
   
  How to setup OpenClaw - https://www.notion.so/theincubator/Setting-up-OpenClaw-Claude-Cowork-2fc0df1f244e80bdbf3deb84c69dab62#2fc0df1f244e80be99f0ee93775c4d7d
  Google Flights API - https://serpapi.com/google-flights-api
  Grok API - https://grok-api.apidog.io/ 
  Amazon AWS EC2 - https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2
  Realtor.com API - https://rapidapi.com/Hellorana/api/realtor-data1 
  
  If you’re new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese. I’ve been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full time job and today, I’m building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over $18 Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me breakdown how I got here because on Youtube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here… 
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor 
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called “The Incubator” all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  29 yrs old: Transitioned from IYK, Launched a AI-Consulting Agency, grew to a 6-figure business in less than 30 days
  
  To everyone who’s spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  •⁠  ⁠Instagram: [https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/](https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/)
  •⁠  ⁠Youtube:  [https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese](https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese)
---
So OpenClaw just released and it is an absolute game changer. But it's only a game changer if you know how to use it. Now, luckily for you, I did the hard part and I spent the last few weeks in the trenches finding the best most powerful use cases for it. And these are use cases I've already started implementing into my day to day and my business and the results have been wild. So in this video, I'm sharing 25 use cases for OpenClaw that you can use to drastically change the way you work and save hours every single day. And I'll even cover why this is one of the biggest advancements in AI since ChatGBT launched. But more on that later, because first we have to get to use case number one, which is about using OpenClaw as your real estate agent. In 2026, real estate is just stressful. Should I rent? Should I buy? What should I look for? I need to stay up to date with all this stuff. It gets a little crazy. And then someone who runs a real estate fund and a licensed real estate agent, I understand that the most important thing is moving quick for real estate deals. And if you're looking at real estate every day, you're distracted from what you're supposed to be doing. So instead, you can set up OpenClaw to review listings based on specific criteria you have. And essentially, it'll become your AI realtor. Well, to do this, we'll pull data from realtor.com. And to set that up, you go to this website, you create a free account, and then you get an API key, and then you pass that into your OpenClaw. So let's say you want to look for a two bed, two bath and hoboken. You can tell OpenClaw that that's what you're looking for and then tell it to run every day or every week. And I'll analyze existing listings and tell you which ones fit your criteria. Use case number two is real time stock market analysis. I use this one pretty much every day and especially when the market is tanking. Russen piece my bags. If you've been following me for a while, you know my thoughts on Bitcoin and these past couple of days have definitely hurt. What this use case allows for me to do is I don't have to search Twitter and try and figure out what's going on. Instead, I can ask OpenClaw what happened with a specific stock with a specific investment and it'll give me a breakdown of everything that's in the news. To integrate this, I use xa.ai as an MCP into my OpenClaw. This essentially gives it access to the internet. To do that, I visit this website. I scroll down to MCP connection and then I copy and paste that directly into my OpenClaw. You can send this into your telegram or your WhatsApp if you've already configured that. And then from there, I can ask you what happened to Bitcoin. Why is it down so much and absolutely fucking me? Or I could say what happened to hood going one step further. I can tell it what investments I currently have and have it do an analysis every day or every week to give me an update on my portfolio. This limits me from having to go and do the research myself. You see, number three is having access to AI while on a flight. So this is an absolute banger. Most flights make you pay for Wi-Fi, but they'll let you use Messenger for free. So once you set up OpenClaw, you can then interact with it through WhatsApp or Telegram and talk directly to AI. And this way, you don't have to spend any money on Wi-Fi. Not to mention that this is my favorite way of interfacing with OpenClaw because it's just like texting one of your friends and you can go back and forth with it, whether it's from your laptop or your phone. Now, as I go through all 25 of these use cases, I do have a full guide on setting up OpenClaw. If you haven't set it up already, which is linked in the description, and I'll even go through each of these use cases and include links on there. So don't get too worried if I'm going too quick. To set this up, you'll go to a terminal and run this command and then this command. And then for WhatsApp, you're going to want to run this command. And for Telegram, you're going to want to run this command and you're going to have to use the bot father. So to do that, go to your Telegram and search botfather, start a chat, then say slash start. Once you set that up, you can integrate with OpenClaw from WhatsApp or Telegram from an airplane without paying for Wi-Fi. I'll personally be doing this on my flight from South Africa back to New York. It was just three of the 25 use cases and your brain should be humming with all the possibilities here. The next four are all about your day to day. Then I'll dive into industry changes followed by professional use cases. Use case number four is flight price monitoring. I'm currently planning a trip to Hawaii for a half Ironman that I'm doing with my sister and my girlfriend. And I'm a classic flight procrastinator. I always say the price will go down. I always say it to like a month out and then I'm just not going down. So to save me from myself, I have OpenClaw monitor flights for me to do that. I go to this website. I sign up and then I bring in the API key into my bot. Again, all these resources I have in the document link below. And I will say that for OpenClaw, there are some security concerns and I am a little bit Lucy Goosey with my API keys, just like sending them through Telegram. That's not an ideal setup. I prefer building fast. So for me, it's not the end of the world that I'm not taking the best security precautions. In terms of security, I'll cover in a later use case what I think is the most important. Before that, let's get to use case number five, which is about making reservations at your favorite restaurant. You can have your OpenClaw bot integrate with Rezzy to run every day to see if top local restaurants have availability. This is the exact type of thing OpenClaw is perfect for. Like imagine you were a rich multi-millionaire with an assistant that does anything you ask. This is probably what you would ask them to do. And now you don't have to be a multi-millionaire. Now with that being said, if you are and you want to hire me to streamline your business or whatever helped you become a multi-millionaire, click the second link in the description. Now to set this Rezzy bot up, you log into Rezzy.com, you open dev tools, you hit F12, and then you go to the network tab. From there, you search for a restaurant. I search for carbon. And in the bottom, you type venue question mark URL. You get all this good stuff, select it all, copy and paste it and bring it into your OpenClaw bot. This is basically letting your bot simulate being new and looking at reservations on Rezzy. Like, and then tell it to watch for the best spots in New York City, look up the top restaurants and see if there's any availability. We're smarter, not harder, and as someone from New York, I know getting a reservation out of top restaurant is surprisingly ridiculously hot. Okay, use case number six is make calls on your behalf. Let's say you can't find reservation on Rezzy, but you have to figure it out. You can set up either blend.ai or VAPI to go and make the call to the restaurant for you. From experience, sometimes if you just call a restaurant, they'll be able to see you. For this immigration, this will take time setting up, but the broader use case is clear. You can make these agents make outbound calls to complete specific tasks. So restaurant bookings, sure, but what about requesting refunds discount on your bill, just annoying your friends and trolling them. All of that is now possible. New case number seven is controlling your entire smart home by texting. You know those open hue lights. There's actually an open hue skill. Now think of skills as something you can easily download to teach your AI assistant to do. And I have a whole video on skills on my channel, but essentially you can download them to your open claw bot so it immediately knows how to do these things. And so there are skills that allow you to control the lighting, the smart home equipment within your house. Transparenely, I don't have these lights at my house, so I haven't worked through this example myself, but I see people on Twitter and they're absolutely loving it. Now for me, I don't know if I'd want a robot controlling the house like that, but different strokes for different folks. Okay, so those are some of the personal use cases. Let's go to industry changing use cases. Use case number eight is setting up an employee that never loses Wi-Fi. So I hinted at this earlier, but I highly recommend against setting up open claw on your everyday laptop. In my eyes, it's too powerful and there are security risks. Instead, I suggest creating a new computer that you slowly give more and more access to. And now a lot of people are going viral for using Mac minis to run their open claw employee. They're just like showing all these things. Frankly, I think that's just stupid. For starters, if it loses connection to your Wi-Fi and you're not home, then what? I personally would much rather rely on a trillion dollar business whose whole mission is keeping computers up and running for you. AKA Amazon, AKA AWS. So how can you set up open claw to run 24, seven, four free on your own personal computer? First, you go to AWS EC2 console. This is this URL. Then you click launch, then you click configure. You can name it whatever. I say open claw assistance like Linux, choose instant type, choose the free instance with the most memory. You click launch instance, and then after it's launched, you click connect. This essentially just created a computer for you and you can then run all of the set-up commands that I listed in use case number one. And just like that, you have a computer that won't turn off and it can run 24, seven and it costs you zero dollars. You didn't need to go to the Apple store and buy a Mac mini. Now, either way, this use case may seem simple, but this matters a lot more than you think. Rewinder the early 2000s. You remember the Palm Pilot? It was marketed as your digital personal assistant. You could track appointments, you could take notes, you could run calculations. This was really cool, but it couldn't actually call anyone. So you had to carry the Palm Pilot and the cell phone. Then came the black belt, right? It was still smart, but you really just had power users. Then the iPhone arrived and this removed all the friction and that began the smartphone revolution. The same thing is happening with AI right now. Chattchipotty launched in late 2022 and that exploded. And I'm calling that the Palm Pilot of AI because that is a similar problem. It was read only. It could only give you information, but it couldn't do things on your behalf. Then came the whole AI agent wave, but we were in the blackberry phase. So technical setup, limited access and clunky interfaces. But now, since OpenClaw, this is an iPhone moment for AI, an agent that can now read and write and access everything you wanted to access in its own computer. So this next phase of AI really is wild and I can go for hours on this. But if you do want to learn more about topics like this, I have a free five day email course. And after having thousands of people going through that five day email course, I've honed it in on the exact foundation that you need to become irreplaceable with AI and it is entirely free. So go check that out. That is the first link in the description. Now, this next use case I'm going to cover is what I'm personally seeing creates the biggest divide from winners and losers when using AI. Use case number nine is automated AI feedback loops. One of the most important things to get a high quality AI output is by having high quality input data. And as my business grows and I work with more and more companies to integrate AI into their operations, this is what I'm seeing is the biggest gap from the businesses that use AI properly and the ones that don't. The key is creating a automated AI feedback loop. Here's what this looks like in practice. Every Monday and Wednesday, I meet with my content team of editors and ID leaders to provide feedback on their work. I have the meeting recorded and then it takes the notes from the meeting and it writes it to a notion database. I then have open claw review those notes and update a single doc called AI content reviewer agent. This doc improves automatically every single meeting we have. And I've so I've created this feedback loop where every week this AI model gets better. Now this feedback loop could have been done previously and as someone who set those up with prior to open claw, this just takes time. And as a result, this friction meant people didn't do it. But now it's really straightforward. So figure this out. You need to first, how are you going to capture the data? I use Grinnellan. Second is how are you going to store the data? I take the transcript from the call and then I write that to a notion database. Third is how are you going to analyze and synthesize this data? I use open claw to look at the notion database, analyze it and then update a specific doc that I use as training data for AI, analyzing content. And fourth, how are you going to use that to apply it in a valuable way? And I cover this more in use case number 12. At high level, every time someone comes up with a content idea, writes a script, the AI analyze it to make sure it aligns with the feedback that I've previously provided to make sure that we're not making the same mistakes twice. I'll get more into that. But the better you get at this, the better output you'll get. And open claw can be a massive game changer to implement this. Use case number 10 is multi tool routing, which in turn removes context switching. One of my favorite parts about open claw is that it is entirely open source. It doesn't have to use any specific tool. So if you use clawed co-work or clawed code, he ain't letting you use open AI. You have to stay within their ecosystem. And that limits your ability to cross leverage different AI models and different AI tools. Open claw lets you use different things for different use cases seamlessly. So simply put, for image generation, I like using nano banana pro, which is Gemini's image generation model. And for writing, I like using clawed. So what I've told open claw is for anything that I ask you about writing, direct that to clawed. And for any image generation, use nano banana pro. Now instead of having to pull up Gemini or pull up clawed, I just ask open claw. It then routes it to whichever AI model I've specified beforehand. And I don't have to think in context switch between tools, I just have a single interface. And it's effectively removed what I call the modern day cigarette, which is context switching. Alright, let's get into some professional use cases. Use case number 11 is product analytics. I recently launched a product called Is This Real.ai. And within 24 hours, it got over 400 users. And in the tool itself, I integrated a product called post-tog, which essentially quantifies how people use the tool. And by making this integration, every six hours, I had open claw run analytics to see how people were using the product and what type of results they were getting. The key with this that I loved is that open claw remembers every six hours without prompting it, it does what I told it to do. To set this up, create a post-tog account and go pull their API key and then bring it into open claw. You're going to have to make sure that the code or whatever product uses post-tog, but that's as simple as saying integrate post-tog into my app into something like claw code or even open claw. Use case number 12 is analyzing notion databases. I touch on this in use case number 9, but I do all of the project managing for my clients and my business through notion. And for content, I have a persona that I want to speak to. So I have 25 to 35 year old ambitious male. And I have open claw look at every single content idea and it'll comment with its analysis based on if I'm actually speaking to that audience. So this serves as a reminder to my team to make sure that we're on brand. You can imagine this extended to general project management, right? This ticket is missing a definition of done. You should elaborate on what's needed here. You need more specific details on where to put the results. And this is a way to use open claw as sort of a project management bot. It's one of those things that the more you use it, the better it's going to get. If you want to use notion, go to this link, create a new integration, then create a new connection and then go to the database and click the three dots in the top right, scroll to the bottom, select connection and then select the integration that you just created for notion. You'll then have to take the API key from notion and then bring that into open claw. Okay, use case number 13 is generate images for a script or presentation. I was personally really impressed by this one. I brought in one of my recent newsletter is where I write about capitalizing on AI and it analyzed the content and created these visual assets for the newsletter that were really impressive. Normally, this is the pain in the ass and now it's pretty straightforward. You bring in the whole script, you send it to open claw, ask it to generate images for you. And now, since you've followed the previous use case, you have a nano banana API key integrated and then it uses nano banana pro or whatever your preferred image generator is to generate images for that specific script or newsletter. Use case number 14 is automate SOPs. Every person watching this needs to start thinking about their life in terms of systems. You do specific tasks every day and there's a way that you know how to do it. You're not starting from scratch every day and the better you can think about the way that you do it as if you're a machine, the more you'll be able to document what you do and then hand it off to AI. So what you have to do, start doing is creating SOPs, which is standard operating procedures on how you complete tasks. Then once you've documented how you do it exactly, you can literally take that SOP, copy and paste it into open claw and ask, how would you automate this process? It'll then give you a strong idea on how to do it exactly, what specific parts, open claw can help with, what it can't, and you can start taking things off your plate. But getting that SOP right is really important because if you automate a garbage procedure, you're going to get garbage output that simple. Use case number 15 is build a website while running a half marathon. All right, I recently made an app while running a half marathon all using open claw. There's a big technical so I'll make this quick. I was working on Isisfield.ai and I wanted to work on it without pushing to production, the app that customers would see. And the best way to do this was I started using Telegram, voice conversations, well running, so I can have a conversation with my open claw bot. Then I wanted to go to a website that was running locally on that open claw bot, think of it like starting an app on that computer itself that other people couldn't get to. So I use CloudFair to open up a specific route so that I can go directly from my phone to the open claw app that was running. That's a nurture. You don't have to worry about it, but you can build apps with open claw and access it directly from your phone. Key terms, CloudFair, proxy into your EC2 instance. All right, use case number 16 is to do list integration. Since 2020, when I decided to join the 21st century and switch from Android to iPhone, I've been an absolute Apple reminders maxi. This is where I keep all my personal to do is, but the problem is that the system is closed, meaning that open claw can't access this. So to solve this, I started using to do list, which has an API that allows for my open claw to see what to do items I'm adding to the list. So by taking that API key, bringing it into open claw, I can then have a review every to do list item I add and it'll add a comment directly on it to see how it can help. And this helps me with the mindset of delegate first. So when you're doing tasks, you should start thinking, can I delegate this? And previously, this is just for people that like, ran teams or managed a bunch of people. But now everyone can delegate to their open claw bot. Use case number 17 is about identifying gaps in your thinking. As you give open claw more access to your information, it starts getting a better picture on how you operate and what you're working on. This context lets it spot holes into your thinking. So ask it, based on everything you have access to, what are some operational improvements I should prioritize? Or where do I need to focus to achieve goal? I've noticed most people think about AI in terms of improving efficiency, which is about how quickly you can do things. But the reality is that there is a maximum efficiency gain you can have, right? It can only approach zero. Like you can only get so quick at something. But quality gains, there's no maximum. And like you can always continue to get better and better and better. People don't think about using AI to improve the quality of what they're doing. And this use case is specifically about focusing on improving quality. And if you do want to go more down this rabbit hole, which it is a deep one, make sure to check out that free 5 day email course, which is linked below. Use case number 18 is generate voice audio and sound effects. As a content creator, I use this surprisingly a good amount. If there's a specific voice recording I want for a video or a specific sound effect I need, I previously go to YouTube search for something and then use it. Now I can actually just ask open claw to create a sound or voice recording with the exact words I want. It sound effects aren't always great. And sometimes I still need to go to YouTube, but this is just getting better every day. Use case number 19 is pull podcast transcripts. One of my favorite ways to get high quality AI training data is to pull podcast transcripts from creators and podcasts that I like watching. Sue me, but it's typically a pain in the ass to actually go and do it and remember to do it every week. But that's no longer an issue. I use open claw to scrape my favorite podcast every week to get the transcript. And the pro tip here is most podcast published to YouTube and that's a great way to get the transcript if it's not publicly available. Just ask your open claw to pull transcripts for a specific podcast and if needed share the YouTube channel for that podcast and I'll be able to pull it down. Okay, use case number 20 is removing water marks. I think of open claw like my assistant that has access to a suite of tools to solve my problems. And there are certain micro things that you can just go to open claw to figure that out. So yes, I could do this myself. And the old way I would go to Google, I would search watermark remover, I would upload the photo, I would download it and then I would have the final product. It would take like five minutes. The new way is I can just go to telegram where my open claw bot sits, upload the image, they remove the watermark and it'll send me the final result. The key here is it serves as the orchestrator to solve the problem. Single interface, I go to that with my problems and it solves it much like an assistant. Use case number 21 is AI can read Slack messages to make sure that you don't drop the ball. You can use open claw to review Slack messages and provide reports daily on any open threads. I personally have open claw look at all my client threads review if I need to respond anything and then it tells me where I need to respond. Getting back to clients quickly and efficiently is so important and you just don't want to leave a client hanging and this review can easily be outsourced to AI. So to set this up, you create a Slack bot, you give it the right permissions and then you share that info directly with open claw. Use case number 22 is multi team member collaboration. Setting up open claw takes time and work, yes. This is the truth, not going to sugar code it. But what you can do is set up a single organization wide bot that multiple people can use. So I have it access Slack and it has specific channels for specific topics. Then people can mention it directly in these channels to complete tasks. Personally I prefer partitioning based on the type of things you have it do. So let's say you often have a do client research. I'd have a specific client research channel where people can ask it to do that. And the best part here is that you can create a doc that has all of the internal business context. So the bot knows about the goals and context to make the responses that much better. Use case number 23 is have open claw read your email and message you on what matters. For this one, proceed with caution just to the nature of email, even the Slack one, just be aware of the permissions you're giving it. But what you can have open claw do is that every time an email comes in, you can have it analyze it, categorize it, and then draft a response or do whatever action you want it to do. And I call this email routing and every person and business has this issue. You can use open claw for this and you can just ask it what's needed for me to read my Gmail or what's needed to read my outlook and I'll give you a step by step process. Personally, I'd recommend something like an end to set this up because it's a little more structured and you get more insight into every step of the process. And here are some links to some skills if you want clear direction on how to set this up. Alright, enough of the professional use cases these last two are something that I know you can get behind. Use case number 24 is sports updates for what you care about. So I'm currently in South Africa, which makes watching US based sports part because of the time zone. And as a makes fan, I just need to know what's going on. So I set up open claw to look at updates every morning for the teams I care about. So not only can it tell me the score, but I integrate it with Grox API. And I have an analyzed sentiment on Twitter to tell me who played well and who did it. Then it can send me a message every morning. And even if I'm not watching the game, I don't want to just have the box score. I want to know who's playing well. To sign up for Grox API, you go to this link, click Create an Account, you pull the API key and then you share it with your open claw bot saying provide daily updates based on team. I want to know any performance news, performance sentiment and game results. If you like other sports, feel free to comment as well. Use case number 25 is analyze your workout history. If you want to have a more analytic approach to training, this one is for you. So I'm personally training for an Ironman and I want to start feeding in data. So open claw can actually see all of my Strava history and start suggesting workouts for me. It is a great way of having an accountability partner and your own 24 seven personal trainer who can tell you what to do and what not to do based on data. To set this up, log into Strava, create an app, pull the API key and then share it with open claw. But a bang, but a boom, it can now provide you workout recommendations based on real analytics. So the gap between people they're using open claw and everyone else will frankly be bigger than the gap between internet users and the people that use libraries. And just like the internet, the people who adopt early will have a compounding advantage. So here's your playbook. Set up your assistant this week, pick one simple task. Maybe to research a stock, maybe it's summarizing your slack channels, maybe it's integrating your Strava. Maybe 25 perfect use cases start there and build up. And if you like this video, you will love this one where I dive into the top nine professional use cases for Gemini. I dive deep into more technical ways to use Gemini and each use case I cover there can be used in open claw. I'll see you in the next one. Let's get it.