---
video_title: "The ONLY 6 Skills You Need to 10x Your Claude Projects"
video_id: AfKoqFwC7Ew
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AfKoqFwC7Ew
video_date: 2026-06-02T17:45:22+00:00
video_description: |
  Try Cantina for Free Today - https://dub.sh/Cantina #CantinaPartner
  
  In this video, I break down the only 6 Claude skills you actually need to 10x your projects. If you're using Claude Code, Claude Cowork or Claude Projects, there are my favorite Claude skills to use because it's all about creating a system in Claude that makes you work faster and get 10x better output. I walk through all 6 in the exact order I use them by building a personal fitness trainer project from scratch, so you can copy the same workflow for anything you're working on.
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - Skill 1: Web Scraping (Discover the data)
  (0:59) - Skill 2: /ingest-source (Capture into your knowledge base)
  (4:11) - Skill 3: /improve-system (Compound over time)
  (6:04) - Skill 4: /ask-the-board (Your board of advisors)
  (7:49) - Skill 5: /internal-focus-group (Test before you ship)
  (10:39) - Skill 6: Compound Engineering (Actually ship it)
  (12:13) - Methodical Approach
  
  --------
  FOR INDIVIDUALS:
  - Free 5-day AI playbook (what I used to build a $25M+ startup): https://the-ai-playbook.com/6sk
  - Use BuildPartner to build 10x faster with Claude Code (try free): https://buildpartner.ai/6sk
  
  FOR BUSINESSES, Ways to work with me:
  - Apply for my Executive AI Coaching Program: https://www.theincubator.xyz/apply/6sk
  - Want to build a SaaS product without hiring a CTO? https://www.theincubator.xyz/eng/6sk
  
  ADDITIONAL LINKS:
  Exa AI: https://exa.ai/
  Firecrawl: https://firecrawl.link/austin-marchese
  --------
  
  
  
  If you're new here, I'm Austin Marchese. How I got here...
  16: First business (SAT Math Tutor)
  22: Graduated Stevens Tech, 4.0, College Basketball, software engineering job at JPM
  23: Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (fun story)
  24: Started creating content, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency, The Incubator
  25: Scaled agency to 15+ team members, $75K/M while working full time
  26: Quit my job, joined a startup called IYK
  27: Became COO of a $25M+ tech startup, worked with Ed Sheeran, Chance the Rapper and more
  28: Built a $20M+ real estate portfolio in the background
  29: Transitioned from IYK, re-launched The Incubator, grew it to a 6-figure biz in 30 days. Now building BuildPartner.ai
  
  To everyone who's spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines but not everyone can build...
  
  - Austin
  
  Follow/Subscribe
  - Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/
  - Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese
---
Skill number one is Web scraper. The reality is that AI outputs are only as good as the data you put in. So to help us get better data, we're going to fix Claude's ability to search the internet because it currently has two major problems. The first is that it can't get data from a lot of modern websites because they use JavaScript. And the second is that Claude uses keyword searching, but to get better data, you want to use semantic search, which understands the meaning and intent behind a user's search rather than just matching keywords. To create the skill, we're going to use two plugins, FireCrawl to access modern web pages and exits to run semantic search. Once those two plugins are set up, which are linked below, I run this prompt to create a skill called Web scraping. You can see the prompt on screen for how to create this skill, and this is what I call a utility skill. Anytime I use Claude, this skill can get triggered and it enhances every other skill I create. Now I have access to data all across the internet that I previously wouldn't have access to with Claude. Now that's just the first of six skills I'll walk you through today that you can immediately apply to whatever you're working on. Skill number two is ingest source. In skill number one, we enhance the data that we have access to, but the problem with that is that we're not storing any of the data so we can't access it later. And that means that each new session starts from scratch. So let's not do that and instead build our own knowledge base with a ingest source skill. On screen is a prompt to help you create this, but what exactly does this do? This skill will take any source you attach to it. That's a PDF, a link, whatever. Pull the concepts from it and ingest it into your project for future reference. And the key with this is we aren't just ingesting raw data because that isn't very useful to Claude. We're pre-analysing data so that it makes it really easy to find specific information. To visualize how this works, imagine you're at a textbook. If you don't pre-analysed the data, Claude has to look through the whole thing to find something that's valuable. But if you pre-analysed it, think of it like creating a table of contents. Claude knows exactly where to look. And throughout this video, I'm going to use a personal trainer example just because it's something that everyone can immediately apply. So if you want to use these first two skills, you could say, find the top fitness research in the past three years and pull all of the historical data using the web scraper skill. Then use ingest source to save all the information to my project. It will then ingest the data that you just researched into your project for future reference so it doesn't have to look for it again. Now when you ask what should I do as a 36-year-old getting back into cardio, Claude has a specific answer based on the information you provided. So we've set up a foundation, but now we have to set up a process to make the system improve over time. But before we get into any of that, we've covered the massive change in how to think about your data, and there's another massive shift happening right now with AI video, which is exactly where today's video sponsor, Cantina, comes in. Everyone watched the first wave of AI content with Sora. Short-form AI generated content built to go viral with strangers. That came and went, and personally, I don't think that's a future of AI content. I believe it's in character creation where you're building out an AI persona that resonates with people. And you can create personalized content that's just for those people. Think about using these characters for inside jokes with friends, not viral clips for algorithms. And Cantina figured this out. It's a mobile first platform where you build AI characters that talk, perform, and hold real conversations one on one. Just write out the personality and the voice you want the character to have, which could be human or not human, and then your character shows up in a video message in under a minute. This is original characters and intellectual property that you own. So for me, I built one that imitates an old Italian character that me and my girlfriend always imitate, and I showed it to her, and she was dying. This is just an inside joke that I'm essentially able to create a personality that's a reusable meme with resonates with people in my life. In my case, it's not about going viral, it's about creating something that's fun with the people I love. It could work for a number of different things, right? A fitness coach checking in with a client by name, a creator building a recurring cast for inside joke content, the list goes on and on. It's all built on the same engine, and ultimately you get to elect the personality that you create. They're actually built by Sean Parker, the creator of Napster, which was one of the most impactful businesses in the music industry. And now he's betting on what comes next for AI video content and interactive social media. Cantina is early and creators who experiment now get the opportunity to own a new category. To get started, click the first link in the description and create your first character today. Now we've gone through the first two skills, which is about getting better information. Skill number three is about improving your system. As you use Clawed, you've likely found yourself running into the same issue multiple times, and it's pretty frustrating, so we want to avoid this. And one thing I always say to people I work with is you should never fix a problem more than twice. If it happens once, okay, it might be a one-off issue, but if it happens twice, it's time to fix it. And the beauty with AI is that it can learn based on past experiences and build on its past training data so it doesn't make the same mistake again. And this tweaking of trying to improve the output has existed since chatGBT came out, but manually trying to tweak prompts so the output is better is just way too much work. And what happens is you just don't end up doing it, so the key is making it really easy for you to improve your system. And that's why you need a improved system skill. Onscreen is a prompt to help you create this, and there's a lot going on here, so how does this actually work? Well, there's five modes. Mode one is audit. This scans your knowledge base for any outdated piece of information. Mode two skill review will review your skills and recent chat history to identify ways to improve them the next time they run. Mode three is experience. This is a way to bring into the system your own lived experience, which in my eyes is the biggest differentiator. Mode four is historical review. This looks at all of your recent quad sessions for learnings that you might have missed. And mode five foundation, this reviews your entire setup and interviews you to see if there's anything you should add so the AI knows more about your goals. For a personal training example, this is what it could look like after a week one of using it. You run improved system. Here's my feedback on this past week, and then you add feedback about your experience. You run improved system review my fitness knowledge base, flag any research that agrees or disagrees with what has been working for me and share the original source. After doing this, when you go and ask what should I do this week, it'll have a sharper answer based on its previous training data. Now that's the compounding stage. But how do we know if outputs are any good? That's where the next two skills come in, which is the evaluation layer. Skill four, ask the board. This skill will help you create your own board of advisors to help you make better, more confident decisions. This is specifically about cloning experts and the idea here is simple. You want to clone professional experts so you can make decisions with confidence. For example, if you're working on a business, maybe you want to clone Alex Ramozi, Elon Musk, Mark Cuban, if you're working on content, maybe Mr. Beast. You're creating your own board of advisors to help you with your decision making process. So step one of this is identify the experts that you want in your project. If you don't know who would be a good expert to have on your board, here is a prompt that can help you get there. Generally, bias towards experts who have an extensive online profile because that serves as the training data. For example, if you wanted to clone an AI expert, this channel would be a great place to start. Step two, ingest their training data using the ingest source skill from skill number two. Step three is you create a skill called ask the board, so Claude knows to loop through each board member when you ask specific questions. Here's a prompt to actually use this. Step four is go ahead and ask your board a question. So you would type slash ask the board and whatever question you have. So let's say on your fitness board, you had Andrew Huberman and Joe Rogan. You could type slash ask the board. I'm 36, getting back in a cardo, want to add muscle without losing endurance. What should my first four weeks look like? So then you would have like Huberman giving you this in-depth scientific answer and then Rogan giving you conspiracy theories and jiu jitsu advice. Jokes aside, you get the idea and it's a massive game changer. And if this sounds a little bit complicated, I built a plugin called buildpartner.ai, which has a whole board of advisors preloaded so you don't have to do this. That's linked in the description and you just call slash expert dash advice and based on whatever question you're asking, it'll route it to a specific expert. Within that, there also is a slash improved system skill if you want that as well. Skill number five is internal focus group. This idea is inspired from a mole who's from anthropic growth team. Here's a mole talking about how he cloned his manager to help him become a better employee. I do that for myself as well. So I basically, one of my manager, Ami Vora was I think a podcast guest of yours. So I say, hey, based on what you know of Ami, he both publicly, she's written extensively about product and then internal lead. And then our discussions, what is based on everything that I've done or not done this week, what feat that do you have for me as Ami? And like, I get that every week. So he described cloning his boss inside clawed so he could get her clones feedback before showing anything to a real person. And that's exactly what internal focus group does. This is a skill that lets you run any idea or final product, pass a group of people who mirror your target audience. Unlike the Ask the Board skill, which is asking experts for advice, this is asking the actual people who will get the final product. So how can you actually set this up? Well, step one is you identify the real people who are on your focus group. The goal of the people in this group is that they emulate the people that will be receiving the final product that you're creating. And the key here is being specific. It's not Person A. It's Brian from college. Step two is you build the internal focus group skill using the prompt on the screen. Each person will get its own agent with its own context, voice, and biases. And over time, as you learn more about these people and get real feedback from them, you will ingest more information to enhance their clone over time. And then step three, once you've actually created them, ask your focus group a question to get feedback before it ever goes live. And what that looks like is a slash internal focus group run this project proposal through our focus group to get feedback prior to my presentation. I do this a ton myself. I have an audience focus group that is the exact group of people that I want my content to resonate with. And so I'll run it through them to make sure that it hits. And this skill alone has transformed my entire business. But it's not just the skill. It's actually the side effect that comes from it. In order to create the skill, it forces you to identify who you're actually building for. You can't create your focus group unless you know who's in the focus group. And if you can't actually do that, then you're missing the most important thing when knowing how to build what you're building. And that's the target audience. So if you're able to successfully create this skill, you know who you're building for, which is required to have a successful product. Now before we get to the last skill, which will transform how we actually build the final product. If this is your first video, welcome the channel. But if this is your second or more, here is our anti-slap agreement. The visuals, the testing, the time I put into this. This is all for humans. It's not for AI, clankers, and robots scraping it. So all I ask is that you subscribe as part of this agreement to help this content reach more people so I can keep doing it. Also, every couple of weeks I give a Cloud Max subscription. So comment below with what you're building to enter. Skill six is modern engineering. Skills one through five loaded your system and pressure tested the work. Skill six is the one that actually turns it into something that you can build successfully. And there's a broader concept with this skill that most people don't realize. Everyone watching this is becoming an engineer and I call you a modern engineer. So I actually went to school from mechanical engineering. I graduated with a 4.0 and after that, I self taught myself software engineering. So I've spent years building things on both the physical and digital side. And the thing that connects everything I've ever built technical or non technical is a similar process. One, you plan what you're doing. Two, you define what done actually looks like. Three, you work through clear delivery phases. Four, you review the work and you troubleshoot if needed. And then five is you market is done and you move to the next thing. And if you apply the same engineering approach to anything you do in the AI world, you'll be amazed at how effective it is to build successfully. To help you walk through each individual step, a plugin that's helpful is called compound engineering. This comes with a bunch of skills out of the box. And there's other plugins like super power that you may have heard of. They do similar things. But what matters is the actual process. So a skill is slash brainstorm is the process of brainstorming ideas to solve the problem at hand. You shouldn't assume that your initial idea is the best solution. Then there's plan, which will help you turn an idea into a clear structured plan. Then there's work that actually executes the plan for you. Then there's code review, which reviews the output and solution as if it's a senior employee. And then there's debug, which will help you find the root cause of any issue you run into. And this process of going through each step will work whether you're writing code, writing a proposal or planning a product launch. And this mindset is so much better than just yoloing for three clear reasons. The first that AI defaults to solving the immediate thing in front of it as efficiently as possible. And this means that it doesn't care about the big picture, which is something you do. The second is that reviewing bad AI output takes more time than creating a proper plan would have ever taken. And the third is this engineering approach flexes a muscle that will enable you to build progressively more complex solutions, which is a skill that will differentiate you in the AI era. One through each step for the personal trainer example, here's how you could use it. Step one, you would use brainstorm and say, I want to build a proof of concept web app that allows me to log my workout that I can access on my phone interview me to come up with ideas for features. Step two, plan based on what we just discussed. Can you create a delivery plan that biases towards the simplest solution? Assume I will be the only person to use it to start. Step three, you then take that plan and then you execute it. So slash work complete the plan outlined here. Make sure to verify that the app works before saying it's done. That last part about verifying forces the AI to think about the verification approach, which will make the product that you actually then review that much better. Step four, code review. Review the code and flag any issues that may exist. Simplify the explanation so I can understand it. Then if you run into an issue while you're using it, step five would be slash debug fix the issue. Take a screenshot, copy and paste it, let AI do what AI does best, which is solve problems. So that is the six skills in the exact order that I actually use them. Three skills to train your system, two to evaluate the work and one to actually ship it. If you start following this process, you will start shipping much higher quality work at a much faster rate. Now if you like this video, you will love this video about the nine clawed code plugins that will enhance your clawed code setup to build 10 times faster. It builds on a lot of what I covered here. I'll see you over there. Peace.