---
video_title: "An unethical job interview hack"
video_id: XTVoYz52PWE
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XTVoYz52PWE
video_date: 2026-01-22T16:15:03+00:00
video_description: |
  People are calling it ‘vibe interviewing’ - using AI during a live interview to generate the perfect answer in real time.
  
  They feed it the job description, their resume, and let it listen to questions through their headphones. Instant, personalized responses.
  
  This is basically an AI earpiece feeding you lines while you pretend to think.
  Of course, this is unethical. But what are some ETHICAL ways to use AI when looking for a job?
  
  First - interview prep. Record yourself answering common questions, upload it to ChatGPT, and have it critique your responses. It’ll catch filler words, weak answers, and missed opportunities.
  
  Second - optimize your ATS score. Companies screen resumes with AI before a human ever sees them. This score determines if you make it past that first filter - and small adjustments can go a long way.
  
  Now this is all generic advice. But if you want something personalized - I built a free tool that analyzes your resume and gives you an ATS score with specific fixes.
  
  Comment ‘resume’ and I’ll send you the link.
---
An unethical interview hack just won Viral and it shows the future of the job market. People are calling it vibe interviewing. It's using AI during a live interview to generate the perfect answer in real time. They feed at the job description, their resume, and let it listen to questions through their headphones. Instant personalized responses. Of course, this is unethical, but what are some ethical ways to use AI when looking for a job? The first is interview prep. Record yourself answering common questions, upload it to chat GBT, and have it critique your responses. It'll catch filler words, weak answers, and missed opportunities. The second is you want to optimize your resume's ATS score. Companies are now screening resumes with AI before a human ever sees them. This ATS score determines if you make it past the first filter, and small adjustments can go a long way. Now this is all generic advice for everyone watching, but if you want personalized advice, I built a free tool that analyzes your resume and gives you an ATS score with specific fixes. Comment resume and I'll send you the link.