---
video_title: "The 5 Levels of AI (Most People Never Get Past Level 2)"
video_id: l3lTG3XujJE
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l3lTG3XujJE
video_date: 2026-03-11T17:45:07+00:00
video_description: |
  Download Tango's extension for FREE: https://www.tango.ai?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=video&utm_campaign=austinmarchese&utm_term=1
  
  In this video, I break down the 5 levels of AI and why most people never get past level 2. You're too busy focusing on saving time with ai automations, ai agents to focus on how to create compounding systems. 
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - The 5 Levels of AI
  (0:35) - Level 1: The Asker
  (1:27) - Level 2: The Context Provider
  (2:50) - Level 3: The Magician
  (5:33) - Level 4: The Optimizer
  (7:37) - Level 5: The AI Master
  
  
  If you’re new to my channel, my name is Austin Marchese. I’ve been obsessed with building automation and building businesses my whole life. Previously, I built a 7-figure Agency while having a full-time job, and today, I’m building a company called IYK, where we recently raised over $18 Million to help capture data for creators to identify their biggest fans. Let me break down how I got here because on YouTube, a lot of time people just say things 🤣
  
  How I got here… 
  16 yrs old: Started my first business as a SAT Math Tutor 
  22 yrs old: Graduated Stevens Tech w/ a 4.0 while playing College Basketball, and took a fancy software engineering job
  23 yrs old: Started a side hustle working at a Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (this is a fun story)
  24 yrs old: Started creating content on TikTok, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency business
  25 yrs old: Scaled Agency business to 15+ team members, making $75K/M (While having full time job)
  25 yrs old: Built a community called “The Incubator” all about learning skills, grew to over 3k active members
  26 yrs old: Quit my full time job, began scaling my business and working with a small startup (IYK)
  27 yrs old: Handed off my agency, focused on scaling IYK full-time, became their COO
  28 yrs old: Raised $18M To transform the creator and fan relationship
  28 yrs old: In the background of all this, grew a Real Estate Investment Portfolio, most recently closing on a deal worth over $20M
  29 yrs old: Transitioned from IYK, Launched a AI-Consulting Agency, grew to a 6-figure business in less than 30 days
  
  To everyone who’s spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines, it takes guts to be standing in the arena. Lets build.
  
  *Austin
  
  •⁠  ⁠Instagram: [https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/](https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/)
  •⁠  ⁠Youtube:  [https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese](https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese)
---
There are five levels of AI mastery and most of your stock at level two and you don't even know it. I know this because I built a million dollar business while working full time at JP Morgan. Then became the COO of a startup that raised $18 million from A16Z and throughout this whole process, AI has been woven into everything I've done and I've worked with hundreds of people to see how they use AI. So give me 13 minutes and I'll show you exactly what level you're at, why you're stuck there, and give you the easy playbook on how to become an AI master. And to make this real and not just theory, I'm going to walk you through one use case from level one all the way to level five. So by the end of the video, you won't just understand what the levels are. You'll have something you can actually go and build tonight. So level one is the Asker. You use AI like Google, you type in a question, you get the answer and then you leave. And this is most people, right? Chat GBT has over 800 million weekly users and the vast majority of them are just doing this. And you get the answer and then you just close the tap. So here's what level one looks like if you're using AI for a personal trainer. And remember, we're going to be building on this exact use case throughout the video. You open chat GBT, you type in what's a good chest workout and it gives you five exercises. You screenshot it, you go to the gym, maybe you do all of them, maybe you do a couple of them. And then you come back and next week you ask, what should I eat to lose weight? And you get another generic answer. It works, but it's a glorified Google search and you're getting the same answer that literally anybody would. And the problem with level one is that nothing develops. Every time you open a new chat, you're starting over with the tool. Now, I don't think you're here. If you're watching this, I think you're at level two, but this is where you likely get stuck. Now, level two is the context provider and this is where I need you to be honest with yourself. Maybe you have a long running chat GPD thread that knows everything about you or maybe you've tried Claude projects and you've created specific one scope for specific work. And from the outside looking in, you think you're good at AI. If this sounds like you, you're not alone. But the people at this level who are the best are really focusing on context engineering. And this will become obvious as we go through this personal trainer example. You wouldn't just ask for workouts. You would set up a Claude project loaded with information about your body, your height, your weight, your experience, your training history, what your injury is. You would provide it with your schedule, what your goals are if you're training for anything. All of this context to get more in-depth responses from the personal trainer. At this point, the AI isn't guessing. It's providing personalized feedback. Henry Ford has a famous quote, you're just inventing faster horses. And with AI, we want to do things that are entirely new, not just things quicker. And yes, level two is genuinely useful. You're getting better outputs, you're saving time, you're getting personalized advice. This is real value. But here's the test. If AI disappear tomorrow, would your job or would your day-to-day fundamentally change? Or would you just get slower? And if the answer's just slower, you're still at level two. You aren't creating anything that's compounding and you're not creating something that runs without you. You're saving time, which is great. There's another gear you have to get to. And in order for you to become a conductor, you need to understand how processes work. And before we get to level three, I want to share with you a tool that sets the foundation for everything that I'm going to cover. So Tango is my absolute favorite tool to document any process. I've been using Tango for over three years, and I tell everyone who will listen to me when I talk about it for one reason. It makes the documentation process so freaking easy. You just download the extension and start clicking through the workflow. And then creates a full SOP or documentation of the process for how to complete the task, which I'll personally then share with team members directly and embedded into documents I share with clients. So they stop asking me questions. If you've been following this channel, you know that I've mentioned this tool a bunch. So I'm excited to say that Tango is the sponsor for this video. Click the first link below to get a browser plugin for free. And once you start documenting processes with tools like Tango, you get insights that become your competitive advantage and your key to going from level two to level three. Now that you know all about Tango, let's go to level three, which is the magician. Now this is where it gets crazy because level three is where you stop doing the work and you start building things that do the work for you. At level three, you're not using AI for a single task anymore. You're using it to chain tasks together. The output from step one, you feed into step two, which feeds into step three and so on. You build a structure once and it runs without you. Think about it like this. A level two context provider uses AI to draft an email. And with all the loaded context, it's a great email. But a level three magician creates the system where AI reads your email, categorizes them by priority, drafts a response and flags the ones that need actual human input. That's not a prompt. That's an AI employee. And here's the thing that most people don't realize. This is actually easier than being good at level two. See tools like chat, GPT agent and Aden and Zapier, like you build these workflows without writing a single line of code. And if you don't know where to start, open Tango, hit capture and then use that to document your processes. And that'll lay the foundation for what you should automate. So here's what level three looks like for your personal trainer. You go into chat, GPT agent to access that hit the plus and then select agent mode. And type, I want you to review my past workouts by looking at my public Strava profile. Then based on those workouts, create an updated workout plan for me every Monday and send me an email weekly about this workout plan. Then you take that and you schedule it to run every single Monday, hidden this plus sign, and then you can schedule it. You set this up once. Now it runs every week without you touching it. Easy peasy, very quick and you can see the clear difference. But there's a major trap with level three. You build out an automation and you realize it's not perfect. And as your life changes, the automation stays the same. So you either get a weekly message from an automation that you just start ignoring or you just say, screw it and you turn it off. And this is why level three is so risky. You're smart enough to know there's a different option, but you haven't figured out how to make things that provide real value. And that's why getting to level four is what I think is the most important. Level four, the optimizer. Level four is where your system stop being static and they start compounding and improving over time. The thing that separates level four from level three is feedback loops. At level three, you build a system and it runs. At level four, you build a system and it learns every output feeds back into the system. So the next output is better. And then the one after that is better and so on. It creates this feedback loop. And this is where AI starts becoming a teammate that gets smarter over time. Here's what level four for the personal trainer looks like. So that chat GBT agent automation, you set up in level three. This will send you emails with workouts, but they're likely not going to be perfect. So what most people would do is they would get the email and then they'd be like, ah, this isn't great. And then they just move on. But instead, what you can do is you can reply to the email and say, what was missed, what you didn't like and what you preferred. And then you would go back to that same system. And then here's the key. You set up the system so it reviews your past feedback before generating the next program. So week one, it's not good by week two. It's better week three week four week five. You're slowly dialing in the results to improve over time. In the chat GBT example, you could say before writing, check the entire weekly workout plan thread for feedback. So the results can improve over time. This will then run and check the feedback automatically without having to change the automation. Because without these feedback loops, AI never actually gets better. Now, one thing I want to call out, which is what I see all the time when people get to level four, is they build these complex automations just because they saw something cool on Twitter, but has nothing to do with their day to day. And so it's essentially just a science project. Do not build these science projects. Instead, find something in your life that you genuinely want to use, or it solves a problem that you genuinely have. Then take that and start building a level four system. Because the truth is, by having something that you actually want to make good, you're going to get so much better at this process, than some cool science project that you saw go viral on Twitter. No shame to the productivity height boys on Twitter, but that isn't you. And that's why I'm walking through the use case of a personal trainer, because this applies to everyone. Now, this is all great, but after working with hundreds of people, and a number of seven figure businesses integrating AI, I've realized nobody's here. Level five, the AI master. Level five is going to challenge how you think about AI entirely. At level five, you don't do the work. You don't even manage the work. You build the systems, set the guardrails, and eventually the outcomes. Everything in between AI handles it, including its own mistakes. There are three things that separate a level five user from everyone else. The first is the ability to automate improvements. So at level four, you're the feedback loop. You review the output, you give the notes, and the system improves based on what you say. This works, but you get busy. You're not going to provide the feedback, and things aren't just going to automatically happen. And systems won't just automatically improve, but what if they could? At level five, you build AI that analyzes the output that was produced, evaluates it, compares it to what was suggested, and then improves itself over time. This sounds complicated, but let's look at the personal trainer example, and it's going to make a lot of sense. As a reminder, the level four automation we set up, it sent an email each week, and then you would reply to it, with feedback about what to change, what to tweak. So instead of that, let's say you're training for a marathon, and the personal trainer sends you a full workout, where Monday, it tells you, you're going to run five miles, three of them at this pace, two of them at this pace. Monday comes around, you're feeling good, but you're only able to run three miles, and at a much slower pace than the trainer suggested. In the level four automation, you would have to then go in, type, this workout was way too hard, make it less hard. But in the level five automation, you would set up the system, so that it would read directly from your Strava, to see that you didn't actually complete the workout, it provided. As a result, it would know that the workout, it provided, was too hard, and the next one, it needs to make the necessary adjustments. All of a sudden, you don't have to provide the feedback, but instead the actions of what you actually did, this creates a feedback loop for the system to improve automatically. The more systems you build, the more important this is, because you're going to get too busy to provide feedback. The system isn't going to improve, and then you're going to forget about it, or you're just going to turn it off, because it's not improving as much as you would have hoped. So that's the first differentiator for level five. The second is knowing when AI is the right tool, and when it isn't. So some problems are deterministic. That means it has fixed logic, clear inputs, clear outputs. Other problems are non-deterministic, meaning they require judgment, creativity, reading between the lines. This is where AI is really good. So with the personal trainer, let's say you want to work out every Monday at 8 AM. That's deterministic. It's straightforward. You don't need AI to set up a reminder. But on the other hand, it could be look at your recent Amazon grocery order and create recipes that help me with my training. The answer to this is an obvious, this is non-deterministic. This requires judgment, and that's where AI shines. For me, the biggest tell someone doesn't actually know what they're doing with AI is they just say, use AI for everything, which is just productivity theater, and this is usually coming from someone who's never actually built something that is useful in the real world. AI is new. There's been automations forever. And generally speaking, the simplest tool that solves the problem is the best solution. That's simple. So that's two out of the three differentiators. The ability to set up a system that improves automatically, and the ability to know when and when not to use AI. The third is agency. Agency means giving AI the ability to solve problems before they present themselves. This is somewhat similar to the first differentiator, but this is about AI identifying problems and solving them without your intervention. What this could look like is you connect the Strava API so the system can see your actual workouts. Your plan has that hard workout on Monday, but you don't do as much as you would like. A level four system doesn't even notice that you didn't run this hard until you provide feedback. What a level five system could do, if set up properly, could notice that you didn't do as much running on that Monday, and then it proactively restructures the rest of your week based on this Monday workout. So it can adjust Tuesday to maybe be a little shorter. Wednesday to be a little bit slower. Thursday to be even more miles, right? It's learning from that data it got from Monday. It's not waiting for your input. It's actually a manager in some ways. It has the agency to identify problems and act autonomously on them. This is where tools like OpenClaw, NADN, and Zapier come in. They'll let you build more complex agents that run continuously, monitor adjusting, flagging, acting on your behalf without you actually triggering them. And the best part about this is the AI isn't just sitting there waiting for you to write a message to it in the chat window. It's running in the background, and it's doing its job without you asking. And the key with level five isn't just about knowing where to allocate AI. It's about knowing where to allocate you. Where is your taste gonna be? Where is your experience gonna be? Where is your judgment gonna be used? That's the stuff that AI can't replace. And you have to make sure to input yourself in the right location so they get the best output. So take a look at the patterns across all five of these levels. The skill underneath every single jump is the ability to delegate. Each level is just you getting better at giving tasks to a machine. And my favorite tool to help with delegation is tango. So click the first link in the description to get the free plugin to help streamline the entire delegation process. Think about what we just built. So at level one, you're asking ChatGbD for a chest workout. But now at level five, you have an automated AI trainer that sends you workouts every week. It looks at your workout history, automatically looks at what your workouts are and adjust the plan based on it. And then over the time, it takes that as it's feedback and improves the outputs it sends you every week. Under the hood, it's using all the same tools, but it's just such a different relationship. Now you don't have to go right to level five. You can just start at level one and build up depending on where you're at. If you're at level two, build one automation this week and see what happens. ChatGbD agent is a great place to start. If you like this video and you want to build on the skill set that you learned from this video, check this video out where I cover the nine AI tools that doubled my productivity. I'll show you the exact stack I used to operate at level four and five every single day. I'll see you in the next one. Let's keep building peace.