---
video_title: "STOP Using Claude to Code. Do THIS Instead."
video_id: 6ad-LyammTI
channel_name: "Austin Marchese"
channel_id: UCFeFVytEkT8kaqPCJZGFswg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ad-LyammTI
video_date: 2026-04-17T13:45:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Get my free 5-day AI playbook (the steps I used to help build a $25M+ startup): https://the-ai-playbook.com/cci
  
  In this video, I show you why everyone's wrong about Claude Code. It's not just for coding - it's the foundation for building your own personal AI operating system that learns how you work, remembers what you've done, and gets smarter every time you use it. Stop renting AI. Start owning it.
  
  Timestamps:
  (0:00) - Everyone thinks Claude Code is just for coding
  (0:55) - Selecting the Right Skills
  (3:52) - Make them Automatic
  (5:41) - Scale it Out
  (8:40) - Real World Examples
  (9:30) - Scaling to a team
  --------
  
  FOR INDIVIDUALS:
  - Free 5-day playbook on building AI systems that compound (the system behind an 8-figure startup): https://the-ai-playbook.com/cci
  - Use BuildPartner to build 10x faster with Claude Code (try free): https://buildpartner.ai/cci
  
  FOR BUSINESSES, Ways to work with me:
  - Want AI systems built into your operations? https://theincubator.xyz/ops/cci
  -  Want to build a SaaS product without hiring a CTO? https://www.theincubator.xyz/eng/cci
  --------
  
  If you're new here, I'm Austin Marchese. How I got here...
  16: First business (SAT Math Tutor)
  22: Graduated Stevens Tech, 4.0, College Basketball, software engineering job at JPM
  23: Bitcoin ATM company + building algorithms for a professional gambler (fun story)
  24: Started creating content, grew 100k+ followers, built first agency, The Incubator
  25: Scaled agency to 15+ team members, $75K/M while working full time
  26: Quit my job, joined a startup called IYK
  27: Became COO of a $25M+ tech startup, worked with Ed Sheeran, Chance the Rapper and more
  28: Built a $20M+ real estate portfolio in the background
  29: Transitioned from IYK, re-launched The Incubator, grew it to a 6-figure biz in 30 days. Now building BuildPartner.ai
  
  To everyone who's spending time learning and putting the work in, cheers. Anyone can make comments from the sidelines but not everyone can build...
  
  - Austin
  
  Follow/Subscribe
  
  - Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/austin.marchese/
  - Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/@austin.marchese
---
Everyone thinks Cloud Code is just for coding, but they are missing the bigger picture. The real unlock is using Cloud Code with Cloud Skills to create a system that completes non-technical tasks, remembers how you work, and gets smarter every time you use it. So I'll walk you through the three steps to set this up, the mistakes to avoid, and then show you my current setup, the same one I used as a COO of a tech startup worth over $25 million. And what we're going to set up is a project on your computer that uses Skills and Cloud Code to get better over time. And to do this, we need to create three different folders, Skills, Knowledge, and Projects. Skills does the work, Knowledge makes those skills better, and Projects are the output. And this may sound a bit complex, but it isn't, and we're going to build it step by step. Step 1 is get the right skills, step 2 is make them run automatically using what Boris Cherny, the creator of Cloud Code, describes as the most powerful features in Cloud Code, and step 3 is scale it out to everything we do. Step 1 selecting the right skills. A skill is a set of instructions that Cloud follows every time you call it. Think of it like training an employee once, and then you can have it execute perfectly every time after that. You type slash create weekly report, and Cloud will read the instructions and produce a report in the exact same format every single time. Here's where most people get this process wrong. They treat every skill the same, but really there are actually two types of skills and how you should think about it. Foundational skills and execution skills. So foundational skills, and this is like a little bit more meta, they improve the operating system itself. So they make everything get better over time, and I'll touch on these next, but execution skills are the actual work you do repeatedly. So this is a report generation skill, email analysis skill, a funnel analysis. These are the actual tasks that you complete. Everyone's set up as different, so how do you actually know what skills to create? Well the first thing that you can run is called an interloop test. On everything that you're thinking about, ask yourself these three questions. Do you do it two to three times a day? Does it follow the same exact pattern and would preloaded context help with this problem? If the answer is yes to all three, make it a skill. Or if you're lazy and you don't want to do that checklist, like me, type in Cloud code this prompt. Based on my past activity, what are five skills I should create? Focus on tasks I do more than twice a week. Cloud will then look at the activity and suggest skills based on what you're actually working on and what you've actually gone back and forth with Cloud code on. In terms of now actually creating the skill, you can literally just say create a skill for task and Cloud will build it. So that'll create your first execution skill. Now what about the foundational skills that I mentioned previously? Execution skills save you time today, but foundational skills make the whole system smarter over time. There's a lot of ways to do this, but here is one of the simplest approach. After every session with Cloud, you capture what worked, what didn't, and what you learned. That information then gets saved into your knowledge folder, and next time you run any of the skills, it reads from that knowledge and doesn't make the same mistake twice. Once you start doing this, you set up a system that improves automatically and practice what does this look like for me? I have a skill called generate personalized training data skill. So I open up Cloud code and I type slash build partner, colon, generate personalized training data. You'll notice the build partner prefix. That's a free plugin that I made that you can also get access to at buildpartner.ai. Now once I run this, it does the rest. It reviews my recent sessions, extracts insights and saves all of the activity that I've done as training data. You can do the same thing, right? After any session, you can just tell Cloud, what did we learn and save the takeaways to my knowledge folder? The key here is that we're compounding our own lived experience and our own information. Alex Ramose actually says this best. AI is not magic. It is a multiplier. The advantage is not access to the best model. It's ownership of the best data. And this is our process of starting to capture data that's hyper, hyper specific to what you do in your day to day. That's why foundational skills are so important because if you set them up properly, it'll take your system from good to really fucking good. But of course, you have to remember to try and improve these things unless you make them automatic. Step two is make them automatic. André Carpathy said to get the most out of the tools, you have to remove yourself as the bottleneck. To get the most out of the tools that have become available now, you have to remove yourself as the bottleneck. You can't be there to prompt the next thing. You need to take yourself outside. You can't be there to prompt the next thing. You need to take yourself outside. That's exactly what this step is about. And it involves what the creator of Cloud Code calls most powerful features. We're going to set up hooks, loops, and schedules. Let's quickly go through each of these. A hook is something that fires automatically when specific events happen. So let's say, Cloud finishes a task, a hook fires, a plot edits a file, a hook fires. You don't prompt it. It just runs. Now here's how I use this. Every time I end a session, a hook runs a recap. What do we build? What worked? What didn't? That gets saved to my knowledge folder, so the next session is smarter. Set it and forget it. That is the type of operation that I love. To set this up yourself, tell Cloud, create a hook that runs a session recap every time I end a conversation. Save the knowledge takeaways to my knowledge folder. Next up, loops. If hooks react to events, loops run on a timer. So you can type slash loop, 10 minute, check project, and every 10 minutes, Cloud checks. There's anything that needs attention. Third is schedules. This is similar to loops, but instead of every 10 minutes, you can set a specific time for a skill to run. I have a schedule that runs every morning at 6am called Analyze Funnel. It analyzes my entire social media and all my different business offerings and gives me takeaways that I could maybe apply or just information that's valuable to me. If you put hooks, loops, and schedule together, this creates what I call a recursive improvement loop. And if you can do this properly, your system will improve quicker than you can imagine. Okay, I know at this point you are sold, but what does this look like when you actually scale it out? So step three, let's scale that bad boy out. Now, before you start building 50 skills, there's a few mistakes that I've learned the hard way. The first is when the output sucks, don't blame the model. Carpathi said, most failures are a skill issue, not a capability issue. Your instructions aren't clear enough. Improve your skills regularly and watch out for contextual rot. This is when you add too much information or you might have contradictory information to skills and it just starts performing a lot worse. Everything, like so many things, even if they don't work, I think to a large extent, you feel like it's a skill issue. It's not that the capability is not there. It's that you just haven't found a way to string it together of what's available. Number two is don't let skills overlap. Make sure any skill is well defined and they're clearly partitioned from every other one. And number three, if one skill has multiple use cases, for example, generate report in a PDF or CSV, use one skill for that and just have two different paths documented in the skill itself. Now, before I screen share and show you my setup, if you want a more in-depth walkthrough, I put together a free five day email course called the AI Playbook and it walks you through exactly what I'm covering in this video but dives deeper on specific concepts. And based on thousands of people, just like you that have gone through it, I am highly confident that you're going to love it. But if you don't, that's fine. Just unsubscribe at any time. Totally chill. First link in the description. Go check that out. But anyway, so here is my scaled-out system. So if you look on the screen, as I show you this, you'll notice that I'm viewing stuff through an app and this is called Obsidian. This is where I view my entire Cloud Code project that I'm working on. Simply put, Cloud Code will create a lot of .md files or markdown files or text files and reading it through the terminal is really annoying. And so I use Obsidian, which helps me read these folders. I can easily navigate, edit, and collaborate with Cloud Code as it's working on the files. So here you'll actually see these same three folders, Knowledge Skills projects. I started building this about six months ago and the past maybe three months, I've really started to scale it up because Cloud Code has just gotten so much better. But there is a lot of information here. So let's go through it. First is my Knowledge folder and I have a couple of different things here. First is Consultants. These are experts in specific fields that I've downloaded. They're brain basically from online. So for example, Alex Ramose, I went, I pulled all of his books, all of his transcripts, and brought him in as a consultant. Then I can reference directly in my Cloud Code project. If you don't feel like going and doing all that in that build partner plugin, I do have an expert advice, which has all of the experts that I reference preset up so you don't actually have to go and do that. And then I have an audience folder of people that I've actually interviewed, of people that watch my YouTube channel. So I bring in the answers to their interview, bring it into Cloud Code. So I can ask Cloud Code if they're going to like the content that I just created. If you're actually interested in having a conversation when they directly to be added to this, comment popcorn below and I'd love to chat. Anyway, I also have a slash me folder with my voice patterns, my life story, my daily learnings, all of this feeds into every skill I run. The project's folder is where it's everything I'm actively working on. So the skills output go directly here. Let me show you two examples of ways that I use skills for traditional work and then one for creative work. For one of my clients, a engineering firm, they needed over 80 carbon emission reports generated. These are called local on 97 boring, but previously it was a two week job. We spent about two hours crafting a skill with the engineer from their team, created slash LL97 dash report. And now we can generate reports that took five hours now in five minutes. And after every batch we run, I run the slash improved skill and so it improves over time. For this business now, they don't have to hire more people for this specific use case, something they previously would have had to. Totally wild. And so another skill is for my content, I use YouTube-script-writer. It reads my voice patterns, my past script, the consultant feedback, my audience information. It'll generate a draft, then I run it against a consultant panel where I will review all of the consultants and see what advice they have. Then if there's a script that I really like and I want to create a newsletter about it, I'll use the slash newsletter dash writer, which will reform out the content and create an email from it. This is a process called skill chaining. You use one after the other and you're guiding it throughout the entire process. As you scale this out, you're going to be making a lot of changes. So skills will get updated, knowledge will get added and it's going to be a little crazy. And so this knowledge base, I actually handle a lot like how an engineering team would handle a code base. I use GitHub and every time I update a skill or I change knowledge or I change a consultant, I commit it to GitHub so I can see all of the changes that have been done on my operating system. And so if you work with a team, this actually becomes more important because what I have my team do is if I update a consultant, I want them to see that change as well. So I push it to GitHub and they're able to take that change and it'll reflect on their computer. And then when my team creates new unique skills, I want to make sure that they're doing it properly. So about a month ago, someone from my team created a hot take skill and my feedback was we have to make the skill itself more explicit so that when future team members use it, they know exactly what it does. So I had them change it to analyze content for valuable insights, which is essentially what are the hot takes that you see takes from the content, whatever. But the concept here is pretty simple, right? There's a saying in engineering, leave the code base better than you found it. That's how we want to think about the operating system that we're creating. We want to build a system that lasts for the foreseeable future. I don't see this changing. So treat it as something that you're going to have for the next five, 10, 20 years. Now if you follow along with all these steps, you have three folders created for this entire project structure. You've created your first skill and you understand how to make improvements automatically as you scale it up. Here's what you need to do next. First is fill in your knowledge folder. This is where you want to tell Claude about yourself. Find the interview me skill from the Build Partner plugin or just ask Claude to interview you to help get more information in your project. Protepier use Hex or Whisperflow that captures your audio and then uses AI to transcribe it. So you can speak the information instead of typing it's so much faster. Step two is set up one hook. Tell Claude create a hook that runs a session recap every time I end a conversation. Save the knowledge to my knowledge folder. That's your recursive improvement loop. Third, after your first week, capture what you've learned and feed it back. The system starts compounding. If you're still watching, you are an absolute legend and you will love this video where I walk through how Boris, the creator of Claude code, actually uses Claude. It builds on a lot of the concept that I cover here and it does a deep dive on his setup. I will see you over there.