---
video_title: "The RACI Matrix Explained"
video_id: 3xsfuDXEfd0
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3xsfuDXEfd0
video_date: 2026-07-20T11:30:25+00:00
video_description: |
  The RACI matrix is a project management tool to clarify team roles and responsibilities. By defining who is Responsible, Accountable, Consulted, and Informed—with exactly one accountable leader per task—it eliminates ambiguity and prevents redundancies.
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏 
  Alcid008, Alfred Holzheu, Andreea Manolica, azad bel, Brad Wright, Bunnybro4!, Carin gleason, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, deanme9, Digital Innovators, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Ellie Simon, Eva Marie Koblin, Frank Fox, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, glenys, Granson, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jennifer Chua, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Lorena, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Michael Paradis, Michel Kuhne, Mike Bennett, Muhammad Humayun, Oweeda Newton, Professor Nieves, Quick Buyun, Raúl, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, Sebastian Robayo, Sergio Correia Freitas, SleepySl0th, Stan Lambert, Stefan Gros, Willie E Williams, youssef omar, Yvonne Rivers, 헤롱 헤롱 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS 
  Script: Jonas Koblin
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  On http://sproutsschools.com, you will also find:
  - Links to all our sources
  - Ideas for a classroom projects for each video
  - The full script, core graphics and additional resources
  - The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  #sproutsschools #racimatrix #projectmanagement #teamwork #productivity #managementskills #workflowefficiency #leadership 
  
  Chapters
  00:00 Introduction
  00:22 What is RACI?
  00:41 RACI example
  00:55 Role assignment
  01:48 The RACI benefits
  02:24 Ending
  02:37 Patrons credits
---
People can be lazy, uncaring, or incompetent, but if they collaborate they often fail Simply because no one knows who should do what. Some of the most effective teams use a simple method to make roles and responsibilities crystal clear. It’s called the RACI matrix. RACI stands for Responsible: the people who do the work. Accountable: the one person who owns the result.

Consulted: the ones who advise before decisions are made. Informed: those who need to know after decisions are made. So how does that look in practice? Imagine planning a school fair. There’s a project leader, two designers, a teacher, a parent representative—and plenty of volunteers. To keep everyone on

the same page, they draw up a simple table. Across the top, they list all the tasks. Down the side, they write each role. Now comes the magic part. For every task, they assign one Accountable, and those who should be Responsible, Consulted, and Informed.

Finally, they review it together and ensure everyone agrees. Now there’s one important rule. Per each task, there can be many Responsibilities, but only one Accountable. Because if everyone is accountable—no one really is. So, how do these roles actually play out? Let's look at one job: making the poster.

The designers are responsible; they work on different ideas. The teacher reviews the work and consults. The project lead is accountable and decides which draft to pick. After that, parents and volunteers are informed. The RACI matrix works best when projects cross departments or when multiple approvals are needed. You can make one in a spreadsheet,

on a whiteboard, or even on a napkin. In the end, it’s not about the tool. The goal is clarity. Clarity saves time. It prevents blame.

It lets people focus on their part of the mission —and maybe even reveal that most people can be motivated, caring, and competent after all.

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos and subscribe. If you want to support our work, join us on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information and additional contents, visit sproutsschools.com