---
video_title: "What is PTSD? How Trauma Changes the Brain"
video_id: 4ii0lNQ-jMg
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ii0lNQ-jMg
video_date: 2026-04-27T11:30:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a condition that can develop after exposure to severe trauma and chronic stress. In this video  we explain how PTSD works, its symptoms such as hypervigilance, intrusive memories, anxiety and sleep disturbances and how it can affect our lives. 
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍
  https://www.facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏 
  Alcid008, Alfred Holzheu, Andreea Manolica, ArkiTechy, azad bel, bgirl2938, Braincuriosities, Bunnybro4!, Carin gleason, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, deanme9, Digital Innovators, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Ellie Simon, Eva Marie Koblin, Frank Fox, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, glenys, Granson, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jennifer Chua, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Lorena, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Michael Paradis, Michel Kuhne, Muhammad Humayun, Oweeda Newton, Pablo, Quick Buyun, Raúl, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, Sergio Correia Freitas, SleepySl0th, Stan Lambert, Stefan Gros, Willie E Williams, youssef omar, Yvonne Rivers, 헤롱 헤롱 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS 
  Script: Jonas Koblin and Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  Curse of the Witches - Jimena Contreras
  Shadow Chase - Jimena Contreras
  
  On http://sproutsschools.com, you will also find:
  - Links to all our sources
  - Ideas for a classroom projects for each video
  - The full script, core graphics and additional resources
  - The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  Chapters
  0:00 PTSD Explained 
  0:24 Stress Response 
  0:49 Brain Changes 
  1:09 PTSD Symptoms 
  1:28 Living with PTSD 
  1:43 PTSD Treatment 
  2:00 Share Your Experience 
  2:20 Ending
  2:33 Patrons credits
  
  #sproutsschools #mentalhealth #ptsd #psychology #traumahealing #emotionalhealth #stressresponse #anxiety
---
When your life is threatened so severely that it alters your brain’s structure, you may begin to constantly fear for your safety. This state of chronic stress can be a sign of post-traumatic stress disorder. Deeply traumatic experiences, such as violence, child abuse, or a natural disaster, all can lead to PTSD. Understanding how this happens requires an examination of stress itself. Stress is a natural response to uncertainty and perceived threats, as a result of which specific hormones surge, and you prepare to fight, flee, or freeze.

If the danger passes, the body returns to a state of calm, leaving you feeling tired but relieved. However, when something feels overwhelmingly threatening, it can induce lasting structural changes in the brain, causing your mind to be continuously alert. At its core, PTSD is a response aimed at keeping you safe, but it does so at a terribly high cost. Symptoms of PTSD include intrusive memories, insomnia, nightmares, and anxiety. As a result, you may experience hypervigilance, a constant state of fear and tension— continually scanning your environment for potential threats.

Over time, this chronic level of stress makes living a normal life extremely difficult, and so some turn to drugs and alcohol, or other means of numbing themselves, to regain some sense of control. Addressing such trauma often involves Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, EMDR, or community support. Over time, your brain can then learn that the threat has passed and that the world is, in fact, not as dangerous as it once seemed. What about you? Did you ever experience flashbacks, intrusive thoughts, or forms of PTSD? And if so, how did you deal with it? Share your thoughts in the comments below!

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information, classroom exercises or videos without background music, visit sproutsschools.com.