---
video_title: "How Money Is Created and How This Makes Some Rich and Some Poor"
video_id: LPw0BZOm0bU
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LPw0BZOm0bU
video_date: 2026-06-02T01:07:07+00:00
video_description: |
  Why do houses, gold, and stocks keep getting more expensive? This video explains how money is created, why inflation happens, and why saving cash can lose value over time while investments often grow—widening the gap between the rich and the poor.
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍
  https://www.facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏
  Alcid008, Alfred Holzheu, Andreea Manolica, azad bel, Braincuriosities, Bunnybro4!, Carin gleason, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, deanme9, Digital Innovators, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Dynette Pallais, Ellie Simon, Eva Marie Koblin, Frank Fox, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, glenys, Granson, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jennifer Chua, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Lorena, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Michael Paradis, Michel Kuhne, Mike Bennett, Muhammad Humayun, Oweeda Newton, Professor Nieves, Quick Buyun, Raúl, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, Sebastian Robayo, Sergio Correia Freitas, SleepySl0th, Stan Lambert, Stefan Gros, Willie E Williams, youssef omar, Yvonne Rivers, 헤롱 헤롱 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS 
  Script: Jonas Koblin
  Cartoon Artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  On http://sproutsschools.com, you will also find:
  - Links to all our sources
  - Ideas for a classroom projects for each video
  - The full script, core graphics and additional resources
  - The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  #sproutsschools #moneysupply #economics #finance #inflation #investing #finacialliteracy #wealthinequality #centralbank 
  
  CHAPTERS
  0:00 Money supply
  0:47 Inflation
  1:13 Cash vs assets
  1:48 Bank money
  2:21 Central banking
  2:49 Economic growth
  3:09 The losers
  3:30 Cost crisis
  3:41 What do you think?
---
This is the gold price since the 1970s. And that’s total money supplied by the US Federal Reserve. Here we have new home prices and money supply That's the S&P 500, which tracks the shares of top American businesses, and money supply. and finally the bitcoin price, here on a log-scale, and - money supply. If gold, real estate, stocks, and cryptocurrencies all go up with the total cash in circulation, the value of each dollar must go down—which raises some crucial questions.

Why is money losing its value? Who creates it? Why do we keep printing more? And who are the winners and losers of this system? The moment you save money It starts losing value. This happens because

bankers and government officials keep printing new money. And so the total US dollar supply increased from around 1.4 trillion in 1975 to about 129 trillion by the end of 2024. And with all the new money, each individual bill lost value. To put this in perspective: Suppose your grandparents had—very generously—put 10,000 dollars into a piggy bank for you back in 1975 It’d still be $10,000 today, and would buy you a tiny car.

If they had exchanged that same amount for gold, It would be worth $200,000 today — and get you a very fancy sports car. Invested in a fund holding shares in the top 500 US public companies, It would have grown to $2.8 million—you could own lots of cars and a mansion for that! So, how exactly is money created? There are two major forces: bankers and bureaucrats.

Bankers create new money whenever they take out a loan. After they approve a credit they literally just type the newly created money into your account—wohoo. The only requirement: banks must hold about 10% of all the new money they create— And when you repay your loan, The money evaporates again. Government officials like to spend more than they actually have. And so they tend to borrow new money from central banks, fund managers, or foreign investors.

If such a deal happens with the central bank, It just prints new money. In 2020, the US Federal Reserve created close to $4 trillion this way—which meant that the total dollars in circulation grew by about 26% in a single year. Bureaucrats then typically take this new money, invest it in projects, or give it to particular people and special interest groups. All this new money, so the theory goes, gets people spending and hence creates jobs and economic growth. But there are not only winners.

The first losers are those who hoard their cash, unaware that all the new money inflates the price of housing, shares, and other assets. Second are those who have no access to buy other assets or efficient capital markets and last are those who earn too little to invest in housing, gold, or stocks. This last group often faces a double squeeze: They see rent, food and childcare costs rise faster than their paychecks, while wealth-building assets stay out of reach. But what do you think? How could we solve this problem? Should we

just stop printing new money? Share your thoughts in the comments below. If you found this helpful, check out our other videos and subscribe. If you want to support our work, join us on patreon.com/sprouts.

For more information and additional contents, visit sproutsschools.com