---
video_title: "Build Specialized Fine-Tuned AI Agents | No Code"
video_id: VcelnXSWhzg
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VcelnXSWhzg
video_date: 2024-09-18
video_description: |
  🎁 Here is the free template mentioned in this video: 
  https://benvansprundel.gumroad.com/l/ldixe
  
  👇 Join my community and get all my templates, 1-on-1 tech help & more:
  https://c.benai.co/bsfaa-com
  
  💼 Work with my AI Agency:
  https://c.benai.co/bsfaa-agency
  
  🔗 My links:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  01:25 - Agent System Overview
  08:04 - Live Demo - Fine-tuned Linkedin Agent
  12:05 - What is Fine-tuning?
  13:17 - Why Fine-tune?
  16:27 - Fine-Tuning Limitations
  18:18 - Where & How to Fine-tune?
  20:06 - Training Dataset Size
  22:09 - Set up your own fine-tuned model
  31:48 - Giving your model to an Agent
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben, a 3-time founder & Dutch AI entrepreneur. In 2023, I started my AI agency.
  In this channel, I help businesses, professionals & aspiring AI entrepreneurs to build powerful no-code AI Agents & Automations for 10x efficiency. I post new useful AI use cases for businesses weekly.
---
Hey guys. So, in this video, I'm going to show you how to create highly specialized AI agents by giving them access to your own fine-tuned models. Now, I really wanted to make this video because in my opinion, fine-tuning has been really underused and is actually extremely powerful for many different use cases, and I think it is because most people are a bit intimidated by the setup, and most tutorials out there are code- based. So, in this video, I'm going to show you how to set up your own fine-tuned models without code. And secondly, I'll show you how you can give your AI agents access to multiple specialized fine-tuned models, which opens up a whole range of very interesting use cases. I recently, for

example, delivered a content creation agent to a client that had access to five different optimized fine-tuned models, each trained on the past post, tone of voice, and style of each of their different social media platforms, LinkedIn, X, Instagram, Facebook, and their blog. And the results were pretty amazing. both to me and the company. Uh, and by giving one agent access to all these different fine-tuned models, companies can create and post hyper optimized and brand aligned content across all their platforms by simply interacting inside of one chat. Uh, but you can imagine there are many more interesting use cases and possibilities with this setup. So, if you finally want

to learn how to fine-tune the easy way and learn how to build specialized AI agents, stick with me and I'll show you how to do it. So, I've broken this video down into four steps. First, I'll show you the content team system overview because I think this system will give you a good insight of the possibilities for this setup and um the use cases for this setup. Then, I'll give you a quick example of a fine-tuned LinkedIn postwriter agent that I just recreated for myself quickly so you can also see the difference between a normal model output and a fine-tuned model output. Then, I'll give you a very quick practical breakdown on what fine-tuning actually is, when to use it, and why to use it. And lastly, I'll show you step

by step how you can fine-tune your own model. Now, before starting, uh I'm very excited to announce that I just launched my community. I'll be sharing everything I've learned. All my templates will be available on there, too. And really, I'm there to help out with anything I can.

And but it really is about for anyone who sees the potential in this and wants to become one of the first experts in the AI agent field. uh because if you jump on this bandwag band bandwagon right now, you will be one of the first experts which in my opinion ideally positions yourself when this market matures and the AI space actually takes off. So if you're interested in something like this, I have more information uh in a link in the description below and uh I would love to see you there. Anyway, that aside, let me get to the content team system overview. As always, I built this system on relevance AI. If you're completely

new to my channel, um this might go over your head a little bit. Uh it's not the easiest setup. So, if it's hard to follow, make sure to check out my beginner's tutorial and on relevance AI. I do have many other tutorials on relevance AI, too, but uh I'll try to keep it straightforward and and simple. Now, if you've seen my previous video on the AI agent social media team, this is quite a similar setup um with a a few slight adjustments, but the way this system is uh set up is here we have our triggers, here we have our content manager agent and his tools, and here we have the sub agents with their uh specific tools. Right? So in this case,

I've actually uh set this agent up inside of their Slack, which I notic is a very interesting use case to delivering these AI agents to clients or to companies because instead of having to manage another software, they could just uh whenever they need their agent, they could just open their Slack channel of their agent and basically instruct them what to do. And it sort of makes sense because uh most people already manage sort of their employees or their or their colleagues inside of Slack. So it makes sense to sort of put these agents inside of their Slack too. So the way this system uh is set up, it could basically do two things, right? It can either repurpose content uh based on long form content like uh YouTube videos, uh podcasts or blog posts and basically sort of repurpose that across all the different social channels or it can generate uh posts from ideas, right?

So someone could just have an idea, write it in the slack channel and it will start generating posts for the different platforms based on that idea. So the way this in practice works out is in the following way. You can see here I have the two different triggers right generate from idea or repurpose content. Right? Now that will be sent to the content manager agent who has three main responsibilities. Now the first one as

always is to delegate this task to the right sub agent. And you can see each of the sub agent is basically a specialist in each of the platforms, right? So we have our blog writer agent, our ex writer agent, LinkedIn writer agent, Facebook writer agent, and Instagram writer agent. Now they're all set up in a very similar way. So for example, if we look at the LinkedIn writer agent, he has access to three tools, right? And

this is really where the magic happens because in his first tool, he will have access to the fine-tuned model, right? So the first tool is the LinkedIn writer and that fine-tuned model is trained on all the past LinkedIn post of this company to mimic the style tone of voice and sort of length as much as possible on this specific platform in this case LinkedIn right then the other tools he has are more for the repurposing right we have the YouTube transcription tool so if we actually want to repurpose it will need context on the YouTube video so it will first transcribe to understand the context and then write the LinkedIn post right and the same for podcast with the audio transcription and I actually forgot one which is a web scraper tool where it can for example if they share a blog post link then it can scrape that blog post understand the context and then write the LinkedIn uh post now basically this is the way all of these agents are set up but with the difference that each of these uh agents has access to a different fine-tuned model right that's trained on that specific platform's data right so that's the way this uh system is set up so let's say our LinkedIn writer agent writes a post and then he reports it back to the content manager agent. And then basically his second responsibility comes into play which is we've instructed him to always first report back that uh post to us and that's why we have here a tool that's called send slack message on Slack um to make sure that everything's all right. We can check if we like the post, if we want to change something. Um, and if we approve, we send it back to the content manager agent. And then he can perform his third

responsibility, which is actually posting it to the different platforms. And that's why you can see he has these other tools. Post to X, post to the LinkedIn, post to blog, post to Instagram. And again, I forgot one, which is post to Facebook. Right? So

that's how it's set up. Um, you can see quite powerful sort of setup. uh and this is just one use case of using sort of these fine-tuned models inside of agent systems, but you I can imagine there are many more uh very interesting use cases for this. You can for example imagine a customer service agent that has access to a fine-tuned model. So it can actually really respond in the tone of voice of a company which is still really hard to do with normal L&Ms. And

you can also imagine that a combination of a knowledge base or a rag. So getting the the context of the information context of the company combined with the tone of voice through a fine tune model can also be a very very powerful uh um solution for companies. So unfortunately but understandably the uh the company I built this for actually didn't want me to share this uh inside of inside of this YouTube channel. and to recreate the whole uh system for myself would be quite a big job especially considering that I have to fine-tune each of these different social media platforms which be quite a big job. So what I did is I basically recreated the LinkedIn writer agent for myself and through that example I'll also share that template with you uh on the on the community um and also through that example you understand how to do this for other platforms if you want to and also how you could recreate this entire system because again it's very similar to the social media um agent team template that I do have available. Uh, so if you

understand how to do this, you could set this system up for yourself if you're interested. Now, let me show you a quick example of the LinkedIn writer agent I set up for myself. So, here we are in my relevant dashboard. Um, now here I have my fine-tuned LinkedIn writer agent and basically I copied that one and recreated another one, LinkedIn writer one, which basically has access to a normal GPT40 model. So, not a fine-tuned one, just so we can check the differences in output. Now for context,

it's good to know that I trained this fine-tuned model based on LinkedIn posts that I like which are sort of in the AI space that are the characteristics are sort of like these short punchy sentences, very valuedriven and uh with a strong sort of uh call to action. If you're on LinkedIn, you probably know what I mean. Uh but let's check. So here we have our non fine-tuned uh agent, right? So normally of course this would be uh instructed this agent would be instructed by the manager agent but now we just uh for example purposes would do it on uh directly through the LinkedIn writer agent and let's say in this case we want to generate a blog post based on an idea not repurposing uh we can say something like write uh LinkedIn post on uh let's say in the era of AI I English is the new programming language and maybe say uh end with a CTA to my free prompting guide.

All right, let's say let's copy this and put in exactly the same uh prompt inside of the fitun LinkedIn write agent. So let's check and now let's check the difference. So here we have the non-finetuned LinkedIn post. So in the area of AI English becoming the new programming language as artificial intelligence continues to evolve the ability to communicate effectively in English is more crucial than ever. I'm already seeing that it didn't understand what I was trying to say. Just as coding

languages like Python and JavaScript have shaped the tech landscape, the way we articulate our thoughts and ideas in English is now a key skill in levering leveraging AI tools and technologies. Whether you're crafting prompts for AI models or collaborating with teams across the globe, mastering English can Okay, so yes, you can see it didn't really understand uh uh what I was trying to say. And second, I don't really like the tone of voice, especially for LinkedIn posts. It's it's uh it's not very engaging. And you've probably seen this, right? when you try

to create content with uh with chatbt for for your social media or for your company maybe it's very hard to get the tone of voice right uh even with a lot of prompting it's very hard to get that tone of voice uh and that's why I think it's such a good use case for these fine tune models now let's check the fine tune model so here's a LinkedIn post in the era you can already see by the way that the the sort of layout is very different right in the era of AI English is the new programming language the better you communicate with AI the more you can automate the The more you automate, the more you can scale. The more you scale, the more you win. The to help you win, I've created a free guide to help you master the art of prompting. I love it. You can see the difference in style. It's It's very different and way

more the style I'm looking for. It covers the three types of prompts, how to create effective prompts, how to use AI to create your prompts, how to use AI to refine your prompts, how to use AI to create your own prompt library. The the guide also includes a video tutorial and notion template. To get access, simply click my name plus follow plus bell. Okay, I can already tell you this part directly comes from the training data because this is sort of the style that I've trained this uh model on. Comment

prompting on this post. I'll send you the link. PS, if you don't want to wait, you can grab it here. So, yes, you can see the difference and the power of this fine-tune model. You can really, you know, enhance that tone of voice and really get it lots more like you you actually want it. So, I want to go over

quickly what is actually fine-tuning, when to use it, and how we can set this up. So I want to go very quickly over the basics of fine-tuning. I want to keep it practical. So it's not going to be long but you do need to understand it a little bit. So fine-tuning basically refineses pre-trained AI models with specific data. Right? So if you see the

diagram here, uh we have a base model just like GPT40 for example that of course is trained on a huge data set and then we have our base model and what we do when we're fine-tuning is we basically refine that base model with a smaller data set to make it specialized on a specific task. Right? So and through that sort of specialization we can of course get increased accuracy on those specific tasks. Now important to note you get increased accuracy on those specific tasks right because you actually get decreased accuracy on any task that's not related to your training data and you'll lose that you get that decreased accuracy on these other tasks very quickly right even with a small data set like 500 to or a thousand data points. Now lastly some people have heard have some confusion between finetuning and raich. Now the the

difference is very easy. Finetuning actually adjusts the underlying language model while rag or knowledge base just adds context um or knowledge to the base model. Right? So it doesn't actually change the underlying model. It just adds context to it. And why do we

actually fine-tune? Now I got this from the openi website uh uh these sort of but I tried to put in an example for each one. Now of course the first one is the one I've been using which is setting the style tone format or other qualitative aspects. Right. Of course, I think this is one of the really powerful use cases that's actually already working pretty well uh which is you know trying to get brand aligned or persona aligned content out right or you can even imagine inside of chat bots this can also be a very interesting use case right now uh secondly uh there are more right but secondly you have improving reliability at a produc producing a desired output right so you can imagine if you're looking for uh always have to have us always have a very specific output you can imagine that if you train a model based on that specific output.

You get high reliability in getting that desired output, right? So, for example, an e-commerce product description, right? Uh it always needs to be in the exact same format, length, the different sections, right? And you're using a model only to do that. Well, then it makes sense to fine-tune it to get that reliability um higher, right? And then

uh the third one is correcting failures to follow complex prompts. can imagine you've already experienced it probably large language models struggle with very long prompts and uh if you need to do very complex things you can better probably fine-tune a model or uh to to get those sort of specifics inside of a very large prompt. I think some of these use cases you can also attack with chain prompting of course breaking down a larger prompt into smaller prompts and put it in a chain but uh you can imagine they for example had an example here detailed technical manuals right and then uh the fourth one is handling many edge cases in specific ways you can imagine these base models are uh better at sort of these broad knowledge and and generalized knowledge so if you need to do something which involves a lot of edge cases you can imagine it's probably better to train a a specific model on that sort of uh smaller data set with the more edge case um uh data, right? For example, diagnosing rare or complex medical cases that fall outside of the norm, right? You can imagine a base model would be would have a hard time with it because it would first uh look at the general and the broad picture.

Well, if you're really looking for those specific identifying those specific uh medical cases that fall outside of the norm, you can better have a fine-tuned model that's specialized in recognizing those uh diseases, right? And then the last one is uh performing a new scale skill or task that's hard to articulate in a prompt. Now, a lot of the fine-tuning that people are doing right now is with images and this is uh a very good use case for that. You can imagine it's very difficult to describe in a prompt. You've al probably also experienced it um to uh to to let a model generate a specific type of image you want, right? It's hard to do that in

language. So you can better train or fine-tune a model by showing it the actual images of the type of images you want in your output than doing it through language with prompting, right? Uh so I think this is also a very interesting use case especially for the image uh image generation fine-tune models. So you can see here customizing model create artwork in a specific hard to describe style. Now what are some of the limitations right now of fetuning?

Uh because there are limitations still and the main ones are really first of all overfitting and overfitting basically means overly specialized right. So it basically as soon as you start sort of training this on this specific task it very quickly even again with 500 to a,000 data points start to struggle with generalization or new or unseen tasks. So any task you haven't trained on and therefore these models become very limited in terms of their flexibility. So it's very important to keep these models very specific to a specific task. Right? And then the

second thing is which also happens quite quick is forgetting right models very quickly lose some of the broad knowledge they originally had but because they're focusing so narrowly on that specific data set right so you can see this also happening I've seen it happening you know with 700 800 data points it already starts hallucinating completely stop making sense and uh putting in weird symbols and things like this so this will happen quite quickly so again you have to sort of find this uh data data set size and I'll I'll tell you my recommendations later uh to to get these models right right and then the last one is of course data dependency the output of of or the the the model output of your finetune model only depends on the quality of your data your quality the quality of your data has to be good if you expect a good outcome and second as I said the quantity of data is very important right so too much data will mean more forgetting and more overfitting so more specialized which could be good for some use cases but if you still need some broad knowledge or general knowledge then you need to go lower right but if you go too low uh then it will not perform the way you want of course so you have to sort of find that sweet spot and I'll tell you the sweet spot I found for getting sort of that tone of voice uh right so how do we actually fine-tune and how do we actually fine-tune without code now there's two main ways uh the first one is with replicate right I really like replicate um basically replicate makes it really easy for you to fine-tune your models and you the cool thing is you can use all these open- source models, you can use llama, you can use mistro, you can choose the model you want to um fine-tune and you can also use images, video, uh you can really do anything you want here and then they make it also really easy to export your own fine-tuned LM into an API which you can then use wherever you want and you could also for example export it into um relevance AI. Uh for example, you can see there's already a lot of people making fine tuned models and putting them public here on uh replicate. So you can see take photos in style ready Tokyo Nights. So they have many of these image uh models, but you can uh you can check it out. They have some cool cool fine tune models here already available. But

in this specific use case uh in this video, I'm going to do it on OpenAI. Why? Because it's actually completely for free to fine-tune your models uh the GPT40 and GPT40 mini until the end of September on OpenAI. And it's quite an easy process, even easier than on replicate I'd say. So we're going to do it on uh OpenAI.

And lastly, how do we actually set this up? There's basically four steps involved. And the first one is the hardest one uh which is preparing our data set, right? Um now the second one is converting that data set to a JSON L file. And basically a JSON L file is what these models expect to be trained on, right? So I will I'll explain in

detail how you can do this later. It's not that difficult. And uh then we have to actually train our model. And lastly, I'll show you how you can give your uh trained model or your fine tune model to your agent on relevance AI. Now before doing that, we actually have to decide which data set we're going to go for the size of our data set. Now, as I said, take this with

a grain of salt. There's no hard science and you sort of have to play around with this a bit, but I have been doing it for quite some weeks now. So in my experience what I found for this specific use case which is matching a tone of voice uh we need to go for a data set between 100 to a thousand data points right and this is still quite a a broad range so I wanted to get even more specific um because what I what I've been seeing is even if you go close to the thousand right or the upper hundreds let's say you already start losing a lot of this general knowledge it starts doing some weird things sometimes or putting out weird symbols. So if we go for the content generation from ideas, if that's your main use case for this uh fine tune model, then we want to go a little bit on the lower end of our data set. Why? Because we still need a little

bit of that broad knowledge and general knowledge. We don't want it to start hallucinating and stop making sense. So if you want to sort of do it like I did in my example, then probably a data set between 100 and 300 would work uh better for you. it will get the tone of voice pretty pretty good and uh it will it will keep making sense, right? Uh but for repurposing, we can actually do it on a little bit of a a bigger data set.

Why? Because when we repurpose content, for example, blog post, we give the&M the model a lot more context on what we want our post to be about, right? So it has to do less thinking in terms of generating and it needs ne less knowledge, right? So therefore we can get away with a little bit uh of a lack of of of broad knowledge uh and therefore we can train it on a little bit of a larger data uh set right so I put in there three to 600 right so even even if you go over that it starts I was pretty surprised how quick it loses sort of that general knowledge and starts doing weird things so now take you step by step uh through setting up this LinkedIn data set and actually training fine-tuning your model and giving it to your agent now as I said the hardest thing is actually preparing ing this data set. Of course, we don't want to start manually copying and pasting these LinkedIn posts or whatever uh post we're trying to gather to data set. So, in

this specific one for the LinkedIn one, I actually set up a tool that will help you scrape LinkedIn posts and automatically update them to a knowledge base inside of relevance and we can then export it into uh CSV which we can then later transform into JSONL. But uh the reason I could do this in relevance AI is because they actually have a built-in LinkedIn post scraper, right? So I'm going to share this tool with you so you can use it yourself and it'll basically allow you to very quickly create this data set for you. Uh you will have to change uh one or two things. So I'm going to show you that right now. So uh

I'll put that that uh link of this tool uh in the description here below. For the other platforms um uh Instagram, Facebook X, uh the blog post, I actually used mate.com to get that data into a spreadsheet. Um and I'll make sure to share those templates in the uh community. So anyway, if you've cloned your tool, um you will come to a screen like this, right?

Which is the build the build screen, right? And basically the tool works like this. We have three user inputs, right? You can either choose if you want a company or a user LinkedIn URL. So which type of profile do you want to scrape, right? A company or a LinkedIn. So let's

say in this case we want to do a company. Then we have to add in very simple just the LinkedIn of the companies we want to scrape. So let's say just for example we're going to scrape two companies. Um so we're just going to scrape HubSpot and uh maybe Pipe Drive. Uh not a good example. Of course these

are competitors but it's just an example. So we put in these uh LinkedIn URLs just here and Hopspot and then we can decide here uh the amount of days in the past we want to retrieve uh these posts from. So for example, we only want it from the last four months. So we can put in 120 days in the past. Right? So uh this tool is

already set up for you. The only thing you will have to change here is this third step which is called insert data to knowledge. Right? Now because this this will actually upload these scraped LinkedIn posts onto your knowledge base. Now of course this is on my knowledge base which will not be available in your relevance. So you have to click here on

create new right you can call it whatever you want. Um fine-tuning LinkedIn right create table and I will upload it to that knowledge base in your relevance uh AI account. Now here actually I used a little bit of code to transform that script data into um an array of objects which we need for uploading it to our relevance AI knowledge base. And here you can actually change you will have to change the amount of LinkedIn post per LinkedIn URL to retrieve. Right? So let's say you

want to do 50 but you can change this to if you want to a different number. So uh that's what we do. Uh so let's say I want to do 100 for now 50 for each company. Uh, and what we do is we can just run it.

So, it's scraping all the profiles. Now, it's transforming it into the right array of objects, right? To upload it to our knowledge base. And here you can see it's inserted it. So, we can see it now.

And we can see now we have all the scrape LinkedIn post here in the knowledge base, right? We owe you an official apology yesterday video. Yeah, whatever. So you now we from here we can just uh export it into a CSV. So that's what we do.

So now we've downloaded it and we just have to do one more thing which is actually adding two empty columns right before we take the next step which is transforming this into a JSON L file right. So, we just open a Google um Google Sheets. We import and we import the um the CSV we just exported, right? Oh, still loading. All right. So, we add

that one.

And then we can delete this assistant row, right? We don't need that. And then we're going to add in because these are basically the the the the the tool outputs, right? Or the the model outputs, right? But to train these models, we also need the prompt, right, for these outputs. And we also need the

system message or the system prompt um just like the RO prompt in this case. So we're going to leave those empty for now because we're going to add in those later. So, we just going to add in two um two empty columns on the left, right? And like this, we're just going to export it again. So, LinkedIn fine-tune um whatever Hopspot, right? So,

we go and export this into a CSV.

Right? Now the the CSV file and now we have to convert that into a JSON L. Now the easiest way to found uh to do that which I found is through a platform or website called Novel Crafter. I'll share a link in the description below too where they have a very simple tool to to do this. Right? So we can just upload

our our file here. Right. So, so we upload our file and basically auto automatically you can see it added in all these um all the posts inside of the assistant message, right? And the assistant message is basically our our output, right? But you can see we also have uh the user message here and the system message, right?

Which is a system prompt. Now, do we actually have to add in a prompt? I've experimented a lot with this and in my experience actually I've tried like sort of like describing what the post is about like to maybe give it a bit more context but actually in my experience it works best when you leave the prompt field empty while training this data right um so we're leaving that empty and we're just going to add in a system prompt right so in this case you could add something like you are a worldclass LinkedIn post writer you just give it a role right with some characteristics the post it's writing right so normally you could sort of check what kind of posts you like right what what what sort of the characteristics of them um in this case I haven't checked but uh let's say uh um your uh for let's say for Hopspot and pipe drive and uh whatever always use emojis right really really bad prompt but uh you understand uh what what you should do here. For example, the other one I got like, you know, use short punchy sentences, um, valuedriven, always include a, you know, CTA. So, you can sort of look at the post and describe the characteristics inside of the system message, right? So, once you've done

that, you can then click on set for all, right? And then it will automatically set it the system message for all of these different post. And the user message we leave empty. Um, of course, you could try, maybe in your experience, it works better if you actually put in a prompt. uh but it also saves time. Uh

and then we can here just click on download JSNL right and that's the type of file we need to actually start uh fine-tuning our model. Now we have our JNL file. All we do now is we go to platform.opai.com.

I can imagine you have an open account by now. If you don't have you can create a free account. And then we go here to uh dashboard. And in your dashboard you can click here on fine-tuning. And this is for free, right, to do until the end of September. So really

recommend to try it out. And all we do here is we click on create. And there we can first choose on which base model we want to fine-tune uh our our our model on. And then here we can upload our training data which in is of course our JSON file. So I don't know why it's not loading. I'll do the

JSON file first.

Try again.

Yeah, now it's working. So, you can choose your model here. I would recommend choosing GT40, best model, and it's for free. Anyway, I don't think even on these data sets we're using, which is like a few hundred, this will be actually very cheap, even though even if you have to pay, uh, it will probably not be more than a few dollars. So you upload your JSON file and the rest you don't really have to touch. You can

change the name here if you want. So we can say something like pipe drive. Um right this the seed you can ignore ignore this for now of you can play around with it when you get better but uh you don't have to really touch this. And then you just click create and then it starts fine-tuning your model. Now this will actually take some time right. So uh on a data set like

this 100 probably takes around 20 minutes to 30 minutes but of course if you have bigger data data set it can take up to a few hours or a couple of hours and you can actually when it's done sort of play around with it here in the openi playground. You can also sort of compare it to the original base model uh to see to see the differences and if you like the model and then once you like the model and you actually want to give it to an agent uh I'm going to show you right now how you can do that. Right. So it's not extremely straightforward in relevance AI to get access to your own fine tube models but I explain right now how to do it. So if you're in your relevance dashboard um actually I will I will also share um the tool of this one in uh in the description below too. So it makes it a

lot easier for you to do this yourself. So but I'll still show you how to do this because you will have to adjust some things. So unfortunately we can't actually uh use the L&M step inside of relevance AI right because normally you can see L&M we can actually choose our model like this too but the problem is it won't allow us to add in our own fine-tuned model it will only allow the major model so instead of the L&M model we actually have to use an API step um now again I will share this template so all you'd have to change here because the the all of these were already configured for you is the API key here right so behind bearer You will have to add in your personal API key from OpenAI. If you don't know where to find it, you can go back and here you have a section with API key. There you can generate it and you add that in here behind bearer.

Right? Make sure to have a space and then put in your API key. Then this you can leave the same content type application JSON and the authorization. And then here the body type is raw. Then we have to add in this uh JSON uh string which basically has a few things. The

first one here is the model which would you would have to change, right? Right. So this part you ch change out for your own fine tube model. Now where do you find that number? Really easy. You go

here on your fine tube model and here you have the name of the model. Right? So you copy this and you paste that in there. Right? And uh here you have the system prompt, right? Which you can add in here

too. You can just write it in, right? So you probably want to change this too. And uh and then lastly here we have the content which is our prompt of course, right? which prompt are we going to send to our uh fine-tuned model. Now in this

case I've given of course my agent access to write this. So my agent just adds in the prompt into the variable right here at the user input right and then we pass in that prompt to the API to actually get the outcome of our fine tube model. Now I actually add in one more step because unfortunately this API step the way we're doing it it can't accept like these special characters or you know bold or things like that it will give an error. So I just added in one more step here which is before it actually um calls our fine tuned model we pass in that prompt which it gets from the agent below you'll see a prompt. The only job is to take out special formatting for the prompt below.

Do not change any uh anything or add add or take away any text. Right? So then we actually pass this variable inside of the API call, right? And we do that here by just adding it in the strings, right? And adding in the variable, right? So

that's that's the way you can also change the max tokens here, right? We can add that a little bit to that and you can change the temperature. Not recommendable, especially if you're using these fine-tuned models because it will start hallucinating very quickly. So uh that should be it. Uh lastly, you can actually change the output, right?

Because in the normal API call you get a response body which is sort of a piece of code etc. All we want back really from this step is a message right the output of our fine-tuned L&M. So the way you do that you'll see that when you uh do this you'll actually have two other outputs which is the response body and another one the status. I think you could just take those away by clicking on the this here and then you can add in uh a new one right add new input and there you just add this one right which is the message right you'll find that in your variables right I find I don't find that right now because I haven't run it but you'll find it when once you've run it and then you can uh you can add that and you can change also the the the name here message and then basically what it will do is will only output message there and that's basically output of our fine tuned NLM. We don't want really anything else. So that's it. That's how

you set it up and give it to your agent. Uh quite straightforward and easy. I think the hardest part again is preparing the data set. Um but I think really interesting use cases especially for the stone of voice. Uh I think you this the you can really start implementing these things in your in your builds and to make them better and uh yeah I think these models will only get better and this fine-tuning will get better. So I see a bright future in in

fine-tuning these models. And then as I said before, giving agents access to this sort of knowledge bases, tools, and fine-tuned models, we can make these agent systems even more powerful. Now, if you're still with me, thank you so much for watching. Again, uh if you're interested, uh please check out my u my community. I'm really excited to get started and uh work together with you guys there. So check it out if you're if

you're interested. And uh again, thank you so much and I'll see you in the next