---
video_title: "Build Your First No-Code AI Agent | Full Relevance AI Tutorial"
video_id: EIvAMkNXfY0
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EIvAMkNXfY0
video_date: 2024-07-04
video_description: |
  🎁 Here is the free template mentioned in this video: https://benvansprundel.gumroad.com/l/relevanceaitutorial
  
  👇 Join my community and get all my templates, 1-on-1 tech help & more:
  https://c.benai.co/byfna-com
  
  💼 Work with my AI Agency:
  https://c.benai.co/byfna-agency
  
  🔗 My links:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  01:05 - AI Agents vs AI Automations
  06:04 - Relevance AI Key Concepts & Features
  13:21 - AI Agent Use Case & Overview
  17:15 - AI Lead Agent LIVE Demo
  21:15 - Relevance AI Overview
  23:17 - AI Agent Set Up & Prompting
  32:17 - Deploying AI Agents
  33:18 - Tool Building #1 - Lead research
  47:07 - Tool Building #2 - API
  51:19 - Tool Building #3 - Find Decision Maker
  53:48 - Using a Knowledge base
  55:45 - Using Conditions
  58:25 - Trigger Agents with API
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben, a 3-time founder & Dutch AI entrepreneur. In 2023, I started my AI agency.
  In this channel, I help businesses, professionals & aspiring AI entrepreneurs to build powerful no-code AI Agents & Automations for 10x efficiency. I post new useful AI use cases for businesses weekly.
---
Hey guys, in this video I'm going to show you how to set up no code AI agents with relevance AI. I'm going to show you step by step how to set up your first AI agent and everything I've learned while building these AI agents for my clients over the last 6 months. If you don't know me yet, I'm Ben. I started an AI agency last year and since then I've delivered around 15 AI agents to clients. Now I'm not pretending to be a world-class expert. I'm still learning a

lot myself too, but I have been spending quite some time in relevance AI and even though it's a no code platform, it can get a bit tricky when starting out. So, this video really serves as a resource I wish I had back in the day when I started building these agents. And as the best way to show you how to set up these AI agents is by actually building one, we're going to build an AI inbound lead manager agent that I recently delivered to a client. But before doing that, I do want to give you a brief overview of what are AI agents, when do you use them, and a little bit of an overview of relevance AI if you're new to it. But feel free to skip to the part that makes most sense to you using the the timestamps below. So, I've broken

this video down into three parts. The first part will go over what are AI agents, what's the difference between AI agents and AI automations, and when to use them. In the second part, I'll go over some key concepts to know inside of Relevance AI. And in the last part, we'll actually be building our inbound lead agent. And I'll be go be going over the agent prompting, the settings, tool building, and how to integrate your AI agent with other softwares and with the API. So what is an AI agent? An AI agent

is a software that automates processes, makes decisions, and intelligently interacts with their environment to achieve a goal. So if you can see my really badly done diagram there. We have an AI agent which we prompt with a agent prompt or a system prompt. It usually has access to a knowledge base too and we give it a a specific goal there. Uh we also give the AI agent access to tools and those tools can interact with softwares and can perform functions. So

the AI agent can access these tools to achieve its ultimate goal and automate a process. Now a common question I get asked a lot is what's the difference between an AI automation setup and an AI agent setup. Uh they can be very similar actually and the outcome can also be very similar but the biggest difference is an AI agent has decision-m capabilities. So we give it a set of tools and a prompt and the AI agent can actually decide which tools to use to achieve a certain goal. While an AI automation is more a rulebased sequence of tasks to perform. So when to

use when in my experience although you can achieve uh many of these these automations with both in my experience the best use cases for AI automations in a platform like make.com for example uh are more for more these repetitive rule-based tasks and workflows less complex systems in general and more predictable workflows and AI agents because of the decision-m capability you can handle more complex complex tasks and workflows you can work with less predictable workflows. And another big thing is you can have a human in the loop. Uh because a lot of these clients don't actually want to completely uh automate all of these processes always. They do some of these these clients actually want to be there in the process to review evaluate before taking the next step. I'll give

you some examples after, but that's a big uh advantage of these AI agents that I've seen. So here's an example of a more complex system uh where we have an AI agent versus an AI automation. They're both still possible through both ways. Either Relevance AI with AI agent or make.com or Zapier with the AI automation. But in

my experience for these more complex systems, these AI automations become extremely complex, very prone to error uh if we have to build out these large workflows and processes. And in this case, I usually prefer going to an AI agent which I give a system prompt. I give some tools and then he has more decision-m capabilities to take his own decisions. So in my experience, the best use cases for AI agents what I've seen are customer service agents, sales agents also because a lot of sales reps actually want to be in the loop. They want to make sure for example enterprise sales reps want to make sure that the research and the email that's being sent out is perfectly crafted before actually sending them. So it's actually good for

them to not completely automate it. Then we have marketing agents. Uh also in terms of the content production, many people don't want to automatically post AI generated content. They do want to review or check. So those are good use cases for AI agents too. and in general

any other workflow where they have high precision requirements because in those cases it's very important to have sort of that human in the loop to verify to review that everything's going the right way to do the next and to take the next action. So there basically two types of agents we have co-pilot agents and autopilot agents. So co-pilot agents is basically what I said before it's where we have a human in the loop. So an example could be the content repurposing agent. So they want to produce content but with human supervision before actually posting a blog post on their uh blog etc. And then we have autopilot agent.

For example, one I've built is the BDR agent which finds prospects, researches, sends personalized emails, answers emails and books meetings all on autopilot. So there's no human involvement here. But it depends, right? because we have enterprise clients that one client is extremely important. So they really want to be in the loop but maybe for SMBs they can autopilots are better. It really depends on the client

and the use case. Now what's the opportunity? I think the opportunity is gigantic for AI agents. I think for businesses it can improve efficiency so much. It could set them apart from competition. It can automate

entire workflows and complex workflows and tasks. And I just heard Elon Musk talk about this yesterday. He says AI adopted businesses will outco compete others in the very near future and for entrepreneurs of course AI specialists will become extremely valuable to these companies as they will have to adapt. Uh and also I think maybe for the first time ever now non- tech people can now build really powerful business applications with these no code solutions. And if you're an employee, of course, you can really set yourself apart and become way more productive by automating your own tasks and workflows through AI agents and AI automations.

So now I want to give you a brief overview of Relevance AI, why I like it so much, why I prefer it over other solutions, and some of the key concepts I think you should know before starting out. First of all, it's a no code AI agent builder, which is important to me because I'm not a coder. I can imagine you're not either if you're watching this video. Uh but that separates it for me from other popular AI agent tools like Crew AI. Uh also I think it can help in terms of speed of delivery or speed of development. Um they're way

more user friendly than working with GPTs or the OpenAI assistant. And you can actually build these tools which you can't do in the OpenAI platform. Uh they actually have many templates already available inside of their app, but you can also easily build them from scratch. Uh they have many software integrations already inside of their app like uh some CRM integrations uh LinkedIn scrapers, website scrapers and and some more. Uh you can also easily pretty easily connect them through the API with with your own softwares. I'll show you that later when

I'm building out my agent how you can connect these, but it's quite easy. And then very importantly, they have a very nice UI for agent management, which is especially important if you're managing it inside of your company or delivering it to clients. You can actually um give them these these UIs for their agent management. So if let's say they have a human in the loop system, you can deliver this this agent system on their website or whatever they wherever they want where they can manage their agents, check what they're doing, uh review steps before taking next actions. And you know it's a you can sort of deliver it in a professional way to your clients. They also have tracking usage

and dashboards. So again if you're managing multiple agents or multiple clients you can easily see the usage for each client or each agent. And also they have the availability of working with multi- aent systems. Now, I'm not going to go too in depth in multi- aent systems in this video, but you can imagine that you can already do quite complex things with one agent. If you work with multi- aent systems, you can do even more complex things. So, even

though it's a no code platform, you can really the the the use cases are unlimited. You can customize this any way you want and you can really do anything you want. So, no code, but still you can go extremely complex. You can even add in code uh if you want. So the key concepts in relevance AI and any AI agent really are tools, agents and multi- aent systems. And you can really

think of them as layers of complexity. So first we have the tools which are more the rule-based sequence executions very similar to something like make.com if you've worked with it. These tools you can make extremely complex but in general you want to sort of keep them simple again to not over complicate. Then we have our agents would work with these tools to achieve a more complex goal. And then we can work with multi-

aent systems where we can either let one agent report to another agent or even report to a manager that manages multiple agents. So how do these AI tools actually work? I'm going to show you later in this video step by step how to set it up inside of relevance AI, but I just want to give you a quick quick overview. Basically these tools again are rulebased sequences of steps. uh we have access to variables, L&Ms, softwares and APIs and a knowled knowledge base inside of these tools and with that combination we can build quite powerful things. So

if we take an example of building an email personalization tool, we can first of all decide the user input of the tool. Now let's say we have only have access to a name of a person. So we put our user input to a name and we store that name into a variable, right? Which we'll use in all the next steps. Now the next step we're going to take is for example do a Google search AP call the Google search API where we're going to try and find the LinkedIn of this person uh because we're going to personalize the email based on the LinkedIn. So what

we do is we feed the variable to the Google search API plus LinkedIn. So the Google search API is going to look for the name plus LinkedIn and gets basically the entire Google search results back. Then we feed those Google search results to the next step which is an L&M step, an AI step where we say analyze these Google search results and please find the LinkedIn URL of this person's name. So let's say this this L&M outputs the LinkedIn URL. We can then add it to the next step which is our LinkedIn scraper which is going to scrape the data from this person's LinkedIn. And then we can feed that to

the last uh L&M step which is write a personalized email based on this person's LinkedIn data. So this is just a simple tool but you can imagine you can make these very complex if you chain together these different steps and sort of make a combination between these softwares and NLMs. You can do quite some interesting things. Uh again in general I recommend to not make them extremely complex because again this is very similar to make.com.

In general, rule of thumb, no more than 10 steps. If it gets more than 10 steps, it's better to actually create multiple tools and give it to an agent. Uh, just in terms of complexity and it will be less prone to error. That's in general what what I do. So, how do these AI agents work? Um, in relevance AI, in

relevance AI, we have some nice extra features for these AI agents. We can trigger them from softwares with for example they have native integrations with Gmail or some CRM. So we can trigger these agents automatically for example when a new lead comes into a CRM. Then of course here we have the core instructions which is basically the system prompt. Then we have the flow builder where we can basically give it some extra instructions on how to behave in certain situations which I've I've noticed helped a lot in terms of performance of these agents. Then we

have abilities here where we can actually label. So the agent will be able to label tasks he has done. For example, if his sequence of this agent is first research the lead and then send an email. When he has researched the lead, he can label it. Uh so you can see in your UI research lead and when he sent the email, he can label it again email sent. Uh so you have a nice

overview in your UI of where this agent is in his process. Uh then we have sub agents where we can work with the multi- aent system and some other settings which I'll show uh later in this video. And lastly we have the multi- aent systems. Again I'm not going to go over that in this video but you can imagine you can build very complex workflows and systems with multiple agents. So now I'm going to go over the agent we'll be building today. Uh I'm going to

show you step by step how to set this agent up. But I just want to give you some context before we start building. Um, this is an agent I recently delivered to a client. Of course, it's not the exact uh setup because I can't show you that, but it's a it's a replica of that. So, what was the client case in this case? It this company was a B2B

financing solution from Denmark. They're actually a startup, but they're quite big and they had some issues mostly with managing inbound leads. So, their sales reps were wasting a lot of time on these inbound leads. So, what happens is this company, their main target is really enterprise clients, right? So their sales reps most of their time they actually spend uh trying to do cold outreach or trying to contact these enterprise clients to get these in. But

the solution is also available for SMBs and they did get a lot of inbound leads in through their website through a contact form with these more SMBs and these sales reps had to manage both the SMB leads and the the enterprise leads. Now, the process of handling these inbound leads was very inefficient because these these um sales reps were basically overloaded with inbound leads. They were spending way too much time on bad leads, too little time on on the actual good inbound leads. They had no time to research these inbound leads. They were really badly prepared for calls. And in the end, just a lot of

time wasted, low conversion rates. And this is where we really tried to solve this painoint for for this company with an AI agent. So the goal of this AI agent was really to help sales reps prioritize inbound leads, research and in the end uh convert more. So what does our agent do? It really completely manages sort of the the workflow of these inbound leads. So it automatically

researches these leads when they come in. It updates the CRM with these new data points. It scores the lead so these sales reps know which leads to call first. Uh it finds the decision makers in the in these companies which is very important for these guys too because they always have to talk to the right person and uh it also prepared a personalized call script for them which which is updated inside of the CRM. So they could literally see okay this is a high priority lead this is a this is a little summary of the lead and here's a personalized call script. Uh so you can

imagine it made quite a big impact in this company because these sales reps can just focus on the right leads and be very well prepared for them. So I'm going to show you in a second exactly how we set up So I'm going to show you in a second exactly how I set up this agent but I just want to give you a brief overview. Basically we have given this agent eight different tools. Uh first of all it's triggered through Hopspot when a new lead comes in. Then what we do is we automatically lead re use the lead researcher tool to find relevant information on the lead and the company.

Then based on that information we score the lead uh basically prioritizing leads for the sales reps. How good or how bad is this lead? Then we update that information into their CRM. We then try to find a decision maker because it's very important for these sales reps when they're in the call that they know who they have to get to in in the end and it will really help them perform better in these sales calls. So, we'll try to find the decision maker. This is not always

possible with public information. But if we find a decision maker, we're also going to do some research on this decision maker. We're going to update the CRM with the decision maker info and then we're going to generate uh personalized call script on all this research data and again update the CRM with this personalized call script. If you didn't find the decision maker, we'll generate the call script without that information. So this is a simple layout of how this tool set up. Now I'm

going to show you the relevance dashboard and how we set up this agent. So now I'll show you a quick demo of how it actually works and then we dive into how you actually set this up. By the way, the template is available for free in the description below. So, you can literally copy and paste this entire AI agent setup into your own relevance AI um and adapt it to your use case. So, here we are on the uh relevance AI dashboard in the agent dashboard, agent management dashboard.

So, the way this works um is the agent gets triggered as soon as a new contact is is formed or made in um HubSpot. Uh now of course we can't use their actual template. So I just set up a quick contact form myself. So the way this works is if we have a new contact here. This is just an example and someone signs up and we get an inbound lead. This triggers a make.com

automation. The make.com sends the sends the data to the hotspots and creates a new contact and that triggers our AI agent. So if we go back right now, we can see a new one was triggered. And here we can see our AI inbound lead agent is working. So on the in the

background you can see what it's doing, right? So it's first using the lead researcher tool. So it's researching the lead. For example, this past one, you can see it labeled what it has done, right? Lead research and scored.

So if we go back to this one, you can see five steps performed in the background. So he's researched the tool. He scored the lead. He's updated CRM with the lead info. He has tagged now the conversation with lead researched and scored. So you can see this always

here and in the sidebar where he is in the process. Now he's trying to find a decision maker. You can see in the end it will also give you a summary of everything he's done. So he's find found the decision maker. You can see new decision maker found. He's

doing the the research on the decision maker. He's updated the CRM with the decision maker info and now it's generating a personalized call script.

So this this is a autopilot agent, right? So we literally don't have to do anything.

And he's done. So the process for managing has been successfully completed, right? This is everything he's been doing. Lead research, lead scoring, CRM update, decision maker. If you need any further assistance, feel free to ask. So let's go back into

uh Hopspot and see what happened there. So we can see a new contact was created. The lead score we have now here where where the sales reps can prioritize which are the important leads. In this case, it's not a very good lead. We have the LinkedIn account. We have the job

title of the lead. We have the lead summary. We have a website URL. We have the company LinkedIn. We have the company size, the industry company summary, the decision maker of the company, decision maker LinkedIn, and a decision maker summary. And finally, we have a cold

call script, a personalized cold call script. So, you can see this one is personalized to them. Hi, Christina. This is Ben from in this case I personalized it to my own company because of course I can't use the actual company and then it it generated spin selling questions which is a sales technique. Uh so we can see situation qu questions I wanted to ask how does clmate currently manage lead enrichment and outreach in your sales process and what tools or systems are you using to automate sales task at clutate.

So we have a personalized sales script. So this is how it's actually working. So if we go back to the lead agent, we can also check here every tool what has been done. For example, least research tool. The input was this. The output was this.

I'll show you in more detail later before I want to give you a brief overview of the relevance dashboard. So if we go back here, here we are inside relevance AI if you signed up for a free account. About the pricing, by the way, um you will see that the first paid plan is $200. Don't be scared by that because you don't actually need that one. You can go with the free version and where you'll get a 100 credits per day and then you can buy extra thousand credits for $2. Now, I can tell you especially

if you're starting out, you can do quite a lot with a,000 credits. Um, so don't worry about the the the pricing. If you want to learn more about the pricing exactly, let me know in the comments and I'll give you some more information. But it's not expensive to build your first AI agents. Um, so here we are in my agents. These are all the agents I've

built and you can see we have tools here. We have knowledge. So we can upload knowledge bases. We have templates. So here they have actually have many templates available already.

So they they even have some agent templates and but mostly they have like tool templates. For example, you can see extract data from PDF, Google search, analyze CSV. So there's some very useful ones that will save you a lot of time if you need to do specific things. But in general, I noticed that I mostly build tools from scratch because you always need to modify them to each specific use case. So, and then lastly here we have the activity center and analytics where we can track these dashboards etc. And we

have integrations. Uh you can see I have some native integrations with Google, Hopspot, Slack, Outreach. Here you can put in your API key. So, if you haven't uh used relevance AI yet, I'd highly recommend you put in your OpenAI API key uh cuz then you'll get charged through OpenAI instead of relevant relevance AI which will put a small markup on it. So, use your own API keys or if you like other um L&Ms, they have them all available here.

So, this is a little overview of the dashboard. We go back to the agent. So we have our inbound lead agent and here's really where we go to the agent setup. So we have the agent name, the agent description. That agent description is more for you or if you start working with multi- aent systems, this actually describes to other agents what this agent does, which sometimes can be useful, but for now not very important. And then here we have

integrations and triggers. So they have some native integrations, right? But um I actually integrated it and triggered it through a mate.com automation because I I want to show you guys later how you set that up because basically if you work with any other tool than this, this will be the easiest way to trigger your agent. So that's why I set it up not directly with HubSpot in this case but through make.com because

it allows us to basically integrate it with any software we want. Then we have the core instructions which is the system prompt. Right now, the system prompt is very important for this agent. Uh I use a structure. I actually have a tool also available in the description below that is an agent prompting tool.

So all you will need to do is fill out some boxes and it will generate the perfect prompt for you. I got this from another YouTuber Liam Oley which is uh very good at this these things. So that will help a lot in terms of writing these prompts. So in this case I have instructed it in the following way. Right? You're an expert inbound lead

manager efficiently researching incoming leads and companies. You'll score the leads, find all decision makers, find decision makers and company and update our CRM with newly found information. You also generate generate a personalized call script based on the research results you found. You will you will be triggered, right? So I give it some context when a new contact is formed in Hopspot. And this is sort of

your SOP, right? The things you have to do, right? So I give it the breakdown of all the things he has to do. Here's some extra rules, right? Always start with this tool. Always end with this tool.

And some other rules. For example, this one. You will only do research on the decision maker with the decision maker research tool if the if a decision maker was found. And if the decision maker is different than the original lead because it was if it's the same lead, if it's the same as the lead, we already have done research on on that person. So this part in my experience is very important in agent prompting which is the SOP and tools. So giving a good description of

what each tool does and how it should use it, it's going to be very important for the performance of your agent. So in my case, I've just described what each tool does and what it sort of returns back to the agent. What information does it give back to the agent? So this is just a description of all these tools. And lastly, notes. Notes

are very good for if the agent if you're trying the agent and it doesn't do exactly what you want. For example, it skips a step or whatever, add it add it in a note because actually these language models there's been a study there uh done that showed that instructions that are given in the beginning or at the end of a prompt are being taken into account more than others. So if you have a a specific problem that's hard to solve, try to add it always in the last part at notes and usual usually you will see that it resolves it pretty quickly. Now here's another very good uh feature I think which is the flow builder because as I said the most important thing for these agents is that it follows sort of this flow the right way right and although we're giving that information already here in the in the system prompt like SOPn tools we can sort of double down on it here with the with the flow builder so as you can see what I've done here is you can choose Choose between instruction. So for example, when you receive a lead, always start with the lead researcher tool. Then always score

the lead with the lead scoring tool. So you can actually fill this in and use uh a tool here. So notice exactly what what you want to do. Um you give it the next instruction then update CRM with lead and company info using update CRM with lead info. Then try and find the decision maker using uh find decision maker. So in this case there

can be multiple outcomes right so he can either not find the tool cannot find the decision maker or he can find and based on that the flow of this agent is going to be different so we can add a condition here right so I've added a condition here if decision maker was not found or is the same as the original incoming lead continue here right where we basically go ahead and generate the personalized call script right away if the decision maker was found and is different from the original lead then research decision decision maker using this tool then update the CRM and the decision maker info and lastly we can get them together into the updates uh generate the personalized call script. So I like this feature a lot in my experience it improves the out uh the output a lot. I can see actually I have a mistake here because I need I need another uh step of generating the call script but as you saw it actually did it correctly. So uh the the the system prompt was good enough. Then we have another interesting one here which is uh labeling tasks which is if you're really using the UI of these it can be helpful because you can have that list here on the side right where you see the tags of what it has done right so if you have loads of of different tasks you can see exactly where each one is what it has done what it has not done etc. So basically we

prompt that to right. So we can here give it the name lead researched and scored whenever the lead was successfully scored by the lead scoring tool. Then it should label it like that. So you can literally give it just an instruction on when to label it what. Then we have the tool section. Um so

here we can add tools. I'll show you later how to actually build these tools. I'm going to show you three or four of these tools how I've set them up. Um, so the interesting here thing here is we can choose between three options, right? We can do auto run, which I've done now with all my with with all my tools in this specific agent. They're on

auto run, but you have do have the possibility of saying approval required. So this is the human in the loop aspect that I mentioned before. So you can decide he can never run this tool without previous approval. Now I can show you maybe how this works after but it's for example in in some certain cases for example I had an an AI agent for an enterprise client who who sent personalized emails to very important clients and he didn't want to send those personalized emails automatically. He did want to check before it was actually sent that everything was uh perfectly right. So we could still automate a lot

of his process like the lead research, the writing of the email etc. But for him it's good to evaluate, make some small changes before actually sending it out. So there can be very good use cases for this. And then a third option is let the agent decide. So you can even then prompt it to sort of instruct it when when it can use it by itself and when not. For example, in this case, we could

say maybe hm if if the lead score is less than 10, uh you can send the personalized email automatically because this lead is not extremely important. But if the lead score is 100 and this is a great client, then then uh we need approval from a human before we actually send this personalized email. So that's that's tools. In this case, I've added quite some tools. In general, what I've seen is don't add too many tools to an agent either. Just like I

said with the make.com, the AI automations, if there's too many conditions, etc., it's better to give it to an agent. Now, if you have too many tools inside of an agent, an agent can get a little bit confused. So in my experience also the 10 around 10 tools is becoming sort of on the edge for AI agents uh because it will be harder and harder for him to understand these workflows and and to to make the right decisions. So

if you need have an even more complex process where you need even more tools then you would go to multi- aents right where we can see here sub agents. So for example we can have add in another agent here and for example whenever it has done this whole process we instruct the next agent to write a personalized uh sales proposal I don't know but you can see we can add in these sub agents to make even more complex workflows and to automate entire sales process processes or or or workflows. Now lastly, there's one more thing I want to show you is how you can actually deploy these agents. So if we go back to the dashboard here, we can click on share where we have an option of for allowing sharing and embedding of your agent. So we can either get a public link where we just open a link and you get the agent interface which if you deliver to clients, you could deliver it like this and they can manage their agents here themselves or we can embed it on a website. Right? So we have a an

HTML code here which we can embed onto our website or their website. So here have a quick example on my own website. So you can see we have the agent interface here. So that's really it on agents. At the end of the video I'll show you how to actually trigger this right and how to work with the API, how to trigger these agents from make.com.

But first we're going to build uh our tools and because tools is really where the magic happens and where you will spend most of your time. Uh, so if we go back to our dashboard, we can go to tools. So I'm going to show you three or four of the tools that I've set up for this specific agent so you get a better idea of how to build these. So we can start with the lead researcher tool, which is the first tool our agent uses. So we can go here on edit, right? If

you're creating a new one, just click here on new and build from scratch. For now, we're just going to go to edit. Again, this is available for you in the template. So you'll see all of this and you can you can follow along if you if you want. So here we have our lead researcher tool. So we have the name and

the sub sub uh title. Now this is actually important right because this is this text the agent is going to read and by reading it it knows what this tool does. So this subtitle is actually important so that the description of what this agent does. It could be a little bit more in-depth my my explanation but it's pretty straightforward. So it researches the lead in the company. So this agent will

understand okay this is what the tool does. Then we have our knowledge option. So we can actually add a knowledge base to a tool. Um now in this case we're not using that but maybe after I can give you an example of where we would use that. For example, if we create a personalized email uh email generator tool, we can for example upload a knowledge base of our past emails uh and maybe some information on our company and we can then feed that to the tool to make sure it mimics our style of writing and also has some extra information on my company. But I'll show you that uh in

another video. I think in this case we're not using a knowledge base. Then the second step is we're defining our user inputs. that are user inputs is sort of the variables what our tool the variables that our tool that our tool is going to use. So in this case this company only has a lead name and a lead email. Right? So we can only do lead

research based on those two data points. So what I've done is created two user inputs lead name. Again we have to describe what this is. In this case, it's pretty straightforward, but again, the the agent is going to fill this in with the information it received from HubSpot. So, it has to define okay, name of lead and the agent will fill out this user input. Now, the important part here

is we save this um data into a variable. So, we call this variable contact name. So, we can change the name if we want, but we've called it contact name. And also, we have the lead email, right? and we save store that in a variable that's called contact email. Now these

variables are very important because those are those are the variables we're going to use in all of the next steps of this tool. Now we can decide to put in more or different types of user inputs. So we can say long text input we have we can do files. We can do tables uh JSON checkboxes. Anything's possible but for now this is all we need. And here you

can also define if it's required or not. So for example, in this case, we need both of these data points to actually do the research. So they're required and we know we have them, right? If if they're not always in the next tool, you'll see one where we have an optional one where I can explain it. So how does this work?

Again, it's a task a role based sequence of tasks, right? So what we do here is we you can see we have sort of a chain of tasks that this tool has to perform, right? So I divided it up here. I added in some notes. So first we researched the company and then we researched the lead, right? So how do we actually do this? So

in this case we started with an L&M, right? An AI which is basically just a prompt, right? So in this case we've used GT3.5 because it's a very easy prompt. It's not an difficult action and we want to save some money. So what does

this prompt do? Basically, what we're trying to do in this prompt is trying to get the company website from uh this lead. Now, we already know we already have the email, right? And by far the majority of these emails that come through are work emails. So, we know that the domain part of the email is most likely the website. So, we have a

simple prompt that says, "Please extract the website of the following email." So, here's the the key thing, right? We've prompted it and put in a variable, right? With a variable put in, but uh using these double brackets then we can just choose the variable. So here we'll fill out the email and then I instruct it to only take the domain name and add https in front.

Don't output anything else. So here we get the company website as an output. So I can show you this in an example so we can see step by step what this tool does. So I've just put in the example or we used earlier and I'm running the tool right now just to give you a better overview of how this actually works. The tool is running right now and doing everything. So we go step by step. So

that first step you can see the output of that first step is the company website right. Uh so again we're going to store this in a variable right company website. So this link now is stored in this variable which we can then use in our next step. So the next step we're going to try and find their LinkedIn. Why? Because in their LinkedIn

we have a lot of data available that is very useful to this company. So we're going to do a lot of research on this company based on the leads LinkedIn and the company LinkedIn. But first the tool has to actually find those LinkedIn. So what we do is we use a Google search step. So this is already integrated into relevance AI. It's basically a Google

search API where we can define the query. So what kind of Google search does it have to do? Well, in this case, it has to look for LinkedIn plus the website and we use the website by putting in the variable. So, basically, it's just doing a Google search with LinkedIn for the website. So, the output of this tool of this step is basically a Google search result. You

can see we have all the results here. Now what we do then in the next step is we do another AI step and an M step where we instruct uh the AI to find the company uh LinkedIn URL out of this Google search results. So again, we give the L&M this variable inside of this prompt and we instruct it to say please find the most likely company LinkedIn URL of this company of this company which again we put in the variable. So if you want to look at this in depth, I highly recommend uh downloading the the temp the free template because then you can read these prompts in detail. uh but you can see you're an expert researcher that specializes in anal an analyzing Google search results and extracting the most likely company LinkedIn URL of the following company right where we put in the variable of the company and uh here below we give it the Google search results right so this basically stores all of this data so you can see the output of this tool is the company LinkedIn again we store it in a variable company LinkedIn URL and then we go to the next step which again builtin LinkedIn uh is a built-in LinkedIn scraper already done by relevant CI. So

all we have to do here is um put in the URL of the LinkedIn. Now of course we have that stored in this variable. So we all we do is add in this variable here and in this case it's a company. We can choose between user profile, user post or company profile. In this case it's a company. So you can

see the output of this tool is a scraped data from a LinkedIn profile, right? So we have a lot of information here about the company. And here's basically the last step in our research on the company which is again we instruct the AI with all of this data to uh extract some specific data points like company industry, company summary, employees etc. So again here we fed it the variable of the scraped LinkedIn profile. Now here's an important thing because in this case we want to have multiple different data points from this company.

For example in this case we have here company industry the company summary and the employees the amount of employees. Now because we have v multiple outputs in this tool and we sort of want to separate these outputs. We don't want to have one big sort of text that says this is the company industry because we can't use that inside of our CRM in in our CRM. It's separated in different blocks. So we want to separate our output. So

how do we do that? This is a very important trick to know in relevance AI because it will help you a lot when you will come across a lot of these situations where you need to multiply the output and the best way to do it is by instructing the L&M to say uh to output your findings in a JSON format. You don't have to know what a JSON is but if it does that you can see it's just basically a piece of code and it separates it like this. Now what we do then is we use a step that's already built in relevance AI 2 which is convert a string to JSON. So we're going to convert this answer into a JSON. And you

can see here we actually have multiple outputs. So instead of one block of text that says IT services and IT consulting, we have it separated. So very easy here, right? How do you add that? You just go convert string to JSON, right? And there

we put in the variable. So that's a very useful feature. Um, now we have the company information, but now we want also want to research the lead. So we do a very similar process, right? We do a Google search, but in this case, LinkedIn with the name of the lead and the company website. Uh, just to get it

a little bit more clearer because sometimes, you know, there's a lot of people called the same way. So it will get confused. We give it an extra data point. And again similar prompt right to try and find the LinkedIn. And you can see we found the LinkedIn here. Again we

store it in a variable. We scrape the LinkedIn. And again we instruct an AI to extract the right data points from that LinkedIn profile. We we instruct it again to output the findings in a JSON format. We add in the extra step to convert the string to JSON to have it separated.

And that's it. That's our lead researcher tool. So you can see here our tool output because we separated all of these um outputs is all of these data points. Company LinkedIn URL, company industry, number of employees, lead summary, company summary, lead LinkedIn URL, company website URL. So we have everything here.

Here we can actually decide do we put it manual or last step. Now we gathered a lot of information in the previous step. So that's why we're using manual because what we're doing here is defining our output variable. Meaning we need all of this information from the previous steps into our final output. We we don't want only this last step output because there we don't have the the company data points for example. So we do

manual and then we can just select here. So for example, if I want to add another one, I can show you quickly. Is it buggy? I can't show you. But yes, that's that's how it works. If you only

need the output of the last, you can just do last step. So this is a a brief overview of how these tools work here. You can easily navigate as you can see. And we also have some extra settings here. We can do a run timeout. For example, if it runs longer

than a certain amount of time, uh it it times out. We have our API keys and you have to play around with this a little to to get good at this. Uh you can see there's lots of things already in here but that's it. Like maybe I can show you some advanced settings of the L&M. So here we have an the AI step right where we can actually define which model we would use. So in this case I've

used the GPT40. We can we can decide exactly which model we use and also which provider. So we can use an entropic, we can use Google, grock, anything really. Now, so you can see these tools can already do pretty powerful things and actually you can already, you don't need agents. You can also use only tools. So if you maybe

have a more simpler workflow, uh you could also just connect a tool to a software or trigger trigger a tool from a software, output the information we got from the tool back into another software. So we could set up inmake.com for example. I have one in my in one of my previous videos which is the lead researcher tool or uh lead lead qualification setup. In those two setups, I literally just connected uh a CRM with one of these tools and the information we found here we output back into the CRM. So because it's a simpler

setup, all we can do is build one tool and that's it. So how do you actually do that? If you go back to use Here we have two options which is run in bulk which is also an interesting tool. I have another video on that. How do you the how do you scrape LinkedIn in bulk? We

can simply add a spreadsheet here and and run our tool on a spreadsheet and basically output all the these these outputs into the into the spreadsheet. And then we have the API where we can connect this tool to other softwares. I'm not going to I'm going to show you how to set that up and also with the agent later in the end of this video. But for now, I want to show you two or three other tools. So, we can go back and now I can show you maybe the how we update our CRM.

So, after that tool ran, right, and we have the research data, we want to update that data with some lead info. Right. So in this in this tool what we've done is we've integrated with it with the Hopspot API. So again we've instructed the agent with what this tool does right update CRM with lead info updates hotspot CRM with the lead info. Right now in this case the user inputs we have many because all of these data points we previously gathered from the research tool we're going to now put into this tool or the agent rather is going to put that into this tool to update our our hotspot. So here we have

our Hopspot contact ID. Now that's important to identify which contact it has to update. Now this is the information the lead the the agent gets from from uh make.com right in this case. So this is what the information that the agent got in this case the HubSpot ID. So again the agent is going

to fill that out right. So this one is required because it can only update that contact is if it has the contact ID. Now the rest of them is optional. Why? Because sometimes the lead researcher tool not does not find all of this information. Sometimes some information

is lacking inside of their LinkedIn uh profile or sometimes they don't even have a LinkedIn profile. So all of these are optional but the agent will fill it out if it has the information. So we have the job title, link lead LinkedIn URL, lead summary, company website URL, company LinkedIn URL, company size, company industry, company summary, and the lead score, which was another tool we had, but I'm not going to show you right now. So we have all of these uh all of these user inputs, which we all again store in variables, and then we're going to run our Hopspot API call. Now, how do you do that? In this case, Hopspot has already

has one right here. But in general, you can run you can trigger any API with the run API request, right? So it's a very similar setup. So in this case, the method is patch because that's what Hopspot uses to update a contact. We have our our account, our Hopspot account, and the path. This path you'll have to find and

it will depend on the software how it's exactly set up. In this case, this is the path, right? CRM V3 object contacts. And then in the last part of the URL of the path, we need to add in the HubSpot contact ID. So in this case, that's going to change for every every different lead. So we put in the

variable again here, right? Hopspot contact ID variable. So here we have the body. Body is pretty straightforward. Here we have um the fields or the properties that are set up inside of Hopspot. So these

properties you actually have to look up in in your own CRM or in in this case Hopspot. If you want to know how you do it in Hopspot, I can show you. For example, we have lead score here. If we go edit columns, we can go here to properties. We're not going to this property but let's say we have lead score we open it and here we can see the internal name right so this is the this is the property name we have to use inside of our API call so if we go back so we have all our properties here and then we put in again our variables right which we get from here so this is all the information well it will update on this contact HubSpot contact ID So that's how it works. Very easy. So

that's how you sort of integrate an API. If you want to learn more about APIs and how to set them up, let me know in the comments and maybe I'll make a separate video on that. Now I want to show you one more tool which I think is interesting which is the find decision maker tool.

So the way this one is set up is in the following way. So in this case, we have set the user input only for company URL, which is of course what our agent already found through the lead researcher tool. So we have the company URL and with the company URL, we're going to do a Google search for this company URL plus impress. So in this case, this client operated in the German market. Now in Germany you have uh legally you're required to have an impressive page on your website where basically your decision makers and CEOs are listed. So this is an advantage in

Germany that almost all companies have this onto their website because they have to. So basically what we're doing is a Google search. So we can try it again with the with the same uh company. You can see how this works. Automate.

We can run it. So you can see we get some Google search results back for that specific page. And then again we instruct an AI and the next step you're an expert researcher that specializes in analyzing Google search results and finding the impressive page. Right? So you can see it found impressing page and then what we do is we use uh web scraper right also built in inside of relevant site already. If you click here you see

extract website content. So what we do is of course we put in the variable of that page in here and we scrape the website and in this website information there should be a specific name which in German is called Gisha Fer which is the decision maker of the company the most likely decision maker of the company. So the next step is like analyze this website and extract the name of the person who is mentioned as the gashas furer. So you can see it found uh it found the decision maker. And again now that we have the decision maker, we basically rerun that sort of research tool uh I showed you before on the decision maker to find his LinkedIn to scrape the data off his LinkedIn, give us a little bit of a summary, etc.

Now these are a few of these tools that we've set up for this specific agent, but you can imagine the amount of possibilities you have by building these tools. I can show you one more which is not related to this agent but where we actually use uh a knowledge base. Let's say this one. So this is one tool I use in my inbox responder agent where I'm also going to make a video on that one. But in this case we've equipped it with two different knowledge bases. So it's

basically just a CSV file in this case where one is a FAQ about my company Force factory. So just some knowledge general knowledge and the second is a past email uh replies. So I have two knowledge bases because what I do with the past email replies is basically let try and get the AI to mimic the style or tone of voice that I have when writing emails. And in the in in the force factory FA FAQ, I just have some information about my company that if let's say someone has a specific example that's not publicly available, it can use that knowledge base to answer that question. So in this case, our user inputs are email content, some other thread ID, message ID. I'm

not going to go in depth in this one. I'll do that in the other video. But you can see in this AI, I use again these knowledge bases as a variable. So past emails and knowledge right now you do have some extra settings here on how to use knowledge. So we can go here how to handle too much content which is good because if you have a huge knowledge base we don't want to overload the AI and also pay a lot of money to to get that information. So we

can go here and select most relevant data. So it will do in in that case it will do a vector data search which basically tries to find the most similar relevant data. But I'll give you more information on the knowledge base in another video. So there's one more thing that I want to show you that is very important in these tool building which are conditions. So you can basically set up conditions for when a step should run or when a step should not run. Uh which

is going to be very useful and I'm going to show you. For example, we can we have actually a variable here set up which says scrape the this is the step with where they where they scrape the LinkedIn profile. Right? So in this case we have uh a variable set up which you do right here. Sorry right here and you do condition right. So add condition

will it will say normally. So I already have the condition here. So my condition basically says company LinkedIn URL which is this variable includes https. So why did I do this right? Basically it says only I only run this tool if the output of this one and remember this tool was looking for the LinkedIn profile based on the Google search results. So only

output only run this tool if the output of this one includes https. Why? If the this previous step doesn't find a URL of the LinkedIn, it will probably say something like LinkedIn profile not found. Actually, I instructed it here to say company LinkedIn not available. Right? So, if it can't find the LinkedIn

URL of a company because it doesn't exist uh or whatever, it will output company LinkedIn not available. And in that case, the LinkedIn scraper will not run because the answer doesn't include HTTPS, right? Um, so why do I do that? Because if it actually starts putting in, let's say it didn't find the LinkedIn and it says company LinkedIn not available, it will fill that that in into this variable and then there will be an error in my tool, right? Because of course it can't run a LinkedIn scraper on a non-LinkedIn URL or just some text. So the tool will run into an

error and basically the system crashes, right? So these variables are very important uh to to know how to set up. So they're done with JavaScript. I think actually they they added in a new feature where you can to add conditions. Yes. So we

can select a variable contact name does not equal. Right? So we can set it up like this or we can do it ourselves because in this case we don't have the includes option. So that's why I wrote it myself. But as you can see, you can do it without code here right there.

Now lastly, I want to show you how you can trigger your agent from any software you want really. So for that we have to go back to the agent

and here we go to agent setup where where we have our triggers, right? So integrations and triggers. So in this case we go to API and here have the information to connect our API. So in this case we're going to use make to basically be able to connect it to to any software. So in this case I made a scenario here in make.

So in this case my scenario right gets triggered by contact form. Then it's being uh the contact is sent to Hopspot and whenever a new contact is created in Hopspot my uh AI agent is triggered. Uh, of course for the company this was not the same setup because they automatically got their clients their inbound leads into their CRM. So all all the trigger was was HubSpot to to uh to the AI agent. So let's say you're working with a different CRM uh or a different software. All you do here is

create a new one like let's say Pipe Drive, another popular CRM. I I don't have a pipe drive account so I can't I can't show you in detail but let's say uh whenever a new contact is created so we can say watch leads triggers when a new lead is added or updated right so we have that as a trigger right we set up the connection right and then basically triggers every time a new contact is created and then we have to connect it to our AI agent so in this case we're going to set up an HTTP model for relevance AI for For our AI agent, we're going to go to the make request, make a request. And for relevance AI, it's always going to be the method is always going to be post to trigger these agents. So, we can go back now to relevance AI and the endpoint you find here. We copy that. We go back into make and we add

that here in the URL. Now, we have to add two headers. So, we're going to add two headers. The first header you can find again here if you go back you can find here in the sample curl you'll see content type application JSON. So this will be always the same. So you can

literally copy that. So the first header is going to be content type and the value is going to be application JSON. Then for the second header we go back and here you find authorization. Right? That's the second header name.

And the value is going to be your API key. So the API key you'll generate also from here you have here an option that's called generate API key. If you click here an API key will be generated. You copy and paste that into the value of uh authorization. Once you have done that you select here body type is raw. The

content type is going to be JSON. And here we're going to have to put in our request content or request body. So we go back in here and we have our request body. So that's where we're actually going to put in the message we're going to send to our agent when it gets triggered. Lastly, we're going to have to put uh parts response. Yes, because I'm going

to show you this request content in the module I actually set up so you can understand it better. So if we go here and we're in the request content. So as you can see here we have the same request body but I added in the variables from Hopspot. So first one we have ro is user. We can leave that as it is. And the content is

what we're going to send to uh to our AI agent. So in this case our AI agent you remember for our lead researcher tool what uh or what does our agent need? It needs the HubSpot ID now to update the data whenever it run the the research etc. It needs the email and the lead name. Right? So in this case I just

typed in literally Hopspot ID and then I added in the variable from Hopspot ID. Right? Then I typed in email because this is this exact message will be sent to the agent. And then I uh added in the variable of the email and lead name with first and last name. Right. So this message this is going to

be sent to the AI agent. I can show you here. You can see it it it sends HubSpot ID. It fills filled in the variable email and lead name. So you can even give some instructions to your agent in this request if you want. Um but we go

back. That's it. So don't uh don't forget to add to click here on parse response. Yes. And now you've set it up.

Uh it's pretty easy actually. It's the same sort of principle for tools. I can show you quickly if we go back to tools.

Get a random tool.

We're going to have the same setup. You can see we have the endpoint here. We have the request body, the sample curl. The only difference is with a tool you'll have to add in the variables exactly at these properties at these params. But that's it. It's the same same way of

doing it. So that's it for connecting it with an API with make. You can really use any software you want. There's one more thing you should know uh which is note that synchronous triggers only last for 30 seconds. If your tool is running long running, you'll need to make a call to the async synchronous endpoint. So,

this is a little bit of a different setup and it would be if you get an actual if you're waiting for an output of your tool to update or an agent to update a next step. Now, in this case, we're updating our CRM from the AI agent. So, we're not waiting for any output here inside make.com, but if you do, you'll have to set up um an asynchronous uh endpoint. Uh I will make another video on how to do that uh because it's a little bit different than this system.

All right, guys. That's everything for this video. Thank you so much for watching. Please like and subscribe if you got any value out of this. It took a lot of time to to set up, and I'm planning to make a lot more of these types of videos where I show different use cases of AI agents and AI automations. Also, if you have any

suggestions on what I should build next, please drop me a comment and uh I'll do my best. Also, if you're looking for any consulting, my my link is in the description below. or if you're looking for a bigger project for your company, uh you can go to my website forgefactory.com and you can book in a a meeting with us. Uh thank you so much for watching and uh I'll see you in the next one.