---
video_title: "I Built an Entire Marketing Team with 37 AI Agents (Free Template)"
video_id: LCc7qXRhmiA
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LCc7qXRhmiA
video_date: 2025-09-23T08:00:25+00:00
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/ibaem-acc
  
  Get the free template of this video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/ibae-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/ibaem-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/ibaem-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:47 - Demo: Image & Social Media Agents
  04:53 - Demo: Deep Research & Presentation Agents
  06:54 - Demo: SEO Agent Team
  09:03 - Demo: Slack Sales Agent
  10:40 - Relevance AI Overview
  14:05 - Building Tools Automatically
  17:03 - AI Agent Setup 
  21:14 - Setting Up Agent Teams (Workforce)
  26:01 - Importing & Cloning the AI Agents
  27:46 - Setting up Slack Integration
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too.
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer.
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
Today I'm going to be showing you how I built this 37 AI agent marketing and sales team here in relevance AI. As you can see I have a LinkedIn postwriter agent, an expost writer agent, a newsletter agent, an image generator agent who can generate both personal images of me but also infographics with nano banana. We have an agent that can create entire presentations. Then we have an entire AI SEO agent team that can create multiple articles in a topic cluster. Uh it can do keyword research, draft posts and images and post them on my website. And then we have a

bunch of other agents like this lead qualifier agents, some other sales agents, email agents, Google Drive agents, and more. I'll give away the entire setup in the link in the description below. I'll show you guys how to import it all for free and set it up by the end of this video. But first, let me show you a demo, then I'll break down the builds and relevant AI if you're not familiar with it yet. So, Relevancei basically just released a new feature that I think is really interesting, which is called chat. Now, the cool thing is that we can basically access all of these agents here

in the same chat or even inside of Slack. And if you're familiar with multi- aent teams, the cool thing with this new feature is that we can now access all of these agents separately without having to go through manager agents, which if you've tried it, you know it can become a little bit of a broken telephone game, uh, which can lead to a lot of errors and problems. And because we have lots of human in the loop right now between calling these different agents, we can avoid a lot of the problems we have with multi- aent teams. So let's say, for example, I want to repurpose my last YouTube video, I can just copy the link and tag all the agents uh that I need. So for example, I want a LinkedIn post. So I tag the LinkedIn writer. I tag the newsletter writer and the

X writer. Then I just paste in the link and say please write a post based on this YouTube link. So you can see first the LinkedIn post writer agent starts writing the LinkedIn post. Then the newsletter agent will write the newsletter and the expost writer will write the the expost. So, uh, we'll just let them run quickly and see the outcome. So, the agents now finished up. So,

here we have the, uh, LinkedIn post from the LinkedIn post writer agent, right? In a LinkedIn style, of course, and and my style. It adds in a CTA of me, of course. Then we have an entire newsletter uh, in my style. All right, it's 523 a.m. and I'm watching the sunrise in Sa Paulo,

which is where I live. Just finished reviewing our monthly numbers. Coffee is getting cold. Mind's racing. Let me show you something that will blow your mind etc. So you can see it takes if you've

seen my video it followed it very well. Then we have of course lastly the expost which is a lot shorter. Uh right everyone's fighting over the 11 billion AI agency market. Meanwhile there's a three trillion opportunity nobody sees. Service agencies using AI are hitting 70% margins while traditional agencies struggle at 20%. The secret don't sell AI sell outcomes. Now let's say I want

to generate an image for these posts. I can then just tag the image generator agent and say please generate an image. So we can do both infographics and personal image about me. So for example, please generate an image of Ben working in an office in uh Amsterdam. So now the image generator will spin up an image of me in Amsterdam hopefully. So

the image generator just finished up. Uh, now I think they're still developing the chat feature, so it doesn't show the image in the chat yet, but I can just access it access it here. Let's see. That's actually really good. That looks a lot like me in Amsterdam. Uh,

of course, we can download it from here, too. Uh, but I can also generate infographics. So, please also generate an infographic uh for the LinkedIn post. So the image generator just finished making the infographic. So again, if I go in here, let's look at the result. And you can see it's pretty pretty amazing. Three trillion SAS

agencies. Again, if you've seen the video, this is actually a really good infographic. Of course, I fed an example of the infographics that I like to use on my LinkedIn. So follow that style a lot. But you can see this is this is really good. And another really cool feature in relevance AI is

we can also make agents remember things. So for example, I really like this expost. I can just say um to the agent there uh so we're going to tag Savvi and we can say please uh remember this post as a reference post to follow the tone of voice and style of for your next generations. And basically what will happen is uh this specific agent will remember um this specific content and next time we generate content it can use that as a reference when uh when writing a new one right and I think this is a really cool feature. So we can basically add memory to agents by just telling them to remember things. Now another thing I really like uh with this new feature of

relevance AI is we can actually use deep research. OpenAI's deep research together with agents. want to do deep research on a topic uh and we also want maybe based on the deep research we want to generate a presentation. So I can first go to the deep researcher and say please do deep research on how to optimize your website to be ranked in AI search. So this took around five minutes, right? Because it's deep research. But we get very deep insight

on how to do how to optimize for AI search. And of course now I can for example use this uh to build a presentation. So I can call my presentation creator and just say please generate a slideshow for let's say marketing agencies on based on this deep research on how to optimize uh for AI uh search rankings.

Now he's going to work uh and I'll show you the results in a second. So the presentation agent just finished up. So here we can uh view it in GMA. If you don't know GMA, it's an AI presentation generator. Uh or we can download the entire PPTX. Uh so let's just check it out.

Optimizing for AI search rankings, a practical guides for marketing agencies, right? You'd have to fill this out. Of course, you can edit this still. Uh, it added in AI images. Today's agenda, AI search fundamentals, ranking signals, content and technical optimization. What is AI search? How

AI search rankings different key ranking signals. So, pretty impressive. Again, this is done through GMA also. Highly recommend checking it out. It's a really easy and fast way to generate presentation.

And now they have an API so we can let our agents, for example, make these. Now, of course, there are many more demos I can do with these 37 AI agents, but I'll just uh keep it short. So, I'll show you two more. Uh so, the next one I want to show you quickly is um the SEO workforce. Now, what we've done until now is use the multi- aent mode where we can basically use multiple of these agents separately inside of one chat. But in now, we're going to use our SEO team here. So,

in this case, we have to change the mode to workforce mode. And there we basically pick one of our teams. So, in this case, I'll pick my content team. And now, I'll talk to the manager agent of my team. So this is more of a traditional multi- aent sort of uh setup. So in this case I'll

say um generate uh multiple articles in a topic cluster about uh how to optimize for AI search. Now I can send that off. That will be sent to the manager agent who's then going to use keyword uh research also with integrations with Moz to get up-to-date keyword analytics. It'll uh generate first multiple topics for a cluster around this topic. So we cover everything and then write multiple articles based on that. It can also then update it into my uh web flow,

my website. So let's this going to take a while because it's going to write multiple articles, but I'll come back when it's uh finished. So the SEO team just finished up. This literally took 35 minutes, but it's really impressive what they've done. So you can see that the article orchestrator first started delegating some tasks to the keyword researcher to find the right topics for this topic cluster. Uh so it uses moss API to do keyword research right it defined the right topics did

a lot of research uh etc. As you can see again you can check out the entire setup of this team in more detail if you clone the template. So here's the first one using AI for content optimization. You can see the the keyword research for this specific article right the relevant score etc. So this is the research. Then we have the draft here of the blog post. Now here's the second

one. How to use AI tools for better SEO. And again the keyword research behind this topic. Then we have the future of AI SEO optimization trends and predictions. So again I won't go into it too long.

Of course I can also publish it to my website but I don't want to drag out this demo too long. But it's pretty uh impressive. Again you can check out it more in detail how this works if you clone the template. Now, last demo I'm going to show you is inside of Slack. So, I can use all of these agents that I showed right here inside of Slack. And anyone in my team can use these uh in in Slack.

And the way this works is I can just tag relevant AI. Then I can basically tag a specific agent. So, in this case, I'm going to use the lead qualifier agent to check if a lead is qualified and to maybe update my HubSpot if they are. Uh so, in this case, I can call my agent, specific agent. In this case, the lead qualifier agent is called Quinn. and I say, "Please research this lead."

Just put a random example, Sarah Slack.com. Right? And if I hit enter now, now you can see we get a response here, right? Lead qualified contact Sarah Walker at Slack, right? Uh this is the LinkedIn of Sarah and uh create a contact in Hopspot and created a

follow-up task. So if I go to Hopspot and refresh, I'll take away this filter. We can see now follow up with Sarah Walker, CEO at Slack. But this is a really cool feature and a very popular feature in in relevant AI because anyone can now start using agents. And the the interesting thing is because you see other people in your organization using agents. The adoption in the company becomes

very strong because they see other people using these agents. And that's the cool thing with this chat feature and this Slack feature is anyone in the team in the organization that builds agents anyone in the team can access through Slack or or this chat feature. Now Quinn the lead researcher has right access to LinkedIn scrapers right HubSpot uh API calls etc to do research on these leads and define if they're qualified etc. Now of course there are many more possibilities with these 37 AI agents. We have an entire AI BDR team here which can write personalized outreach, send personalized outreach messages through LinkedIn, uh can respond to those messages, set appointments. We have HubSpot assistant, notion assistant. We have an entire Google suite team,

right, which can manage basically all our Google uh softwares. We have a research agent. We also have of course the SEO agent, the enrichment agent, qualifying agent, we have a voice agent. Uh so there's many more possibilities. Again, you can check it all out by just copying uh the entire setup in the link in the description below. I'm going to show you how to import it at the end

of this video, but first I want to give you an overview of relevance AI and the setups of these agents here. Now, if you know my channel, you know that I did a lot of videos on relevance AI back in the day when I started, but I shifted more and more towards Naden because I shifted more and more towards building deterministic AI systems that we can resell uh like our SEO agency in a box. Now, what's the main difference between these platforms? The easiest way to describe it is relevance. I focused a lot on non-deterministic automation and NAD on deterministic automation because relevance focuses heavily on AI agent building and less on deterministic workflow building. While NAN of course traditionally is more of a workflow or logic based automation

platforms, but we have some AI agents integrations now too of course. But the really that's the main difference and that's why I shifted more and more towards NAM because of course when you're delivering systems to clients and you want to make them as reliable as possible then at the moment deterministic systems still make them a lot more reliable but I think with this new use case here in relevance AI this new feature for some use cases this can now be really interesting setup too because the advantage of relevance is that we can spin up an agent really quick uh which I'll show you in a second and then you can build agents for yourself for people in your company and anyone in the company can really build in relevance, right? They make it really easy. And all of these agents that everyone creates can just be accessed through the same chat here or uh in the Slack channel. And because now we have lots of human in the loop here through the chat or through Slack, we can error correct our agents. We don't have to pass through five agents to communicate things where

usually things go wrong in multi- aent teams. So I think for some of these use cases like marketing use cases and sales use cases and to get adoption across the team, it's definitely worth checking uh out these new features here in relevance AI. Now, if you're new to Relevance AI or maybe you haven't used it for a while, it has changed a little bit. So, I'll walk you through very quickly. Uh, besides the new chat feature, we also have a new uh marketplace here where basically anyone can post their finished AI agents themselves or even sell them. Uh, you will find a lot of them for

free, but some are paid. And this can really save you a lot of time if you're looking for a specific use case and maybe someone else has already built it out. You also find tool templates and soon you also find some templates of me by me uh in this marketplace. Now second thing here is tasks where we basically can track all the tasks that run across our entire organization and then in the workforce there are really three things you want to understand is first we have tools tools are basically deterministic workflows we can build right what we do if you're maybe familiar with nad or make.com more then we can give them to our AI agents of course these tools and tools are generally to give our AI agents access to softwares for example to take actions in softwares or to do specific tasks so we can give these tools to our agents and then we can combine tools and agents in a workforce. So we can build multi- aent teams or we can even add in tools between agents

etc. which I'm going to show you in a second. I'll show you first how tools work. So if I for example look at a tool that I I built for my image generator agent the text to image uh generation for infographics you can see that it's quite similar to a platform like make.com or n. We can define the inputs here. So the input fields in this case is I had the style of image,

right? Image inspiration uh which basically I just added in one of my infographic examples, right, that I like to use for my LinkedIn. So I can use that as a reference when generating the image. Then also a description or a prompt for the image. Uh so our agent can fill out a prompt to describe what this image should be about and the image size. Right? Now you can add these simply

here. Right? And always important for your agent to describe here what it has to do. So your agent has context on what to fill out in each of these fields. And then from there we can add in steps, right? And of course in these steps we can add in L&Ms, right? Prompts, open AAI, any any language

model. We can use any softwares. Uh relevance now has thousands of integrations with softwares uh which previously they didn't have. So you can integrate any software here. And of course we have uh some flow controls like branching which is like conditioning basically and looping over items. Uh

so we can just string together a few steps to make a workflow here. And in this case I only have the text to image generation. And basically I can use these input fields here as a variable in the prompt in this case where I use nanobanas image generator. So I pass in the prompt and the image size as a variable. And the way I do that is by using the curly brackets. And you'll see that

all the variables from the previous steps, they pop up here. So, and then in this one, in the input image URL, I've put in the reference image, right? And this one, by the way, I've set as default. So, my agent doesn't have to fill that out each time. It will always be this default uh image as an inspiration. So, that's how tools work. Now, in relevance, we can also create tools

automatically, which is a new feature they have, which is called invent. And basically we can just with human language create the tool ourselves. So here you can see we have magic and here I can just say what I want. So I want a tool that generates an image um with nano banana. So you'll see that it will start building the tool automatically. Now again I recommend learning a little bit of

tool building yourself because this generally gets you maybe 90 95% there. Sometimes it works perfect but just you understanding how it actually works in the back end is going to help you a lot in act in actually building uh good tools right but it can definitely save you a lot of time so you can see it's generating so it finished the tool now as this is a simple tool I think it will work perfectly but let's see I can just run it here so it finished and it ran successfully and you can see it actually generated uh an image and now we can save this tool and of course give it to an agent. Now agents have changed a little bit too in relevance AI. So I'll just show you through the example of the image generator that I set up. So here of course we have the prompt on the left.

This is the system prompt for our AI agent. And here we can reference the tools. So in this case I gave it two tools and we can reference the tools by just giving a dash here. Right? Then we have uh tools of course. Here we can add the tools. We can also add in uh uh human in the loop steps

where uh approval is required for example. And here we can add any other tool we want to give to this agent. Then we have knowledge uh where we can upload any custom knowledge base. Maybe you need specific context around your business etc. So you can upload a CSV but you can also just simply connect it very easily to your Google Drive to uh your notion or even your website. And

then we have triggers where for example I have the trigger set up where this agent can be called from Slack which I'm going to show you later in this video when I show you how to import the templates. But we can have triggers from other channels too as you can see here from Gmail, Google calendar, uh, LinkedIn, WhatsApp, Hopspot, etc. Now, another cool new feature which I showed before is we now have the memory option too. So, we can either add memory here in the agent settings. So, for example, as you can see here, you can say after receiving an email reply, mark prospect replied as true. But you can also give it, you know, memory on you. for example, it's like, okay,

remember that I live in Sa Paulo, that my name is this, that my company does this, or remember my tone of voice, etc. So, I think this is a cool feature. And you can also just say this to your agent when you're chatting to them. You don't have to necessarily set it up here in the in the agent settings. Then we have escalations. If you want human in the loop, so uh maybe it can't do

something before having your approval, then you can add in an email address. I think we'll then send you an email asking for request before taking the next action, right? And you can do the same through Slack too. And of course you can do that for tools too. So you can decide to always uh let a human approve before it uses a tool. And then here we have some advanced settings where we can

uh of course decide on the language model for the AI agent. Right? We can uh make MCP servers out of our agents too which is quite cool if you're familiar with MCP. But the cool thing in relevance is we can do the same what I showed you with tools also for agents. So we can create agents really really fast with the magic instruction right with the invent feature. So for example I can

say create an AI agent that can generate images about me and can also generate infographics. These images are specifically should specifically be made on uh based on LinkedIn posts. Really bad prompt but I just want to give you an example. So I can just click here on start and it will start building the agent itself which again is going to save you maybe a little bit of time but of course you do have to make generally some adjustments in the prompt uh etc before it starts fully functioning and working perfectly but it can definitely save you some time especially when you get started. So you can see it generated the agent right pixel the LinkedIn visual creator I can just go and accept everything it has done. So let's see your pixel on expert AI visual creator specialized

in transforming LinkedIn content into engaging images and infographics. So this is pretty good. So you see it already added in tool steps. Uh but these are just default. You actually have to add in the tools yourselves. You can see it just came up with some suggestions. So let's

say just say accept. So now it's actually adding the recommended tools which I'll probably have to change. But if it's actually fine, you can see you can actually uh automatically create the access to these different tools and then it will basically set up the entire agent for you. Now again generally you need some adjustments and some type because for example this was not my idea. I wanted my own tools but probably if I came up with a better prompt it could do this uh a lot faster and better. The next thing of course is work forces. And in workforces, we can basically combine all of

these different agents and tools into a workforce. So, let's just discard this one. And we go to workforce. So, I'll show you uh the SEO team that built here. Again, I'll probably be published in the in the marketplace, too. But here, we can basically put to multiple agents, tools, and

triggers together inside of uh a workforce. And we can also set up conditions, etc. So, you can see I can add in an agent here. So for example, I want the content outliner to also have access to a research agent. Then I can just add a research agent here. Now again we can access all the agent

settings in here too. And then here we can have two options in the connection between these two agents. We have an AI connection or we have a next step handle. So for the next step as you can see when the agent is finished it will always send its output to this agent. So you use this if you want to ensure this step is always taken. So basically we're just making a workflow out it out

of it. What this agent does it will pass over to this and then from there we can add in more right but you can also use the AI connection and that's basically a sub agent meaning this agent is the manager agent. He's going to delegate a task whenever he needs to or feels like it based on the prompt uh a task to this research agent which will then pass the information back to the content outliner. So you can see as this is sort of a multi- aent setup almost all of the connections here are AI connections right because this is the manager agent the article or orchestrator who gets in the the message or the request and he'll decide then which agents to call to execute on this workflow. So you can see all of these are AI connections. Now again you

have some extra options here. You can have again human in the loop approval required. Uh you can add in a message template which for example here we have. So the article orchestrator whenever he gets a request he will always be forced to say this to the keyword cluster planner. So create a content cluster for and this is the variable topic or URL is basically what the user asked.

Right? So the article orchestrator will fill out this variable according to what the query was from the user. Right? So it will pass that information to to the keyword cluster planner who will then use the keyword researcher to get some more information about keywords. get that back, send it back to the article orchestrator. Once he has all the information on the keywords, he can start

passing ideas to the content outliner. We'll write outlines for all of these content pieces. Then it will pass it back to the article orchestrator again. We'll pass it to the content writer who has access to a research agent to do extra research on these specific topics. Right? Then once those

blogs are written, it will pass it to the blog asset maker who will make assets or images for this post. And then of course finally it can be sent to the export manager who can post it on the uh on your website or add it to a Google docs. We can also add in tools. So if we want to have something more deterministic or has to upload it to a specific software and we don't need an agent, we can just add a tool here for example right gen generate image and then we just add it to this one and then again we can decide on an AI connection or next step or handoff. Right? Right? So we can

combine multiple tools, multiple agents and so we can build more complex things here like this SEO team. Then we can also add in triggers. Now in this case you can see we have a manual trigger here. Uh basically meaning we can access it from the chat or from here from run right that's the only trigger we have set up right now. But of course you can also have external triggers right from Slack etc. So if I just show you we can for example add in Slack trigger.

All right, let's say SEO is the keyword and for the CH and now we've set up a Slack trigger and we can also set up conditions. So, so for example, if we want the article orchestrator to only pass it to the content outliner if there was a keyword uh that has over a,000 monthly clicks, something like that, we can just describe it here, right? And that's the difference here. This is non-deterministic. This is done through AI, right? So, we just basically add in a prompt here. Go to if if the keyword volume is over a thousand,

right? And then we've set up a condition. So, as you can see, you can get a little bit more complex here in the workforce. Uh, but you have to experiment with it a little bit to get the hang of it. Now, lastly, here you have integrations. And again, relevance AI. In the past,

the issue with relevance AI is that we didn't have that many integrations. Yeah. As you can see now, we have literally thousands. So, anything you can imagine, you'll be able to find here. And of course, you can always set up a custom API call too if your uh specific one is not here. So,

lastly, let me show you quickly how you import these agents. So, uh you can go in the link in the description below and go to the free part of my community where you'll find free resources. Now, I haven't posted it yet, but there will be a post here with relevance AI. you there get a link to relevance AI and you're just going to paste that link in uh your browser right if you have don't have an account yet it will ask you to create an account first of course I'll just duplicate it uh here into my project and then you see you'll get all your agents here in relevance AI now important to understand is that I just use this link or basically this agent structure here more to be able to share it easily with you uh this is not going to work perfectly because Having 37 AI agents work together like this is not that useful, but it's really made for you to use it in the chat feature, right? So, but of course now you have all of these agents that you've imported also here in the agents. So, you can use them separately and you can use them separately inside of the chat,

right? So, again, you can use the entire agent team, but uh it will probably don't work that well. So, I recommend using it in the in the chat here. Now, of course, you have to update your specific softwares, your API keys, etc., right? So if you come to an agent like this for example

and you haven't set up a specific integration with your specific one it will prompt you here to connect it to your account right so relevanti will help you set up the connection with your account but of course you have to go through all these agents to set up the connections uh for you specifically and for example for the LinkedIn one etc. You probably want to put in some references of yourself so you make sure it follows your brand tone of voice and your call to action etc. but it uh might get you 80 90% of the way there if you're looking for a specific use case. So uh that's it. Let me show you very quickly then how you connect it to uh Slack. So because I think

it's a really interesting integration. So uh the way you do it is I of course already have it set up but I'll just do it from scratch. So the way you do it is you go to integrations. Now let's just remove this one so I can show you how to do this from scratch. Then you click here on connect new account. A new link will open. You just click here on allow. And now we have set up the

connection. Now there's one more thing we have to do. We have to go to Slack. And inside of Slack, we have to choose on which channels we can trigger our agent. So let's say I want to trigger it on this one. I go to settings here, edit settings. Then I go to integrations. You can see I already

have it here, but you go here on add apps. And then you search for relevance AI. You click add. You can see mine is already added there. And then relevant AI is added to this channel. And what

will happen then is once you go to an agent that you want to connect to AI for example let's say we want to add Tony the AIBDR we just click here on Slack right we select our workspace we go continue now we can define a keyword for this specific agent which is especially useful when you're going to connect multiple ones you want to give it a keyword to know which specific agent you want to call so let's say PDR right and then we can choose Choose the channels it can get triggered from. So let's say in this one only from this one, but you can select all the ones you want. You click continue, right? Your Slack message needs to mention relevancy AI followed by a keyword, right? I understand setup trigger, right? And then if I go to Slack and I go relevant AI,

right? Always have to tag him first, then go and use the the tag or the keyword and then your agent will get triggered. You can see now I get a reply here, right? Of course, I didn't give it any information, but you can see now it works. And now we can reply in this thread. And in this thread, we can basically uh talk to this agent back and forth. So,

that's how you set up the Slack integration, which I think is really interesting. Now, that's it for this video. If you got any questions or need any help or want me to explain something a little bit better, just let me know in the comments below and I'll really consider it. Of course, I'm still also going to show NADN. I just thought this was a really cool new feature. So, I wanted

to show you guys. Of course, I'm not going to run through every single one of the 37 agents, but by just cloning the template, I think you get uh the structure and how they are set up very quickly. Again, if you got any value out of this video, I highly appreciate a like and a subscribe. It really does help me, and uh I hope to see you in the next one. Thank you so much. Bye.