---
video_title: "Build A Claude MCP Agent That Does Everything!"
video_id: bATMtzNoap4
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bATMtzNoap4
video_date: 2025-04-12
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/bacma-acc
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/bacma-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/bacma-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  01:18 - Demo Claude MCP Agent
  09:00 - N8N MCP Setup + Agent
  12:37 - Claude Agent Setup
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too.
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer.
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
Hi there. So, in this video, I'll show you a personal assistant right here in Claude that can now do tasks and automate workflows across your tech stack right from within Cloud. NAN just released their native MCP trigger. And I heard some people were actually disappointed, but I actually think this is quite a big deal because it basically now allows anyone to really quickly and easily create their own MCP servers connected to their specific tech stack. As you can see, I connected here to my Slack, my Google calendar, my email, my CRM, my WhatsApp, and my LinkedIn in less than an hour. And now you can see

here in Claude, uh, Claude now has access to 31 tools and and actions. And in this video, I'll show you a demo, a step-by-step guide on how you can set it up. And I also make sure to put the link of the template of my setup here for free in the link in the description below. Now, before jumping into the demo, why do I think it's such a huge deal? is because I really think this could be the first step in a fundamental shift in how we interact with our softwares and the internet. We can

really go from these static interfaces we're used to to more intelligent interfaces where we can use human language to perform tasks and interact with our softwares instead of traditional UI. Of course, we are still early, but the potential of anyone uh being able to do work through voice or chat here on in cloud or chat GPT uh really just makes a lot of sense to me. So let me show you a demo here. Of course, you can retrieve information from all my channels. So I can say something like list all new emails uh that I got today. Also check all the new

messages I got on LinkedIn and WhatsApp. Also check uh my uh meetings for today. So you can see first check email. So it asks for permission to use the email MCP server. So I can just click here and allow for this chat. Then it's checking the LinkedIn

messages. You can see it uses multiple different tools from the the LinkedIn Uniile MCP that I set up which can basically retrieve from my LinkedIn inbox. Then we have WhatsApp. same things. You see it uses multiple tools to get the messages and now it's checking the calendar and I get a summary of the communication right notification from Phantom Buster Slack signing confirmation cancellation LinkedIn messages you have one unread email unread message from today WhatsApp messages from Henry and Giannis and the events for today. So from here I can of

course do things too. So uh let's say I want to answer Henry on on WhatsApp. Uh send a message to Henry um catch up that yes we should catch up catch up soon. Let me ask him if he is free next to Tuesday or Thursday or Wednesday morning uh CT time. I can show you here. We have

WhatsApp that it's going to respond. I probably have to allow. Yes. Yeah. There we go. Send it. Yes.

Great to hear from you. See, it's for my account. Uh and also maybe show you Slack. So, let's say and the calendar. So let's say um please update the calendar the meeting for Ben AI content ideation to uh let's say 4 p.m. and send uh Keith a

message on Slack uh that I'm late for the meeting. Also send it to Ben so we can see the example. Send it to send the same message to Ben on Slack. Allow So it's updating the meeting. So first it gets the event, then it's update updates the meeting. Now it's trying to find Keith's

Slack ID and then sends the

message. Now it's doing the same for me. So you can see it does it pretty intelligently using all of these different tools that the MCP has access to. So he send it. Let's see Slack. You

can see we got a message here from cloud connect right. Hi Ben one that the Benaii content ideation meeting to 4 p.m. Right. So you can see of course also can uh interact with my CRM. So

let's say do I have any uh important or let's say high priority leads in my CRM for today.

Now it's asking uh to access the CRM MCP server. Yes, you have high priority leads list. Uh I just put in some examples for this, right? And of course here from here I can also take action. So I also connected it to for example finding LinkedIn profile. So let's say

initial contact made. Let's say okay please find uh the LinkedIn of Keith find more information on his LinkedIn profile and check the company size of the company he works

for. So you can see now uses perform LinkedIn search to find his LinkedIn profile. Now it's scraping the LinkedIn profile.

You can see Keith works for Benai, my company, right? So, and then from here I can al even send a LinkedIn message to Keith for my account. So, we can go uh or let's say send Keith an email uh if he could meet up next Monday at let's pretend this is a lead at 3 p.m. at C to discuss the project. Uh and also send him a LinkedIn

message saying uh that I just sent him an

email. Send an email. Now, let's send the link to message. All right, done. So, if I go to my email, send. And there we go. Message to

Keith. Hi, Keith. Uh, I'd like to schedule a meeting next Monday at 3 p.m. to discuss our project further. Let's

check

LinkedIn. And here we send a message on LinkedIn. So, you can see. So, I'll show you one more example because I also added in an MCP4 YouTube transcription. So, I can just take a a link of my YouTube video and I can go please transcribe this video. I think for the these kinds of

use cases, it can be really interesting especially for the gener generation type use cases where we sort of need to iterate on creating content. Let's say for example I want to create a LinkedIn post out of my YouTube video out of my YouTube transcript. Uh then I think this cloud interface makes a lot of sense because we usually need to iterate improve on when we're writing stuff instead of having a predefined workflow. So I think uh for for these writing or generative sort of tasks or or workflows this can really be an amazing setup. So you can see it does the entire it's going to take a while uh but I'll just cut it off for now. Yeah. Okay, we got it. So,

let's say now, for example, we can say write a LinkedIn post based on this video on this this video transcript. Uh, make sure make sure to link to the YouTube

video. There you go. It makes makes the LinkedIn post. Now, I'm not going to do it. I can actually post it directly from here, too, but I'm not going to post it for now. Well, I think you get a good

idea of of what's possible and you can imagine you can connect this to many other softwares to really have sort of this this intelligent interface to manage your your workflows and your processes. I think the the use cases for this can really be really interesting and you know in essence it's sort of an AI agent we have right here inside a cloud. So also what I've done and I'm going to show you in detail the setup is set up a cloud project and inside of the project basically inside of the knowledge I've sort of put in a a system prompt with the instructions on which tools it has access to how to use them etc. So I'll show you the step-by-step setup for this cloud assistant in a second. Uh but before that very quickly besides the new MCP server node or trigger node uh this one which of course we use to connect it to claude and probably very soon also to openai or touchp we have another new node uh in inside of nadn which is the mcp client tool node and this one we can basically use to connect to an AI agent built here in nadn and this mcp client node here for example this slack one basically triggers uh the mcp server of uh slack Right. So basically it allows us to use

these MCPS inside of an agent. Now I don't know why exactly yet, but in my experience it works far better giving these MCP servers to claude than giving it to uh the AI agents here. It seems to be a lot less reliable when we use it with AI agents inside of NAND. But I can show you a quick example. Hi. Can you

check uh what meetings I have today? You can see here it uses the calendar MCP which basically triggers this workflow to find the right tool and you can see here we get the the meetings. So it works for the simpler use case but in my experience it works far better inside of cloud. And to set up these MCP client tools, all we do is we go to the new node here, MCP client tool. And all we need here is the SSE endpoint which we get from the other module which is the MCP server in this case this one. Then we go to the

production URL, right? We copy that, we paste it in here and that's all we need to do. And here we can still decide which tools to include. So we can also uh select specific ones you can see or you can uh decide to choose all. Right?

So that's how you set up this MCP client. Now for the MCP uh server or trigger. Uh now you can see I divided it here into all the different softwares but you can actually also connect all of them underneath one MCP server and then give it to cloud. I just did it for simplicity. Maybe maybe if you don't need a specific software you can uh just separate them out. And besides just

these separate sort of API calls we can also add in entire NAD workflows underneath an MCP server. Right? So we can use the workflows we've already set up in NAN underneath under MCP server which we can then of course call from cloud and there I think going to be lots of interesting use cases for that too. So how do we set up this MCP server and how do we connect it to cloud. So for the setup it's extremely easy. We just

go here we select the node and in this case we choose the MCP server trigger. We don't have to do any setup uh besides just copying that that uh production URL later when we set it up in cloud. then we can set up an au authentication but we don't have to. So that's it and then of course we just connect it to all the tools and softwares that we need and this is why it's such a powerful thing I think having this in N because of course N has lots of these native integrations with lots of softwares already set up making it really easy for us to to make our own MCP servers. So let's say we're going to add here the calendar tool. All we do here is select the

calendar, select my email, and then of course you can select all the different calendar actions that you want like we have here, right? Create event, delete event, get event, update event, etc. So, how do you connect this MCP server trigger to claude? Uh it's actually very easy. Uh first, you do need the the cloud desktop app. So, if you don't have

it yet, just go to download cloud, right, and download the desktop app. Once you have that uh and you're inside of cloud, you just go here to settings in Mac. I guess in Windows it's similar. You click here on settings in here. You go to the developer tab tab and then you have a button here below which says edit config. This will open up a JSON here.

Now you can open this with any code editor or even with the text editor. And here you can see we have all the different uh servers. So we have the CRM, the Google calendar, the email, the uni. Now in my case I've set up multiple MCP servers of course right in NN I have multiple connected but you can of course also add all of these to only one all of these tools to only one MCP uh server and then all you need to do is if you want to connect your server let's say we're going to connect this one is you click here on the production URL you copy that one and let's say we're just going to use one I'm just going to delete this I'm going to share the code with you uh which you need to put in here uh in the in description below. So, all you need to do is copy that code. You paste it in here, right? And

all we need to do, all you need to do here is take out that URL and that's where you have to put in your own production URL. So, this one, right? You copy that one, you paste it in here, and here you can also change the name of your server if you want, right? Let's say calendar. That's it. Then you save

it. Then you have to restart your cloud. By the way, if you want to do multiple uh server MCP servers, also make sure to share the code for the multiple ones here in the description. Well, all you need to do is just uh swap out those those those links here. So, if we reopen cloud right now, you can see now we have one tool available, the Google calendar. Now,

there are two important things in my experience to make this more reliable here inside cloud. First one is inside of Naden, right? We actually do have to give a very proper description on what these tools do, right? So you can see here with the create event, I have described pretty well what this tool does. First of all, creates a new event on the primary Google calendar and very specifically say what this tool requires, what what are the required parameters, right? So in this case,

requires start time and end time, optionally accepts attendees and summary. And this is basically to give concept context to claude on what it should always has to fill out. And this in my experience is is important to get it reliable in in cloud. Right? So that's the first thing. Again, if you're

going to copy this, it will already be filled out for these specific tools. But if you're going to connect your own tools or different softwares, make sure to give a proper description. Right? I you can see in this one, I even say what kind of format it expects. Right now sometimes figures it out by himself. Uh

but in general, it's good to to have a good description there. And then the second thing what I do is I create a cloud project and because why am I doing that? Because in a cloud project we can give it custom knowledge base. So let's say test project right here we can set a knowledge base and there we basically want to give more instructions how and when to use specific tools almost like a a little bit of a system prompt inside of an agent. That's the way I I tried it and it actually really improved the way it was using the tools. So if I can show

you the one that I built. So all I did here is the role super assistant. You're an advanced AI assistant. So it's basically like a prompt, right? And then I have separated it by the types of tools. So uh the communication and

collaboration, right? You can see Slack, Gmail, Calendar, LinkedIn, uh research, CRM. You can see I give it some context on air table. Which base ID it has access to. for example, the context like what what kind of fields it can expect or has to fill out. Uh so I give it more

more context. Again, I'll share this entire prompt also uh together with the free template. Uh so you can you can check out what I've instructed it in detail. But this really helps it to to use the tools more reliable in my experience. Uh so that's it for the setup here. Then lastly, let me show you

one more thing which is the UniL setup. If you don't know Uni, UniLow is an API to basically connect to uh your WhatsApp and your LinkedIn, right? That's what I've used here, the Uniow API to uh be able to send messages through WhatsApp and LinkedIn. I'll not cover it in this video, but if you're interested in uh understanding how to exactly set it up, uh let me know in the comments below and I might do another video on it, but it's pretty straightforward, right? You can just set up a UniPow account and you'll see you have lots of different actions available inside of WhatsApp and and LinkedIn and you can just connect your personal WhatsApp account and your personal LinkedIn account and you can see you can list all the chats, you can start a new chat, you can retrieve chats, you can list all messages, you can send messages, etc. And and again,

if you're going to copy the template, the API calls are already set up. The way you'd have to adjust it to your specific use case is you'd have to change this part to your specific account ID and connect your personal API key here uh in the in the header authentication. The rest will already be set up for you basically here. Also the description etc. And for these others uh air table, Slack uh calendar and email you'll just have to log into your your personal account right. So you'll just

have to sign there sign in there with Google uh with Slack and with Air Table. So that's it for this video. Now we are still early but this is quite exciting in my opinion because I really think this can really change the way we interact with softwares and I think there are lots of very interesting use cases by combining claude with these MCP servers here in NADN. And like I said right we can connect uh these NAD workflows too which can potentially lead to really interesting uh use cases. I'm going to play around with this a lot more in the upcoming days. So maybe I

come out with some more videos very soon. If you enjoyed this video, I highly appreciate a like and a subscribe. And uh I hope to see you in the next one. Bye.