---
video_title: "3 “Boring” AI Automations to Sell for $2.5k+ in 2026 (free templates)"
video_id: MTdabgyOxFw
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MTdabgyOxFw
video_date: 2025-12-20T10:30:30+00:00
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/3ars-acc
  
  Get the free templates from this video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/3ars-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/3ars-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/3ars-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 – Intro 
  00:35 – System 1 
  04:08 – System 2 
  06:02 – System 3 
  07:48 – Wrap up 
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too. 
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast. 
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer. 
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
Here are three AI data analysis and reporting systems that we've sold to a marketing agency's e-commerce and SaaS businesses. Data analytics are some of the most time consuming and requested AI automations, so these can be great use cases to pitch if you're an AI agency or to save time and improve decision making if you want a business. And in this video I'll walk you through the solutions, show you how they work and the templates will be for free in the link in the description below. If you want more of these types of templates, one on one tech and lead gen coaching, plus our premium agency templates, you can also check out my AI accelerator. And if you're a business wanting to work with our AI agency, you can also book a free call with us in the description below. The first one is an automatic meta-at campaign reporting system. We built this using a combination of NADN, Google Sheets and Google Slides. And this system basically generates a meta-at campaign report on a monthly basis. So it analyzes the performance of the campaigns over the last month. It automatically creates graphs, visuals and conclusions into the slides. It compares different campaigns you're running, the platforms, the placements and the demographics. Now this is a great system for marketing agencies, e-con businesses and really any other type of business that runs meta-ads. Because ad managers and agencies usually spend a lot of time in data analysis and campaign performance reporting to their clients. And also because of course a large part of running ads is in analyzing data and optimizing campaigns based on the data. So this can really make a big impact for some of these companies. And anyone who knows the meta-ad manager also knows that it's not the most intuitive way to do data analytics. Now how does it work? As you can see it is quite a complex one. But if you're going to duplicate the template in the description below, you don't have to change that much. So hard work is mostly done for you. Mostly you'd have to connect the Facebook Graph API to get the data from meta-ads. You also have to connect your Google Slide API and Google Sheets API and then it should work for you. Of course you can also customize the template of the Google Slides. And then in order to connect those APIs, you have to set up a Google Zero off, which I don't want to bore you with in this video. So I'll add a quick video tutorial in the free resources link to on how to set it up. But I'll give you a very quick one down on how this works. As you can see here on the left, it gets triggered to a schedule trigger node that runs on a monthly basis. It then duplicates here the previous slide show on Google Slides. And the Google Sheet for the new month. Then each of the workflows here, basically updates one slide of the full report. Now the first node here just gets the slide ID and sets the specific slide we're going to update. Then we're going to get the slide content through the Google Slide API in the second one. So we know the JSON structure for when we upload the new data onto the slide. So this is the Google Slide API. Then we use the Facebook Graph API to get the data from meta-ads. Now if you want to know how to set up the Facebook Graph API, I explained it in one of my previous videos, which you can watch after this video. I'll also make sure to link it in the description below. And then basically in these code nodes here, in the first code node, we make the calculations comparing the previous month's data and the new month's data. And that's outputted here. And then in the second code node, we structure the data, the new data we got in the right format to upload it into Google Slides. Right, which we do right here, which again is the Google Slide API. Then we use another basic and M chain to get the conclusions and the summary for the slide. For example, in this one here, or this one here. And then again, this code node structures the format right to upload it into the Google Slides API, which is this last node. And then when there's a graph in the slide, like this one, we have one more step involved, which you can see here, which is first we upload the data onto a Google sheet, where we create a graph out of the data here. And then we take the graph ID, which we can take from the Google sheets API, we again format it into the right way, and then we can present it in real time onto the Google Slides. Like you see here. So it's automatically updated from the Google's Google sheets. Again, if you need some help in setting this up or customizing the template, you can you can check out my community where we have one-on-one tech help available to help you set this up, maybe a bit quicker. But it's not that difficult. You mostly have to connect your own APIs. The rest of the work is already done. Now, the second system is a Google Analytics Slack agent. This system is set up with Slack, of course, with Google Analytics and an Aden. And it might look very simple, and it is, but we have sold this to two companies, and both of the customers really loved it, and we use it internally a bit too. And all this agent really does is has access to the Google Analytics API. So we can ask questions about our marketing and conversion data right from within Slack. Again, anyone who knows the Google Analytics platform knows it can be quite intimidating. It's not the most intuitive platform, and it can be hard to interpret results from. So the great thing of this system is that the entire team, even people don't understand Google Analytics, can just ask questions in natural language to get insights fast. Now, for example, here I asked what pages are users embedded in most, and at what point, and I get a full report and insight on this. Now, we've seen that these Slack use cases are very strong use cases that many companies love because the sites that being used for, of course, it also leads to higher adoption of AI in the business. Now, why is that? Because other people see other people using these tools from within Slack, which educates them on how and when to use these kinds of agents, which creates more AI adoption across the company. Now, how does it work? Again, really simple, right? We have a Slack trigger here, and an output, and then we have an AI agent that has access to the Google Analytics API here. Again, to set up the Google Analytics API, you need to set up Google 0.0. And again, this template will be for free in the link in the description below. And then in the prompt, we give the agents some context on the tools. It has access to the required parameters to use the tools for the Google Analytics API and when to use which tool, which again, you can read the prompt in detail if you copy the template, but we also clearly instruct at the end that the goal of the agent is not just to fetch data, but to actually provide insights together with recommendations based on the data. So all you really need to do to make this work for you is set up Google Analytics API and the Slack integration. And lastly, we have an automatic SEO data reporting system. Now, I showed this one in my previous video too. It fits well in this one too. And it's a system we've sold quite a few times and customers have been really happy with because SEO reporting is a real pain point for many marketing agencies, but also other businesses running SEO. Of course, this is part of the bigger solutions we have created, which is our AI SEO agent, which is a full end-to-end AI SEO solution. But we've also sold this separate from it. Now, as you can see, it's a very similar setup as the meta-add reporting system. And it basically delivers a full SEO report on a monthly basis inside of Google Slides. It analyzes not the Facebook Graph API, of course, but in this case, Google Analytics and the Google Search Console data. It adds that data into the Google Sheets again and then draws these graphs and visualizes the data inside here. It also compares months over month metrics and provides summaries just like in the meta-add one and conclusions right on the slide. So how does the system work? Again, very similar to the meta-add system. You can see we use a very similar flow. Each one of the flow is one slide, updating one slide. But in the difference here, of course, we're not just using the Facebook Graph API to get the data, but we're using Google Analytics and the Google Search Console API. Again, in order to set these up, you need to install the zero auth, which you can find a quick tutorial on how to do that with the free resources in the link in the description below. So to set this up, all you really need to do is the hard work. Again, it's done for you. All you need to do is connect your Google Slides API, your Google Sheets API, your Google Search Console API, and of course, customize the template of the Google Slideshow if you want to. And again, if you need some more help setting it up, you can also check out my accelerator where we have many more of these types of templates available and one-on-one tech help to help you set these up quickly. Now, just as a quick note, templates can be useful, but usually it has to be customized a bit for each client if you're going to sell these. And if you want to learn how to actually get clients to sell these kinds of AI animations, you can also check out the video here above.