---
video_title: "Automate Anything With Claude MCP Workflows, Here's how:"
video_id: _je0FbUcFkg
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_je0FbUcFkg
video_date: 2025-04-16
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/aawcm-acc
  
  Get the free template of this video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/aawc-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/aawcm-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/aawcm-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:23 - Claude MCP Workflows
  02:04 - Demo & Setup Linkedin Content Workflow
  09:12 - Demo & Setup Blog Content Workflow
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too.
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer.
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
Hi there. So, in this video, I'll show you how to set up Claude workflows with MCPs in minutes to automate content processes and much more. I've been experimenting a lot with Claude and MCPs, and I really believe this fundamentally can change the way we work and do automations. And in this video, I'll show you a demo, a step-by-step breakdown of how you can set up your own Claude workflows, and I'll make sure to share the templates in the link in the description below. So, here I am in my Claude desktop, and as you can see, my Claude is connected here to 42 MCP tools to take uh lots of actions across lots of my softwares.

Now, the obvious use case for this, of course, is the personal assistant, which I showed you in my last video. But when doing that, we still always need to instruct Claude step-by-step on what to do. And that's why I've been setting up Claude workflows to automate some of my common tasks and and processes and workflows. And I honestly think this is going to be a superior setup for many automation use cases, and I'll show you why by giving you some examples. So, if I go here to projects, some of my common uh workflows or processes are, of course, to repurpose my YouTube content onto other channels, for example, YouTube to X, uh YouTube to shorts, YouTube to newsletter, YouTube to blog, and YouTube to LinkedIn. So, I've set up

a Claude project for each of these workflows. And if I go here, for example, into YouTube to repurposing uh LinkedIn, all I've set up here is a system prompt for this specific project, where I basically describe step-by-step how Claude should automate this specific workflow with a step-by-step instruction. So, you can see I have one, you'll be provided with a YouTube link, two, use the YouTube transcription tool, then uh generate three LinkedIn posts, etc., etc. And because Claude is already connected to all of my softwares, we can now automate a workflow or a process by simply putting in a system prompt here instead of creating an entire custom workflow in N8N, make.com, or relevant

AI, because all of our Claude instances are already connected to all our softwares. So, we can literally spin up a workflow or an automation in minutes by just giving it a prompt instead of making this whole custom workflow, setting up specific APIs for each of the workflows, uh doing the data transformation, and setting up this entire N8N or make.com scenario. So, let me show you a quick example. For example, if I just go here, my Claude project here already knows what it needs to do. So, in this case, for example, he

knows he has to ask for the YouTube video link. Right? So, I can give it my last YouTube video link. And now it already knows in from the instructions exactly what tools to do use and what to do. So, first it uses the YouTube transcription tool, and now you see it already uses the LinkedIn post generator tool to create three LinkedIn post alternatives. Now, in this

case, I've used uh my fine-tuned LinkedIn post writer models to write these posts because in my experience, they write it a bit better for specifically LinkedIn. And I've set this up with a custom N8N workflow. So, I've set up an MCP MCP server trigger here in N8N that calls a workflow. And that workflow basically has my fine-tuned OpenAI model that specializes in writing good LinkedIn posts. But, I generate three versions.

Now, of course, you don't have to do this. You can also let Claude just generate a LinkedIn post, but in my experience, it's better. If you don't know how to set this up, uh make sure to check out my last video where I show step-by-step how to connect N8N uh to to your Claude uh desktop. So, you can see it's generating the LinkedIn post now.

So, now it's generating it, and I've instructed, of course, Claude uh to present them to me, the three options, uh and for me to pick the best one, which we can then iterate upon and and improve. Right? So, I get three options from my fine-tuned models, and this is why I use the fine-tuned models because you sort of get that LinkedIn style. Now, here's the second big reason why I think uh this is can be a superior sort of setup for many automation use cases, especially for these content creation workflows. Because what I can say, for example, if I say option three, I've already instructed my Claude to open up Claude artifacts to actually iterate and improve on the post together with Claude. Right, and

this is why I think it's really an upside to having this sort of interface and workflow on Claude because rarely ever do we just copy and paste a post generated from my AI onto our social media, or even have a custom workflow that automatically posts on our social media. We usually have to iterate on these posts, make some changes, and improve it a bit before we can actually publish it. Right, and we can far better do that together with Claude than having a traditional interface on a SaaS or on an airtable or an Excel sheet, etc. because here we can, together with Claude, iterate on the on the post. So, we can go, for example, here you can see it used Nonds for N8N, so we can say something, change Nond for N8N.

Oh, N8N. Okay, did it right. And for example, we can go make the hook a bit shorter.

And then let's say, "Okay, great. It's good."

Would you like to generate some images? Which I also instructed. Yes, please, generate, let's say, some images for about a futuristic virtual assistant. Now, I've used another N8N workflow here to generate images. So, I can show you here image generator.

In this case, I use replicate one of the replicate models to generate images. And you can see we get three images back and we can choose the one we like most. Oh, great. Bit better. Of course, again, we can iterate and find the best one. So, let's say we want

the second one. Second one, please.

And now it already knows it has to update the airtable with the finalized post and the image. And the funny thing is the first time I did this, I actually didn't set up a specific airtable database for LinkedIn posts. So, it decided actually to create a database himself with LinkedIn post, made all the columns for the images, for the original YouTube link, and the the LinkedIn post by himself. Right? And that's I think the third huge upside of using Claude for these kinds of systems because in my experience Claude tool usage far superior to tool usage of any custom agent we set up in N8N, relevant AI, make.com, etc.

So, for any human in the loop so use cases and tool usage, I see just a lot of upside in using Claude. And in our experience, for most clients and most of the systems we build for clients in our agency actually require human in the loop to actually be production ready. So, we really see Claude more and more as a as a great sort of user interface for these use cases. So, now it created the record and it has been saved. So, if I go here to the LinkedIn post, you can see it was added here with the image and the post.

If if don't know how to connect Claude to MCPs and all your softwares, make sure to check out my last video, which I'll link up here, where I explain it step-by-step, and it's not as difficult as you might think. It's quite easy, actually. So, let me show you quickly how to set it up, and then I'll show you another use case or two. So, in essence, it's really not rocket science to set this up. It's going to be a very short tutorial because all it is is a prompt, right? First, you of course

need to connect it to your softwares and your specific tools, which I show in my other video. And then second, all we need to do is set up a specific instruction for your workflow, right? So, think through your workflow, and literally describe here in the project instruction step-by-step what this Claude project should do, right? So, in this case, one, you'll be provided with a YouTube link. Right, ask the If not, ask the user for YouTube link. Two, use

the YouTube transcription tool to transcribe the video. Three, use the LinkedIn generator tool to generate three LinkedIn posts. Ask the user which post he likes most out of the results. When the user has chosen a post, you will always use Claude artifacts. Right, you will then wait for feedback of the user to adjust the post. Once the user has stated the

post is ready, you'll ask if the user wants to generate images. If so, you'll use the image generator tool to generate three images for the post, and only show the three PNG links to the user, and wait for the one he has chosen. And lastly, when the user tells you a post is ready, you'll use the Airtable tool to add the new LinkedIn post to the AI knowledge base in the LinkedIn post tab. Right, use the exact post image URL. So, really straightforward, right? We

literally just describe in human language how we want to automate the process. So, you can imagine you can spin up hundreds of these little workflows really fast here inside Claude with this setup. So, let me show you one more example here. Maybe I can show you the the blog. So, same principle, right? Now, in this

case, I've set it up a little bit different because instead of a fine-tuned blog writer, I added in a project knowledge base, as you can see here, which you can also do in Claude. Right, and in that knowledge, you can sort of give it specific instructions. And in this case, I gave it some examples and a specific way to write my blogs, right? In this extra sort of information. And then I instructed here in my system prompt, right? In this step four, use the exact

instructions in the blog creation knowledge to write a blog article in that style. Right? So, let me show you an example. So, I can paste in that same YouTube link. Now, in this case, it's going to follow a different course of action, right? So,

in this case, I instructed it to first provide a featured image for this post because I want to upload that myself. Uh so, that's just my YouTube thumbnail. So, I give that. And now it already knows what to do next, right? So, first again, it gets the YouTube uh transcript.

And now you can see it creates it creates a comprehensive blog post based on the YouTube transcript following the guidelines provided. So, this is basically using that knowledge base that I gave uh to write that that um that blog article. And also, it right away uses an image generator to add in images into the blog post. So, this one is just a featured image, basically. The other ones inside of the article, you can see it adds in images right away.

Now, of course, we can still iterate on these and make them better. I probably have to use a better image model. It's not look doesn't look great. I can see it makes the same mistake here. It uses "nan" because from the transcript, it doesn't understand "n8n".

Uh and this is why I think this is such a superior sort of setup, especially for these content uh workflows and processes because this is almost always what you have to do with content, right? You cannot just post uh post these uh articles or or LinkedIn posts or X posts without ever looking at them directly onto your social media because almost always there's going to be some error or uh some weird thing he says or some AI thing he says. So, this is by far the best way I think to manage your content processes because now you can iterate on this like for example, change all uh the references of none to an 8 n. And also I saw another one. Let's check this image. This one's

better. Uh also change the first image. Image of the article. Generate another one.

So, again, running the image generator to get a new image.

So, you can see it's changing it out now. And it's changing all the references of none to an 8 n. So, let's say we've iterated and now we go ahead. Yes, we all we are all good. And now it's actually going to use the the Webflow MCP to up the update my uh the blog post directly onto my website.

And it will use actually write this in HTML to make it look nice for my website. So, you can see it gets lists all the sites from my Webflow, then it gets the collections to find the the blog collection. And this does it all by himself. I didn't even instruct him to do this step by step. That's why this tool usage of of Claude in my experience is is pretty impressive because it knows exactly which tools to use.

Now it's creating the the new blog item.

Now he's publishing the blog post. So, you can see it's actually quite a few sort of steps involved. And again, now you can see now there's an error, right? And you can see now Claude tries different approaches. And this is really the power which I don't see happening a lot with normal N8N uh workflows is agents when they run into an error, they they don't really try to approach it with a different angle to actually solve it. And you can

see here Claude did it and it did it successfully. So, in my experience that tool usage of of Claude here, I I don't know why, but it's really uh superior to to many of the custom agents we set up in in these no-code platforms. So, you can see now we have gotten the post. Now we can check it out here. Now you can see it added in my YouTube link.

It changed that image. It has a a little step-by-step here. It has the entire post. All right. And another image there, etc.

Now, it also, let's see, added in the featured image. Uh of course, I can improve this still, right? And this is the insane thing, too. It's like if it's published, I can now also go back to Claude and actually make changes on my website. So, I can go like actually change the first image uh here, and then it can actually ad- adjust the website right from there without me setting up another custom workflow. Right? So, that's really the

power of of these MCPs. They are a lot more flexible in that sense. Now, I'll make sure to share these prompts and these N8N workflows and triggers uh also in the link in the description below if you want to check them out. And also make sure to show the other uh workflows that I've set up for myself here. But you can imagine you can set up hundreds of these workflows for yourself to really quickly uh automate sort of these workflows instead of setting up custom projects in N8N. Of course, there's still a a use

case for using these kinds of workflows because here we still have that human in the loop, right? We still need to be there to actually take these actions, etc. While in N8N and and and these kinds of uh automation platforms, we can entirely automate processes in the back end. In my experience, many automation, uh, systems need to have human in the loop. That's why for many use cases, I think this is really interesting, and I'm I'm going to really dive deep into this because I think there are lots of, uh, use cases where this interface here in Cloud is superior. But of course,

there are still really useful use cases to completely automate workflows in the back end without any human involvement with these custom workflows, uh, in these automation, uh, platforms. So that's it for this video. Again, if you want to learn how to connect MCPs and all your softwares to Cloud, make sure to check out my other video where I explain it step by step. Also, if you want to see, uh, my Cloud personal assistant, uh, where I connected it to WhatsApp, LinkedIn, and many other tools, uh, you can also check out that video. And if you got any value out of this video, I highly appreciate a like and a subscribe. If you want to learn

more about, uh, how to build automation systems like this and in n8n and Relevancy AI, etc., you can also check out my community, uh, where we try to help people who start with automations and starting their automation business or, uh, starting to implement AI into their business. We also have one-on-one tech help and one-on-one, uh, solution architects, uh, inside of our community. So if that's something, uh, you might find interesting, you can also check, check out my community. Thank you so much, uh, for watching, and I hope to see you in the next one. Bye.