---
video_title: "How we Automated a Meta Ad Agency with AI"
video_id: Rm3ObJXsuOI
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rm3ObJXsuOI
video_date: 2025-04-19
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/hwaam-acc
  
  Get the free template of this video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/hwaa-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/hwaam-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/hwaam-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:22 - System Overview
  03:04 - Live Demo
  11:53 - N8N Setup & Breakdown
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too.
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer.
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
So, in this video, I'll show you how we automated a meta ad agency in Naden and Air Table without code for one of our recent clients. This system allows you to automatically track your ad campaigns and generate ad ideas, ad copies, and entire video scripts based on the top performing ads. And in this video, I'll show you a demo, a step-by-step breakdown of the system. And the template will be available for free in the description below. So, before jumping into the demo, let me give you a very quick breakdown on how this system works. So the the way most ad agencies

work is generally first of course they have to research the brand, the audience and the specific products or services they need to sell. Then they need to write the ad angles or ad ideas, the ad copies and scripts and design the creatives. Then they have to monitor the performance daily to find out what ad angles work best and then optimize the existing or new ads based on uh the results of that performance. And that basically goes into a loop to constantly improve to improve return on ad spend and to uh scale revenue. So for this specific company, they ran hundreds of these VSSL video ads selling products.

If you don't know what VSSL uh video ads are, I just came up with a quick example here. I found one that does something similar because I can't show the actual client, but it's basically just iterations on different uh videos with a person talking. Right? So scesscent sales isn't something that's been really talked about for a long time, but it's obviously been around a long time. And it's I think the easiest way to this is why I love analytics. You take all of

these one day one day two and then so you can see it's sort of the different iteration or different versions different hooks etc of uh video script and also for this company specifically they also run for different products. Now basically what we did is we set up a system uh with a front end or an interface on air table where the human is still in charge of the process and still the decision maker and then the back end and all the automations and executions are run on NAN and we've basically replicated sort of this cycle uh that I talked about before. First you can add new products or existing products and do deep research on those products and the ideal target customer for those products. From there you can generate ad angles or ad ideas and then the human can still decide which ad angles or ideas to go ahead with. From there can then generate the scripts which again can be iterated on and reviewed by human together with AI. Then

uh the fourth step is to create the actual videos or the ad creatives. Now this part we haven't automated yet but we're actually in the process of even automating uh the video creation uh through hey genen. So, if you want to see that, maybe let me know in the comments below and I'll uh do another video once we have that system. And from there, we continuously analyze the ad performance of all of these ads and then we use the winning ad scripts or ad angles uh into all the new products or the existing ads to improve them based on what works best, right? And we continuously use this cycle to optimize the process and to increase return on ad spend and to scale ads in general. So

you can imagine the amount of work saved for this company by automating these processes and uh they've seen a huge uptake in the return on uh on ad spend. So let me show you a quick example. So here we are in the air table uh interface where the client can manage uh the ad creation process. Now if you're curious this is uh set up through air table interfaces. U but this in the back end is just a normal air air table database. Uh if you don't know air table

it's just basically a Google sheets on on steroids. uh but with these interfaces uh you can have a very nice sort of way to present and use these kinds of systems uh that we build. So we use this quite a lot. If you want to learn more on how to actually do this, I might do a tutorial on it. Uh let me know if that's interesting to you in the comments below. So you can see here we

have basically the five-step uh workflow uh laid out. So first we have the initial uh research. Then we have the ad angle and idea generation and selection. From there we generate uh the scripts and review the scripts. uh then we can uh track the performance of all the ads on a daily basis and then we can select the winning scripts and ads which we're going to use then in this initial phase to actually use as a basis for creating new ads for new products. So we're using

the best performing ads uh when we're creating new ones. So let me just show you an example. So here we are in uh phase one right initial product research. Now you see here we can just add in the product. So I've just uh put in two examples here. As you can see we

can also do multiple brands. That's why we call it an ad agency in a box because you can basically manage multiple clients also here if you're an agency. Uh so here we have the products. Here we have any notes that you want to add about the specific product. So if you have any specific context on this product or the target market for this specific product, the company can still fill this out and that will be taken into consideration uh when we're generating angles and and scripts etc.

So I just put in a quick example here right of some product notes of demographics uh etc. uh but you can also leave this empty and let the system do it themselves. So uh from here we have the status of what what have we done with this specific product yet. Then here we have the first action which is basically doing sort of a deep research on uh the product details of this specific product on the customer profile for this product on the brand of uh of of this brand. Right? So

we make sure that the ad angles align with the brand and and some other uh deep research aspects which we actually do with with perplexity. And this is really important because this is what we're going to use as context when we're generating new angles, ideas and scripts, right? So the system has the context on what this product actually does and for who it is. So I can just show you an example here by clicking here. Let's say uh we take the micro guard kitchen protection kit, whatever that is. So now you can see it's

generating the product details. So soon this will be filled out here. We already have an example so I can show you quickly. So we just have a deep dive here in in this product basically right core customer profile product deep dive all the technicalities of the product the pricing the brand identity the market positioning. So a deep dive which again you don't need to change this is more just uh to show you what it does in the back end. And this will be used

again to generate uh when it's generating angles, ideas and script. So you'll see this pop up soon here for for the other one. Yes. So we got it here for this one. Same thing, right? Deep

research on the product. And from here we can generate angles, right? And that's basically sort of the first step in this process is to generate different angles which we can then choose. And you can see we have one more field here which is the winning ad script and that comes from that last phase which are the best performing ads of our ad campaigns which we can then select and add to a specific product here to make sure we follow that same sort of style and ad script and ad angle when we're generating uh new angles for new products here. Right? So it will take

into account the best performing past ads to use that sort of style and script into creating new ones. And that's sort of that flywheel. Uh so if I just click here on generate angles, we can go to phase two and in phase two we select the angles. So you can see we have the different products here and we'll get different uh angles uh suggested here. You see the list different ones. Now

it's still generating the one I just uh showed. So I can show you this one in the meantime. So we have the air guard purification pendant, right? And you can see here we get sort of the angle and the concept, right? So this angle targets the practical and financial concerns, right? This angle leans

heavily into fear and anxiety. So you can see we get these different triangles and we get all the details inside here. So you can see we get the concept summary. We get the exact VSSL structure for this angle or concept. So hook problem uh introduce smart alternative introduce solution proof credibility offer and CTA video suggestions emotional triggers cognitive biases and direct response techniques. So we get

all that information and then again the human is in charge here and can decide which ones to go ahead with to actually generate the script to it. So you can uh short list any one you want. So let's say this one and this one. And then we actually have a shortlisted one here. And from here we can then go to the next phase which is actually generating uh generating the ad script. So, let's say

we're going to go with uh let's say fear and anxiety, the invisible poison in your home air you're breathing right now. Right? So, here we can select the script length. So, let's say uh 1 to 3 minutes. Uh and then we can just click here on generate script. Right? And then you can

see it it was taken out of here. And now it's moving to the next part of the process which is phase three which is script generation. Now again here you can see the ones that we already uh generated and here we can first of all decide on the product here. So we can go to this one. It's still generating this script that we just chose as you can see. So soon this will

appear here. Here we go. Script generated. You can see now we get the exact script. Right. What if the biggest

health threat to your family isn't outside but hiding right here in the area you're breeding inside your home right now? Lead problem agitation. It sounds crazy, but studies show indoor air can be up to five times more polluted than outside. We worry about smog, but ignore invisible cocktail of VFC from furniture, mold, lurking in dark corners, and bacteria circulating, etc., etc. So, here we get the entire

script. And here we can also review the script. So, let's say we didn't like the hook. We can go uh please uh redo the hook. I didn't like uh the angle. And then we can basically just

reg gen generate it. If we click here and then you see we got revision in progress. Now from here let's say we've generated this. We can go to the ad performance tracking. And here this is basically directly connected to your meta account to keep track of the the best performing ads. So we can we add

the campaign name here. You can see we can get all the different campaigns. we get the ads adsets and the different ads and here we can easily track uh sort of the metrics of these ads and the spend the uh the rowas the CPC the clicks conversions impressions etc. Now rorowaz are very important of course for ad agencies. If you don't know rowas are basically return on ad spend uh which is a very important metric obviously. So

here you can basically decide okay what are the top performing ads which sort of ad script and angle we want to use in our future ads and you can just select them here. So let's say we have a 271 uh 27 rowa here which is really good obviously. So we can just select it here and what it will do is we'll basically scrape this ad and the video script and use that script here in phase five where we have all our best performing video scripts. So you can see this one is being generated the one I just selected but here we have all our best performing video scripts and what we can do from here is just select the new products we add in here in phase one. So let's say this clean breeze whole home system. We

can just add that to this specific ad angle or video script and then it will take that specific ad angle or video script into account when generating new ad angles, ideas and scripts. Right? So that's sort of that you know cycling process of continuously improving and optimizing on the system by using the best performing ads. So you can see we we got that one generated now too. So we can also decide to add it to one. And

you can see here in the first phase that now it's added here that specific ad angle. And if we now generate the angles, it will take this one into account when generating the new ad angles. So I hope you can see this is quite a powerful sort of setup. And again, if you want the full template, you can just uh go to my community and uh download it for free. So let me go over the nad setup here.

Remember, you can just copy and paste this entire template into your own NAN account by just going in the link in the description below. Uh now, this might be a little bit more complex to set up if you're just starting out or learning this because you do have to work with the Facebook graph API, which can be a bit tricky uh when you're just starting out. But if you need some help setting this template up or maybe adjusting it to your specific use case, we do also have one-on-one tech help available in my uh community. So, if you need some help, make sure to check it out. So, basically, this automation is uh separated into three parts. As you can

see first here we have the ad performance analytics and basically just this just takes the data from uh the meta ad account into the air table. So you can see we schedule a trigger basically every day or every week how often you want to do it and then we output the the performance data into the air table right which is of course uh this part in phase four right where we get get the data. Then we have the second part which basically scrapes the best performing video ads. Right? So it scrapes the script of the best performing video ads. And you can see

this one is triggered through a web hook which of course gets triggered here when we uh select a best ad here. All right. And I will show you in a second how you set up these triggers. And then lastly in this third part is basically the generation part. Uh so you can see we have four actions here. First here we

can generate the product details and the customer research or the customer profile which of course gets triggered at this first phase when we click here. Uh then we have uh the generate angles, add angles. Then we have generate the scripts and uh feedback for scripts. So we can iterate and improve or review on uh the script that was generated. So I'll break down uh this system uh bottom up. So I'll first cover this part then

this part and then this part. So I'll show you through the executions as you get a better idea I think. So I can start with this one which is uh the generate the the product details in the customer profile. So you can see it's gen it's triggered through this web hook and you can see that this web hook actually triggers all the the different four automations. So how do we do this in air table? I'll show you very

quickly. So remember this air tableable interface is basically just an air tableable database right it's the same thing and we can also manage the process from here if we want to but we just uh prefer to have that sort of interface to make it a little bit more user friendly and nicer to present to clients. So here you can see we have the projects the product uh where we can also take the action right generate product details and generate angles and we have the scripting where we can generate scripts and here we have the ad performance analytics. So here in the product, how do we trigger these web hooks? We can go here to automations. And you can see

here we've set up five different automations. One for best ads, generate product details, generate product angles, generate scripts, and feedback iteration. Now again, we use the same uh web hook for these four. Uh so how does that work? If we go to the product details, we have the trigger here. And

in this case, the trigger is when record matches a condition. And then the condition is when generate product details is checkarked. That's it. And then we have two actions. The first action is to update the record uh with the specific status. So basically we're

just updating the status. Now this is not absolutely necessary but it's sort of nice for the user interface to show that it's actually generating the product details while it's doing it. And then uh the last action is to generate the script and that is to trigger the web hook to start the automation in N. So you always use run script to trigger a web hook. Here you can define what you want to send over and in this case we only send over the air table record ID.

And here we have a little code snippet that uh where we include the web hook. And we've added in one more param which is the action as you can see here. And the action here says generate project details. Now this is important because this is what happens here in the automation. We have a switch module here which just looks at the action and routes it accordingly. Right? So that's

how we basically are are able to use the same web hook for four different automations which make simplifies the system a bit. That's why we do it. So I also make sure to uh share this code snippet in uh in the free template. So that's how you set up automations here. And of course we've done that for all and you can see for the other ones that the action is different and therefore it will route it differently in NAN. So

that's what happens here. So as soon as someone uh clicks on generate product details this will get triggered then it will be routed uh to this flow. Now first we get the record. So we get all the information from the specific record. uh this is just a built-in module in uh NAM and all we do is we pass in the record ID to retrieve all the information from that specific row.

Now we what we're going to do then is basically create the prompt which we're going to pass into um perplexity in the next step. So in the prompt what you can see is we just wrote the prompt research about the customer profile etc. And we pass in two variables which is the product name and the product notes. Right? So here we have the prompt and here we get in the output the entire prompt which we then pass into perplexity here you can see we use perplexity we use the sonar reasoning model to do sort of that deep research and we pass in uh that variable of the prompt here and then we get the deep research result in the output and then of course we update our uh air table with those product details and the customer ICP uh profile.

So that's that first section. And then in the second one here what we do is we generate the angles. So same thing in this case when we of course click on generate angles epo is triggered we again get the record information and then we generate the angles. So as you can see as the variables what we pass into this prompt is the product name the product details and the product notes. So the product details is what was generated by perplexity. The product notes are

basically what uh the user can fill out if he has any other context or extra information on this specific product. And then you can see lastly we add in that winning script to keep in mind if there is a winning script to use that sort of angle of the script. And then we have a long prompt to generate the different angles. So I'll not go through it in details because because again you can copy and paste this template but you can see uh provide at least five and up to eight uh different angles and you can see we instructed to include angles, concepts, VSSL structures, video suggestions, emotional triggers, cognitive biases and direct response techniques and it will output it in a specific format which is an array. So you can see we get it out here in an array and then we use one more module here which is a parsing module and it's basically to get structured outputs. Now

why do we use a second module here and not put it directly in this one because you could put the output parser directly in this one. In my experience it works far better especially with this more complex data structures to use a separate uh anm node. So in this one we just make sure that we get it into the right structure and as you can see uh at the in the output of this one uh we get it into a good structure. So we have the in this case we've generated six different ad angles right now in the next step we have to uh basically relate these different ad angles to uh the specific product right to make sure that in our interface in here it actually appears underneath the specific product right so we map them together basically and we get that data of course from uh the web hook or in this is from the switch node. Right? So you can see we get the record

ID and then we use the split out to basically because of course we have six different ones inside of an array and we want to update them all separately. So we use a split out module to do that to do it six different times inside of air table where of course we update uh the air table with all the information. And then lastly in this step we update the status right. So you can see the status angles generated. So that's it. Then for

the next step we uh generate the script right same thing again with the web hook we get all the details we use one&m chain here to generate the script again we pass in uh multiple variables here right the angle all the details from the angle the specific angle and the product information right and again long prompt to actually generate um the VSSL the actual script you elite video sales script writer VSSL script structure again you can read this all in detail in your own time if you want to by copying the template by the way we mostly use Google Gemini 2.5 Pro in our experience works really well for these types of sort of creative writing and then of course we update the other table with the script now lastly we have uh the review or the revision where we basically pass in the feedback that the user wrote again that's in in in this part right where we can add in the feedback or together with the original script of course and the product details to generate a revised version of the script and then of course we update it to the air table again. So I think pretty straightforward for this part. Now let me get to this second part which is a bit uh more complicated to set up and this second part of course scrapes the best performing uh ads and the scripts of the video ads to use of course later to generate new ads for uh using that sort of angle. Now why is this difficult? because it's not very

straightforward to get the video URL that we can actually scrape to pass into a transcriber so we can actually get the transcript. Uh because if we just pass in the Facebook URL, it's not going to work. So I'm going to show you how this is set up. First of all, again, it's triggered through a web hook, which in this case is triggered, of course, at this part in phase 4 when we click here on best ads. Now, one once that's triggered, first what we do is we use the get record again. And the important

thing here is we get back the video ID which we're going to use to pass into the Facebook graph API. Now for the Facebook graph API, I'm going to show you in a second how you can uh connect your Facebook Meta account uh to to NAND here. Uh I'm not going to explain the Facebook API in detail because it can get quite complex very quick. Uh but basically in this edge you're using sort of as as endpoints and the query parameters you basically instruct what kind of data you want to get back from the Facebook API. Now, this is all set up for you. So, you don't have to worry

about this. So, I'm going to explain you in a second how you actually set up these these credentials. So, what we do here is we pass in the video ID and you can see from the video ID when we pass that in and we make a get request, what we get back is the ID, the description, the length, and the perma link. Now, the perma link is important because this is sort of the link, the the Facebook link to the to the video to the video ad. Uh now, of course, that's not a full link.

So all we do in this field is just put uh this before it facebook.com and then we add in the permal link to get the full link. Now you can see here we actually get the full Facebook link of uh the ad. Right? Now we can't actually scrape this because it's still on Facebook, right? So it's we can't

scrape the audio or the video directly from here. So that's why we have another few steps which basically first what we do is we scrape this website the website I just showed to find another video link that we can actually use to to scrape the the audio from. Right? So in this case we're using Scrapfly as our web scraper to find that other link that we can actually scrape. Now in our experience Scrapfly is one of the best scrapers uh out there. If you don't know

Scrapfly uh this is it. It's one of the most advanced scrapers in our experience and it works really well on these sort of websites that are normally harder to scrape. So in this case we use Scrapfly and you can see we get all the data from this page back. Now in this next step all we do is we uh take out the important part where we can find the the specific video URL. You can see we actually do get it here which is this one. And all we do in this code step is

basically filter out that specific uh video URL. You can see extracted as the URL, right? And we wrote this basically through Chacht because we always get get back this sort of specific code. And we just asked Chach to write this code to extract the specific video URL that we'll need. So again, you can just use this like it is. So this that's what

this code step does. Then it checks here in the if statement if that URL actually exists or not. Sometimes it doesn't or if it's not a video ad basically and then we pass it into a normal HTTP request because with this video URL we can actually scrape uh the video as you can see right and that we can then just pass into an openi transcribing module as you can see we just pass that in and then we get actually get the transcript back and then of course we output that back into the air table. But for this last part of the automation, I unfortunately can't show you an example because I am not running any Facebook ads at the moment. And if I show you an example, I would actually have to show uh the client details, which I can't do for obvious reasons. But I'll give you

an overview of how this works. So here basically we have the schedule trigger, which in this case runs every week, once a week, but you can also do this once a day or how often you want. Then we use the Facebook graph API to first get uh the Facebook ad account. Right now, for the Facebook graph API, how do you connect it? Um, you basically goes to developers.fas.com. Just like you'd say

maybe if you've set up WhatsApp or um, uh, Instagram or Facebook Messenger automations through that, it's a similar process. You go there, you go to my apps, you log into your Facebook account. There you can create a new app if you don't have one yet. You click create app. You can say whatever you want. Then here in uh use cases you

select other. Then you select business. And then here you choose your uh your business portfolio or the specific ad account. You don't have to officially verify your business. Uh so like with WhatsApp for example. So it is a bit

easier than that. And then you go here to the uh marketing API.

you click setup and then here you select all three and then you select get token and this token you'll use to set up um the Facebook graph API. So if you if you create a new

node right here you can add the access token and then uh you have it connected connected to your Facebook graph API. Now, actually setting up these modules for these specific tasks can be a little bit tricky and I'm not going to cover in this video. Uh there's lots of videos on how to do different actions on uh through the Facebook graph API, but everything's set up here. Uh but this first node uh does just gets all the Facebook ad accounts. So you can see we use this through the edge, which is sort of like the end point uh with the Facebook graph API. So we get all the ad

accounts because you can have multiple ad accounts under one business portfolio. Then we split out and loop over each uh one to get all the ad campaigns. Again, we loop over all of those. Then we have a quick condition here where we uh check if the ad uh account or the ad campaign is actually active or not. If it's active, we get the Facebook ad sets. Again, we split

those out. Then we again have a quick condition to see if the adsets are also active or not. So, we only pass in the active ones. Now, I had to put in a little weight module. Otherwise we can run into uh limitations with the Facebook graph API. And then we get the

Facebook ad content. Again we split out over that we have two more filters which again is the ad actually active and second in this case is this a video or not. Right? So we filter if it has a video ID or not. So because of course for this specific use case is specifically for video ads. And then we

map it all all the data data we need here as you can see which is basically all the all the information here of uh the ad information right and the ad spend the CPC the clicks the conversions etc. So so that's what we set up here now in this last one as you can see here in the value basically we decide what all the data points we want to get back. So you can see all those data points are basically here which is all the data for this specific ad. And of course we add it again to the air table. So that's how this one works. Again if you can just uh

generate your access token, you can just use this workflow basically like it's set up and it should work for you. So that's it for this video. Thank you so much for watching. If you got any value out of this, I highly appreciate a like and a subscribe. You can also again in the first link in the description below just copy and paste this template. If

you need some more help, you want some hands-on uh help to set up this template, etc., you can work directly with our agency to set up systems like these, or you can check out my uh paid community uh to get one-on-one tech help and some more step-by-step tutorials on these kinds of systems. Anyway, thank you so much for watching, and uh I hope to see you in the next one. by