---
video_title: "Build Your First Productized AI System (N8N + Airtable Interfaces)"
video_id: -LJueWb3nns
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-LJueWb3nns
video_date: 2025-05-24
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/byfpa-acc
  
  Get the free template of this video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/byfp-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/byfpa-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/byfpa-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:44 - Demo
  10:15 - Planning the AI System
  18:56 - Setting Up Airtable Bases
  28:05 - Setting Up Airtable Interfaces
  36:31 - N8N Automation 1 (Company Setup)
  55:46 - N8N Automation 2 (Content Scraping)
  1:16:06 - N8N Automation 3 (Linkedin content + Image generation)
  1:30:05 - Finishing the Airtable Interfaces
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too.
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer.
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
Today I'm going to show you how to build productized AI systems from scratch. The idea behind productized AI systems is that they automate end-to-end workflows and can be built once and resold to multiple clients without any customization. As an example, I'll be building a LinkedIn content system live that can generate LinkedIn posts images can adapt to the tone of voice of each company can use different writing frameworks and has a built-in content calendar. I'll use N8N to automate the workflows. Air Table to store and organize the data and Air Table interface to give a nice user interface to the customer. This is the exact setup

we used for our AI SEO agency in a box which we sold to more than 50 businesses by now. And I'll build everything live in this video so you can get an idea of the thought process behind building a system like this. And the template will also be available in my community. So I'll first show you a quick demo. I've just built the entire system from scratch which you'll see me do in a second. So this is basically the last

part of my recording, but I just wanted to put it in front to first show you a quick demo. Now uh here we have our LinkedIn agency in a box and the whole idea behind this system is that you can manage the LinkedIn content generation for multiple businesses inside of this same system. And of course this is an productized AI system, meaning you can potentially resell this same system to multiple businesses without any customization. Right? So of course I built this entire system for in one and a half or two hours, I think. Uh so it's

far from perfect yet. building really valuable AI productized systems usually take a little bit longer but I think it will give you a good idea of the infrastructure we use to build these productized systems uh and you can build on top of this quite easily. So it's just to give you that's really the purpose of this video to teach you how to sort of approach building these productized AI systems. So we basically have four different sections here inside of the system. First, we can set up the campaigns for the specific companies.

So, we can manage the multiple companies. Of course, we want the system to personalize the LinkedIn content based on each company, which we're going to do in this step. Then, we can uh check the analytics for posts we've done, but also for past posts, and we can reference specific posts we want to use inside of the system when generating new ones. For example, to mimic sort of the tone of voice or style uh when generating the new posts. Then we here we can request uh new LinkedIn posts and gener the generated ones will be posted here in this section too. And then we

also have a built-in content calendar. So let me just show you a quick demo. So here if I go to the campaign setup here I can manage the different companies I want to do uh LinkedIn content for. And you can see we have three ones set up here. Uh this is just dummy data. Uh but

this is my company here. And we can add new companies here too if we want. And here basically the user has to provide some information uh to the system on this company and from there we're going to personalize it uh for each company. So first we have the company info which of course the company name uh the company URL and the company LinkedIn URL. Then we have uh the LinkedIn post references or for or for analytics, right? So we have the user LinkedIn. In

this case, I just use my personal LinkedIn. And then we have two reference LinkedIn URLs which we can use basically if we like some other creators who uh have a specific tone of voice or style of writing. We can add them in here to sort of use those posts as references when generating new ones. And then we have an action here which is generating the information. And I'll show you how this works in the back end. So I click

here on test workflow. and I go to uh click the action you'll see what happens here in the back end it the AI agent here together with perplexity will basically first do some research on this company to generate a business overview the ICP for this business and a value the value proposition for this business now why are we doing this because it's important when we're generating these new LinkedIn post that uh the L&M has context on what this business does and who their target audience is right so that's why we're gener generating this here. And then of course here in this node, we're also scraping all the reference posts which we can then select in order to sort of mimic that tone of voice and style of those creators. And of course it will update it back into the air table. So if we go back now to the air table now you can see we get a business overview right we get a value proposition and the ICP right. So Beni

agency provides advanced artificial intelligence solutions designed to empower businesses across various sectors by automating, personalizing and optimizing their operations uh etc. So long long text here uh but you can see it's quite in-depth and this of course we're going to use when we're generating new post and the key thing here is we still have human in the loop right so someone can still change this maybe add some things iterate on on it etc. we have the value proposition two and the ICP. Uh so we can do the same here for Hopspot just so we have

it. So we'll do the same for Hopspot and in the meantime we'll start going to the next section. You can see now it also scraped uh these different creators with the LinkedIn post of these creators with the amount of likes. So it's automatically sorted uh based on the likes, right? And we can see the the post in detail. Here

we can we can select sort of the tone of voice of the type of post that we like. Now I'll just use mine. So let's say we're going to use this one. We can just check mark it here. This is also mine to sort of mimate my tone of voice. So let's select

these these for now. Uh now we can go back see what if HubSpot's already updated. Yes, we got the same thing for Hopspot. And now we should also have the reference post for HubSpot. Yes. So we

can select some here too. And now we can this these selected ones will be taken into account when we're generating new ones, right? To mimic that that's downturnal for so just put a few examples here. So here I can request a new post and when I request a new post I can decide for which company. So in this case I'll do mine. And then

the way I've set up this system is to basically repurpose use um YouTube links or blog links to uh use as context and then it can repurpose from that context into a LinkedIn post. Now if I had more time to build out this system, I'd probably put some more input types here. Maybe just a short prompt uh to to for user to tell what kind of post it wants to generate or maybe different types of inputs like podcast. You could think of some others. Uh but I didn't want to make this an 8 hour tutorial. So I'll

just take one of my last videos, right? AICRM. Uh, I'll put it in here and then I select YouTube. And then I can also decide which type of CTA I want to use. So let's do comment. And then I can also

add in custom instructions uh for the post generation and also custom instructions for the image generation. I'll leave it empty for now. Now let me show you what's going to happen in the back end. So if I click on test workflow and I create this you'll see now that it first starts scraping the YouTube transcript uh right then it takes all the information about the company that we uh generated earlier about the ICP etc and the referenced uh LinkedIn post and passes all of the information together with the YouTube transcript into this L&M chain who will generate three different types of uh uh LinkedIn posts uh with three different frameworks basically a story based one, an insight based one and sort of an engagement type post. Now, ideally, if I would have more time, I'd probably give the user the option of what kind of, you know, posting framework he would want to use, but again, I didn't want to make this too long. Here, generate generated

the prompt for the image generation according to each of the the posts. And now it's using the OpenAI image generator uh API to generate three different images. Now, this going to take a while, so I'll speed it up quickly. And now it's updating the air table. So if I go back, you can see we now got three uh new new posts. So let's

see. So you can see it pretty much took my tone of voice definitely and my style of writing if you know it. I usually use these exact emojis, right? And also with these. So it definitely copied my tone of voice.

This is how we automated our entire sales process using air tableable n and cloud. Manual sales admin is a silent productivity killer. Here's how you can bring fully automated CRM in air table. Zero touch lead research and qualification real-time meeting analysis. So pretty good. So this is an

insight focused post and we also have uh this one is a story based post. A few years ago I found myself buried under a mountain of sales admin work. If you've ever been responsible for sales uh finance or regulated industry you know what I mean. time spent researching lead endless meeting prep etc. Something I had to change. That's when we decided to

build an end to-end sales automation system. So pretty good. And the whole point is we have the human in the loop here, right? So we can still adjust things before actually deciding to go ahead with it. Now let's see the image.

Pretty good. I'd say we could probably improve this inside of the system too to make it more sort of brand aligned. Give it some examples things like this. But it's not bad. And we can check the last one. Short shorter one. How many hours

does your thing? Yeah, pretty good. Uh and then let's say we like a specific post and we want to add it to the content calendar. We can just uh click here on schedule post. We can select the date we want to post it on. So let's say for

Saturday. All right. And now automatically this post will be on our content calendar here. You can see on Saturday we now have our post here. And of course I didn't set this up for this specific one, but we can also automatically trigger an automation to actually post this on LinkedIn uh directly from here. Now I purposely

didn't do it because apparently LinkedIn might uh punish it a bit if you automatically post on LinkedIn. So I generally prefer to just copy and paste it. Uh but you can definitely set it up. So, this is just what I built very quickly. I definitely would add some things if I had more time, but uh yeah, I'll get into the building from scratch right now. So, at this part of the

video, I've yet to actually build the entire system. I'm going to build it live from scratch so you get an idea of the thought process behind building a system like this. Uh I did plan it out a bit. So, I just want to take you through uh my initial idea of uh the system. And planning is part of a process of building a productized AI system. I'm

going to try to wing it uh do it all in all in one take. So, we'll see how it goes. I'm sure I run into some errors, but it gives you a good idea, I think, of what it actually requires to build a system like this. Now, before going over the planning, uh what are the requirements for it to be a productized AI system? First of all, it has to be a resellable AI system, right? So, it has

to be pre-built and can be used by multiple customers without any customization. That doesn't mean it's a one-sizefits-all. uh every company will need uh their personalization and the system to be adapted to their specific use case, their specific business in this case maybe tone of voice etc. um but the difference is this is going to be built into the system and done by the user which I'm going to show you in a second. Second in an AI system we want to automate at as much as possible of the endto-end workflow. The reason is be the

more we can automate an endto-end workflow, the the more value our AI system is going to have and the more we can sell it for. Right now, this is going to be an MVP as a disclaimer because of course I'm going to build this live from scratch. In reality, building a productized AI system that's really valuable will take you a little bit more time uh than I don't know how long this tutorial is going to be, but probably an hour or two uh is going to take you longer. So this is going to be an MVP but it will give you an good idea of the infrastructure we use to build systems like these. Uh and lastly uh for productized AI system we want to have a user interface uh uh for uh people to manage the workflow in an easy way right in a in a nice user interface uh for people who are non-technical to be able to manage this workflow. So here's my

initial idea of the LinkedIn content system. So basically I uh think we have we will have four uh different elements. The first one is the strategy uh posting strategy setup and here we really want to bring in that personalization because of course every company will need uh their LinkedIn post to be adapted to their specific tone of voice to their specific business and to their specific ICP. So we want the system to generate this for each company so we can personalize that when we're actually writing uh the LinkedIn post. Then for the idea for the input uh in this case I'm going to stick to two which is this system can repurpose blog articles into LinkedIn posts and YouTube videos into LinkedIn posts. Now in reality when I

would build out this entire system I'd probably add some more uh maybe podcast maybe just with a simple prompt. you could think of more input uh data we can we can take uh to to create LinkedIn posts of course uh but again I don't want to make this an 8 hour tutorial so I'm going to get keep it uh straight to the point and I think again it will give you a good idea of building this initial infrastructure we use for productized AI systems and you can easily build on top of this again also the template will be available in my uh in my community if you're interested then uh the next part is going to be the postgeneration and the scheduling now in the post generation we want to be able uh want to uh the system to be able to do a few things. Of course, it has to be able to write the actual post. It has to be able to generate images. Uh it also should include the tone of voice uh of the company and probably the business context of the company so it adapts it to their specific tone of voice. And

maybe we can also add in uh different posting frameworks. So for example a story based post uh an insight based post uh you can have sort of these different writing frameworks for LinkedIn and maybe you can add that into the system and then lastly we have analytics ideally we want the system to be able to track the performance of these posts and this is what we try to do with these AI systems is to try to make them sort of self-improving systems. So the advantage is if we uh can add this analytics inside of the system then we can use these analytics in uh uh when we're generating new posts again and use the best post to uh generate new posts right as examples for new posts and that you can imagine can sort of create start creating that self-improving system right so we're going to try to build this into now the way we're going to build it which you've probably seen already now in the demo is we're going to use uh air table as a database. We're going to set up the automations in NAN and then we're going to have uh the interfaces set up through air table interfaces and of course the human is still in charge of managing the workflow through the air table interface. Now this is usually the way I plan this out is quite simple. It's like

what should the user experience or flow look like? What is a logical sort of sequence to manage this workflow? Now in this case I thought of this one. It might change when I'm actually building but this is my initial idea. So first you have a main dashboard overview where it's basically just the overview of the system and they can uh uh select where they want to go in in which step what they want to do right then we have the company setup or the campaign setup.

This is a step we almost always use in these productized AI systems and this is basically where you can add new companies to the system and make that personalization right where the system can uh generate a personalization etc. Then we want to also scrape some reference posts. So we want to feed the system when we're generating new LinkedIn posts with some reference posts uh that the user can select to sort of mimic that tone of voice or style of writing when generating new ones. Right? So we're going to add this in two. Then

we're going to have uh content the content generation request where they can uh request new content generations. And then we have the human review and the human in the loop of course uh and where they can schedule and then ideally we built in a content calendar too. So this is just sort of the user flow inside of air table interfaces. Now what do we need here for the back end? Uh so here in this part in the company setup and we're sort of going to personalize it for the specific company. Uh we

probably need one or two automations. The first one I'm thinking is to generate a business overview, right? And the ICP for the company, which we're then going to feed in again to this into the system when we're generating LinkedIn posts, right? So, this can be the first automation. I'll just make it red so we know this is an automation. Uh, and also

we want to scrape some reference posts, right? and their analytics to first of all have that analytics built in but also to use these reference posts when we're writing new ones to sort of mimic that tone of voice and style. So, uh generate or scrape LinkedIn post and this of course can come from their own business or can also come maybe from from other uh people on LinkedIn they they like the the style and turn of voice of. So, scrape LinkedIn post scrape reference LinkedIn posts. So once we have that, this would then only be an interface where they select the ones they want to use as a reference post. So we don't

need an automation there. That will be done directly on air table. Then in the content generation for now we're going to use two, right? which is going to be repurposing uh YouTube URL to LinkedIn post and the second one the blog blog post blog URL. All right, so these will be the two two automations here and of course we're going to use this information when we're generating the new post. So it's personalized for each

business. And the idea of this system is of course you can manage multiple businesses inside of the same system which I'll show you in a second. So these two will feed into this to make it personalized for each business. Then we have the human review which can be done directly on uh air table. Uh and the scheduling too. Maybe we can add uh one

more here or actually in the last one where they can actually if they've scheduled it, it can also automatically post post on LinkedIn at the time they schedule it for. So this is my initial idea. Again, this might change when I'm actually building, but this is the initial idea. So first, of course, we have to set up um the Air Table base. And if you don't have an Air Table account yet, you do need for building systems like this, you do need a pro account, I think, which is $20 a month, I do highly recommend uh to get that plan. Uh why do you need that plan, by

the way? To do automations and I think to set up the the Air Table interfaces. I do really recommend to get that plan if you don't have it yet because if you learn how to build systems like this, it will it will uh pay you back multiple times. So, we just uh create one from scratch. We're going to call it uh a LinkedIn, let's say. We're going to call

it LinkedIn agency in a box. This is how we call these systems because of course you can almost see it as a LinkedIn agency uh in a pre-built LinkedIn agency because we can manage multiple businesses inside of the same system, right? That's why also we call our SEO system an AI SEO agency in a box. So, we can give it a name and now of course we first have to set up uh the first tables. Now, the way I approach this is usually just to go step by step. Now,

for this main dashboard overview, we don't actually need a table. We can set this up directly inside of Air Table interfaces, which I'll show you in a second. And then we have to create probably this one and maybe this one, these two uh tables for now. So, the way I do it, and you don't have to do it like this, is usually I use Claude with uh the Air Table MCP to help me set up these fields a bit quicker. So, first we're going to delete the ones we already have. So, we probably don't need

them. Uh, if you don't know how to connect air table with cloud through MCPS, I do have explain it step by step uh in one of my previous videos which I'll make sure to link up here. Of course, you can just add them here to the fields, but I'll just show you how I usually approach it. So I just go to Claude and go, "Hey, please help me add fields to the LinkedIn agency in a box. Uh let's just give this initial table name." So we're going to call it

company setup. Here we're going to manage the different companies. So in in the uh company setup table, I need the following fields. Now this is the part where we have to start thinking a bit on how the system looks and of course we can change this while we're building but the initial idea again is to generate sort of that business context a business overview uh the ICP of that business and maybe we can add in a value proposition so we can feed that into the system when generating a LinkedIn post um because of course we want those LinkedIn posts to be written from the right sort of business context and towards the right ICP. So in order to do that uh we probably have to scrape their website or maybe use perplexity to do some research on this company to generate those those uh three three sort of data points. So

what we can do is as input fields that's the way I think about it is of course we need the company name which is going to be text fields right then we're going to have maybe a company URL which we can then use of course to scrape or use perplexity on uh company URL which is going to be a URL then we have let's say maybe the company LinkedIn URL to get some more context uh that should probably be enough for those three data points and And of course also we want to generate some reference post, right? So I can maybe go with the user LinkedIn URL. If I think about myself, I'd probably want to add some of my own LinkedIn posts there as reference post. And maybe we can add in some other people's LinkedIn of people we like the the style turn of voice off. So let's say reference LinkedIn URL. All right. Maybe can we can add a

second one two and then what we need is of course a trigger to start the automation. So uh what we can do is what I usually do is just set up a checkbox and that could trigger the automation in NAND. It's again I'll show you in a second. So uh generate information and this is going to be a checkbox. I'm thinking I forget anything. That should be good for now.

Let's just uh do it like this. I'll show you quickly how this works. Now you'll see that it automatically starts adding these fields in the air table for us. So you can see it first lists the bases to find the right base. We found the company setup and you can see now it's start starting to create the fields here. Of course, you can do this

manually too, right? But it it helps me save some times and sometimes I ideate a bit together with cloud what the what the the different fields should be, what the different columns should be for a system like this. So good. I think we got everything. So I think we're all good here. Uh now

the name this one we can actually change the primary field. So air table we always need a primary field and we can go with company name. All right. And then we can delete this one. So let me just put in uh a quick my information. So Ben

AI. All right. Good. So we have some uh reference LinkedIn post. Now you can also this is the nice thing with claude.

If you want to just populate the initial data, right? You can use cloud to make some dummy data, right? So we can say generate uh a record with some dummy

data. You can you'll see it'll start adding some dummy data. Then we can maybe right away add one more table. So you can see here right we got some dummy. We can delete these two.

Then we can add in one more table where we probably want to put uh the reference post. So we're going to scrape of course these these uh LinkedIn profiles to get the posts from. And then we want to have one more table where we can uh select the post we want to use inside of our system when we're generating new LinkedIn posts. And the reason also to do this in a separate table is because we don't want to have it really messy all inside of one. And second is al also for the air table interfaces which I'll show you in a second. So, I'll set this

one up just manually so you get an idea. So, let's say select uh reference LinkedIn posts, right? And the information we're not I'm not completely sure what information we will get from the LinkedIn scraper yet, but we can just put an initial ID and change it after. So probably we want the creator name or creator profile URL because we're going to use different LinkedIn URLs, right? Mine or Alex Armosi, etc. So we want to

know whose it is. So we go create a profile URL. We probably want uh also the URL of the actual post post [Music] URL. We probably want of course the actual post post content. Uh we might want to have if they have it, I'm not sure yet, but the likes, right? Because this can really

help us build that self-improving system. If we can track and see the best performing posts, we can always use those when generating new ones, and then it can become sort of this self-improving system. So, let's say like is probably a number. Let's see. I don't know how the scraper will work exactly. Um, and then we do maybe

comments if they have it. The number of

comments. Yeah, that's fine. Comments. Uh, let's see. Anything else we need? Of

course, then we need can delete this one. And we'd also need to select the reference post because if we have many, we don't want to select everyone. We want to select the best performing ones or the ones we like the tone of voice most of. So, let's just go again with a checkbox. Select and there we go. Select the

post. Maybe we can I'm thinking maybe add in one more because probably we can get some image URL too from the post image URL. So I'll show you how we're going to set up this automation in a second. But first I want to show you how to build this initial user interface here in Air Table for these two tables. So let's just put this one here. Good. So now we

got the first two set up. And from here we can also start the first automation. So let me first show you air tableable interfaces. So here at the top you see automations we're going to use to trigger automations in naden. And interfaces we're going to use as the main interface. Right. So as you can see

here it's quite an easy way in air table interfaces to build a nice sort of uh user experience uh without too much hassle. you can do it really quick and it really does make it look a lot better especially when you're trying to sell this to clients and it will be a lot easier for non-technical people to manage this workflow instead of going through these sort of tables here we can just go here on in start building and then we can go uh build an interface we can call this uh LinkedIn agency in a box or I can change the icon and then you can see Here you already get some layouts uh uh layout options here. As you can see, we got timeline, calendar, form, dashboard, overview, record review, and you can also build them from scratch. Now, I already like uh many of these layouts here. So, I generally just use the layouts. Uh but you can also do

it from scratch. But with the layouts, you can really do it really fast. Now, for the first one is that that's just going to be the overview, right? So, we don't have it actually have it connected to the tables yet. This is just sort of the the the the homepage of the main dashboard. So we can just click here on

finish. You can see here we have the overview. Here again we can call the LinkedIn agency in a box. And then here you can add all the pages which we're going to do in a second. Maybe we're going to you can see here on the right side we can basically adjust things right. So in this case I

don't need that sidebar and we can add a cover image too. All right now let me set up the first page. So you can just here go here on the plus and add a page. Now for the first one we want to have sort of that company setup right the the company personalization. Now the way I uh because almost all our AI systems have that screen that initial setup screen uh and the one I like to use for that one is the record uh the record review. All

right. And you'll see how that looks in a second. So here we can just select the table. In this case we're going to select the company setup table. If I click on next here, we can already select what we want to show in this table. We want to show everything. So of

course, what I forgot in that system is the actual output when we generate this, which we do want to put there. So we can set up the name here. Let's say campaign setup. And now you can see here we get the companies we can manage uh the LinkedIn for. And here we have the input field, right? And if I just click here,

as you can see right now, if I preview this, it's not editable, right? Of course, we want the user to be able to put in this information by themselves. So, we have to make that editable. It's really easy. We can just go here and click on editable. We want everything to

be

editable, right? And the generate information is going to be the the the action for the user, right? So that one of course should be editable too. So as soon as they put the check mark, the automation will be start running which I'll show you in a second. Now what we miss here of course is the actual output information, right? Which is going to be

the business overview, the ICP and maybe the value proposition. So that we still have to add in uh these fields here. So, we're gonna have business. Let's say that's going to be a long text business

overview. ICP and maybe the value proposition.

So if we go back to interfaces, we want to also show those three boxes because when the system generates those three things that's we want to have that human in the loop so the user can still adjust some things in that business overview in the value proposition, adjust some things, change some things um before actually uh generating the LinkedIn post, right? That human in loop in our experience is really important and that's the nice thing here in our table interfaces. We can build that in quite quite easily. So we can just click here on the plus icon and then we can generate the field or show the fields that we haven't showed yet which is the business overview. You can also do it here by the way business overview uh value prop position and ICP and again these also have to be editable. You can see we'll be able to

manage multiple businesses here. And of course the user also needs to be able to add new companies to the system. So the way we can do that is by adding in a button to basically create a new record in the air table in the back end right but we can do that through a form here which again the user experience is a bit better. So uh we can go here with add a button right and here we can define what the button does right uh but no this is not it. Ah here we have to select add records to a form we can delete this one remove and this will be the form and if we click on that we can uh adjust the form here. So we can say add a new

company or campaign and then here we can define what information we need. Now this is going to be only the input information. So, company name, company URL. Maybe we can leave this. We can just do the company name and the rest they can fill out once the company's set up. So, for

now, we can take all of this away and just ask for a company company name. So, as soon as they fill this out, I can show you an example. If I go preview here, I select this and I want to add a new company. I want to do LinkedIn post for. I can just create. You'll see it appears here. Then

I can fill out the input information. Generate the information and the system will generate these three. Now before setting up the automation, let's set up one more page here which is selecting the reference post. Now that's probably going to be a list because we're going to have lots of LinkedIn posts. Uh and we want the user to be able to select the ones that they want to use as reference post when generating new ones. So we can go here in

list and then we select select LinkedIn reference post and of course we don't have any data here yet but we do want to show comments likes and selecting a post and it's going to be important here which I'll show you in a second that it's linked to the specific company. You can imagine if we have scraped let's say 30 LinkedIn posts from my co for my company's campaign uh versus Hopspot. We do want to separate those in this this field, right? So, we're probably going to have to group it or actually we will have to uh link these two tables, right? So, we want to make sure that all the scrape LinkedIn posts are linked to the original company. And

the way we can do that in air table and this is really important to understand once you're building these productized AI systems is to go with link to another record right and there you can basically link it to another table there you go allow linking to multiple records we can skip this for now and what you'll see now it's automatically added this here too and now here we can decide we can select the the the company right so this belongs to And you'll see now in the interfaces that we can also uh let's say group by and then we can group by the company. So you'll see it already grouped it by Beni and I'll spot there's one empty one and we can delete that one. Ah okay because this one is not linked yet. So for example, if I go this one, this one, then you'll see we get the LinkedIn post then in that uh for each specific company. Now I'll show you this one in a second when we set up the first automation. So the first

automation the purpose is to generate this business overview value proposition and uh ICP and also to scrape uh some reference posts right that users will be able to select here. So how do we set this up? We go here to automations and we want to trigger this of course when that check mark is checked. Now how do we do this in air table? Pretty simple.

We can go here to automations. We can click on add trigger and then when record matches condition. So in this case we select the table company setup and the condition of course is when generate information is checked. Right. And when that happens we are going to run a script. Now, we use

always the same script for these air table automations, which I'll make sure to uh here. Here we go. Air table. I'll make sure to add that together with the template. But basically what this script does, it can trigger a web hook in Nad that can trigger our automation. All

right. So, you can see we have three variables which is a web hook, the record ID and action. So, we have to define those inputs of those three. In this case, we don't really need an action. We can I'll use an action too. So, uh let's say

record ID. Record ID. Then, and it's important here to match the exact parameter here, right? Uh also with the caps and then we have to because this is what we're going to send over the the record ID number because that's going to be able allow us to get all the uh information from all the fields from that specific record. So we select air table record ID. We select the web hook, right, which

we don't have generated yet in NAN, but we'll need to define that. And then we have also action. Now the action we can leave blank for now. Uh that I'll show you later why you would need an action. Uh so I think we're good for now. The

next step is just going to be to set up a new Nent workflow. Right. So we start of course with a web hook to be able to trigger the automation. I'm going to use test web hook just as we're testing and all the way at the end I'll switch this to production URL and then I add this one in web hook and then I can uh test it out quickly. Test workflow right I go to air table and I click on test action.

And now this should run. Yes. So now you can see the information we get here is the record ID and the record ID we can use to get all the information from all the fields from that specific record. So we can just use the air table node to get a record. Right? We're going to choose of

course our base LinkedIn agency the box from list company setup right and then we pass in the record ID right and you'll see now we get all the information from that specific field now the next step is really first to generate that business overview the ICP and the value proposition proposition right now I'm thinking there's really two ways to go about this we have the company URL and the company LinkedIn URL. So, we can either scrape the website and the company LinkedIn or we can use Perplexity to generate this for us. So, I'll do the quicker method for now, which is probably going to be uh to use perplexity. So, I'll use an AI agent that has Perplexity as a tool to generate these three uh things. So, let's go define below here. In general,

I'll put I'll put in the the variables that the agent has access to. So in this case, of course, that's the company name. We drag that in the company

URL and a company LinkedIn URL.

Now to write these prompts a little quicker and by the way I'm going to put uh require specific output format uh which basically allows us to get multiple variables out of this one agent because of course we want to get three different data points which is the business overview the value proposition and the ICP. So I'll show you this in a second and then we're going to add uh in the prompt. Now for prompting a little bit quicker and faster. I usually use uh my uh prompting tool which I've set up in uh Chacht. So this just helps you basically uh write these prompts a bit more structured and use some more be best practices when writing these prompts. But it also helps me write them

a lot faster. Right? So uh please help me uh write a prompt from scratch or actually yeah let's do that. And then I'll just come up with the prompt for the prompt writer quickly. So I've come up with a quick prompt here. Please help

me generate a prompt for an agent. Here's the user prompt variables this agent has access to. This agent should always use the complexity tool to do research with the variables it has access to to generate a business overview that describes what this company does. A value proposition of the company and describe the ICP. Avoid marketing talk. Be factual. It's

important because of course it doesn't serve us to have any high sort of text in there. Uh I always pass in these variables. So the prompt writer knows what variables it has access to. And then the output format should be adjacent with the following keys according to the three output we need. All right. So I think maybe I have to be

a bit more specific. But let's see what it does. If you're interested in this prompt, right? I also make sure to um link it together with the the template of this video. So your worldass research assistant with expert level uh skills in market intelligence objective. Generate

a clear objective and concise business overview based on the company data. Think step by

step. Now, in general, you do want to sort of look over these these prompts quickly. All right. Is that up here? Yeah, it looks but it looks good on initial note. I'll just test it out. If

it goes wrong, I I I'll change some things. Uh make it into put it in put it in one copyable box.

So good. I can just copy this, go back to NAN, and add it in the system prompt. Now, we don't necessarily need this here, but it's fine. Uh, yeah, this should be good. Let's try it out. And of course, we have to still uh

add a chat and add an M to this. I like to use the Google Gemini models. Let's go with 2.5 flash. Let's do that that one. And then

we have to uh we're going to add in that output parser, right? To get the three different um variables back, right? So simple way to do this, we go here to define below. As my agent or my prompt writer already has uh understanding on what we expect in terms of the keys, we can just ask the prompt writer. So please generate a schema for a

structured so please generate a schema for structured output parson for this agent. So it already knows what I expect. So you see it already does it. So we can just copy

this, paste it in and we should be good. Now we have to add in the perplexity tool. Now fortunately there's no native integration in any with perplexity. So we have to use an HTTP request uh to set up the perplexity. Um now I will I will set it up very quickly. I don't want to bore

you too much uh with the setup and then I'll walk you through the setup. So, I've set up the perplexity tool. I gave it a quick description. It's always good to give your agent uh a description on what this tool does. All right. Again,

you can read this all in more detail in your own time if you want uh to copy the template. Right. Then uh I use the the perplexity API, the chat completions. Uh now for I've set up the the authentication, right? which you need the Perplexity API for. So, if you don't

know, you can get your Perplexity API key. You do need uh to upload some credits, but if you go to your account, you go to settings here in the API keys, you'll find your API key uh which you'll need to to set up that connection. All right. So, I've set up that here in the uh credential type. All right. And for the headers

it's one header content type application JSON and we have uh a body which is a JSON in this case. So where we define the model so we have the sonar pro then the messages right and uh here we have the content and here basically we add in the query and in this case I use these curly brackets here with the query to be able uh for the agent to fill in uh this placeholder. Right? Right? So here we can define what the placeholder is query the query is used for the search etc.

Right? And here we instruct right what what our perplexity uh tool should do or how the agent should use the perplexity tool. So let's test it out. Select connect this. Now this is probably going to be done with the dummy data. So this

company probably doesn't exist.

All right, good. We got it back. All right. So, we got the three data points. You can see it's do with the dummy data. So, I can uh I can do it

quickly with the other one with mine. So, here we can define the record, right? Choose the record. Okay. Now, we we can turn this on, but we have to actually go back here and select generate information, right? Then it will appear

here as a choose record and then we can test test this one. We go here and test workflow test action. You can see now now it's doing it for my

company. All right, got it back. Let's see. Beni specializes in providing AI automation implementation, consulting and education services to businesses. Uh they offer pre-built AI systems like SEO agency in a box. Custom

AI solution development. So this is pretty good. Ben AI enables business particularly high growth companies to leverage AI for operational efficiency, cost reduction and accelerated growth. This is uh good. Benai targets high growth companies and businesses seeking to adopt AI for improving efficiency and driving growth. include organizations

needing automations in such as sales, marketing, SEO, and generate operations. So, pretty good. I'm sure we can improve it a bit, but uh good for now. Now, next step is to start scraping some reference posts. Right now, what I use for uh scraping is usually a relevant tool.

Relevance AI has a built-in uh LinkedIn scraper. So, I usually I've set up a tool already. Uh here you can see L and then uh LinkedIn post scraper that I use for for automations too when I need to scrape uh LinkedIn and basically this can take multiple LinkedIn URLs scrape them as you can see they have a built-in LinkedIn scraper. I'll make sure to also uh uh share this tool with you in in the template and we get the user post and we format the data a bit through JavaScript code. So the way we can set up this API is here through API. Here you get all

the information. So let me set this one up quickly. Again, we need an HTTP request. So I've added the um the relevance AI tool. So here we have the URL, right? You can find out information

how to set it up here. The API, right? We have the endpoint uh the sample curl. You can just copy that, right? The sample curl and always paste it in right here to set it up a little quick. Now

there's one more thing. What you'll see is it actually expects an array, right? Because it can handle multiple LinkedIn URLs as you can see. So it can expect multiple, but we have to transform it into an array. So we have to add in one more step here which is going to be a set fields where we're going to transform the three LinkedIn URLs that we want to scrape, right? The user

LinkedIn URL, the reference LinkedIn URL, and the reference LinkedIn URL 2 into an array. So the way we do that is We select here array and then we add the three uh different links. Now what we're going to do is we're going to take away these curly brackets and separate them by by a comma. Right? Same here. We have a

comma. We're going to take away the curly brackets. And then we need to add in uh square bracket to create the array the end and the beginning. And now you can see we get an array. All right.

So let's test this. Yes. Now we get an array with the three LinkedIn profiles. Um now one more thing here because we can't pass in an array directly. So uh the way we have to do this is make it into a string. All

right. So we can do that through an expression. An expression you use a lot actually in in nan right is JSON stringify and then you put the the variable in bracket. All right. Now, let's see. This

should

work. Good. Now, we got the LinkedIn posts and we got them all inside of one one JSON. So, we do have to split this out. Why? Because in with Air Table,

we're going to upload this to Air Table. Of course, it's a lot easier if we uh just use the create a record uh uh node instead of the batch update. That one's a bit more complicated. So, we just want to uh use the the create a new record node for all the different LinkedIn posts. So, we're going to split this out. We're going to

use this one. And now you can see we get nine items, right? So now we're going to up update this data inside of the air table, right? So we can go air table create a record. So first we're going to update these LinkedIn posts. So we go to from

list and like reference

post. Select the reference post. And then we're going to add now we're gonna see if our initial idea of the columns makes sense. So we do actually have the likes. We do also actually have the comments image URL is empty but it does exist. Uh creator LinkedIn post URL the

post content and this one is going to be important right this company setup. You remember this is the the the one that links it back to that original company to the table. Right? So if we go here, it's this one that links it to that specific company which is important. Now how do we link that is basically we can link that to the record ID of the company. So I'm going to show

you that. So the way we can do that is to reference the original record ID from the company. So we can go to that first air table node, right? And we can just take uh the idea id there and this field is always an array right because you can add multiple. So we we have to put this again into the square brackets and then we should be good. All right. So let's go back to our

table. See if it worked. Yes. Now we got the post. All right. We can delete these.

You can see now it's automatically linked to my company. Right? And if we go to the interfaces now, you'll see that it added it to mine. See, now we have it grouped by by company. So lastly, of course, we have to update also the business overview, the ICP and the value position. So in this case, we can use

update our table. the

record. Then we select the company setup. Now the columns to match on uh we can use the ID. So we go back to the original air table one. We select the idea ID. Now company name we already had. So

we can delete this one. If you delete them, it will basically keep it on default. Uh so these are all the input information. So we we don't need those also this not one not. So only the output information which is going to be the business overview which we get of course out of the agent business overview the value proposition ideal customer profile. And here we also have to select

the reference uh LinkedIn post which we don't have to because that's already set up in a step before. So we can delete this one too. That's the step and good should be updated now. So if we go into company setup you can see it updated the business overview ICP and value position for BI. So good we got the first part of the automation set up.

If I go back to interfaces again, you'll see also in the campaign setup. Now, you'll see that we get the business overview here in value proposition ICP and this is where what the the company or the user can then still change and iterate on here to have that human in the loop. Of course, we're going to use this later when generating the new LinkedIn post. So, the next step is to create the next step in the process, which is going to be to request a new LinkedIn post, right? to actually generate it. So, it's going to be

requested. We have we have to have a way to request that post and to output it here into the interface. So, we can probably do that inside of one. We'll need two tables. I'm sorry if this is not completely structured. It is because I'm

doing it on the fly. Uh but we can go probably have two tables. So we have a request LinkedIn post table, right? And for this one, of course, we need to have a few fields. The first one is probably going to be type of repurposing. So can we have the

let's see single select? No, as the as the main field, we can't have that. So let me just put it here. Edit field. Right. So, type of

repurposing, we use a single select because we have two types, right? YouTube for now. If I build this out the system, I'd probably add some more options, but we'll keep it easy for now. YouTube and blog, right? Then we want um what else do we want? Of course, we need the

repurposing link as an input field. So that could be a URL. Um then maybe we can let them give some custom instructions which we can feed in. So if they want something specific to be generated in that LinkedIn post or specific I don't know call to action or instruction, we want the user to be able to do that. So we can go with custom uh

instruction also. Maybe we can do the same for the image. So we can do custom instructions for for

image. This one we can delete. Uh, so we have type of repurposing, repurposing link, custom instructions. Maybe we can let the user decide a CTA, a specific type of CTA. So let's say for example, visit visit website maybe a comment or uh what else? Follow for more

follow. Uh so call to action anything else and then of course we have the output right and the output actually we're going to keep this table only for requesting right I'm going to show you why in a second so this one we can actually delete so we'll make change the primary field doesn't really matter to the repurposing link uh now we might add some things later but I think for now we're good one more thing we have to again link it to the original company. So we set that up here in the company setup. We link this to this request LinkedIn post. Create the field. We can

skip this. And now you'll see again, right, we have the company. So it links it to that specific company. Right? So I think we're good for now. Now, now for

the output, we want to create a new table uh which this is where the the generated posts are going to be be generated, right? So we can go uh generated post right in this case of course maybe we can have a post title just a a short description uh post title maybe we can have uh of course we have the post

content we can have let's keep it simple the image URL that we're going to generate with OpenAI. So, uh URL image URL maybe we can output the the the CTA too. Uh we already have that in this one. Not really necessary. Post title or post content image URL. Keep it simple. Probably we keep it

at this for now. Uh and we can always add later. And then we create a new interface. And I think what would be nice is to have a gallery where we can sort of show the generated LinkedIn post with the images right away. So we use a gallery and then we use generated posts.

Now of course we don't have any yet but they'll basically be framed here. And then what we can do is we can request let users request a new post with a button at the top. Right? So again we can go add records to a form add post. And here you can see because now it's linked to the generated post table, not the request, the LinkedIn post. But

what we can do is go here and we can go source for the form, right? We can change that to the request LinkedIn post. We can edit the form and then you'll see it asks for the input data for the from the uh table of request LinkedIn uh posts. So of course what we need this we don't need. So we need the repurposing link. We need the type of

repurposing. We can also change this probably to a radio button. We have the user has to define the

CTA custom instruction and for which company it is of course. All right. So they can select the company here and then request a new LinkedIn post, right? And basically what we're going to do is this automation we're going to set up. As soon as a new record is created, the automation will be triggered. So I think we should be good

here. So in this case, we go to automations and set up the next step. So we click here on uh creating a new automation, right? And in this case is we're going to not use the when record match conditions but we're going to go when record is created right then we select the request LinkedIn post and again we use that script from before

again again we have to define the input variables. So um the web hook which we don't have yet the record ID which can we define right here and the action right now in this case we're going to use the action because there's basically two routes our automation should go right because we have YouTube repurposing and blog repurposing. So with the action we can route them with a switch uh node to the different actions right which I'm going to show you in a second. So we have action and this can be the value of the type of repurposing or so it'll fill out that variable. So we should be good. Now of

course we need a web hook. And now we can start. This is a nice thing of course with N8 is we can use multiple web hooks. We use the test one for now. All

right, let's just test it again. We can test the action. But of course, there is no no uh I have not added any data yet. So, let me just add one right. We're going to do YouTube repurposing uh the CTA. We're going to do uh

comment and no custom instructions. So, comment and create. All right. Now, you'll see in the back end here that it automatically created that post here. All right. By

the way, this one we can delete. All right. No custom instructions. Now, let's see if the NAN Yes, it was triggered. All right. So, of

course, again, we get the record details first. So, air table same thing.

We add the record ID get the information and now we have to route it according to the type of uh repurposing we want to do right so we do that through a switch node and that's why we have that action defined you can see because that action we get as information in the web hook and then we can just route it based on the type of action right so we can go action ction is equal to YouTube by add routing or action is equal to blog. You can see in this case it was routed to the first one which is correct. It's YouTube. Right? So here we first of course have to set up a YouTube um transcriber. Right? So, we have to

get the transcription of the YouTube video to feed into the L&M when we're writing the LinkedIn post. So, the one I like to use is the one in Rapid API. If you don't know Rapid API, it's a marketplace of scrapers, very similar to Appify. Um, but usually I find that there are some cheaper ones here and sometimes more options. So, could be interesting to check it out. The one I

like to use is this one. So, it's really easy to set up too, right? You can just uh copy this curl here. Go turn it in, set up an HTTP request, you can import the curl, you paste it in, right? And it's already set up for you. And as you can see here, we

get the URL, which we're going to change to our variable. So, if we test this step, good, we get it back. Now the only issue with this scraper as you can see is we get every sentence separ in a separate chunk and we also get these timestamps which are really not not necessary for us. So what we're going to do is just clean this up uh by putting in a split out. So first we're going to split out all the chunks as you can see here. this

array. I'm going to test right now. You can see we get 932. So now we get it all all separately. And basically we want to take out only the text and put it together into one again.

So we can use an aggregate node, right? And now we use only the text fields to aggregate. Right? You can see now we only get the text back. Now this is still an array. So we

want to turn this into a string. So we can use set fields because we want to turn this into a string to be able to pass it into an L&M. Right? So we pass in the text, right? And we uh choose string here. And now we're getting into a

string. So we're good. Now we have to set up the blog one. We're just for now going to set up a simple web scraper which is a right get HTTP get request. You can also use other types of scrapers right through to through through uh rapid API or ampify etc. But most pages

you can actually scrape through a simple HTTP get request. So all you need to do is just we have to add in that repurposing link. Now, of course, this is a YouTube link, but this would be the blog link, right? And this would scrape it. So, that's it. And then we can use

probably clean it up a bit. This is usually what I do after a get request. And we have to execute these previous nodes. We can't test it right now. Let's just finish it up with the YouTube one.

And then we'll do the blog one later. But we should be good with this. Maybe we can define the same destination key. So here we save it as text and here we save it as data. So we can change this here too. And then

basically we can reference the same variable at the end. So what what we do here to make put them together again is no operations. So this node basically we can put the two two workflows together again. And now of course we need to start generating the LinkedIn post and the image right but before doing that we do need the data the the company data right the business overview ICP and developer position and also the reference post that the user selected right so we're going to first use the air table node again to get a record get the information from the initial base right

So and then we need the information from the company setup right the business overview the value proposition and the ICP. Now the record ID we can find now in this as you remember this is the request uh LinkedIn table right but of course now we can get the information from that first table still by referencing that company setup because this value is basically the record ID of that original company. So this one makes allows us to get the specific information from that record in the company setup. So we can just put this one here and remember we always do have to put in those square brackets for that specific field right because it's an array. Now you can see we get the specific record ID and there of course we can get that information from the business overview right the ICP and developer position and all of this we want to pass into that AI step and of course we also have to do the same for the reference post. So we have to find

the specific reference post that the user selected. So if I go in this case we probably go with search records because we need multiple to retrieve multiple. So air table search

records. So we go with this one. Now you can do this through a filter too because of course we have to filter it by the company the specific company and also by the post that were selected. Now we haven't actually done that. So we're going to just set that up quickly. So

basically we can just say okay let me select these three as reference posts right in the interface we can also set have that right. Uh at the moment we don't show that field. Yes we do. Right. So the user can basically select No, we have to add that as an option. So we have to be able

to edit this column inline. Okay, we have to change that here. So edit records inline that basically allows the user to edit this. Now these we don't necessarily want them to edit. So you can go on each one separately and disallow it. But this one, of course, we

do. So, you have to play around a bit with air table interfaces, but it's it's quite straightforward. So, these ones we're going to deactivate. And now we should be able to yes, select them here. So, here the user now can select which ones to use.

Maybe we can show this a bit better. The interface giving it a bit more space here. For example, we can go with the row height and we can change this and then I can open it to to uh see the whole post and maybe we can sort it based on likes so it becomes easy for the user to select the best performing ones. So let's do sort by

likes. All right. So let's just select four for now. Good. So these we want to retrieve too in the automations of course. So we

can do this by formula but I don't want to confuse you too much for now. You can use a air table formula but we're just going to retrieve them all and then uh we're going to use a filter after. So retrieve all the LinkedIn posts and then we can just use a filter right and we can go first of all of course the post has to be selected right so we can do select the post is equal to true now you'll see this is actually a boolean right so we also again have to stringify this right the expression to make this into a string not a boolean in the brackets do wrong JSON string if

I yeah so this is I don't know why this is red because it does work uh but then we have uh the second condition of course is that it's from this specific company so we can go and basically match this right the company setup to the original company. It's just the note we used here. So this ID should basically match this ID, right? I hope that makes sense. Is equal to this

ID. Good. So we got four four items. That's good. And also these are four items. So

we need to aggregate them into one. So we can go all item uh data into a single list. And maybe we can do only all specified fields. So only we need post content. We only really need that. All

right. That's all we need. So now we get it into one. Now this of course is an array. So again we have to use the set fields to turn it into a string to be able to pass it into uh the l&M right so we make it into a string and good. Now let's connect this

one too. So we have to add in a quick example just to make sure this one works and then we're going to use the mo we're going to add the most important part of this system which is the prompt for actually generating uh the LinkedIn post. Right? So, let me just add in a quick example so we can test this one. So, I've added in a quick example again. I'm going to just run the

automation as a test. So, if I go here, test workflow. Now, I'm going to select second one which is a blog post. All right. And now we have to test this one.

like good should work. Yes. So good. This one's connected too. Now we can uh generate the actual prompt. So in this case, we're probably

just going to use a basic M chain. Now the important thing here is to give it lots of variables and context, right, when writing this LinkedIn post. And this is probably where I'd put the most time when actually building this system is to make this prompt as good as possible. Uh so of course we want to pass in the information from the business. ite business overview, the ICP and the value proposition of the business. We want to pass in the

reference post and make sure that he uses that sort of tone of voice and style as much as possible. And lastly, of course, uh the actual scrape blog post or or YouTube video. Uh so first I'd start with uh the variables of course uh we need of course the content which is like the YouTube transcription or the blog blog post. Maybe we can call the content base which is going to be this. Right? This is why there's no

operation do nothing. They're both combined into one data. So whether it's blog post or YouTube, they'll both be saving this variable. Um then we have the of course company information. So company name and we can get this all from that from the first table, right? So company

name we have the business

overview

ICP value very proposition and lastly of course the reference

posts which I'll find here in this last one. Right here we have the reference post and now we're going to have to we're going to use the specific output format and add the prompt. So I'll just come up with the prompt here. It's going to take me a little bit, but I I'll show you when I have the the end result. So, I've come up with the following prompt through the prompt writer. Uh, probably far from perfect. I

would take a lot more time when I'm actually doing this, but this is the initial one. Again, you can read it all in detail in a second, but you're highly skilled LinkedIn content strategist. Uh, etc. The objective is to repurpose the content base, right? I give it some context into three distinct styles of LinkedIn post because what I noticed is I actually forgot to add in the the the posting framework or the writing framework. So I just just decided to let

the system generate three variations with three different writing frameworks. Now if I would rebuild this, I'd probably add in an option for the user to choose choose a type of writing, right? But for now, just to not make this go on endlessly, I'll uh just let it generate three different types of of frameworks. Uh so each uh designed to resonate with the company's target audience and driver uh drive engagement. Think step by step through the following process. Extract a

core insight topic or take away from the content base. Right? Align each post with the company business overview, ideal customer pro profile and value proposition. Closely analyze the reference post to mimic their successful hook structure, tone of voice, post formatting, and stylistic flow. This, in my experience, works really well if you use this mimic almost mimic uh the style or tone of voice of the example post.

That's sort of the best way in my experience of prompting it to sort of get that tone of voice because it can be quite hard, right, to to let anm really get that that style of tone of voice uh the same as the examples. Then integrate the CTA. By the way, I forgot that one. I'm going to add that as a natural closing thought. Uh right, because I still have to add that in the variables, right?

three clear distinct post using the following strategies. Story based, insight focused and engagement focused. Right? So these are the three different types of of frameworks. Stay tightly aligned to the content base etc etc.

Right? Uh so this is it for now. I still have to add in the CTA here which we

forgot. And we have to add a uh Apple parser of course because we're going to and we're actually going to generate three different uh posts. So let chatb generate this. This is going to be an array because it's going to be three different posts right with the different frameworks. And each of the posts will have a job uh title a post title. uh the post content of

course the type of content is it a story based insight focused or or engagement post and suggested hashtags I I don't think this actually still works but uh yeah we'll just add it for now and then we're probably for writing I prefer to use the openi uh uh models or uh or cloud but we'll just use uh the 4.1 for now gpt 4.1 Good. Uh, now we should be good here. Let's test it out. So, there's an error. I think I

made a mistake here. Yes. So, this should be defined below, not generate from JSON example. So, let's change this. Now, we should be good. Yes, now we got it.

Good. The AI agent reality check story. So, this is just a blog post I added, right, about AI agent versus reality. This one, right, we'll look at this one, these ones in detail uh in the air table. But first, let's generate also um the images. All right.

So, first as we have three different posts that we generated, we have to split them out and generate an image for each one of the posts. All right. Uh so we're going to just split out the

outputs. All right. Now we got three items. And then probably we first want to generate use an&m to generate a prompt for the image model. Right? And we're

going to use the OpenAI image mo uh model because it's really good at the moment. and you've probably already seen it, but if not, it's really uh it's really high quality. So, I'll just set this prompt up that's going to generate a prompt for the image generator. So, I've set up a simple prompt uh I passed in the variables, the post title and the LinkedIn post. And here, so I also added in the additional important comments for image generation, which is the custom prompt, which we actually didn't put in, but of course, we do want to add it here if we have it.

Now, I can't actually see the custom prompt because we didn't fill it out, but you'd have to test it once and add a variable here, too. Um, and then I put in a simple system prompt, right? Use the data on the user message to create a prompt for an image generation model. Uh, that will post it with this LinkedIn post. Make sure it adds value and it's clean. Only output the prompt. And then

two example prompt. So, just very quick, let's test it out. Uh, no, no, no models connected. So, let's just connect it to the same one.

Good. So, we got three prompts. So, then we're going to use the OpenAI uh new image generator model, which is really good. Good, right? So, if you don't know how to set it up, um you first have to go to your platform.openai.com account and you have

to verify your organization. I have it set up in another account, but you basically have to go here to the settings and then general and then here verify your organization. All right. So, you have to do an ID check uh before you can do this. And then you can find the information on how to set up the API here um in the image generator images and vision. Here you'll find the

information on how to set up uh the HTTP. But again, I'll I'll set it up for you right now. And then again, you can copy and paste it if you want to. So I've set up the the image generator model. So we use the images/g generation URL. Uh for the authentication you can

just add in uh here in the parameters right authorization bearer and then you add your API key right for the JSON uh you use GPT image one right and then the prompt uh you can add in the the variable from that previous step right for the prompt and this should be enough right but again you can only get that API key for the image model if you're you're uh verified right so we can test it's going to take a little bit because generating images probably takes 20 or 30 seconds per image. So, it was generated. I can see it's 6.2 MBs. So, it takes a bit to load, but you can see we get a B64 JSON, which is actually a file we can't do a lot with yet. So, we need to add in one

more node here, which is going to be convert to file, right? And then we use move B 64 string to file. Going to show this. And then we're going to add in this B 64. And then we get the the data back here. Right? You can see we can actually

get a file here. Now, this is still a binary file as you can see. So, we actually need to host the image somewhere. Now, what I usually use to host these uh these images is imagekit.io. Right? You can make a free

account and as you can see they have an image API and we can host these images there. So to to add it to air tableable and to show it in air tableable uh you can use this you can make a free account uh you can have 25 gigs of storage so you can basically use it for free. Um but uh and you can find the API key uh once you sign up too. So I'll set this one up quickly. So I've set up the the API call to host these images and basically turn them into a URL. Right.

So you can see we uh you need your API key which you can get from your settings inside of image kit and then this you can leave the same if you're going to copy the template right so form data file name etc. Uh and here as long as you've uh your your file is also called data uh you should be good with these settings here. All right. So now we test the step here. Going to take a little bit

too. And now you can see we get a URL here with the image. So if I take this URL now you'll see there we get the image agent reality. All right. Now, in practice, you probably want to generate a few images. I would

design this a bit different if I had more time. I would make it more modular, but I'll show you in a second what I would do to improve this system. But let's finish it up. Now, we have all the information. And now, of course, we want to update our air table, right? And we

want to create a new record in that last table with all the information we've generated, right? So we go LinkedIn agency in a box generated post and then of course we have to add in all the fields. So we go to the split out node for the information, the post title. We have the post [Music] content. Post content, the image URL. Image URL. Where are we? Here.

There we go. Now we only had three ones defined. Are there any other things? the suggested hashtags we probably want to add to the table which although hashtags nobody uses hashtags let's let's keep that out for now then uh what else can we add here maybe the content type let's add that so if it's story based or not so let's add that to the table here so in the generated post We can

go. I have to refresh this one quickly. Now I have the content type there too. So we go to split out and we add the content type. So let's test this out.

Now there's one more important thing that I'm running it this that I'm forgetting which is again we have to link this to the original company. So again we have to add in that reference field of course in this content right. So we go to the company setup we add another one and we link it to the generated post. We create the field. Now in the generate a post again we can link

it. So if we refresh this now we can link it to the original company. So we use that company setup one here or we can also just go through the original one and use that one. Again we have to use the array square brackets. All right, we test it

again. And good. Now we should be good. So we can delete the original

ones. And now we can go to interfaces and make this look nice. So here in the generated post we can now want to also show the actual images. So you have here an option which is image field. Then we can define the image URL. So we get it

right away here and we can make it a bit bigger. So we can do two aspect ratio. Let's do square. This looks pretty good. And of course, we also want the user to be able to adapt this post, right? So, we're going to use

editable. This image URL we can put at the top. And again, we can show this display image. Okay. You can play around with this, right? You can also hide the label

for example. Yes. So, and then content type and the company is yeah, this we probably want to add in too so it's clear for which company each post is. So, we can add that in here too. company setup, maybe the content

type, and we can make the post title. Yeah, that is the title. Okay, so that's all good. So, we don't have to show it here. Uh, and then we have the human in the loop to change things. Now, if I

would rebuild this, I'd probably make it a bit more modular. So, first generate the LinkedIn post. Um, I' I'd probably only have it up until here. Then, uh, let the user generate multiple images uh, right in a separate workflow when he triggers it themselves with an automation. Then probably want a review step. So, I'd

probably add in a step here where a user can put in a prompt to what he specifically wants to change and then we can pass in the original post with the adjustment for the system to regenerate it. So I'd make it a bit more modular. And then of course you could also add in that automatic scheduling. Now maybe we can add the last part just uh so we have a content calendar. So we can go probably we can do that pretty simply. We can just go here with a

checkbox, right? And we can go uh schedule post and one more date field with the date uh scheduled for right and then we can go let's say we schedule this one for tomorrow. Then we can just add one more page here and we can use the calendar view and then we select the last table. We can leave this as it is. You'll see now uh we get it here. And

now we can also decide to let users still adapt it here. Right. Of course, you could also set up an automation that looks at those dates and schedules it on on LinkedIn, right? But uh it's been a quite a long one already, so I'll keep it uh at this for now. Uh in reality, of course, I'd spend a lot more time in actually making these LinkedIn posts a lot better. We can look at it right now.

It's not perfect yet. So, you can see this the text is a bit too long. You can see this one, it did do some LinkedIn formatting, but this can definitely be improved a lot by by the prompt, probably the reference posts. This one's a bit better. You can see this uses a bit more of that LinkedIn tone of voice. Everyone's

calling 2025 the year of AI agent. But here's the real question for SMBs and innovators. Will AI agents actually revolutionize how growth companies operate this year? So you can see it targets my ICP right and it really talks to business owners because it takes that ICP into account or are we seeing the next tech hype cycle useful for some processes but nowhere near full autonomy from what we're seeing on the ground agents can automate recurring workflows boost efficiency for busy sales and marketing teams service powerful assistance but seamless one-click automation of complex tasks still work in progress for most organizations right and you can see at that as that call to action for this one which is you know comment this is a story based right hype move fast in tech recently I spoke with a founder at growth stage agency who jumped into the AI agent bandwagon expecting an overnight re revolution they imagined fully autonomous AI agents scoping out projects handling sales outreach even orchestrating whole marketing campaigns but reality set in not bad not bad but I the formatting could definitely be improved and I could probably add in some more reference post it would probably do a better job. Anyway, uh we can now set up and finish maybe this last part which is the overview. So all we can do here is

basically set up all the different steps in this process. So we can just add them here and this then sort of becomes our main dashboard. Uh this we can rename to content

calendar and we can change the appearance. Make it black. And then we can add a cover image. I don't know. I just use one of my websites. Images won't fit probably. But

yeah, you get the idea. And then uh we're good. This uh of course you can spend a lot more time. You can make the system a lot better. But I just wanted to give you an initial idea on how to sort of build this infrastructure for AI systems. I hope you can see how powerful

it can be. But of course, this takes a lot more time and iteration and building on top of this initial system to actually make it really valuable and and and and good and actually to to sell it to clients, right? But I hope this gave you a good idea. Uh uh just to finish it off here, you can click publish, right? And then you can also share this and then you can copy the link here. You can open it in a new one and

then the user will only interact with the system here, right? So it doesn't have to go into uh into the air table base or or things like that. You can manage the entire system straight from here. So that's it. Thank you so much for watching if you're still watching. Quite a long one, I

know. Uh, if you got any value out of it, I highly appreciate a like and a subscribe. And I hope to see you in the next one. Thank you so much. Bye.