---
video_title: "This AI Agent Automates Your Sales on ALL Social Media (+MCP)"
video_id: VnbfsX7iBl4
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VnbfsX7iBl4
video_date: 2025-04-09
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/taaay-acc
  
  Get the free template of this video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/taaa-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/taaay-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/taaay-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:48 - Client Case Study & Overview
  03:15 - Demo
  08:16 - System Breakdown
  14:30 - Connecting Whatsapp
  22:00 - Connecting Instagram Chat
  28:56 - Connecting Facebook Messenger
  32:00 - MCP AI Agent Demo
  35:11 - MCP overview & Future
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too.
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer.
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
Hi there. So, in this video, I'll break down an omni channel sales agent in NADN that we recently developed for a lead genen agency. This agent can answer questions, qualify leads, update the CRM, and book appointments with inbound leads from Facebook Messenger, Instagram DMs, WhatsApp, and lead forms. I've also updated it quickly with an MCP server to show you how MCP works. And I'll explain you why I think MCP will be a gamecher in the long run for AI agents. By the

end of this video, you should know how to build and set up an AI agent for all of these social media platforms and understand how MCP works. If you don't know me yet, I'm Ben. I run an AI agency since 2023. I also run a community where we help founders and business owners use AI and automation inside of their business. And if you want to work directly with me and my team, you can also book us in for a free call in the description below. So, I'll break down

this video into three sections. First, I'll show you a demo, then a breakdown of the system and the setup, and then lastly, I'll go over MCP quickly. You can see I've set up uh another agent here with the MCP server of Air Table. Uh the template will also be available for free in the description below. And if you want a complete step-by-step breakdown and even get one-on-one tech help to maybe adjust this template to your specific use case, you can also check out my community in the description below. So, very quickly

before showing you a demo, some context on the client we developed this for. Uh this company is a lead genen agency that specializes in generating leads for the automotive industry through social media ads. Right? Their clients include car repair shops, car painting shops, and some other car service businesses. And their offer to clients is basically to generate booked meetings with qualified leads in their calendar for their clients. Uh their main CTA leads to a

website form. But as they run ads across Facebook and Instagram, they also get lots of inbound DMs on Instagram and Facebook. Manage more than 10 clients at the moment. and they were pretty overwhelmed with the amount of leads that contacted them through all of these channels and needed five full-time people just to qualify and book meetings with these leads, right? And manage these DMs. Our solution, which they can

almost copy and paste now for each of their clients, although not perfect as AI agents still make mistakes, increased their follow-up time uh from sometimes a day or longer to instantly. Of course, it increased their booked meetings by almost 50% and allowed for four of the five sales agents to be deployed on generating more leads instead of pure qualification and answering DMs. I know many talk about the error rates of AI agents, but I think this is a good example of a use case where despite AI agents still making some mistakes, right? For example, here sometimes it gives some wrong information. Sometimes it's not qualifying properly, but it still delivers extremely high ROI for the client compared to uh the existing state. I think especially for these high

volume customerf facing use cases, AI agents can definitely bring a high ROI for a lot of businesses. It also shows I think that existing agencies like lead genen agencies and marketing agencies that have very similar processes for multiple clients are in an ideal position uh to adopt AI and automation as it can really entirely transform their business model by automating uh much of their service delivery which uh I also show my last video about our SEO solution. So let me show you a quick demo just as a disclaimer. I had to rebuild this system uh here for myself because of course I can't show the actual client one but uh it's almost the same version. It has some limitations but it gives you a good idea of what you can do with this setup. So let me first

start with the lead form which is this flow uh lead form to WhatsApp conversation. So basically as I said the lead genen agency runs ads and the main call to action is to the website where a lead can fill out a lead form to show interest and then the lead genen agency basically wants to reach out through WhatsApp with the end goal of setting up a meeting right a consultation. Now you might be wondering why not set up the meeting right away on the website because first of all uh there's a little bit of a qualification process. The main qualification criteria is is the car that the uh lead has actually a car that they provide services for. Uh but second of all they also noticed that many leads actually need to have some questions answered before being willing to book in a call. Now second question you might

have is why not just send an email is because in uh their experience a WhatsApp conversation leads to a way higher booking rate than just an email and that probably has to do with open rates on WhatsApp which are almost 98% and also because you have sort of that conversational aspect. So I've set up a quick lead form here on on Air Table as an example. So, I'll just give you a quick example. So, let's say Tesla Model 3, that's one of the cars uh they actually provide services for. So, if I click submit soon, I'll receive a WhatsApp message. As you can see, I got a

WhatsApp message from the sales agent. Hi, Ben. Thanks for reaching out on our website. I understand you have a Tesla Model 3 and are looking for window tainted. Right. So, now of course I can

ask it some question. I can also send it a voice message. Yes, that is correct. Can you give me some more information on the benefits of window taint? Now, of course, it uses rag in the background uh through superbase to answer questions. Now, I've set up a pretty

limited one for the example. We notate over several benefits. It reduces glare and ice drain, blocks UV rays, protecting your skin car's interior, and keeps the car cooler by reducing heat. Uh so let's ask one more question. Okay, perfect. What

types of window taintain do you have? We offer several types of window taint each designed to meet. It's best to discuss options during a consultation. Uh yes, let's uh schedule now. Of course, it already has the information on scheduling a call and it will use the calendar agent. Uh

great. Do you have a preferred date and time? So, yes. Uh, let's do this Friday at 11 a.m. I'm in, uh,

Amsterdam. Now, in the back end, it uses the calendar agent to uh, delegate this task to, who's then going to schedule in uh, the meeting. As you can see here, we have the calendar agent. You're all set. You're window uh, at 11:00 a.m. Amsterdam time, you'll

receive a calendar invite. Right. You can see we have the window taint consultation book 10 and so just a very quick demo. I can show you also that it works on uh Facebook and Instagram. So for example here we are on Instagram again set up a good demo

account. So I can go same thing. Hi there. How are

you? All right. Hi there. I'm great. Thanks for asking. How can I assist you

today? Interested in learning more about uh Yes, I'm saw your ad and I'm interested in uh let's say paint protection. And now, of course, because I didn't fill out the lead form, but I came directly through uh Instagram DM, it will ask me for some information like and my email is just my email. Thanks. Thanks. When you're

available again, right, let's say Saturday, uh, 10:00 a.m. Uh, yes, great news, Ben. You're all set for paint production film consultation on Saturday 10 a.m. So, that's it. I can

show you Facebook quickly. Same thing here. Hi there. Uh, how are you? I saw your ad and I'm interested in window taint.

You can see we're added in this this thing too that it looks like it's typing. Hi, great choice to book a consultation. Again, same thing. So, you get the idea. It works on on on all channels. And I can see this agent

actually has a CRM agent and a calendar agent because it will also update the CRM uh with the information of the lead, right? So, like the card name, email, etc. And of course, the calendar agent to book in or reschedule, which can also do reschedule uh meetings and to check for calendar availability. So, I'll first give you a quick breakdown of the setup here. Uh, then I'll show you how I set up the WhatsApp trigger and the WhatsApp outbound message. How I set up

the Facebook trigger and the Instagram trigger. And then I'll show you quickly a demo of an MCP agent. So, I basically use the same agent setup, but in this case, I used an MCP for Air Table, which is our CRM, instead of the CRM agent, just to show you how MCP works. And I'll also cover at the at the end of this video what I think MCP uh will mean for AI agents and for the future of AI agents. The template again is available for free in the link in the description below. So if you just want to copy and

paste it, you can go ahead. And also if you want to have the full step-by-step breakdown of how you can set this up or even uh oneonone tech help uh to help you adjust it to your specific use case, you can also check out my community. So for this first part, we have connected it with a web hook to in this case the air table form. So basically this gets triggered as soon as the form is filled out. If you don't don't know in um air table you have an option which is forms where you can set up a form and you have an uh uh an option of automations right and here you can set up automations to basically trigger the web hook as soon as a form is filled out or something else happens in your air table. So in

this case the trigger is when a form is submitted and to send over the data to the web hook in NAN you need to use an action which in this case is run a script and you have to select the record ID the table ID here you can add in the web hook URL which NAN will generate for you right if you click here you'll have the web hook ID which you can fill out there and then you need a little bit a small script here I can add this into the the free template too so you know uh and this script basically allows to trigger the web hook Right. And through this basically the information will be sent to uh to NAD. Now the information that will be sent is the record id. So to get the actual information from the record ID. So the information from the lead we use a get record and we can use that later to personalize the message in the WhatsApp message. Then we have create a contact

which basically we're creating a new lead inside of the CRM which in this case is um air table. So we can show you quickly here in data. We have the contacts where we add the new leads. And you can see this one was added uh which was my form submission. And then lastly here uh we have of course the WhatsApp message. Now in this case it's an

outbound message because we are the one first initiating the conversation with the customer. So that means in WhatsApp business and I'm going to explain WhatsApp in more detail in a second. But when we want to initiate a conversation through WhatsApp business uh what we have to do in meta is make a message template. Basically, MA doesn't want us to spam people with random messages. So, we have to sort of pre-approve a template in uh MA to make sure we are able to actually start the conversation with that specific message. Now, usually

these messages get accepted. And second of all, you can add in variables to actually personalize it. But I'll show you in a second how you set that up. But you can see here we've personalized it with some variables. And that's it. Then, of

course, we have the WhatsApp trigger here. Again, I'm going to show you this in detail in a second. But after the WhatsApp is triggered, we basically get the information from the air table, from the lead. So in this case, of course, we already have some information on the lead like the name, the email, the car. So we get that information. So we can

send that over to the agent. So it doesn't have to ask that again basically, right? So that's all we do here. Then we check what kind of message it is. So in this case, it can handle text and audio. So if it's audio, we uh

use these modules to actually download the audio, transcribe the audio, and uh then send it over to our agent. If it's text, we just send over the text. If it's any other message, in this case, we say to the user, sorry, we can't accept any images, etc. Right? But you can also add in paths for image interpretation, etc. So, that's it for the WhatsApp

trigger. Now, that of course is being sent to our AI agent which has uh rag through superbase. Now, I'll not explain that in detail in this video because there's many videos on setting up rag through uh superbase. Uh we have a postgress chat memory and we run it on uh GPT40. And then you can see this agent we have equipped with two sub agents which is the CRM agent and the calendar agent.

And as you can see here the CRM agent has access to multiple tools. Create a contact update a contact update opportunity list records get schema and create opportunity. And for the other one uh the calendar agent you will see that he also has a few tools available. lead, delete event, get events, update event, create event, and create create event uh with attendee. So, because there's quite a few sort of actions in this uh setup, that's why we've used two sub agents here instead of equipping this agent with many with all of these tools, which I think are around 10 different actions.

Now, why do we do that? Because in general, especially for these customerf facing agents, we don't want to overload this customerf facing agent with too many things to do. Why is that? Because these customerf facing agents, we really want to focus as much as possible also in the prompting on having a good conversation with the lead instead of overloading it with information on how to use tools etc. In that case, we can get this agent a bit more reliable and a bit better in terms of performance when communicating with leads and then we leave over all the small little actions and details to the sub agents uh in the CRM agent and the calendar agent. So

that's why we set it up like this. Now I'll show you in a second the alternative which is with MCPS. Now from here depending on where this conversation was triggered from we send a WhatsApp message back or a Facebook message back or an Instagram message back. Now for the Facebook and Instagram you can see we also set it up through a web hook which I'm going to show you in a second how to do this with Facebook and Instagram. Uh from there we have to respond to the web hook to Facebook otherwise it will keep sending messages but again I'm going to send that in a second. This module is basically uh that

it looks like when you are waiting for the message to come back that the agent is typing. It's just that little sort of widget there. And for Instagram, the setup is very similar to to Facebook. So that's it very quickly uh the breakdown of this setup. Again, if you want to look at everything in detail, also the prompts, etc., make sure to download the

the free template. Let me show you how to set up these three uh triggers. So to connect WhatsApp to your AI agents here in Naden, it's important to understand that I use the official WhatsApp business API. Now, in order to get the official WhatsApp business API, it's important to understand that first of all, you do need an actual business because you need to be meta officially verified to be able to set that up. And second of all, the process can be a bit tedious. I've made a video before, which

I'll make sure to link up here, where I explain in detail and step by step how to set up the official WhatsApp business API. It's going to be at the end of the video that I link up here. Uh so if you haven't done that and you are interested in setting up or connecting WhatsApp to your AI agents here in NAND, then I'll uh highly recommend to check out that video where I explain it step by step. Now, if you don't have a business maybe or you want to go the the other route, there is a second route which is through sort of third party softwares and it's sort of more the hacky way of automating WhatsApp because of course it's not officially done by Meta. uh and there are some thirdparty softwares available where you can basically connect your personal WhatsApp number uh and connect it through an API to these no code softwares. Now there are few available.

The one I recommend is to use uh uni and uni basically allows you to connect your personal WhatsApp number through an API in in N8 for example. Now they don't have a native integration but you can see here you have have WhatsApp. So, I'm not going to go over this in this video, but you can set up your personal WhatsApp automation uh here through Uni. Now, I'll assume for this video, for the rest of this video, that you've actually set up the the official WhatsApp business API. If you're not interested in WhatsApp, uh you can also go down below and go to Facebook or Instagram if that's the channel you want to launch your agent on. Uh but I'll assume for

now you have set it up uh in WhatsApp business. Now, how do you connect this trigger first of all? Because if you've done it maybe on m.com or another platform, it is a bit different here in Naden. So what you'll have to do here is set up a WhatsApp zero off account right so to be able to do the trigger which is a separate node right in in NAN which you can find here right you can see triggers right and you can go here on on messages that that would be the the the node you need for the trigger and then you have to set up here uh the client ID and the client secret which is different than in make.com or in other platforms. So,

where do you find this client ID and client secret? Again, I assume you already know uh the developer.fas.com. If you're inside of your app, uh what you where you go is here in app settings, you can go to basic and here you find your app ID and your app secret. So, the app ID is going

to be here, your client ID, and the app secret is going to be the client secret. That's how you can uh connect this WhatsApp trigger which is a different setup than the other modules. For example, the send message module in WhatsApp which I'll show you in a second. So that's how you set up that trigger. Now important also in WhatsApp uh you'll see here that you get two web hook URL. So you get the test URL and

the production URL. So what you'll see is if you have your scenario deactivated automatically basically they will use the uh the test URL right and if you put it on active they use the production URL so what you'll see is you run into errors if you keep this on active and then you click here on test workflow it will not work because basically because it's active it will use the production one but because we're testing here it will actually use internally here in NAN the the testing one. So it won't it won't match, right? So if you want to test this, you either have to deactivate it and then test workflow uh and then it will use the test web hook or you have to just activate it and actually try it out like that to use the production. Uh now to finish off WhatsApp here, of course, we also have different nodes for downloading medias which I'm doing here to download the actual uh audio, right?

So you have a special module in WhatsApp to download medias basically right you can see download media it's a separate one right and there I basically use an HTTP request to actually download the file afterwards right then I use whisper here to actually transcribe the audio so that's that's how that one works and for the outbound message I don't know why I added this one uh for the outbound message here um you need another another different one because it's an outbound message. We actually need uh this one WhatsApp business cloud and then we need the send template. You see there's two different one. There's the send message and the send template. Now it's very important if you are the one initiating a conversation. You have to

use the send template because this one will give you an error because again we can't send outbound messages without templates. So in this case I used here the send template and here you'll see that I have the template here which is a list. Now how do you make these templates again you can go back to um your developers Facebook to your app right which again assume you've already set up. Now from there you want to go to the WhatsApp m manager uh which you can go to here. So if I click there, we go here to the your business portfolio and from here you can request a message template. So you can create a

template here, right? Then you can decide what kind of message. Now in general, you have to use marketing. In my experience, generally you have to use custom. And here you can make your template, right?

So you can just give it a name. So it's in the lead message, right? We this we can leave on number doesn't matter and here we can write our message right so in this case I can write something like hi name right um uh thanks for reaching out I saw you have uh right and again I can use the variable like the car I saw you have and are looking for and then we can add in the services for example so all we have to do is use the curly brackets and then we'll have variables which you can then fill out inside of an end right So that's all you need. And then from here uh what am I forgetting? Ah yeah here you have to just fill in an example so ma knows okay what are you actually going to send in a real world scenario in those variables.

So let's

say right and then you can just click submit for review and normally in 3 seconds uh this will be uh accepted and once it's accepted it will appear inside of your NAN node. So you can use it as an uh outbound message uh for WhatsApp. Right? So that's it. Then it will appear here.

Right? It will take a few minutes probably. So that's it. And then you can just define the variables here. One, two, three. Basically, so that's it for

the outbound message. And then for just responding, right? So in this case, for this module, we know that the customer initiated the conversation. So we don't need to send a template. We can just use the send message. And in the send

message one, we have the flexibility to send whatever we want, right? So we can let our AI agent decide what to send back. So in this case, we use the other node, which is the send message, right? and the send send message we have a lot more flexibility we can send any message so that's how we set up WhatsApp here in Naden again if you want to know the exact details in the step by step make sure to check out my other video so for Facebook and Instagram so for Facebook and Instagram it's a bit easier because we don't need an official Metaverified business account uh so it's a bit easier to set up so I'll show you step by step so first you go to developersfas.com now if you're not logged in yet just can log in with your normal Facebook account Uh now I'm already logged in here. So uh already

here I'm in my apps. Now you most likely don't have any apps yet. So you can create an app here. Click create app. You can call it whatever you want.

But then here in use cases you click order. Then you select business. And here you have to select your business portfolio. You can also do it later, but it's basically you need to create sort of a business Facebook account. Uh now it's quite easy to do if you don't have it yet. So you create the

app. Now you have created the app and from here you can add products to your app. So it's actually the same setup for WhatsApp, right? But with WhatsApp you have an extra step of actually verifying the business, right? But for now I'm going to focus on Messenger and Instagram. So let's say we first do

Instagram. All we do is we click here on setup. And here we basically need to do two three main things. First we have to connect it to our Instagram account uh where we want to connect our AI agent to of course. Now that has to be a professional or a business Instagram account. You can normally pretty easily

change a normal account to a business account uh to be able to connect it here. Uh now mine of course is already connected so I can't connect it again. uh but you can just log in here basically and you make set up the connection and the second thing of course is we have to configure the web hooks uh from our NAN uh scenario. So let me just switch uh to the one that I already set up so I can show you how this works. So here if I go in

Instagram you can see these two steps already set up with me. Uh so basically here this one is already connected and And then we're going to configure the web hooks. Right? Now, before doing this, what we need to do is switch this to live. Right? The app mode should be

on live. Now, what you'll see is if you do this, uh it will probably not uh let you put it on live because you need to add in a uh privacy policy link of your website, right? That's just a a sort of a requirement from Meta to be able to put your app live. Now, with with WhatsApp, for example, you need to have an officially uh verified business, but with Instagram and Messenger, you don't. All you need is to add in a privacy link. Now, I haven't tried this and

don't take this for me, but I'm pretty sure you can just put a privacy link of a website that's not even yours. Uh, but the best option probably is just create a privacy policy on Chat GPT, add it to your website quickly if you have it on an easy website like Web Flow or Framer, etc., and put in that link and it'll be accepted. Right? So, once you've done that, uh, and it's on live, then you then you can set up the the web hook.

Right? Now, how do you do this? Uh, I'm just going to show you a new uh scenario here so I can show you step by step how we're going to set this up. So, you go to web hook. Right now, we need to go here in uh settings and uh select allow multiple HTTP methods. Then, we do get and post.

And here with respond, we go using respond to web hook node. All right. Now, we're going to use the get first. and we select the respond to web hook. Now we have to respond with a specific text to verify the web hook. But we need

a variable. So first we need to test the workflow. Uh actually first we need to copy this test web hook, right? We click on test the workflow. Then we go back there. We add in that web hook here. Now

for the verify token, we can decide whatever we want. All right? You can put in whatever you want here. And if we click verify and save, it won't work. But you'll see that it ran. And now we get the data to actually

fill it out here. So in the response body, what we're going to select here is the hub challenge. And that's basically what we're going to send back in the web hook response so that uh MA can verify that the web hook works basically. All right. So we click save. We test the

workflow again. And now it should work. And you can see now it works. Now of course we've generated now a test web hook. So if we actually want to publish this, what we have to do is take the other web hook which is the production URL. Now we copy this

one. We add it in here again. Here we can decide whatever we want. And if our app now is live, it is live. It should now work with the real web hook, right? Because

of course we need the real one, not the test one. You can see it's

verified and now you have set up the web hook. Now important here in the web hook fields, you only want to be subscribed to messages otherwise this is going to be triggered with other ones too, right? So now we've set up the web hook successfully. Now what we need to do is also set up a post with a web hook with a web hook response because we always need to have that web hook response otherwise uh meta or Instagram will keep sending us message the same message time after time if it doesn't receive a web hook response. So we always have to add in the web hook response because the post one basically gets triggered as soon as a message gets sent right this get is just for the for the verification of the web hook. So we click uh response

here uh we use text and then here we simply add event_received and this is just uh uh for the flow to actually work right otherwise it's going to keep sending the same messages because it'll never receive a web hook response. And here at the post we're going to add in our workflow. Now go back to the original one just to show you what the follow-up steps are. You can see we have one more node here. And what happens is every time uh someone sends a message on Instagram uh you'll get two different ones which is uh one is an echo and one is a non-echo and the echo is basically a message from like the admin but we don't want to process those. So that's

why we have a quick check here. You can literally use this same uh variable uh and this condition to make sure that you only process the the right ones. Right? So that's all this one does and then of course it sends it to the agent. Now for Facebook, it's a very similar process as Instagram. It's almost the same. As you

can see, the flow here is almost identical. So the process will be very similar as the Instagram one. So if you go here, you go here to messenger setup and then you have to configure the web hooks and generate an access token and connect it to your Facebook page. So that's it. Very similar setup. Uh I

think that explains it. If you want a more detailed step by step or help if you you're getting into any issues, you can always check out my community. Now to set up the responses uh for uh Facebook and Instagram. Uh first of all, here we have the switch of course where we basically just check uh what the trigger is and based on what the trigger is, we route it to the right sort of response API. Now WhatsApp already explained so for Facebook we use the Facebook graph API to send messages back to the user. So you do have uh a node

here which is the Facebook graph API and uh the way you set this up is first of all you have to uh add your credentials. Now you'll see here that it asks for an access token. Now where do where do you find this and this one is specifically for Facebook Messenger right? Again, you go to your apps and here if you're in the messenger in the messenger API settings here, you can generate your access token just simply by connecting to your uh Facebook page. There you'll uh generate your access token. You copy

that and then you can add it here. Then you've set up the authorization and then uh you can basically copy this setup here that I've already done. You need the host URL default uh post method uh the v21 uh.0 uh and the query parameters are basically the recipient the ID which is just to identify the ID of the conversation which you can pass over from uh the variables uh from the Facebook trigger and uh the message of course which you pass on from the agent. So you can basically copy this. The

important thing is the the credentials. Now for Instagram, it's a little bit different and we don't have a built-in node here in in um an ADN. So we use an HTTP request. So in this case, we need to use method post. Again, you can copy this, right? The URL or the endpoint is

instagram.com uh/me/ messages. And in this case, we need the authentication to go with generic credential type. Uh for the O type, we go header O. And then we go in the header O, we set up the authorization. So in here we uh choose

authorization and then the value here again we can go back to the setup here and we go to the Instagram and here you can simply set up your uh token. If you've connected your Instagram account if you click here you can generate your token and this will be the one that you copy and paste and add in here. That's how you set up the authorization. And then again you can copy this JSON here uh to send a message back. It's very similar to the one in Facebook. Uh so so that's it for sending

messages back. Now lastly, let me explain MCPS quickly. If you haven't heard of it, which is unlikely if you've been on the internet for the last weeks, MCP is model contact protocol. It's been developed by uh Claude Anthropic. And basically, it's such a game changer because it can potentially really change the way we use AI agents and they can potentially become a lot easier to build and they'll have a lot more capabilities in the near future uh with MCPS. Now,

the way it works, uh I recreated it here because I think it's a good example. Um so, if I for example connect this one in this AI agent, you can see that we connected the CRM agent which in this case is the air table. Uh and that CRM agent of course has different tools, right? So you can see we have different tool tools here. Create a contact, update a contact, update opportunity, list record, get schema, and create opportunity. So at the moment we have to

set up all of these tools separately, right? And I have to make a specific API call to each of these different functions or actions inside of a software. Now the thing with M MCP is we don't need to do this and set up each of these different actions or tools separately anymore. With with MCP, we can now just list an air table. in this case MC MCP server and you can see here for example air table list tool and what this tool basically does and I can show you an example is it basically already has all the tools and all the uh functions that are available in air table in the air table API already in this one node and if we call this what will happen is basically it will list all the different tools in air table uh to the agent and the agent can then decide which one to use where we have a second one here which is execute to tool. So basically instead of having

each API call or tool or action separately and us having to hardcode in how how to use it for the agent, the agent has all the tools and all the functions of a specific software already available. He can just decide which one to use and execute those one those ones. So if I show a quick example here and I go hi there

u I'm looking for window can I uh book a

consultation so please please provide um your first name and

Now you can see that it already automatically now identified to use the create record uh right in in in this AI agent. It can basically just list and check which tools are available in air table and automatically identify that he has to use the create a record tool and it already got the information too on what parameters or what specific information this tool or API call needs. Right? So you can imagine instead of us having to set up this whole agent with all these separate tools now we can just list an MCP server to do all of this for us. Right? Which can potentially really

evolutionize the way we work with agents. So what does this mean for building AI agents and the future of AI agents? Um I just made a quick diagram here. So traditionally the way we made AI agents is if we have our AI agent here, we have their our input and the output and if we want to give it tools or actions to take in different softwares, uh we just list out each API call or each tool separate, right? And we have to add in each of these separately. So in this case, let's say a

create calendar event tool, a get calendar event tool, update a calendar event tool, a CRM tool to add contacts, to update contacts and get contacts. Now the issues with this setup, first of all, that we have to set up each of these API calls or functions uh ourselves, right? So it takes quite a while if we actually have multiple sort of actions or tools inside of an agent. Second, we also have to instruct this agent quite clearly on how to use these tools, when to use these tools. And when you have multiple tools, it can become quite some work to instruct the agent well on when to use which tool. And

lastly, the big biggest issue is if we really want our agent to have many capabilities and many different tools, uh then our agents can get confused. So for example in general what I see is when we use more than 10 tools or a lot of different functions and actions uh agents can get confused very quickly with too many tools uh we have to instruct all of these different tool usage in the agent prompt and in general just becomes very unreliable if we work with many different tools inside of an agent. So the way we've been trying to resolve that is through multi- aent systems which I showed in this specific case too. So if we want to limit down that responsibility to the main agent for example in this setup I just showed uh we can also do a multi- aent system where we have a sub agent which in this case is a calendar agent we give all the different APIs or tool calls instead of directly to the agent. Now why do we do this? basically to uh transfer the

complexity of using all of these tools to the sub agent instead of the main agent right and we do that the same for the CRM agent because in this case uh let's say we have this customerf facing agent the best thing is to focus the responsibility for this main agent mostly on the conversation uh this agent has with the user not confuse him with all the tools he has to use when to use them etc. So in this case we just give them two sub aents where he can just pass in information and the these sub agents can sort of figure out uh what the best tool to call is. We can give these sub agents extra information. So it can resolve a little bit of the issue if if we have many tools or APIs available. This can sort of improve the reliability of the system because we hand over responsibilities to these sub agents. Now we still have to set up all

of these API calls manually and we also of course need to instruct each of these agents now with what to do, when to use it, etc. So there is still limitations and it takes time to build these systems like this. Now what's going to be the case with MCP? Instead of us having to hardcode in each API call separately, we can just connect it to an MCP server and let's say we have a Google calendar MCP, this Google calendar MCP can already do all the possible actions inside of the Google calendar without us having to manually set that up, right? So that can really be a game changer. And the same

for let's say a CRM or this air table MCP. This will have all the actions and functions available inside of Air Table, right? As soon as it calls the the MCP, the list tools function, right, the agent gets back all the possible tools it can use and it can then just decide which one uh to use to perform the action. So this of course resolves a lot of the issues of hard coding in each of these uh different functions or API calls. Um now at the moment the limitation is we still need to have it self-hosted. The setup can be a bit

tricky and timeconuming. I'll do another video on and exactly how you can set this all up. Um and MCPS are still under development right we are still in the early stages of MCP development they still uh not work perfectly all of them but soon of course these systems will get better and the potential of this of course is limit limitless because now we also have uh compass MCPS and compass MCPS is basically an overarching MCP that can target the best MCP for the specific action in this conversation. And so you can imagine a compass MCP can literally have hundreds or infinite amount of softwares and possibilities connected to it. So in that case we all have an AI agent that can almost perform infinite amount of actions across all different kinds of softwares. We can use

almost any scraper. We can use any database. We can use any software we use. We can even use L&Ms or no code automation softwares as MCPS. So the possibilities for our AI agent with a setup like these are almost infinite.

The amount of actions it can take. So the potential of course is that our AI agents can perform almost any action across the internet or our tech stacks uh simply with one AI agent. Again we are still early. Um but the interesting thing is that of course claude this is already available in cloud connecting it to MCPS and chat GPT will soon come with this too. So potentially of course everyone in the world who just has a chatbt subscription can potentially take any action across all of these MCPs and all of these softwares just through chatpt or the cloud interface. And what

I p predict in the long run and we are far from that is that everyone will have their personal assistant that can basically take any action across their entire tech stack uh even on their phone. they can take any actions on their apps, on their phones, and we'll just have sort of that personal assistant that can can interact with softwares for you, right? And I predict businesses will have the same thing, very similar to I think this setup uh uh of my my AI agent here, but of course far more complex where a business of course can have an AI agent deployed that has access to all their internal softwares, their databases, etc. and customers can reach out and this AI agent can basically perform any action on behalf of the company uh towards a customer. So I can imagine a future where we literally have personal assistants on the consumer side that are interacting directly with sort of assistance from uh the business side to do things for each other. Now another

really interesting use case I think is these no code platforms like nadn make.com and zapure which has already launched their MCP also have MCPS available. So we can also call uh all of our workflows through an AI agent. So if we set up sort of this logic based workflow already in uh nn or or make.com or zapure, we can just call them through an AI agent. He can decide which

workflow to call and we can automate a process like that. Now you might be wondering where's this heading and uh where are we at at the moment? Now first of all we are really early in the development of MCPS. Uh they are far from perfect yet. We can't really automate complex workflows with these systems. uh quite yet. And I think in

the short to midterm uh what's going to be really important is first of all customizing these MCPS to specific use cases. That's where I see quite a big opportunity because you can imagine that a CRM uh for a specific company or a specific use case requires a lot of context to know how to use that CRM for a specific business or a specific use case. So generic MCP is going to be probably hard to use for a very specific sort of process or use case or business use case. So I think customizing these MCPS in the short term is going to be really important for specific business us cases, businesses and even consumers. Second of all, MCPS will need a lot of development still. And I also think that

there's still a place for workflow automation or traditional logic based automation because you can imagine maybe uh if we're at this point uh where our agent we can just say look uh get me 500 leads according to my ICP, it can use all of these scrapers, go through the internet, etc. to find you these leads. Um, but if you want to actually send an outreach message, you know, if you just uh let an AI agent write an outreach message, it usually is not great yet, right? So, there's still going to be, I think, a place for workflow automation where we can build in these guard rails to have a more established flow that actually executes on a more defined workflow and copy. In exact, for example, in this case, uh, where we had a template of a type of outreach message he should send instead of an AI agent coming up with it from zero. So, I think

there's a future too where we really combine these AI agents with deterministic workflow automations uh which our agents of course can call too. So in that case we can say hey uh now reach out to all of these uh leads uh through email and then he can call for example and then then workflow that researches the lead personalizes the email and actually sends the email and in the personalization of the email we have already built in the guardrails on how to actually write this message properly. Anyway, this is just my take. Let me know what you think in the comments below. Um, I will do uh more videos on MCP very soon and also show you step by step how to actually set this up. Now, this is it for this video.

Uh, thank you so much for watching. If you got any value out of it, I highly appreciate a like and a subscribe. And, uh, thank you so much for watching and I hope to see you in the next one. Bye.