---
video_title: "4 Insane Gemini 3 & Nano Banana Use Cases"
video_id: kGPUBPfywWc
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kGPUBPfywWc
video_date: 2025-11-30T10:16:15+00:00
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/4ig3p-acc
  
  Get the free prompts &  Mini-apps shown in the video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/4ig3p-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/4ig3p-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/4ig3p-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 – Intro
  00:23 – Use Case 1
  03:56 – Use Case 2
  06:22 – Use Case 3
  11:28 – Use Case 4
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built 2x $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too. 
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast. 
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer. 
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
Google just dropped the best LNM and image model out there and I think it will fundamentally change how businesses do marketing. I've experimented a lot with it over the last few days and I want to show you four powerful use cases that were previously hard to do with other LNMs. Now all of the templates, prompts and tools shared in this video will also be for free in the link in the description below. Now here we are in the Google AI Studio. You can use these models for free on a free trial. Now the first use case is using Nano Banana Pro, the new image model to create infographics. As you can see here the quality of the output can be really good and it's brand aligned with my fonts and my colors. Now this was previously hard to do with other models because most of the time there were spelling errors which is very hard to get out with these large language models and secondly they had a hard time following a specific brand style. Now Nano Banana Pro is really good at doing text in images and it can also export in 4K and you can select the aspect ratio. Now I like to add infographics in my LinkedIn posts as you can see here and also in my newsletters. Now I've experimented with it quite a bit and although the image model is really good I noticed that we do have to really clearly instruct the model with the right instructions in order to get good output. So I created a system prompt here on the side with a clear instruction on how to do that infographic and this really got me the consistent result instead of back and forth prompting and iterating. Now really interesting is I've added in the color codes and the font of my brand at the end here and it really follows this really well and surprisingly this has worked better than adding a reference image in the prompt because what I see tend to happen with a reference image is just copies the exact structure of the reference infographic instead of using the style. So how do I do it? I just add in that system prompt which again will be available in the description below and then I add in my posts. So let's say I have a LinkedIn post here, I just paste it in and the model will start generating an infographic. So it's generated the infographic here you can see it is in my style and it used the color codes that I added in the system instructions and this is pretty good. So the post is about viral content doesn't necessarily attract buyers, a lot of times it attracts tire clickers and a lot of likes but not actual clients. Well this is this. Now what I noticed is generally it's good to have a few versions to pick the best one so I actually vibe coded an entire tool that generates six different variations of infographics right away and I'm going to show you in a second how I vibe coded this in Google which is another new feature which is very impressive but basically here I can select how many infographics I want to create. Here I have the system instructions so I use the same system prompt as in Google AI Studio and I can select the aspect ratio. So if I try it again here we're going to get six different results. Again also this tool I'm putting the link in the description below so you can use this yourself. So you can see now I get six different variations of the same infographic. I can pick the one I like most. I can also do this with newsletters of course so I like to add in newsletters infographics in my newsletters 2 to increase engagement so I can just take a part of my newsletter which I want to visualize. I go into the tool I added in and for example in the newsletter I would want to have maybe 16.9 and then I generate six different variations. So you can see now I have a different aspect ratio the MVP mindset and I noticed in general with these infographics also probably because of the system prompt it works better if we have it in the 4 to 5 format. Yeah I like this a lot more a lot more minimal this one the perfectionist is my overengineering this one's pretty good. So yeah generally the 4 to 5 is better but again you can experiment with the system prompt here too. Now the second use case is to create a Skelladraw presentations and diagrams automatically. I created this entire slide show here with Gemini 3 and as you can see the visualizations are really really impressive. Now before showing you how to do it if you don't know a Skelladraw it's a white boarding tool which you can use to map diagrams like these visuals and presentations in an easy way. Now if you've seen my videos I like to use a Skelladraw for my presentations in my videos but usually it takes me a bit of time to build these presentations. Now the tool is entirely built on JSON so I wanted to see if Gemini 3 could help me build the actual presentation and again that put is pretty impressive. So how do I do it? Now generally my approach to doing videos is to either do a brain dump in a Google Docs where I basically talk to Whisperflow which is the tool that transcribes your voice and I just talk about everything I know about the topic in unstructured way and then from that brain dump I try to structure it into slides in inside of a Skelladraw. The other way is sometimes I just have a meeting with my team or my co-founder to talk about a topic and then I use the meeting transcript as sort of the brain dump. So basically I added a system prompt in Gemini 3 which again you will find in the link in the description and in the system prompt it will first of all help me sort of structure which slides I need in for my video based on the brain dump and second it will output the JSON which I can then copy and paste into a Skelladraw. Now here you can see the prompt again you can read it in detail if you check the free resources but that's what it does and all I then have to do is add in that brain dump right and add it here probably probably have to delete this first part and just hit enter and then it will create slide by slide the presentation. Now I noticed it's better to do it slide by slide because if you let it produce 10 different slides right away I noticed the quality gets a bit worse. So now it's generated the JSON here I can just copy this go to a Skelladraw and I can just control V and I get the slide here. So pretty impressive this this brain dump was on pricing and if I go back I can just tell it to please do the next slide and then it will continue doing it. So I think pretty useful if you're maybe doing presentations inside of your company you can throw in meeting transcripts to visualize some some meetings or to create entire diagrams of processes. At a third use case is to build quick web apps which I did here which I'll show you a demo of in a second but Gemini's coding agent is also really impressive which you can access here in the build and because it's nano banana powered also has v03 the video model integrated and voice integrated you can build some powerful applications really quick. It's especially really strong as visuals but also the coding agent behind it is really really good. So at the moment I think it's a better web app builder than lovable. Now besides building fully fledged products with it I think it's great to build very quick tools that are helpful to your target audience to give away as lead magnets sort of what I did with that first to what I showed you in the video but also for you to build some your own internal apps inside of your own company. Now I just built this week this entire website chatbot widget app with Gemini 3 in probably under two hours. Now before showing you how to do it let me walk you through this very quickly I did this first of all because the n8n chat widget if you know it looks really ugly and it's a very common use case to put a quick chatbot agent that you've built on n8n on a customer's website like for example an e-commerce businesses or local businesses so I want to just build a quick app on top of the n8n chat widget in order for you to customize the UI a bit make it a bit nicer and to put it in like a little sort of chat widget pop up in the corner right so that was the idea for the app. Now it has authentication built in I'm already logged in but you can add in a webhook here in the configuration where you can just attach your n8n agent or customer service or booking agent onto it then you can also give your bot a name you can customize the questions the initial questions and FAQ here you have a little demo and you can try it out here you can customize the appearance of course and you have a simple embed code which you can then export onto any website. So generally the best way to approach these coding agents is to first come with a PRD and a PRD if you don't know what it is it's a product requirement document and this generally is used for developers to know exactly what features to include. Now if you throw in a quick prompt in the build right away it will mean you have to go a lot of back and forth before your app becomes functional if you throw in a PRD which is more structured already it can speed up the workflow a lot of creating these web apps. Now I'm going to show you this very quickly if you're interested in me showing a full tutorial on how to build these web apps let me know in the comments below and I might do a video that's a bit more in depth about it but basically what I do is I just tell first Gemini 3 normal the normal model not the build model on what I want to build so for example I want to build a chat widget on top of n8n's chat widget that's connected through an n8n webhook to my n8n AI agent I want the web chat widget to be customizable and to appear in the corner on any website that's why it needs to have an embed code and I want you to create a full PRD that lays out all the functionalities of this app. Now if I would actually do this that probably would be a lot more in depth about all the features I want but this is the quick demo in this case I would just add in because this code from the n8n widget is just available I would just add in all of this so that's some more context on the n8n chat widget here below is the full documentation of the n8n chat widget right and then you just let it run and it will create sort of a PRD now it won't be perfect you probably have to maybe look at it etc but can speed up the workflow a bit because the first prompt you'll use to start building will already be a lot more in depth and structured than you just randomly prompt it so you can see it created a PRD copy it then I go to build and then I start building the app with this this prompt so you can see now it starts building it right it plans plans out what it has to do and it starts building it and this again takes an hour or two because you have to add in features you have to resolve bugs etc but you can directly deploy it here from within Google too so we can just have a separate link to actually use the app we can also deploy through Verso and GitHub now I can see we got the first version here now the great thing is that Google is really good at visuals so we can just send it a screenshot of this visual and say put it in these colors fonts and the style of the image below and you can see now it already looks a lot more like the app right and that's really how it stands out right it's the visual capabilities of Gemini are really incredible so you get the idea of course you this need some time you need to go back and forth add in features etc but this can be really powerful to create some quick tools for lead magnets or internal tools but let me know if you're interested in a full tutorial on how to build quick web apps with Gemini 3 and the last use case is to create interactive presentations or landing pages now we use this internally this week because we had a webinar on our AI SEO agent which is an end to end AI SEO system which we sell to SEO and marketing agencies and as you can see Google Gemini is just incredibly good at visual appealing slides and landing pages but also at animation as you can see right because it uses VO3 in the back right so we created this slide show here for the webinar now how do we do it very similar way as in the Excalibur example but in this case we use the build feature here again in Google AI Studio to create an entire basically HTML animated slide show so first of all you can paste in websites too so I could just for example paste in the website link of our solution for SEO right and also you can add in for example reference links or styles it has to copy so what it can be good is just go through these some of these examples here which you can do too which we did for this one and you just open this up and if you like the style of this one for example also the animations you can tell it to copy that so you can just copy this link this URL and say for example this is our solution use this as a style guide for the slideshow you're going to create right and then you can of course also share in screenshots of presentations or websites you like and then you would just prompt it on what to do help me create a slide deck HTML based motion design slide deck based on my webinar structure not not a great prompt because I use whisper flow but you again you can read this in detail a few suggestions before creating the slide I don't want you to be very worthy I want you to think very modern use the design first approach etc and then I'll just add in sort of that initial idea for the slides or the brain dump similar to the second use case I showed so in this case I'll just add the brain dump of the SEO video and then I'll just go and build so you can see created a benny i slide show slide deck I can go full screen and you can see it's pretty good of course if I want to change the style it's going to be really easy I can just copy and paste an image of a style I like and it will it will change and adapt it just like I showed you before but you can see it's already animated in quite a nice way again you'd need some back and forth prompting but really easy way to create really high quality presentations fast and of course you can do this for landing pages too anyway I think you get the idea there are many more use cases possible of course another one I would add is I updated a lot of my current and I don't have machines for content with the Gemini 3 model and I noticed in copywriting it also is really really good opus 4.5 came out now too so they're competing a bit but I really like how Gemini 3 does a copywriting too now again all of the system prompts and the tools that I shared today you also find in the free resources link in the description below and if you want to learn more about AI automation and using tools like these to actually build a business you can also check out my AI accelerator in the link in the description below thank you so much for watching and I hope to see you in the next one