---
video_title: "This AI CRM System Automates Your Entire Sales Process (No-Code)"
video_id: 9zO-NdPknWQ
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9zO-NdPknWQ
video_date: 2025-05-03
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tacsa-acc
  
  Get the free template of this video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tacs-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tacsa-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tacsa-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:45 - Live Demo
  08:22 - Claude Demo
  11:22 - Airtable Setup
  13:00 - Lead Research & Qualification Setup
  18:58 - Meeting Transcript Analysis Setup
  22:18 - Meeting Briefs Setup
  25:30 - Proposal Generation & Claude Setup
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too.
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer.
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
Hi there. So, in this video, I'll show you how to automate your entire sales process using n8n, Airtable, and Claude. This system includes a completely automated custom CRM in Airtable and automates each part of the sales funnel. It does automatic lead research and lead qualification. It gives lead briefs and helps you prepare for meetings. It

analyzes meeting transcripts, helps you with objection handling and sales scripts, and automatically generates proposals. It's even connected to Claude through MCPs, so your team always has access to a real-time sales assistant that's up-to-date with the leads in your pipeline. And in this video, I'll show you a demo, a step-by-step breakdown of the system, and the template will be available in my community. And if you're a business looking to adopt solutions like these into your business, you can also book us in for a free call in the description below. So, I'll first give you a demo and a quick overview of the system. Then, I'll walk you through the

step-by-step setup of the automation here in n8n and in Airtable. And if you want the entire template, you can check out my community. If you maybe want to customize it to your specific use case, we do also have one-on-one tech help available in my community. So, the whole reason behind this system is to basically automate as many sales-related admin tasks as possible. Anyone who's worked in sales knows how much time you can spend on actual admin instead of actually selling. So, we try to automate

as much as possible of that part. And second of all, we try to enhance and optimize our sales process as much as possible to try and increase conversion rate. So, as you can see, we basically have an entire CRM here in Airtable. And the difference is this CRM is completely automated. So, leads will be automatically moved through the pipeline, and the admin tasks in between will also be automated. Now, in our

case, our sales process looks like this. We basically first have a meeting booked, then we research the lead, then we have our discovery call, which is basically our first call, then we have a second sales call, which we call the presentation call, and then we generate and send the proposal. But, of course, you can adjust this to your specific pipelines. So, our automation gets triggered here whenever a meeting is booked on our website. And whenever a meeting is booked, the first part of the automation starts, which is the phase one here, which is basically doing the lead research and lead qualification.

So, you can see we trigger it with Calendly, then we create the lead in Airtable, and then we do comprehensive research on the lead and the company through these six API steps. And here we use the Crossdata API, which is a really interesting API for lead research and company research, which I'll get to later in this video. Then we compile all that information, and we add it here to an L&M chain or an AI step that basically makes a a full briefing report that prepares us for that first meeting. And lastly, we'll also update the status of this lead inside of the Airtable. So, as soon as this process is done, it will automatically be moved to the lead enriched stage, and we'll have a full briefing here on the lead. So, if we go

here, you can see we get an overview of the company, the company website, expected deal value, the company size, the growth stage of the company, and the annual revenue range. We get a bit of a company profile. Get the same for the contact person, right? The contact profile, the professional background, if they're actually a decision maker or not, the skills and interest. Then we get an entire meeting strategy with personalized conversation starters based on their last LinkedIn post, for example, or their background. Then we

have potential pain points for this client or company, a competitive analysis, and a quick meeting brief that helps us prepare for that first meeting. Now, the second part of our automation is triggered as soon as we've done the first sales call or the discovery call. And as you'll see here, this second part of the automation is triggered through a webhook, and that webhook we've connected to Fireflies. If you don't know Fireflies, it's a transcription tool. So, basically, as soon as a sales call is done, or any call is done, our Fireflies triggers this webhook, which triggers this automation.

And this automation, basically, the purpose of this automation is to analyze the transcript, classify which type of meeting this was. Was it a discovery call, a first sales call, or a presentation call, second sales call, or maybe any other type of call. And also to get, of course, the information from the transcript. Right, so you can see we get the Fireflies transcript, we actually transform it a bit, then we create a Google Doc, then we classify the meeting and get the important information, and again we update the status inside of our CRM. So, in this case it will automatically identify that it was a discovery call, so it will automatically move it to discovery completed. And if it moves to discovery

completed, we automatically trigger an automation here from Airtable to trigger the next part of the automation, which is this part. So, you can see we've connected the same webhook with a get request to Airtable. So, as soon as it lands in this status, this part of the automation is triggered. It's it's routed to this part of the automation, which is the discovery analysis and presentation preparation. So, takes the entire transcript and basically helps create a brief to prepare us for the second sales call.

So, it analyzes the first sales call to help us prepare for the second one. So, that's here in the third phase. As you can see, this brief basically prepares us for that second call. So, again we get some information about the first call, the company context, how we can use value-driven solution messaging, we have the some business impact exploration. Here we get the specific implementation requirements for this client. We get possible objections from

this client and how we can handle these objections. And we get a step-by-step plan what we have to do for that presentation meeting. So, in this case, a technical demonstration, a case study we'd probably want to show to this client, et cetera. Now, as soon as we've done this second call, this same automation is triggered again. And of course, now the AI will identify that it was a second call, a presentation call, which will then automatically update the status here to the last part here, which is presentation completed. And once it

lands into presentation completed, again we trigger an automation here from Airtable to trigger uh the phase four automation here, which basically uh creates a draft proposal based on uh the last transcript. Right, we update that into the Airtable, and of course, again, we update the status. So, the up the updated status will be proposal uh generated. And here in phase four, we get the draft proposal laid out for us. Now, we don't on purpose generate the entire proposal right away because in our experience, we actually need to go and iterate a bit before we can actually generate the proposal. So,

here we can uh check the entire draft proposal. We can make any changes if we want. So, for example, I can change the price here. I can uh go to price frequency, retainer, one-off, etc. So, here we can just adjust, and once we're ready, we can just click here and actually generate the proposal. And as soon as I

click this, uh you'll see it disappears, and this last part of the automation is triggered, where we create a proposal in PandaDoc. Now, we use PandaDoc to create a proposal, but you can also use uh Google Docs uh if you prefer that. Now, what we do here is actually we uh trigger a make.com automation. Now, you won't might be wondering why we do that.

We trigger this automation, and we do that because for some reason, uh the PandaDoc API is normally only accessible on the enterprise plan, except for in make.com, you can actually uh use the normal PandaDoc uh plan to generate proposals. So, that's why we're using a simple make.com workflow here to generate the proposal. And then again, of course, we update the status. It will be moved to the last

part of the pipeline. So, if I go to PandaDoc right now, and I refresh,

you can see it generated the proposal for LeadGenX. And now we got the entire proposal here, AI-powered inbound sales agent, etc., etc. Breakdown of phases, suggested tech stack, timeline, and investment. Now, I want to show you two more things that we've added to this system that I think are really interesting. First,

here in Airtable, we've added an AI assistant here. And basically, this AI assistant has access to all the data here inside the Airtable. So, we can just use this assistant to ask questions about leads, etc. So, for example, I could say, "What are the three uh biggest potential deals?"

And you can see we get the three biggest potential deals, but we can ask any question of any data that we've stored here in Airtable. And the second thing is, like I said before, we've also connected it to the Claude desktop through MCPs. Now, if you don't know how this works with Claude and MCPs, I have a few tutorials on how to do this. So, if you're unfamiliar with it, I'll make sure to link it up here, too. But basically, what we've done is we connected Airtable here to Claude with some other tools. So, basically, we can

go a bit deeper on what we've done in specific meetings with leads, maybe specific objections they have, or specific things they said. We can just use Claude here to get access to that information, and we can even use Claude here to iterate on the proposal before actually generating it. So, what I've done here is set up a sales director, and this sales director basically has a system prompt or knowledge base on what it has to do. And basically, we've instructed it to ask for the company name, and it will then automatically get all the data from Airtable to figure out where the lead is in the stage, gets all the meeting transcripts, so we can ask more questions about this lead, and even iterate on the proposal, for example. So, I can say something like, "Lead gen X."

So, I do here is it will automatically know what to do. It will get all the information from Airtable and the transcripts.

So, you can see now basically got all the information from Airtable. It got the transcripts from Google Drive, cuz I also connected it to Google Drive. And now it already knows that this is in the proposal generation phase. And in this case, we already generated it, but we can actually iterate on the proposal here with together with Claude. So, we can say something like, "Please uh add the proposal in artifacts so we can make changes."

So, you can see it now laid out the entire one here, and automatically makes strategic revisions. And of course, we can also iterate with Claude here on the on the proposal. Now, in this case, I already generated it, but basically where I can manually change it, what I showed before, we can also do this together with Claude um to do it together with an LLM. And then Claude can actually update it inside of the Airtable, and from there we can then generate.

So, you can see now it automatically updated, added in tables according to objections that the client had in the earlier sales calls, etc. And of course, we can now also make changes here. For example, we can say, "Make these uh let's say this part makes make these phases more concise." It will now adjust it, and then again, it can update the Airtable, and from there we can generate the actual proposal. Now, of course, this is just one use case because this one is in the proposal phase, but uh if they're in earlier phases, we can also use it to uh maybe think about what we should say in the next call, etc.

But we thought it was cool to add Claude in this process because we really believe that more and more companies and people are going to use Claude directly connected to their softwares to be able to do things like these. Anyway, I'll uh spare you the rest uh and I'll get you to the step-by-step uh setup. So, let me go over the step-by-step breakdown of this system. Of course, this Airtable interface here uh in the backend, it just has uh Airtable spreadsheets or bases, basically. And of course, we can transform this really easily into these Airtable interfaces, which I think is a really good use case, especially if you're delivering these systems to clients or when you're using it for systems like this where you have a CRM built in.

These interfaces can really improve the user experience and the look and feel of these systems. So, I'm going to do a full tutorial on how to set up these Airtable interfaces, but it's quite straightforward to do. But of course, you first have to set up the data bases itself here. And from there, you can generate the interfaces. Now, all of the templates, including the ones here in Airtable, the entire NNL template of this setup and the cloud prompts will all be available in my community. So, if

you're interested in the templates, make sure to check the link in the description below. Now, basically here in this pipeline base, we basically have all the data points that we need inside of our CRM, right? So, we have the contact name, the email, the website, the pipeline stage, which of course is important to get that Kanban board or the CRM, right? So, we have the all the different stages here. We have notes, we have the company profile, company size. And here we have all the

data points that we sort of want to research about the leads because of course, we have to add that into the Airtable, too. So, we have all the data points here. And then we have another two bases, which is the discovery phase base and the proposal phase base. And these basically we use also in these interfaces to show the the meeting briefings, right? So, this one this one and this one.

Right? So, that's how it's set up in the back end. Now, of course, this automation gets triggered as soon as a lead books in a meeting with us on Calendly. We have a native integration here with Calendly. And from there, we just create a lead inside of the Airtable in the pipeline base. Now, you

can see here, it's just a native integration with Airtable and we basically just take the information we get from our Calendly fields, which is the name, the email, the website, and some notes, and we add that to the Airtable as a new lead. Now, from there, the next thing of course is to research the lead. Now, here we use an API which is called Cross data. Cross data is really a really interesting API. As you can see here, real-time company and people data provider. They only do

APIs and they're backed up by Y Combinator. And I see why because it's a really really interesting API. They basically have three types of things you can do. You first have the search function, so you can basically find new leads with just a phrase, just an English phrase, tech companies in New York worth more than 100 million with 50 employees. Then they have the enrich APIs which can basically be used to get more data points on a company or a person. And then they have another

option, another API which is the watch API. And this can basically check for real-time information or real-time account triggers. Now, I can imagine many companies are interested for example in when a company posts a new job post or when they just raise raise a new funding round. With Cross data, you can basically trigger automatically whenever a company has these kinds of events to for example send personalized outreach, etc. So, three really interesting APIs. Now, in this in our

case, we use of course the enrich API to get more data on these leads that book meetings with us. So, the way this API works, as you can see here, is first we have to identify the company. So, you can see what we use here in the URL is the screener identify. Now, all we need to do in this API call is pass in a company website or even only a company name. And basically inside of Cross data, so I can show you here, we have the company APIs. We use the

identification API which is most likely the one you want to start with. You get a company ID and through that company ID, you can then use to get lots of different data points about this company that probably already exists inside of Cross data's database. Right? So, all we have to pass in, as you can see here, is a company name, a company website, company LinkedIn URL, company Crunchbase, whatever you prefer. And from there, you already get the company ID, and with the company ID we can enrich the lead with many, many data points, which I'll show you in a second. So, that's all we've

done here in this first step. We set up that first API call. And as you can see, we passed in only the website of the new lead, which in this case is just a testing one. It was my website. And from there, what we get back is the company ID. And this one is important

because we're using that in all the subsequent API calls to get more information about this lead. So, we have here the second one. As you can see, we have the the decision makers API, and as you can see, we only pass in that company ID, which we generated from the previous API call. And from here, we actually get all the decision makers from this company right away. So, you can see it identified that I'm the decision maker in this company, which is of course correct, and I'm the only decision maker in this company.

Um and automatically also generates information about me. Right. So, that's it what we do in this first API call. Then, we use another API call to get the head count. Again, we only pass in the company ID here.

And what we get back is even historical data, as you can see, on the employee count in this business. So, you can see a year ago, there was only one employee, which is correct. It was only me. And you can see the historical data, and it actually grew over time, and now we have four. Then, we use another API call here, which is enrich company, which gets lots more data points about this company specifically. Again, we only pass in the

company ID. But here, we get, for example, the estimated revenue, recent news articles, which in my case doesn't exist, but we get lots of different data points right away here. So, you can see estimated revenue, etc. Then, we have the search people API, which is sort of the other type of API. So, we have the company API, where we can enrich companies, but we can also do the same for people. So, you can see

in this one, we use sort of the identifier one again. And in this case, all we have to do is fill in a name. And by only filling out the name through this API, we get lots of data points on this specific person. Right, including the LinkedIn URL, the description, their past, their background, which companies they worked for, et cetera. And of course, we can use that to research even more. In this

case, we use the LinkedIn post scraper to get their past LinkedIn posts, which we might be able to use in one of the yeah, openings of the sales calls. Right, now we pass all of this information, we compile all of this information here in this edit field. We take all the interesting information to us, right, and we compile here in this edit field. Right, and then of course, we pass that all into an AI step here, an LLM chain. You can see we passed it in all these data points. And then we basically gave

it a prompt to generate sort of this meeting briefing, right, to prepare us for that first meeting. So, very long prompt as you can see here. Again, if you want to read this all in detail, you can by just copying the template. Um but basically, that's what this one does, right? It creates a comprehensive meeting brief and takes all the interesting data points that we want inside of our CRM.

Now, we use a structured output to structure this properly to be able to upload it into the airtable. Right, so you can see we use the structured output basically with the columns of the airtable. So, we can then pass it on into the airtable, where of course, we update the pipeline stage and add all the new data points. And then if we go back to um airtable, you can see here in the pipeline that all of those data points will be added here. Right, and of course, in the interfaces, this first meeting briefing will be generated here.

Now, for this second part of the automation, this gets triggered as soon as we finished a call and a new transcript is generated by Fireflies, which is of course, our meeting transcription tool. And the goal of this automation is really just to identify which which type of sales call it was and to save the meeting transcript inside of air table. So, we've set up a webhook here and as you can see we actually set up uh two HTTP methods, the get and the post. Uh we took the production URL and basically uh if you use Fireflies, what you can do is inside of your account, inside of settings, you can uh scroll all the way down here and you'll see an option with webhook. There you can add in uh that webhook and basically as soon as Fireflies has finished uh processing a new transcript, uh your webhook in n8n will get triggered with the post method. Now, as

you can see the post method is connected here to phase two and all we do here is we first use the Fireflies API call to get the entire transcript. So, we get the entire transcript here. Then uh what all we do here in this code step is to basically clean up this transcript a bit because as you can see here on the left, it's a very messy structure of uh of the meeting transcript. So, basically get each sentence in a different JSON object here. Right? So, we get an array with

lots of sentences. So, it's not ideal. We sort of clean this up and want to have it inside of one text. That's all this code step does. So, if you're going to clone this template, you can just uh leave this step like it is and it will clean up that transcript from Fireflies.

Then we basically get it back inside of one string. Then what we do is we first create a doc, an empty doc, a new uh Google Doc and we do this inside of a Google Doc because a lot of these meeting transcripts are too long to actually be able to upload inside of an air table column. So, we first add it to a Google Docs and then we add the Google Docs to the air table. So, we first create a doc, an empty doc, and then we update that Google Doc. Now, as you can see, we use an HTTP request to update the Google Doc. Now, the reason why

we're using a an a custom HTTP request instead of the native node inside of n8n is because inside of the native node in n8n we can't use HTML to format the Google Doc properly. So, uh if you actually do it through the HTTP request, uh you can use HTML. But, you don't have to use this if you don't care about the exact formatting of the meeting transcript. So, that's what we do here. And then, of course, we pass in um the entire meeting transcript to uh the L&M step here. And that L&M step,

all this L&M step does is basically to classify which type of call this is. So, as you can see here, again, you can read this prompt in detail uh in your own time, but you're an expert meeting analyzer for Ben AI. Right, your uh task is to analyze the following meeting transcript and classify it as one of three meeting types. Right, and extract the business name of the client. So, that's all we do. And of course, again,

we add in a uh structured output parser to make sure we can use this data and directly upload it to our airtable base. Now, let's say it classifies it as uh discovery call, right? What will happen then is it, first of all, of course, updates the status inside of our uh pipeline. But, second of all, what it will do is, if it identifies that it's a discovery call, it will add a new record here to the new base, which is the discovery phase base. And it will add uh the information it got, so, the meeting name, email, the call identity, the status, and the transcript URL, just like this last record here. And what

will happen here inside airtable is basically, as soon as this happens, and uh a record new record is added to this discovery phase, it automatically triggers an automation here inside airtable. So, you can see here, we have a trigger set up, uh which is when a record enters a view. So, when a record enters a view, in this case, when uh a record enters the discovery phase, then we trigger uh this script, and this script will trigger uh a webhook again inside of N8N uh to run the next automation. So, you can see we've set up the webhook here. Uh we send over the record ID, and also we defined an action, which is important, because this is going to define to which automation it's going to route it. So, show you in

a second. Then, we have a uh a little script here, where we can uh add in the webhook basically and define these variables. Again, you can copy and paste this from the template that I'm going to share. If you want to know how to do this yourself. And basically this automatically the next automation will be triggered in n8n, which is phase three.

So here you can see an example. The webhook gets triggered in this case from Airtable, it's a get request. That's why it will go to this flow. It will first get the record, so we get all the information from the specific record. Then it uses the switch. And in this

switch, here's the important part for that action that I showed before. This basically routes it in one of three directions. Which is defined here by the action. Right, so for all of these three automations we have a different action. And this router in n8n will put it into the right automation. Right, so this

case it's prepare discovery. So we'll go here to phase three. And the goal of this part is to first of all generate that brief for the next meeting. So we analyzes the entire transcript from the first call to be able to give a brief that prepares us for the next call. And second, what it will do here too is create a Claude system prompt. So as I

showed you before, basically we can also use Claude to iterate on these leads, get some more information on the meeting transcripts, etc. So basically what we do here is we add in a specific prompt for Claude. And again, you can check this all out in detail in your own time because it can get a little bit complicated. But basically we generate a prompt for Claude that as soon as we trigger Claude by talking about a specific lead, he'll get this information from the Airtable. So it knows exactly what to do in this specific phase with this specific lead.

But you can skip this too if you don't need to work with Claude. And then in the second step it will create this this brief. Again, we use the structured output parser to be able to update it properly to Airtable, as you can see, and to update all the columns. Right. And by the way, we also Chrome uh Google Gemini 2.5 cuz they have very

large context windows and these meeting transcripts can become quite large. So, uh in this use case, it's it's pretty important to have a model that can handle a large amount of tokens. Now, that then it will again update the Airtable with all the extra data points. So, if we go back here to the discovery phase, you can see this is the updated one. Right, and you can see we get all of these data points, which of course we also lay out inside of the air interfaces in phase three, where we basically have the brief that prepares us for the next meeting. Now, as soon as

that second meeting is done, a very similar process uh is done, of course. Again, the webhooks will be triggered because a call has been done. In this case, it will identify it not as a discovery call, but as a presentation call, which is the second call. Right, and then of course, it will not add it to the discovery phase table, but it will add it to the last table, uh which is the one we have here, the proposal phase one, and it will add it here. It will add the new transcript there, too.

Right, and of course, once uh it enters the proposal phase, we trigger another automation here when uh a record enters uh a view, and in this case, in the proposal phase, and then we run a script to uh prepare the presentation. It basically means generate the draft proposal, right, which is the next part of our automation. Right, and of course, that action was defined differently, so it will be routed to this phase four, right, well, which will generate the draft proposal. Right, uh in this case, you can see this one will be routed with uh prepare presentation. So, you can see here the action is prepare presentation. Now,

this will generate that meeting uh draft that I showed you before at the demo in the phase four. Of course, this disappeared, but uh yes, you know what I mean. And from there, of course, we can iterate, we can adjust things here right inside Airtable. We can also use Claude to iterate on the on the proposal, and once we're ready to actually generate it, we can trigger the last part of the automation. Again, if you want to read the entire prompt in detail about how to generate the draft proposal, you can check out the template, but here it is.

And then, of course, the last part of the automation is triggered, of course, from Airtable here in the generate proposal. And this is where we actually generate the proposal inside of PandaDoc. So, in this case, it's when a record matches a condition because it's a drop-down, if you remember from the demo, right? So, from the table proposal phase, when status is generate proposal. So, when we switch this to generate proposal, it will actually generate the proposal in PandaDoc. Right, but again,

we run a script, and in this case, the action is generate proposal, which will trigger this last part of the automation, which actually generates the PandaDoc inside of make.com. Now, again, why don't we why do we use make.com here? Because for some reason, in make.com, we can actually use the

PandaDoc API without the enterprise plan. Uh while if if we would do it inside of uh n8n, we need the enterprise plan. So, that's why we send it over to an HTTP request to a make.com scenario. Right, so all we do is we add in uh the webhook from our make.com scenario.

So, it's this webhook, basically. Right, and we send over all the important data points, of course, to generate the proposal. Right, then we add that inside of this make.com PandaDoc, as you can see, all the data points. So, we send over all of these information to the webhook, we generate the PandaDoc, we send it back to uh n8n here, and then and then we update it inside of Airtable.

So, that's it for the entire system. Uh I can imagine it might be a little bit complicated. We have some more instructions on how to set it up here, too, and also how to connect it to Claude. Uh again, if you need help in setting this up, we do have one-on-one tech help available also inside of the community. Uh so, if you run into any issues, you can always check that out.

So, that's it for this video. If you got any value out of this video, I highly appreciate a like and subscribe. I know it might be a little bit more of a technical setup, but I wanted to show you guys what's possible by combining N8N, Airtable interfaces, and even Cloud MCPs. Now again, if you need some extra help building AI automations or learning AI automations or customizing these types of templates to your specific use cases, you can also check out my community where we do have one-on-one tech consulting and tech help available. Also, if you want to learn more about how to set up these Cloud MCPs, which I didn't really go into in this video, make sure to check out my last video where I go over it in detail and step-by-step. And I think the use cases

for these Cloud MCPs are really powerful. Again, thank you so much for watching, and I hope to see you in the next one. Bye.