---
video_title: "I Automated a Recruiting Agency with AI (No-Code)"
video_id: LJA7sawCvec
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LJA7sawCvec
video_date: 2025-10-06T12:00:06+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the recruiting system ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/iaara-recruit
  
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/iaara-acc
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/iaara-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/iaara-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My links:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  Promptmetheus: https://promptmetheus.com/?via=ben
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:38 - Live Demo
  05:31 - System Breakdown
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too. 
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast. 
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer. 
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
So in this video I'll show you how we automated a recruiting agency with one AI system in AirTable and Aden and Clay. This system automatically detects hidden job openings at companies by tracking employee exits and promotions. It then automatically finds the hiring manager of the company that now has an open role to be fulfilled, together with their email and LinkedIn contact information and suggest a personalized outreach message. It also automatically tracks new job postings across multiple job boards like Indeed, LinkedIn Jobs and more, and can also find the decision maker contact details of these companies. And in this video I'll show you a demo and a breakdown of the system here in AirTable and Aden and Clay. Now we've built and refined this system over months and we just launched this new solution on my website. So if you're interested in adopting it, you can book a free call with us in the description below. Now if you're not familiar with recruiting, spotting openings and reaching out to these companies as soon as they need to fill a new role is kind of the main game in recruiting. And this system allows recruiters now to detect new openings weeks before they go public and competitors might go after them. So this system has really made a big impact on some of the clients we worked with. Now here we are on the main dashboard. Now the first step to this system is of course to have a list of profiles to track. Now many recruiting agencies already have an ATS database or applicant tracking system, which is very easy to upload into this system. But we also provide this service to our clients if they don't. So in this example, I have a long list of profiles we're going to track here. 17,000 in total. Now in the job intelligence dashboard, we basically get an overview of new opportunities that we're found. Here we have the total amount of profiles that are being tracked on a weekly or biweekly basis to spot if there were any internal job changes or external job changes. And if there are any, there will be monitored here. You can see there are 156 job changes for this one. And out of that, the system found 141 potential companies to target. Now of course, when an applicant moves from one company to the other, there are a lot of times actually two opportunities. First, the company that now needs to fill a role. But we also know that the second company who hired the employee is most likely actively hiring at the moment. So we can get multiple opportunities out of one job change. Then here we can see the decision makers or hiring managers for these companies that we can potentially target. In this case, 191 here, we can also check what type of career change it was an internal career change an external one or a portfolio expansion, basically like an extra job. And here we can get an idea on the job changes per day of the week. Then here in the job discovery dashboard, we can see the amount of new job postings on LinkedIn, indeed, and other job boards that have been analyzed. How many are actually qualified according to your company's criteria. And we can also see what type of jobs they are looking to hire, right? Director, profiles, executive profiles or mid to senior levels. And we also have a function breakdown by department and a seniority breakdown. And again, an idea of the jobs being posted by the day of the week. But here in the review opportunities, we get to the interesting part where we can see all the potential new opportunities both for career changes. When monitoring profiles, of course, and potentially interesting new job postings. Now the system automatically enriches the potential opportunity company here. So user can easily find more information about the company, their LinkedIn profile. They can get some company intelligence, a market analysis and salary range estimation. And based on this data, a recruiter or recruiting agency can quickly decide if this is actually a relevant opportunity or not. And if so, they can just change the status here to qualified. And once they do, the system will automatically start finding the decision makers and hiring managers and their contact details for this company together with a personalized outreach message. And those will appear here in the opportunities pipeline. And here you can see all the qualified opportunities with the companies. And you can see here, for example, for the senior vice president of engineering in robust AI with the system found for decision makers and hiring managers with a match score. To basically say how likely they are to be the hiring manager. So in this case, there's a 10 here. It also found email address and a LinkedIn profile. And we can also get some more information on this lead here. And we also get suggested a personalized outreach message here. So you can see Rodney noticed your SVP of engineering moved on recently. So it's a very relevant personalization. Of course, especially if this happened maybe one or two days before. And you can imagine it can get quite good response rates, especially if we're coming there with an offer to replace this person that just left. Now from here, this system can also be integrated with your CRM or ATS or even your email outreach software. So if you want to push this to that software, you can do that to here. And then here in job discovery configuration, we can basically set up a new campaign here to start tracking specific job posts on specific job boards. So for example, here the configuration name is just the name inside of the system. So then I can choose the platform, for example, LinkedIn jobs. And then I can decide the criteria for this job post. So you can say US, the search radius, the compensation, the seniority levels for your profile, the target job titles, etc. And we have some extra settings here. You can then also let the system decide how often to check for these specific job posts on those job boards. And they will all appear here in the job discovery configuration. So you can see we have to set up here one for indeed and one for LinkedIn. So I think you get the idea. Let me give you a brief breakdown of how this is set up using NADN and Clay. Now we basically have four sections of this build. Here on the top left, we basically track any career changes that happen across our profile database. Here on the top right, we are continuously monitoring job boards, according to the recruiters criteria to find any new potential opportunities on job boards. Then this part of the system will update the new opportunity, if a new opportunity arises and get some more information on the company. Then if the recruiter decided that is a qualified lead, the last part of the NADN automation will kick in to find decision makers and hiring managers of that company. So you can see here that we have a scheduled trigger here that is set on weekly. It can be changed, of course, to more frequent or less frequent. But of course, there's a large database of clients. So we generally recommend weekly to keep the cost low while still maintaining the edge on speed of job opening discovery. Now in general, the system can be run on around $500 to $600 a month, but knowing the potential opportunities that can come out of this system, that's almost always worth it for a recruitment agency. Now this part will basically pass over all the profiles through a Clay workflow. This API call here is a Clay workflow. Now why do we use Clay in this build? Because Clay, we found can be a lot more efficient in enriching data, scraping data from sources like LinkedIn, and can be a bit more alive on when running these high volume operations. Now if you don't know, Clay is basically a sales enrichment platform that makes it really easy to enrich a company or profile information. You can also use it to qualify and filter companies at a large scale. Now as you can see, we actually have seven Clay workflows integrated into this system. And the information will basically be sent from NADN through a web hook here in Clay, which then runs a workflow. For this one, for example, it will run the monitoring agent workflow. And basically what they will do is it just gets the most up-to-date information from that profile, LinkedIn profile. Now that data is then sent back to NADN again through a web hook, which will then trigger this part of the automation. And this second part of the automation will check the new information against the old information to check if there are any job changes. And if so, it will go through another Clay workflow to actually verify if this is correct or if it wasn't just a small profile update. Also to see which type of job change it was, etc. And then once it's verified, it's a legit job change. It will trigger stage two to actually start enriching a company a bit and let the recruit to the site if this is an interesting opportunity or not. And of course, update the air table with that information. You can see that here we actually use two Clay workflows too to basically make sure that the job posts we are scraping actually match the qualification criteria of the recruiter. So we only bring the relevant results to them. And if so again, this part of the system will identify the new opportunity and update the air table. And of course, when the recruiter approves this is a qualified lead, then this last part will kick in. It will use here an API to get the decision maker and hiring managers. It will enrich their data with contact information like emails and LinkedIn. Again, true Clay here. Now, I'm not going to dive into the small details of this system because it's a very comprehensive and large system. And I don't want to make this a five-hour tutorial. So that's it for this video. Thank you so much for watching. If you're a recruiter or a recruiting agency and are interested in adopting the solution, you can check the link in the description below. Also, if you don't know what's happening here at all in NADN and you want to learn this, I have a full five-hour tutorial on how to get from zero to advanced on NADN on my channel. I also make sure to link it up here. And by the end of that video, you'll probably understand exactly what I just showed you. Anyway, if you got any value out of it, highly appreciate a like and a subscribe. It really does help me. Thank you so much for watching. Bye.