---
video_title: "Build an AI SaaS in MINUTES with Claude Code + N8N (No-Code Guide)"
video_id: W-RZeHX43vI
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W-RZeHX43vI
video_date: 2025-07-26
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/baas-acc
  
  Get the free template of this video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/baas-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/baas-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/baas-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:26 - Demo
  03:17 - Overview
  05:42 - Step 1: Planning an AI Product
  07:34 - Step 2: Setting up N8N for Claude Code
  09:57 - Step 3: Create PRD + Template
  11:33 - Step 4: Setting up Claude Code
  13:57 - Step 5: Building with Claude Code
  15:10 - Step 6: Setting up Supabase Database + Connecting N8N
  17:15 - Step 7: Testing & Debugging 
  22:11 - Step 8: Deploying on a custom domain
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too.
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer.
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
So, in this video, I'm going to show you how to build an AI web app or AI SAS in minutes using Cloud Code and NAN without actually writing a single line of code. I've been testing tools like Lavable, Bolt, and Cursor over the last months. But in my experience, Cloud Code blows them all out of the water in terms of speed and front-end quality. And in this video, I'll show you a quick demo and I'll show you step by step how you can build your own AI SAS or web app with Cloud Code and all the prompt templates you need to set one up in literally minutes. So, I just built a prototype from scratch, which you'll see me do in a minute. This is basically the last

part of my recording, but I just want to show you a quick demo of what you can build in minutes using cloth. So, this is a quick prototype for an AI content system that can create newsletters, LinkedIn posts, and expost for different brands. So, it automatically added in uh login pages. So, I just made an account already. So, I can just sign in. Here we

have the dashboard where we can manage the content for different brands. So, if I add a new brand, for example, here my brand, all I have to do is add in the website. I can add in additional context if I want to. And here we can fill out the brand strategy. Now here we have an autofill option which actually runs the first automation in my N8 back end which generates that strategy automatically based on the company's website. So now

it generated a target audience the brand tone and a key offer. I can still adapt it and change it if I want to. Uh but here now I can create the brand. Now from here it's going to generate a strategy and uh strategic angles for content on uh Twitter, LinkedIn and newsletter. And this is the second part of the automation here in NADN which is uh the angle and strategy generation.

I'll walk you through the setup here in NAND uh in more detail later in the video. So now it's generated content strategy angles for all three platforms. So exacts needing ROI proof case studies and playbooks. So this is one sort of content strategy we could use, right? Growth marketers and SDRs, tactical AI workflows and templates, founders and builders, behind the scenes product journey. So we can filter here by

platform. the angles for platform. So for example, CEOs, CMOs who need faster lead generation and we can also get more information on this strategy or angle and the objective. Show decision makers tangible time and cost wins and move them into discovery calls. Then from here we can generate ideas based on this content angle or strategy. And this

sparks the next part of the automation and this very much prototype, right? I'd need a lot more time to flesh out the system, but just to give you an idea of what you can spin up in minutes. So now we have ideas here for LinkedIn. And of course I could generate it for Twitter and newsletter too. Um but from here I can just go generate content. Let's say

I like this idea. Generate content. And this sparks the last part of the automation to actually write the post. Now if I had more time first of all I have to optimize the prompting a lot to make this good. That's actually how you build a good AI SAS right and I'd probably add in image generation too.

But again just to give you a quick idea. Now it generated uh a LinkedIn post. And from here we can also edit. And of course you could add in uh automatic posting etc. But here we also have a dashboard right where we can uh manage all the brands and and here we have the content where we can go through all the generated content. So for Beni we have

LinkedIn all the ideas and from there we can generate posts. Anyway just a quick prototype give you an idea. Now I walk you through step by step how you can build something like this in literally minutes. So at this part of the video I've yet to actually build the front end that I just showed you. Uh so now I'm going to walk you through the step-by-step uh setup on how to build your own AI SAS or web app with cloud code. So first I'll walk you through how

to plan an AI product or web app. Then how to set up an NAND automation back end, right? Specifically to connect it to claude uh code. Then step three is we're going to create a PRD which is a product requirement document. If you don't know what a product requirement document is, it's usually what engineers get and it contains all the information they need in order to start building.

Now, we're going to I'm going to share a prompt template that makes it really fast and easy for you to create this product requirement document. We can then feed that into claw cloud code so you can spin up that initial version of our web app really really quick. Then step four is we're setting up cloud code. Then step five is we're actually going to build the web app and set up the database with superbase and probably do some debugging. And then step six is we're actually deploying it onto a website. Now, uh this might sound

complicated especially if you're not a coder, but I can tell you I am not a coder either and it's really not rocket science. It's pretty easy and I'm going to walk you through step by step. Now, that being said, if you're not a coder and you're just building out a product now from scratch, I generally don't recommend starting with custom code. I recommend starting with no code softwares, maybe like air table. If you want to learn more about that, uh I did a full road map to an AI SAS in my last video where I explained step by step which kind of tool set or tech stack you can use in each phase and what I recommend. Now that being said, it is

very useful to understand how to work with cloud code if you want to build some more customized front ends and really build an AI SAS. And one more note there, of course, if you're going to build build out a full-fledged AI SAS and really have lots of customers, you also have to change uh your NAD backend framework to something uh more scalable. Now, all of the prompt templates uh the presentation here and the NAN templates of this video also make sure to um share in my community. Uh we also have one-on-one tech help available in my community and uh generally we try to help people get their AI business off the ground. So if you're interested in that uh make sure to check it out in the link in the description below. So first

of course before starting to build we do have to plan it out a bit. First of course you have have to have some sort of an idea of your AI product or AI SAS. Uh and then most importantly we have to define the inputs and the outputs of our uh of our system of our product. So what data do we start with and what is the end. So in my case uh we have probably company info as the input data right URL a name of the company and maybe the user can give some additional context and the output is ideally a post for X LinkedIn and newsletters. Now in general when

designing AI products you really want to focus on delivering as much of an outcome as possible. That's how we make package the highest value in our AI products. I talk a lot about more about this in my last video on on my complete road map to building an AI SAS. So if you want to learn more about that uh make sure to check it out. And then because we're doing an end-to-end process in general, uh when we want to deliver an a strong outcome to a business, we have to break that process down into granular steps or tasks, right? So if we have an end to end

content system, we don't want to build an automation system that automates everything from start to finish. We want to break it down into the smallest steps and have lots of human in the loop in the system. This is one big takeaway and one big lesson we've learned while building our AI SEO product is we need lots of human in the loop. And Andre Karpathy talks about this uh in his last video too about software 3.0. We really

want to focus on building partial autonomy apps at the moment. So lots of human in the loop because AI is still unpredictable. This is by far the best way to design AI products right now. So in this case I have a content process. So I've broken it down into four uh tasks or steps. Now this is very much

prototype. Normally I'd probably add some more things to this but it's just to give you a quick idea. So in this case task one or automation one is going to be user context generation. Here we're going to uh generate context on the business right based on the URL. Uh so like target audience over business overview uh brand tonality maybe uh things like that. Then we have human in

the loop as always to actually adjust this if necessary. Then we go and onwards to strategic angle generation. Here we sort of have want to uh let the user pick from a few options the kind of content angle or strategy they want to follow. And probably we do that for each of the uh channels X, LinkedIn in a newsletter. Again we have human in the loop. The human chooses. Then we go and

do idea generation underneath each strategic angle. Uh again we have human in the loop and then we actually generate the content. Then the next step is to build the NAN back end. Now uh the first tip there again is build granular, right? I'm going to show you how to do that. Then generally the way we set it

up is uh with one web hook and a switch node with an identifier and then you want to test and save the outputs before actually uh doing it. So this is the setup. I've already set up the the the automation here quickly. Now it's far from a perfect automation. It's very much a prototype. Uh but it's just to

show you how to do this. So in general, you want to the way we do it is by just having one web hook. We make it a lot easier too with cloud code. And then we separate it into these smaller tasks in the workflow, right? The the four that I talked about context generation, strategy generation or angle generation, then idea generation, and content generation. And each one of the

automations outputs the results onto the front end where the user makes the decision on what to act on next and then uh the next automation will will run. Right? And the way we set this up is by having one web hook. Now important if you're going to work with this sort of cloud code setup is you want to change the web hook here to use respond to web hook node. Right? And you'll see that

here in the end of each of the automation workflows we have a web respond to web hook set up. And this basically allows us to get the data back into uh the interface. Right? So this is specifically when you're doing this setup. Each of your automation should end up with this. So that's it. When our

app calls the web hook, it will include an identifier and according to the identifier, you can see the identifier, right? It will route it to the right automation workflow. So that's generally how we set it up. Now you could test this once, right? just so you get the data and also to get the to know exactly what output structure you have which is going to be useful to feed into uh the PRD later so cloud has context on what each automation output can expect right so you can also do it the other way around right first do the PRD but in general I recommend first building out an automation workflow so uh from here we can now start generating a PRD right and again the product requirement document should contain all the sort of vital information to start building that initial version of our app. Right now,

I'm going to share here a prompt template to generate our PRD very quick. So, here I have the PRD. So, what you can do is basically copy and paste this entire prompt, put it into Claude uh Sonnet 4 or Opus 4 or even CHPT. I recommend 03. And what will happen basically I've already done it to save some time is Claude's going to ask you some questions about your product, right? And uh your automation workflow.

And based on that, it will create a PRD, developer PRD, and that we're later going to feed into Cloud Code to save us a lot of time. So, we don't have to go back and forth a lot. It can create this sort of initial version a lot quicker. So, you can see we'll ask some questions of what's your product idea, what problem does it solve, right? What describe how a typical user would use your product. So, in this case, it's

sort of like a user journey. So, uh I've been pretty in-depth on that one. In general, I've seen if you're in depth on that one, it will perform better. Um, now in general, the more detailed you are here, the better your initial PRD is going to be and the less you have to go back and forth with claude when you're actually building it. So it will ask you qu some questions also about your NAN your automation uh and based on that will create this PRD right and the PRD will give you a database schema for superbase for example which we can later copy and paste to create our database in literally seconds. uh we have the naden

web hook integration already so you can feed it the information from what you've already set up and uh UX front end requirements so make this entire document again I can share this if you want to look at it more detail uh but we can then copy that and add it into cloud code later so that's it then the next step is to uh install cloud code right now how do we do this first if you don't already have this you do have to download NodeJS now how do you do this really easy you can just go nodejs test.org right you can get it here can also do it through the ter terminal but this literally takes you 1 minute if you haven't done it yet then second we have to install clot code now very easy how do we do this we can go to cloth code right here we get an npm install so we can copy this we can open the terminal right and in your terminal you just add this and now you have it installed right That's that's all you need. Next step is to uh install cursor. So in general, you don't necessarily need this. You can run clock code from a terminal, but it just gives you a lot better uh UI. Now, we're

not using cursor, right? We're just using your cursor as the IDE, which is basically just the interface. So, you can just download and uh install uh cursor free. Once you've installed it, you can open it up and you'll see a screen like this. And from here, all you do is you click open project. Basically,

you're creating a new file for your new project. So, let's call here this one AI content system.

You can create it. Now, we're in the file. And now here we would talk to um to cursor, right? But of course, we want to use cloud code. So, what we do is we click here on terminal and we click new terminal.

And here, all we're going to do is type in cloud cloud and hit enter. And now uh it will ask me if I trust in the file. Yes. And it says welcome to cloud code. Now I've already connected my cloud code. Uh if this is the first

time you'll get a few questions on uh connecting it to cloud code. So you probably have to verify your account. And second most importantly of course this is cloud code is uh you have to pay for cloud code. So there's two options. Either you have the $200 cloud um subscription or you can run it through the API. Now I recommend doing it

through the API. So you only pay for usage cost. will probably cost you a few dollars, three to four dollars to set up a a web app like that like this. Um, but I would recommend doing it with the API. So, the way you can set that up is just going to clot code again, right? You can

there sign up and once you've signed up, you'll see an option of an API key, get an API key, and with that API key, you you get charged based on usage cost, right? Instead of the $200 subscription. So, once you've uh gone through the steps there, it's quite straightforward to connect it. Then uh you'd come uh to a screen like this. Welcome to cloud code. You can now use cloud subscription

with cloud code. Now basically now we're ready to use cloth code. And all we can do right now is just use the prd that we already generated. So we can just copy that and literally just paste it in here in cloud code. And we hit enter and it will now start.

I'll help you build this content agency management system. Let me start by creating a to-do list. So you can see it plans out everything you has to do, right? And this is going to take a few minutes, right? And we can see track the tokens here, too. Again, it's probably

going to cost a few dollars, but it's going to do all the to-dos. Now, you can see there's human in the loop, so we can uh check if everything he's doing is all right, but you can also just uh with shift tab switch the settings here to auto approve, auto accept edits, right? And then cloud will just start then setting up everything. As you can see, it starts building here already. Now, you don't really have to understand it. I don't

completely understand it either here. Um, but it starts building it. So, it's going to take a few minutes. So, I'm going to speed it up. So, Claude has now finished building the entire web app.

This probably took around four or five minutes. Uh, now we don't really have to understand what's going on here in the back end. I don't fully understand. Uh, but there's one thing we have to do now, which is setting up um the database, right? And we're going to use Superbase as our database. Uh so what we can do

here really simply is we already have a file here that's called database.sql. We can just copy what's in here. So you can use control A and Ctrl + C. And then we go to Superbase, right? If you don't

have an account yet, you can make a free account. If you don't know Superbase, right? It's a database. A really easy way to set up scalable uh databases, right? And we can start out for free. So

if you've uh signed up and made an account, you'll come to this screen and all you do here is create new project, right? You can uh call it we can call it content system. We create new project. Right now we can go here to the side and select SQL editor. Right here we just click this and new SQL script. We paste

in what we just copied and we click run. And basically this contains all the information to structure our tables in our database. Right? So success. So if we now go to the table editor, you can see now we got four tables. So now we

have our our database set up. Now we can go to project overview. Um and now you can see here we have the project API uh the project URL and API key. Now we're going to copy this because the next thing we have to do inside of cursor here is to set up the integrations, right? Both with superbase and our nan web hook, right? And here we basically

have av file and there's basically we can it's a file to store all the sort of connections and API keys right so here we have the super race URL which is the one I just copied we add that in and then the second one is the API key right which we can add in here the second one and then here we have to add in the web hook URL the N web hook URL so if I go back to N we just copy the production URL right and we add it in here and now next step is testing our app right because generally in in when you're doing this debugging is part of the process. So how do we do this? First we have to set up a server where we can uh set this up right so the way we do that is we go here in the terminal again we go here to uh the plus icon right and here we have to first type cd and then space tab and then we click enter. So cd space tab, right? The tab on your keyboard and then enter. And then we go npm

space run space dev, right? And now basically we're setting up a server. And here we're getting a link. You see local and then we get localhost 3000. Now if we open that link, we get an error right away. So

superbase. Okay. And this because I didn't save, right? So here we have to save with command S. Right? Now it's saved. And let's try it

again. And now we have our content dashboard. So this is our app. And now we can start testing. Right? And this is part of the

process. It's going to run into errors the first time you try this. Okay. So we see we have a a login screen. And you can you just want to walk through the system um step by step and test all the buttons etc. And whenever something

comes up, just screenshot it or tell claude the error and it will fix it usually instantly. Right? So we can sign up, create a new account confirmation. So I have to go to my email here. We get the link. So it

already is built in uh the the login, right? So now we're logged in and now we can create our first brand. Let's try it. Right? We have all the fields are correct. Next step. This is seems to be

correct. Brand tone key off for image guidelines. Now this should call our first NAN workflow. Now let's see if that works fine. So we can also then check of course inside of NAN if this actually works in the executions. And

you can see it's running right. So it set that up correctly right away.

Okay. So it runs into an issue as you can see here and the issues will pop up here. So once an issue pops up, right? All you can do here is either screenshot it or just click here on copy, right? And then we can just feed that to to cloud code here, right? So we go back to

the terminal. We have to go back to the original one, right? To this one. We just paste this in and then cloud will start fixing. We can see there's an error within it then proxy web proxy right and usually any error you have it will fix it right away but this might take a few you know minutes slash sometimes hours to actually get all the bugs out to cla said it fixed the error so let's try again

okay now it created it as you can see now we can adjust it of course we can also make changes to the UI Right. So now it works and basically what you want to do is just run through all the steps in your process in the app. Make sure that everything works and then the second thing you want to do is start optimizing the UI a bit. Right? Now the way I uh do it generally is to go to dribble right and you just choose some designs. Dribble is a design platform

that you like right? So you can go like dashboard let's say AI app or something like that right we can choose a sort of a design that you like right and based on that you can then feed that screenshot into claude and sort of mimic that that that style right so let's say this one right and then all I can do is just tell claude I want you to redesign the app uh with this uh style Right. So, this is going to take a bit of course uh and I'm going to just walk through and do all the debugging. Uh but you get the idea, right? And once we have the debug, once I've done that, I'll show you how to actually uh host this on a custom domain. So, I've just

spent the last 20 minutes debugging and optimizing the user interface. This could take a little bit, right? But uh and of course, I'd spend a lot more time actually making it nicer, but it's now fully functional. Now if you want to add in payments for example with stripe you can just go to stripe uh get go to the documentation pages feed it to cloud code and it will uh be able to integrate payw walls right you can also of course add in because I only built the dashboards now but you can also build the the landing page for this of course uh it just you need just need to go back and forth a bit and you'll see that clock code is is pretty amazing now the next step of course because this is still hosted on my uh my own server it's a local host so how do we actually get this onto a normal website. So the first thing we have to do is we have to push it to GitHub. So if you don't have a

GitHub account, you can make one for free, right? So we just need a place to save our repository. Right? So the way we do it is if you've signed up for uh GitHub, you can just go here on your main dashboard and click on new. Here you can uh make a new repository. So I

can call it whatever I want. Then I I let's say content system right you go public that's fine right we go create repository right and now we can uh use this code here we can copy this we go back to the terminal and now we can open a new terminal here again on the plus icon right we can now paste this in here we can I don't know give an error so what we can do here is click command K right and basically what command K does it opens cursor and cursor can help us uh as I am not don't know how to write these things either it can help us write it so we say uh can we commit push so we can say push and commit to GitHub right and now cloud will help us write it right then we can just click enter at the end and now we can see if it pushed it to GitHub. So, we can just go and refresh and now you can see it did an initial commit and everything's published here. So now it's committed to uh to GitHub and from here what we can do is we can go and we have to host it somewhere on the cloud of course. Now an easy way to do that if you're just building your MVP is to through Versal Versal you can build and deploy on the AI cloud right again you can do this for free. you can just uh

create a free account. So once you've signed up uh and you can sign up with your GitHub account and you're on your dashboard you can just click here on add new click on project automatically your GitHub repositories will be loaded if you've signed in with GitHub you can then click on import now here you can call the project whatever you want now the important thing here is to go to environment variables and there we have to paste in um the specific API keys etc. So we can go to the env.lo local file right here. You can uh copy this entire text, right? And we paste it in here.

Right? And there we have the superbase API keys, the N web hook, etc. Right? And then we just simply click deploy. Now, sometimes this runs into error still. Um let's see if it does because

then I'll show you right away how to fix it.

So, it did run into an error here. So what you do if it runs into an area which is quite common is you can just copy these logs right you go back to cloud code right you just paste in the logs and you just say please fix this right it will then fix it the error then uh we have to repush it to uh to GitHub right to update the repository and then try it again and then usually works so can fix it now it's going to take a bit But basically you can just then go and do the same process again right you can tell here with command K please do it again right uh push and commit to GitHub it will upload it to GitHub you can do the same process again and then at the end you'll get your link here right so and also from here from vers you can also then uh connect it to your custom domain whether that's on godaddy etc it's really easy to do that so that's it for this video now you know normally I use air tableable as the front end as the interface I still highlymen recommend especially if you're no coder if you're start starting to build out your first product etc to still use air table because it's going to take you a lot longer optimizing and ch making changes with this setup but if you want to have some more customization in your front end and if you want to uh start integrating payments and recurring payments into your platform that can be an interesting setup so that's why I wanted to walk you through quickly uh if you got any value out of it highly appreciate like and a subscribe again all the templates and resources will be available in my community and uh that's all for this video thank Thank you so much for watching and I hope to see you in the