---
video_title: "I Automated a Newsletter Agency with 1 AI System (no-code)"
video_id: ZVoJuZOCig4
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZVoJuZOCig4
video_date: 2025-09-18T11:21:14+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the newsletter system ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/iaana-newsletter
  
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/iaana-acc
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/iaana-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/iaana-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:46 - Demo
  13:00 - Context Engineering Process
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too.
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer.
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
So in this video I'll show you how we automated and productized an entire newsletter agency with NA Den and AirTable. Now anyone can throw in a quick prompt in chat GPT or copy and paste an NA Den template and get a newsletter in 30 seconds. But getting an actual high quality newsletter with real stories, personality and a unique voice for each brand, that's the hard part. So in this video I'll show you a demo of the system from onboarding to idea generation to human-like newsletters. Show you the context engineering process we follow to automate high quality content processes like these and last the how we package and productize it with NA Den and AirTable. If you don't know me yet, I'm Ben, I run my own AI business where we sell AI SEO, content, ad and recruiting systems to businesses and agencies. I also run a community where I help founders, business owners and professionals build and sell AI automations themselves. Now although it might look simple, a lot of work went into actually building this. It's easy and fast to spin up a quick newsletter automation that produces some generic newsletter, but getting really high quality ones is where you're going to spend a lot more time in engineering a tour solution. So if you're interested in adopting the solution, you can also check out the link in the description below and a book of call with us. Now we have four sections in the tool. The first one is the onboarding where we can set up newsletter strategies for multiple companies or brands. Then second, we can generate insights or ideas either automatically by the system manually or by repurposing a YouTube link or any other link. Then we can write newsletters from the ideas or insights and also generate images. Then we can push it to any of the major email marketing platforms. So for the example here, I've set up two different ones for myself here with two different tone of voices to show you how it can adapt and mimic the tone of voice of a specific personal brand very, very well. So in this first section, the onboarding, it's really the place that allows us to get these high quality and brand aligned and sort of relevant newsletters for specific business. And what we're doing here is essentially onboarding what a traditional agency would do onboarding and we'll gather in context. So you can see here we have the name, what we do, I already filled it out here for myself, right? What the company does or the person does, who this is for, of course, with the newsletters for, then we can add some extra instructions. If you want, for example, if you want to have a specific CTA, et cetera, we can add in a word limit. And here we also have user's context. Now this is optional, but if this newsletter comes from someone specifically, not a company, but from a person like me, then this is really good to fill out. This is really to get the personal background story, both professional and personal from the user, which we can then use inside of the newsletter writing. So here we have a quick talk that I recommend people to fill out to cover everything in the personal background story, which can then be fed into the system. So the way I generally like to do this is use whisper flow so I can talk and just answer all of these questions quickly. But basically, I've already done it here, right? So I've a long background story on me. And then here we have the most important piece that should be filled out, which are the newsletter references. Now, the system is going to mimic the tone of voice and style of these references. Now, the cool thing in this system is we can put in any newsletter from other creators, even if they're not related to our industry. And it will really mimic their tone of voice and style, even though it will write it for your target audience and in your brand, right? So in this case, I fed it in with examples of Justin Welsh, a famous newsletter guy, and here you can just upload any PDF so you can just download it from email and upload it here, the ones we like. And I did the same one here, basically the same setup, but with a different newsletter from Liam Ottley, just to show you that it will generate very different tone of voice and it will really mimic the style of each of these creators, because Liam and Justin have very different styles. So you'll see that in a second. And then we have the reference images because it can also generate images. So if we have any styling, et cetera, you can add that in here and then you can decide the integration platform. Now, from here, the next step is to generate a strategy. Now, if I click here, the system will start generating a newsletter strategy and a writing framework based on the context we gave it on the company. So that's the first part of our automation here in the back end in an end end. First of all, parse the PDFs, write the null, write a newsletter strategy and a writing framework. Now, these two reports are going to be really important when we're generating ideas and the newsletter and also to mimic the tone of voice. So if I go back here, we got the newsletter strategy right now. So you can see in the strategy, we have a messaging and positioning. So we cover the target audience, the value per position, write the narrative, the pain points of our target audience, AI moves so fast. So I don't know where to start. In Foster's syndrome, I'm not technical enough to build with AI, et cetera. More infinite sides about the customer and we generate some content pillars. And of course, again, we have human in the loop here. So we can't adjust this. And then second, we have a writing framework. So this is a very detailed overview of the writing style of the references we put in. So you can see structural formula, write, who quit unexpected truth. So it bends adaptation. In this case, language pattern, paragraph strategy, vulnerability deployment, trust building, write the exact phrases that he likes to use, et cetera. So I'll do it quickly for the other one too. And now from here, we can go to generate insights. But basically three ways we can generate insights or ideas we can write newsletters on later. The first one is by just putting in an insight yourself here. This is what I tend to do or sometimes do. It's just again, users will flow whenever I have an insight and generate ideas from there. The second is by sharing a link. We can either share YouTube link or a blog link or et cetera. Now again, it is can be something that is not related to your industry, et cetera. It already has context on your target audience, on your brand, et cetera. So create insights and ideas that will be relevant for your target audience. And the third way is let the system do it automatically. So in that case, we don't have to select anything. So I can just click here on generate ideas. I'll do it for both. And now the system in the back-end will generate ideas automatically, which is the next part of the flow. The ideas, of course, are generated according to the context before. So if I go back, now I can go here and here we get all the new ideas. So you can see you don't need to understand neural networks, the high-speed AI consultants. I know can't code. But so we get all the ideas for the different brands here. So generated for both here. So most agencies burn 15 hours a week. I'm client reporting. There can be automated with N&N. So you can see it already has context on what I do, right? The gap between freelancers stock at 5K amount and 8C hitting 100K MR was in technical ability, but it's shift from selling AI features to selling outcomes. This is a good one. So for example, from here, I like this, this inside, I can just go here on generate content. And now start generating the actual newsletter. Besides this, I can also add in YouTube links, blog links, or manual insights on the difference between this one and the one before us. Here we'll actually write the newsletter out of it right away instead of generating ideas or insights out of it. So let me just show you an example. The same example for both. Once we can compare the tone of voices and see that it really does it differently according to the references we give it. So let's just pass in a YouTube link. I'll call it YouTube. Link one. We pass in around the YouTube link. Let's do this one. Just paste that in here. We click source type YouTube and regenerate the content. Now do the same one for the other one. So we can see the difference. Now in the meantime, the other one is done. So we can see and check the result here. So you can see this one is based on Liam Otley style. And it starts with this August 28th, 2025 style by Loverzeos where I live. Hey there Ben here. I'm writing this for my apartment post workout still dripping from the sauna. The sauna regulars were asking me about AI again today. Ben should be worried about our jobs. What's the next big AI tool? How do I learn this stuff? When I realize why explaining it for the hundredth time, everyone's asking the wrong questions. So this took it from Liam's style, which always starts almost always with a personal backstory. So if I show an example of Liam, you can see here, I made our Liam, I was in Turkey until last week Monday morning, line being in bed staring at the ceiling. So you can see very similar style also for the introduction. And it really mimicked that well, but of course it used my personal stories. It knows I take regular sauna, but so it takes that as a personal backstory when it's starting the newsletter. You can also see as this short punchy sentences style, right, lots of questions, short sentences, etc. which you really took from his reference. It's a little bit more. So six months ago, I was stuck at the same revenue. Then I had a pain for conversation with a prospect that changed everything. I don't give a fuck about your AI tools. So this again, this is the style of Liam, right? He does this profanity thing. Sometimes here we go. Right, fuck it. Let's do it. Right. So it really mimics that to an avoid, but of course it uses it and according to my context and my target audience. And the story is still based on the insight, right? The shift that nobody talks about before, after, etc. But I want to show you an example of the YouTube link, which is now generated to see the difference in styles between the two references. Right. Again, this one is from Liam's references. And again, it starts here with a personal backstory at 647 a.m. I'm sitting in my apartment watching the side panel, South powder skyline wake up just finished by morning gym session. I spent the dawn coffee brewing again to get for my personal context. And I keep thinking about this conversation. I had been old friend yesterday around the marketing agency. Tony employees decent revenue. The works spent entire 25 minutes complaining about margins, hiring headaches and clients demanding faster results for less money, classic agency problems. Then he asked me what I told him we just crossed 100 KMR delivering SEO services. Again, got that context. He's jaw literally dropped eight people. I was even possible. So here goes into the content of my YouTube video, but really just makes a personal story out of it. Right. Opportunity one. And if you've seen my video, this is exactly what it covers. Three states transformation. So this is really 90% there. Of course, it's very hard to get them 100% there. But if this is your turn of voice, it doesn't amazing job. But if we look now look at the one from Justin Welsh here, you see that the styles very different. Right. Justin Welsh, if you have seen his news, it's a lot more nuance. It's not as punchy or attention grabbing maybe as Liam. It's a lot more nuanced, a lot more balanced. It's more writing while Liam's is more conversational. So it can see he also likes to start with a personal backstory last week. I'd lunch with a successful CEO. As we were eating our appetite salads, I started digging into a story. I don't think I know enough to build a business that big after I said it, he smiled, leaned across the table and said something that surprised me. So a lot more nuanced and balanced writing. So if we look at ours right now at a coffee with an agency on her last week was doing joining in client work, 20 employees barely breaking even, working weekends just to keep up classic service business problems. Then I showed him what we're doing with our SEO service. We're handling triple the clients with the third amount of staff running at margins. He didn't believe or possible. His response was exactly what I expected, but I'm not technical enough to build AI systems. So again, took that from the pain points, etc. You can see the style here. It's completely different than the one I previously generated, but still talks to my target audience. It uses my personal backstory and covers what I said in that video. And you can even see it in the call to action, ready to transform your knowledge. This is the type of call call to action he uses right. And if we look at Liam's right, this is the type of call to action he generally uses. Right, the PS. So really does a good job mimicking that that tone of voice in my experience. And then from here, what we can do is generate the subject lines. So we'll generate three subject lines. Right. And then we can choose once we get the three and we choose, we can then push to the newsletter platform. And last, you can also generate images for this newsletter. So if I click here, the generated images will be generated here. Right. So you can see, actually followed my style a lot. It's not perfect yet. These images were really, this is 95% of the way there and really follows my style. Even copies my picture, my name, etc. And tries to make sort of an infographic, which you can then use inside of the newsletter. From there, you can push it. So you can see this one was generated now, unlocking 80% margins with AI, which was the top of the other one, traditional HD model, the automated advantage, higher margins. So covers exactly. You can see there's some small errors, which you might have to adjust, but it's pretty amazing for being AI generated. Now, that can then be pushed to get directly. It will appear here in your drafts or whatever be high, etc. You use, but I hope this gave you some insight on how well it can do the copy. And in my experience, these are really 90% there. Of course, you always have to check. And that's why we have constant human in the loop to make sure everything's fine. But it's really impressive how well I can copy the tone of voice in the style of specific writers. Now, if we look at the NADAN, it might look like a pretty simple and straightforward automation system. But most of the work in automating these content systems or creative processes, really in the context engineering and the prompt engineering, whereas really where you spend 80% of the time in order for you to actually get those high quality outcomes. Now, let me get you through the process we follow when trying to automate these types of processes, these creative processes. Now, here I just made a quick diagram to show you the process we follow. Now, in one of my previous videos, I covered the exact process we followed to do context engineering. So if you haven't yet, make sure to check it out. But I'll walk you through very quickly here. Basically, the first thing we do is we reverse engineer the process from the outcome. Now, in this case, the outcome of the newsletter is, of course, newsletter generation, which is the last step in our process. Of course, I haven't added here the push to newsletter tool, but that one is quite straightforward. So, and really the key thing when trying to automate these processes is defining for each of these steps in the process exactly which context variables or pieces would be best to get the best possible outcome for each of these steps. Now, this is a little bit of requires a little bit of experimentation. Sometimes I require some testing in a tool like prompt me, which I'll show you in a second. But for this one, we basically define that these are the best types of context to put in in order for us to get the best possible newsletter out. So the first one is our newsletter strategy, which just covers the ICP, the strategy behind the newsletter, the CTAs and context around the business. Then we have a brand tone of voice, right? With the doves and don'ts, the style, the format, the tone of voice, which again, I showed you before. Then we have the newsletter personality, right? With the personal and professional background stories to add that into the newsletters, that of course, we have to pass in the insight or the idea. Now this can be an L&M generated insight or user insight or an external source like the YouTube or link or blog link. That's why I've separated them. So basically the green ones, I mean, these are context pieces that are generated by an L&M and the blue ones are ones that are generated by the user. So it's a user input variable, basically. So and then the last one, of course, is newsletters, references and examples. This we've experimented a lot. This got us the best outcomes. Then of course, we have the system prompt that describes to the N&M how to use these different context variables in order to get to a great newsletter. And there is some experimentation in the system prompt too. Now it's not always completely straightforward, which context variables you need. And this requires a bit of experimentation. And that's where we use prompt meteors. So let me show you a quick example. So here we are in prompt meteors. Again, I walked through it in my last video too, but I'll give you a quick overview. So here basically we have the system prompts, the ones here in orange, and here we have the data sets. And in the data sets, we can basically feed in context into the system prompt. Right? So you can see that we have all the context variables that I showed you before. So this is the final system prompt for... And we can easily test that by just turning context on and off. And we can also experiment between different formats of that context. So for example, if I go in the tonality report, I can also add in multiple variables here. And then I can test with which one, for example, it gets the best outputs. So I can put it here on 7 or 8. And then I can generate it. And based on the generation, I can then check which ones better. So you're constantly AB testing. And this is quite some work. But it's really what we've seen is necessary to get the best possible outputs from these N&M in your creative processes. Now the next thing with test is also the system prompt, where here you can also add in multiple system prompts and tests between those, which ones works best. And then of course you can also experiment between different models. Right? Now we've seen for these writing tasks, highly recommend cloud 4.1 Opus. It's in my experience for most of these tasks the best. But you can see highly recommend playing around with prompt meteors. And a long fuse is another example of a good tool. You can do this in, but it really is necessary my experience to get to that to those good outcomes. And you will spend quite a lot of time. We spent most of the time actually in these tools and planning out the process. Once we have the right prompts and the right pieces of context, putting it all together into an N&M system is really the easy part. Now from here we work basically backwards. Like what do we need to get there? Right? So the next step would be idea generation. On this case, we only need two context pieces to get good ideas in our experience, which is the newsletter strategy and the newsletter personality. And of course, a good system prompt to generate these ideas. Then we have the brand tone of voice, right? Which again, I showed you before now in our experience, this is really important to get the N&M to really mimic that tone of voice. Just the references. Does a decent job, but this really hones it down even further. So in our experience for these content processes, having a brand tone of voice that's fed in to this last step really makes a big difference in the tone of voice. Now in order to generate that, we of course need to feed it news data references and the newsletter strategy. So it gets context around me and my business and of course, a good system prompt. Then we have before that newsletter strategy generation. Now this again, we almost always do with these types of processes because we always in every single one of these steps. As you can see, we always pass in the newsletter strategy for the system to have a good overview of the ICP, the target audience, the company and the person we're writing this for. Now in this case, this would be the first step in our process to all of these are going to be user inputs. And this is also by reverse engineering like this and defining the context pieces, how we can define what the user needs to fill out, what the user inputs are going to be. So you can see, of course, to generate the newsletter strategy report, we need a company overview, we need the ICP and we need the CTA, right? And then of course, we can define what the user onboarding user inputs need to be, right? Company overview, ICP, CTA, newsletter personality, newsletter references, insights, ideas and brand image examples. Now, didn't add that step in here, of course, but we need some context for that one too. So that's sort of the process we follow to do this. Now again, highly recommend checking out prompt me, as you can see here in the strategy, newsletter strategy. We also have multiple prompts we test. We test with all these different variables to get to the best outcomes. Now again, if you want to learn more about this process at the top, make sure to check out my last video. Also, if you're interested in adopting a solution like this, maybe your newsletter agency or you provide these services to companies, you can always book in a call with us in the link in the description below. Thank you so much for watching. If you got any value out of it, I highly appreciate a like and a subscribe and I hope to see you in the next one. Bye.