---
video_title: "5 Niches Desperately Paying For AI Automation in 2026"
video_id: WKyiO3yzv1U
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WKyiO3yzv1U
video_date: 2025-11-26T11:09:59+00:00
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/5ndpf-acc
  
  Get the free presentation shown in the video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/5ndpf-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/5ndpf-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/5ndpf-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 – Intro
  00:16 – Niche 1
  05:39 – Niche 2
  10:11 – Niche 3
  14:44 – Niche 4
  19:21 – Niche 5
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too. 
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast. 
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer. 
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
In the last two years, I've received over 1200 inbound leads and implemented AI in more than 100 businesses. So in this video, I want to break down the five industries we worked with most, show you why they are great industries for AI automation and show you exactly what to sell and how to acquire leads in each one of these niches. The first one is e-commerce. E-commerce is a massive $7 trillion market. It's highly fragmented and makes up 24% of all retail sales. There are more than 28 million e-commerce stores and it's relatively labor-heavy making it ideal for AI automation. We've worked with over 20 e-commerce businesses and it's a great niche because there's room upwards in terms of company size. You can start selling to small e-commerce businesses and grow to bigger ones and bigger deal sizes as your agency scales. Now why are e-commerce stores a great niche for AI automation agencies? First of all, the majority has a digital first stack. They generally operate on Shopify, WooCommerce and some other major platforms that have good API integrations. Second, they tend to have low net margins, even the best e-commerce stores because of the high cost of goods and marketing spend, don't tend to have a margin of over 20%. Now why is this good? Because with small efficiency gains or time saving and revenue generating automations, we can make a big potential impact on their business. So let's say for example, we have an SEO automation that reduces some of the marketing costs, increasing the net margin by just 2%. Let's say, can mean a potential profit margin boom of 10 to 20% for the business. Also, e-commerce founders tend to be more marketing type people instead of product people, meaning they're often non-technical and are therefore required to outsource these types of technical implementations. Also, most e-commerce businesses are high volume low-ticket type businesses, meaning they're ideal for high ROI on automation. And this also means fast feedback loops. The results of your AI automations will become obvious to founders faster, making it easier to get into a long-term AI partnership. Now, in order to understand what kind of automations to sell to e-commerce businesses, we have to look at their main pain points and how their business is run. Most e-commerce businesses are heavily dependent on marketing to drive their business because if you think about it, once they have the product, it really becomes a marketing game. So this tend to be one of the biggest costs for e-commerce businesses besides the cost of goods, of course. And most e-commerce businesses generally depend heavily on SEO, paid ads, email, newsletter and some social media. Second, because e-contents to be a high volume type business, customer service reps tend to be overloaded which can affect conversions, customer satisfaction, and lastly in operations, they can have a high volume of products so there can be many time consuming operations in inventory management and side management. So we want to offer a solution that target these pain points. Now, the green boxes are the ones we tend to see are the biggest pain points and where you probably at least want to start with an e-con business. We've consistently sold SEO automations, which we specialize in, of course, but also meta-ad solutions both in creating ad creatives faster but also on reporting and campaign optimization. We've sold email nurture systems and newsletter automations because e-com heavily depend on email marketing and lastly content repurposing can be a low-hanging fruit to start with as they usually already manage a blog or something like that. Then in sales and customer service, website and social media chat bots can provide very fast ROI to e-con businesses. I showed an example of that in my previous video on Gemrock auctions where we build a customer website chat that can recommend products, answer questions which made a significant impact on conversion rates and customer satisfaction for this client. Other use cases here can be card abandonment, email flows, personalized email follow ups because retention is also really key to an e-con business. In operations, you can think of automations like automated product descriptions or image generation. Now, in my accelerator, we have templates according to each industry for all of these niches which we're constantly expanding. So if you're interested in having some of these templates here, you can also check out my accelerator in the link in the description below. Now, it's great to know what to sell but how do you actually reach these types of businesses. Now, in order to know that, we have to understand a little bit where e-commerce founders live. The big advantage of e-commerce founders, although they're not tech people, they generally do live online. So we have multiple options of targeting e-con businesses. First, we have organic content, e-con founders live on LinkedIn and generally educate themselves on YouTube. So showing e-com specific AI automations has consistently brought us e-commerce clients. For example, my meta ad automation video on YouTube still brings us e-commerce clients even six months after posting. Also, my SEO video, similar, but we also have community members with e-com specific YouTube channels that consistently generate leads like that. I think there's a big opportunity right now on YouTube because although AI automation is getting a lot more competitive on YouTube, niche specific channels are still very rare. So you can easily stand out with a channel that's focused on AI automation for e-commerce. The third option is communities. Many e-con founders are part of Facebook groups, WhatsApp groups, and there are also some school groups. You can help people there with their problems or show solutions you've built, and you can also post your services in partnership channels. Then we have partnerships. Most e-con businesses work with big operating systems like Shopify and WooCommerce, and they almost always have a partner program. Now, I think this can be a great strategy for AI agencies in general because becoming one of the official AI partners on Shopify, for example, can give you visibility pretty fast and a steady flow of inbound leads. Elastic call outreach is definitely an option too. Again, most e-con founders live online, so a lot of times emails of these e-con founders are accessible on platforms like Apollo to be scraped, but also LinkedIn outreach, which I generally recommend doing together with LinkedIn content. Now, the second one is marketing agencies, which has been the biggest client source for my agency, and where there's massive potential in my opinion, it's a $450 billion market now. Might sound small compared to the e-commerce, but just keep in mind that the total SaaS market is around 350 billion. So, there are around 400,000 marketing agencies, and of course, it's an extremely laboring, intensive business, making it ideal for AI automations. Now, why are marketing agencies such a good target? First of all, they have very repeatable deliverables. We have general marketing agencies who do everything from ads, emails, blogs, SEO, and social media management, but we also have niche ones focused on one of these channels. Now, they also tend to be a lot of reporting in marketing agencies, reporting of KPIs to customers, which is very time-consuming. Generally, the workflows are also very data-rich because we have access to brief assets and performance metrics, which we can really use to build high performing automations. This also tends to be a low-net margin business. Most marketing entities, even the best ones, don't have margins over 25 or 30% maximum, meaning that even a slight improvement in efficiency or time-saving can have a huge marginal impact on the net profits of these businesses. They also tend to be one of the early adopters of AI we have noticed, which is actually a good thing because people who have some experience and education on AI tend to be more bought-in and are easier to convert in our experience and also know what to expect from AI. Lastly, they also have a very digital first stack, making it easy for us to integrate these solutions to APIs, of course, and another reason it's great is, again, there's room upwards. You can start with smaller agencies, which might be easier to convert in the beginning, but as your agency grows, you can start targeting bigger marketing agencies and also reusing some of your automations, which is something we've done too. Now, the way marketing agencies generally operate is you can separate it into three buckets. We have business development and onboarding, which is basically acquiring new leads and onboarding them. Then we have production and delivery of the service to the client and then we have reporting and retention. Now, the biggest pain points for marketing agencies in general is in the production and delivery because it's extremely headcount heavy. They tend to be very time-consuming creative processes, for example, SEL management, ad management or social media management, and these processes really eat away at the margins of these businesses. In business development, it is a pretty competitive market and generally requires quite an intensive type of onboarding and churn is a real problem for marketing agencies too. If we think about what to sell to these businesses, we have to focus on their biggest pain point, which is in general production and delivery. Now, the huge advantage we have in AI is that we can now automate some of these creative processes and because a lot of agencies already have systems or SOPs in place for service delivery, if we can help them automate it, we can make a huge potential impact on the net margin of their business. Now, the main system, we are selling, of course, is our AI SEO system, not a reason marketing agencies and SEO agencies pay us good money for the system is because it can drastically reduce the headcount in these very labor-heavy processes like SEO. Since then, we also expanded our portfolio with Meta ad systems, content systems, including our LinkedIn system and our newsletter system. Now, although this is, this first bucket is really where you should focus and can provide the most ROI to marketing agencies reporting tends to be a huge time-sync too for these businesses. So we've also consistently sold some of these reporting automations, for example, for SEO and Meta ads, but also data analytics tools with AI agents connected with Google Analytics. But of course, you could also think about automations helping their own business development in this first bucket like lead generation automation. But again, I'd really focus on this first bucket when starting. Now, how do you reach these marketing agencies? Marketing agencies, of course, live online tend to be the early adopters of AI. That's where they're great initial target because content on any social media around marketing solution just tends to attract a lot of marketing agencies. Now, most of my automation solutions have been around marketing because of course, this is also my background and this has just always generated a consistent pipeline of marketing agency leads for my business. My Meta ad video, again, my SEO video, my LinkedIn video and other ones have got me consistently from marketing agencies. Of course, another option is called outreach because again, generally these emails are available on the email database platforms. Paydaz is also an option we tried it didn't get great results, but as they are early adopters, many of these marketing agencies are also inside of the AI community. So just by being active, helping out and posting in the partnership channels of marketing related communities and AI communities can really help you find some of these clients through. Now, the next one is recruitment and staffing agencies. This is also a massive $900 billion market. They're around 160,000 recruitment agencies worldwide. And this is also a market where we have extensively worked with and created specific solutions for now. If you don't know what the difference is between recruitment agencies and staffing agencies, recruitment agencies generally get higher to find some specific hard to hire for jobs generally in executive roles and get paid whenever they place a candidate inside of the company. Generally, they get between 10 to 30% of the yearly salary of the placement and that can easily be 20 to 40 thousand dollar deal. Now, staffing agencies don't necessarily charge based on placement. They basically just sort of lend people to companies and charge them mark up on the hourly rate. So this is, for example, very common in technical type jobs or temporary jobs. So let's say a company needs 20 developers for a big project they're building out, staffing agencies can then quickly help a business out with a team like that. And they might charge a company like $150 an hour while paying the developers themselves $100, which can be pretty lucrative, but of course, a lot more admin-heavy than recruiters because you're almost like a service provider. Now, why are these niches great to target? First of all, because they generally tend to have very repetitive workflows, right? They have to source screen hundreds of candidates they have to consistently reach out to new businesses. They have to manage scheduling. So there are many high volume processes, which can be time intensive again, making it ideal for automation. They also tend to have these high fees right of anywhere between right 15 to up to 50k for one placement, meaning if you even get them one extra placement a year, the ROI is extremely clear to these agencies. They're also generally non-technical people, which again means they probably have to outsource these types of technical automation builds and results again, can appear fast. So the benefit becomes clear to these companies fast. They also tend to have a pretty fragmented stack between their ATS database, which is sort of like their CRM, their email calendar and job boards. Now, the biggest pain points for recruitment and staffing agencies are business development, finding new companies that need to hire people. The key factors there are really speed, right? They want to get these companies as soon as they're hiring for a new job, right? And second, finding the right person, the decision maker, or the hiring manager is really important. Now, second, finding new potential candidates to place inside of these businesses is also a very high volume type of job. They have to do a lot of outreach and screening. Now, these are definitely the two biggest pain points for these types of businesses, but there is also some admin involved where sometimes they optimize CVs for the candidates. They have to do the scheduling, of course, and lead research, but it's probably not where you want to focus on when you're targeting these businesses. So the solutions you want to focus on generally are the business development side, right? You can resolve big pain points for these agencies by giving them faster ways to find businesses that are hiring right now. And this can be done through scraping job boards, scraping LinkedIn. We've created an entire productized solution around this, which can basically detect companies with a potential open position instantly by tracking job changes from people on LinkedIn. And because this tends to be a high volume outreach, helping them automate outreach with personalized outreach can provide high ROI, also detecting the right decision makers and hiring managers for Canada sourcing. You can do the same right personalized outreach cadences through clay or NADN automatic screening. You can save huge amounts of times for recruiters too. And operations and admin, which I wouldn't focus on the startway, you can think of automations like CV optimization, but also helping recruiters do their own marketing, right? So you can think of content or LinkedIn automations to promote their own agency or personal brand. And simply by connecting some of the fragmented tech stack, even without AI, I can already provide ROI. Now, how do you reach them recruiters? Of course, live on LinkedIn because this is their job, right? So LinkedIn is a great channel for recruiters. This is how I've gotten in quite a few recruiting leads by just posting a few posts for recruiters solutions on LinkedIn, even though it doesn't have loads of likes or comments, right? It's still broad in leads. Also YouTube is still a huge opportunity. It's a niche that hasn't been attacked at all. And I have two videos on my channel focused on recruiting and those brought in more than 50 potential leads. So definitely an opportunity there too. We've also done paid ads specifically for recruiters, which gotten really good results compared to, for example, SEO solution. And because they live online, call that which on email and LinkedIn is definitely a great option to you could also think about communities. There are some community Facebook groups and WhatsApp groups where recruiters connect. Now, next one is the dental clinic niche. Surprisingly enough, we've forgotten in a lot of inbound leads from dental clinics, many of them which have turned into long term clients. And one of our biggest clients is actually a dental clinic group. It's a $450 billion market. There are hundreds of thousands of dental clinics, of course. And many struggle with the same issues and are very admin heavy. Now, I added medical clinics on top there because a lot of these niches in the medical clinic space have the same characteristics as dental clinics. Think chiropractors, general practitioners, veterinarians, all have very similar type of businesses. Now, why are these niches good for AI automation? First of all, they have a high call and scheduling volume, which are just the best types of processes for automation. Again, like I said, they are admin heavy. The admin work represents a high percentage of the cost of these businesses. And in the medical niche at the moment, they're struggling a lot with staff shortages, especially in front desk work like receptionists. And they're also struggling with rising wages. Now, of course, these are also very non technical buyers. So they need other people to implement this stuff. Their documentation is very heavy on the doctor side. And they very often rely on legacy software. Now, this can be a bad thing and a good thing. The bad thing, of course, is that integration becomes a lot more difficult. But this is also an opportunity because we can provide an extra service of modernizing their software stack. Now, if you think about dental clinic, you can broadly separate it into a pen front desk and intake patient care delivery and insurance billing and collections. Now, one of the biggest pain points for these dental clinics is in the first pocket because every missed call can mean a lost patient. No shows last minute cancellations also really kill revenue because it means an empty chair on the doctor side. And because these are legacy businesses, almost all of the work here is extremely manual sale and very labor heavy. Now, the second big pain point is that many doctors struggle with a lot of administration and not taking which directly impact revenue because they can see less clients. Now, many of the billing insurance checks and payment collection are also still done manually. But if we think about what to sell, we really want to focus on that first pocket because we can make a really big impact to their business very fast. Now, what are the solutions we've consistently offered to these dental clinics are the big one is voice booking receptionist right at work 24, 7 and around the clock. Now, these can make a big impact because again, missed calls a lot of times mean lost patients because they simply call other dental clinics. So booking chatbots through WhatsApp or websites are a great one too. Calendar management automation should be surprised that even this part is still done manually by many of these businesses because they rely on legacy software. Also automated digital intake forms because a lot of it is still done manually or to paperwork and automated appointment reminders, which again, you'd be surprised of how few clinics actually have implemented this. So we're seeing a lot of startups popping up actually in that second bucket to automate some of the admin for these doctors like AI, Skride apps and automations. Now, there is usually some specific knowledge and compliance in this process because of course you're dealing with patient information. So this might be harder to do for some of these niches. And lastly, in insurance billing and collections, we can have automated patient follow ups, automated invoicing and reminders. We can build some automations about plain preparations. Although again, some of these are a little bit more compliant sensitive. Now, how do we reach these businesses? Of course, surprisingly, many of these came through my YouTube channel, but most of them of course are not online and are not very tech savvy. So we have to provide very clear ROI in messaging. Now, where do we reach them? Called outreach can be a better strategy here. Although it might be a bit harder to find emails for dental clinics, you probably have to scrape Google maps instead of databases like Apollo. There's also an option of reaching out to their website form through AI browser automation agents with tools like Skyver and or AirOps because of course they tend to check these contact phones all the time because they tend to be clients. Another interesting strategy for these niches can be vendor partnerships. Usually there is some legacy operating system that most dental clinics use. For example, Dentrix, EgoSoft and trying to get a partnership with one of them or a revenue share can be a great strategy to have some bigger players start recommending you. This is a strategy my friend Jonas is following in the hotel niche. He has a partnership with one of the main operating systems for hotels in Germany and gets a lot of leads directly through them. Pay that could also be a good strategy for these niches and if you can get into professional networks like dental and medical associations, it can be great because the referral flywheel tends to be strong in these niches because if you can get one client, they're usually connected to a group of clinics. So if you provide high ROI to one, you have the potential to onboard multiple of these clinics. And lastly, we have legal services. It's a $1 trillion market and although there are some really big legal firms, there are also more than 400,000 solo and small legal firms in the U.S. alone and there are some big legal AI tech popping up like Harvey AI, but they're generally focused on the big firms while the small and mid-sized firms generally get ignored a bit more. Now why is this a good niche? Because these processes of law firms are generally very admin heavy and somewhat repeatable. The admin directly eats away at the revenue of the business because usually it's the same lawyers doing the admin work and lawyers generally charge anywhere between $250 to $1,000 or even upwards. So even small efficiency gains can make a huge impact on the overall revenue of these service professionals. Of course, lawyers are very non-technicals that they need to outsource this stuff and they still have a very fragmented tech stack, even simple automations disconnecting their tech stack and provide quick ROI. Now if you look at legal services, we can take off three buckets, marketing, getting new clients, right, sales and onboarding and operations. Now many lawyers get their clients from referrals and on an online presence, but it is a competitive space so some do struggle with online visibility also because they're not marketers of course, but in legal, speed to lead and fast follow-ups and clear communication are really the key to closing clients because legal cases tend to be very time sensitive. And in operations, there are many manual tasks that directly impact the revenue, right, like document drafting and research. So if we focus on what to sell, we want to look at the biggest pain points which tend to be in sales and onboarding and operations. Masai, a member of my accelerator is focused on the legal niche and grew to $10,000 a month in a couple of months, targeting these niche and these are the two areas he's seen the most ROI for legal firms. So think of client intake automations, speed to lead automations, automatic proposal generations and in operations, you can think of automating document drafting, extracting information from heavy legal docs to save the lawyers a lot of time and connecting their fragmented tech stack and again, already make a big impact on these businesses. Now how do we reach them? You have to keep in mind that lawyers tend to be pretty skeptical buyers. So it's a very sort of referral heavy business. So it might be a bit harder to get them through the door, but once you have them, it can really lead to sort of that referral flywheel which is exactly what happened to Masai. Of course, they're not as present online as some of these other niches, but they are generally on LinkedIn and this is exactly the strategy. Masai has followed. He's consistently put out content around AI for legal on LinkedIn and on his YouTube. He's done webinars on LinkedIn and even though you might think that his view count is not that high, he's consistently generated leads and is at the moment overloaded with leads partly also because of that referral flywheel. Now that's it for this video. Remember, if you want some of the templates that I mentioned, you can check out my accelerator. Also, if you want to learn how to actually close these clients, if you've picked your niche, you can check out this video on how to do sales for AI