---
video_title: "The EXACT Roadmap to Scaling an AI Business from $0 - $100k"
video_id: GKlTQfLUOvQ
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GKlTQfLUOvQ
video_date: 2025-07-12
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/terts-acc
  
  Get the free template of this video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tert-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/terts-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/terts-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:51 - The Struggle with Scaling an AI Agency
  05:56 - The Struggle with Scaling an AI SaaS
  10:08 - Option 1: Scaling With Productization
  13:58 - Option 1: Transition to Selling AI systems
  19:56 - Option 1: Roadmap to Scaling an AI product Business
  38:27 - Option 2: Scaling a Traditional Service Business with AI
  46:15 - Option 3: Roadmap to Scaling an AI Agency
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too.
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer.
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
I talk to AI founders almost every day and I see a pattern. Most start off strong, but nine out of 10 struggle to scale past the 5 to 10k MR mark. Why? Because what nobody tells you is that while learning automation and landing some one-off projects is very doable, scaling an AI business is an entirely different game. Most AI agencies drown in never-ending custom builds wondering if this is what they really wanted. And

most vcoded AI SAS founders launch code that nobody actually ever buys. So, in this video, I'll give you a step-by-step guide on how to push past the 10K MRR mark and how to grow your AI business without hiring a huge team or praying for some big VC check. I'm Ben, and I've skilled both an AI agency and an AI product business past 50K MR. And by the end of this video, you'll know exactly which model to choose and what to focus on today to actually scale an AI business. So, I'll first cover why most people are struggling to scale an AI business. Then I'll cover the road map

to scaling an AI product business. Then I'll cover quickly how to scale a nonAI service business now that we have AI. Uh for example, as an existing marketing agency. This is often a model that's overlooked but actually really interesting to scale now that we have AI. Then I'll cover the exact road map to scaling an AI automation agency or an AI agency. And lastly, I'll try to help

you pick which model might be best for you in your situation. So the two most common business models people jump into when learning AI is first of all the AI automation agency where we deliver AI automation services to businesses helping them automate enhance and optimize their existing processes in their business with platforms like uh naden and make.com we can now quite easily do that and then uh the second one is building an AI product or often an AI SAS now that we have tools like uh cursor or lovable we can spin up an AI product or an AI SAS quite quickly. Now the big advantage of starting an AI automation agency delivering AI services is that there's no doubt that this is a huge and fastly growing market right every business will have to adopt AI into their business to stay competitive in the marketplace and if you've been learning or are learning platforms like naden and make.com you'll notice that you can learn these tools and build valuable systems very quickly in a couple weeks months you can build systems and workflows and automation systems that really deliver value to businesses, right? So that's the huge

upside of this model. At the moment, very few businesses have adopted uh AI yet in their businesses or automation in their businesses and you even learning this for a few weeks really have value to deliver to businesses and therefore you can generate cash flow quite quick, right? There's a lot of FOMO in the market right now. Many businesses know that they have to adopt AI and automation into their business, but they lack the in-house expertise to actually set this up. So they're very happy to work with and they're looking for people to help them out with this. Right? So

you can land some some clients and projects quite quickly with this business model. And therefore you also have a very steep learning curve, right? Because after a couple weeks of learning, you might land your first client or your first project. And once you start building with within a client's company, you'll notice that you learning curve steepens even more, right? So you can really quickly learn how to work with AI services. Now, if

you've been running this model uh for the last months or weeks, uh you'll also notice that there are some challenges to mostly getting this business model stable and to actually scale this business model, right? You'll quickly notice once you start doing this that uh scoping projects is actually very difficult, right? If a business comes to you with a project, an automation project, you'll quickly notice that knowing exactly what to do from the from the start is very difficult. So a lot of times what you'll see with your first project is that these projects drag out a lot longer than you initially expected, right? That also you need a lot of project and client management when delivering these services. You need

to work very closely with the business to automate their processes to understand their internal processes before automating it. And a lot of times you first of all have to improve the actual uh uh processes before you start automating it because you quickly notice that many businesses are not run very efficiently in the first place yet. Then second, you'll also notice that if you're landing some clients to get this business stable, you do need consistent lead flow, right? If you you might land a client here and there, you might even land a big one. Uh sometimes maybe you land a $15,000 deal, big one. Uh but

that can literally set you back three months delivering that project and you constantly have to hunt for new leads to keep your business stable, right? And in the end, the only way you're going to scale this business model is by hiring more engineers. So many of the AI automation agencies I talk to every day, and I've been there too, they get stuck in the phase, which I call the one-off project hell, where you're constantly chasing new leads, trying to find new projects, and trying to uh deliver on uh the the existing clients you have, which often drag out a lot longer than you think. Now, I've been seeing many videos recently, including from fellow creators on YouTube, saying the AI automation agency model is a scam or it's all a lie. Uh, or don't sell AI automation, sell this, etc. Don't sell AI agents.

Now, I want to be very clear here. This model, this business model, it's not a silver bullet, right? We're all excited about AI, but it's still a business, right? And getting any business off the ground, getting any business stable and scaling is hard, right? And it takes time, right? But it doesn't mean it's

not a viable uh business, right? There's I have countless of examples around me and us including that have been able to stabilize and scale this business model to interesting numbers. So this doesn't mean it's not a viable business. I think many people who are saying this and experiencing this are just stuck in what I call the one-off project hell. But there's definitely a way out of this, right? Which I'm going to show you

exactly how to get out of later in this presentation. Now the second business model many people jump into when learning this is of course an AI product business or an AI SAS. Now some people might jump into this intuitively because they are not that interested in running a service business. They want to build products more scalable uh business models. Or some people jump into this because they've tried an AI automation agency and might be stuck in that one-off project hell and are like maybe a service business is not really mine or maybe this is not a not a viable business model. they might switch into

trying to build an AI product or an AI SAS. Now the big upsides of the of course of starting this right now is that it's with these coding platforms like uh cursor loavable you have bold etc. It's easier than ever to build products now. We don't need to have technical expertise anymore to build AI products, right? And that's especially where the non-technical people get really excited because for the first time they can actually build products without needing developers, right? So

it's easier than ever to do this. And of course potentially this business model you can run a much leaner. You're not running a service business. So you're not you're not exchanging work and time for value to a business. you're just building a product once and potentially can resell it to multiple businesses and therefore can be a much higher margin business and much more scalable. Now,

that being said, it is very, very difficult to get a successful product or SAS business off the ground. I can tell you I've run a SAS business for almost 5 years before getting into AI, which eventually went bankrupt. And I can tell you it takes a lot of hard work and time to build valuable products that people are willing to pay for. The biggest uh mistake I see people making is they have this amazing idea in their head. They are building out this this this amazing idea product for six months and they expect to uh people to magically flock to their product and to love their product uh uh just the way they they had it in their head. This is the recipe for

uh disaster with with products and SAS because ideas in general are worthless. Most startups, successful startups, end up with completely different ideas than they originally started out with. The real key to success in building successful products in SAS is a combination of distribution. You need to have scalable acquisition channels to reach your target audience. You need to work and build the product from customer feedback instead of from just your idea.

Uh your customers build your product, not you. And thirdly, you need relentless execution for many years to build really valuable products, right? And all of this just takes a lot of time. And to bridge that time between your idea and getting customers and getting the feedback to build the product, you need either cash flow, cash in the bank or investments, right? And that's why many startups need investments to bridge that gap. And

unfortunately, 95% of startups die in the valley of death. the famous concept of Mark Andre, a famous investor and and entrepreneur himself. Uh most startups just never make it out of that valley of death until they find a valuable product that people are willing to pay for or also called product market fit. Uh and that just really takes time. Now, in this video, I want to show you an alternative approach and a step-by-step road map on how to get maybe eventually to a very scalable AI SAS or product model without having the need to raise money or to invest a lot of your own money. and I'll show you the exact uh

step-by-step stages of how to get to a skatable business model like an AI SAS. And now that we have these coding agents, it is of course a little bit of a double-edged sword. Yes, you can build products a lot lot faster, but also the competition is going to be much much higher. And the same principles will still apply in the AI era. The ones who are going to win have a combination of distribution. They can really reach

their target audience. They build based on customer feedback and they have relentless execution. But now the competition is going to be much much higher. So I want to show you an alternative approach uh to get maybe eventually to a very uh scalable AI SAS but without having the need to do huge fundraising uh to invest your own money and while actually building a profitable and scalable business in the meantime and I think this can be a really interesting opportunity and a much safer route to eventually build a successful AI SAS. So what is that road map to scaling an AI product business? First of

all, it's really important to understand that audience first approach, right? Most people get it the wrong way around, right? Again, like I said before, most people had this amazing idea in their head. They spent six months in stealth mode trying to build this perfect product. And of course, we can do that a bit quicker now with these coding agents and then either expect users to automatically flock to their amazing product or then go out uh to try and market the product uh which many people underestimate how how difficult it actually is to market uh products. While

in reality, good products are built out of really understanding users, solving users problems and user feedback, right? And therefore, it's a much better strategy to first go to your target audience, right? Many successful SAS have done this too by for example just having a landing page with a waiting list, run some ads or some cold emails, trying to get some initial leads, learn from those initial targets, try to solve their problems in a manual way, and then from there build out a product. Right? That can be a much better way. And a

common saying is first time founders go product first, second time founders go audience first. And this is exactly what I did. I can tell you from my experience when I started my first class, I fell exactly in this trap. I tried to build this perfect products for six months. Then I went out to the market and tried to market this which took me probably another six months to actually get some users on boarded and then I figured out my idea was not that amazing that I as I thought. And then I spent another year

actually building based on customer feedback what was actually a valuable product. And when I jumped into AI, I really went audience first approach. I knew I wanted to build a product or a business around AI, but I didn't know exactly what. So first went audience first. In my case, I did YouTube. I'm

not saying it's the only way, right? It's not the only channel, but I first did YouTube. And after getting lots of feedback and talking to many people watch my channel, I figured out I can build multiple businesses here. Uh that will help people. But it really came from that audience first or marketing first approach, right? And now I ended

up with three businesses which of course is a learning platform, my community. Uh I have an AI SEO product which very much evolved out of user feedback too. And uh thirdly, I have still have my custom AI automation agency uh where we deliver services to businesses because again there is a need for this. So what do you really need to build a successful AI product or AI SAS is you need to have a scalable acquisition channel. Why? Because you need users to

pay you and you need users to give you feedback to build the product, right? Second, you need cash flow or cash in a bank or an investment to bridge the gap, right? Because it takes time to build the acquisition channels. It builds time to build valuable products. you so you need cash and lastly you need product market fit for a successful AI SAS right and if you don't know product market fit product market fit means you are your product solves a problem for a specific target audience and that target audience is actively using it paying for it and paying the amount for it that you need to make this business profitable and also uh are actively recommending it right and the thing with these three points is most people highly underestimate how difficult it is to build a scalable acquisition channel.

Most people completely ignore the fact that they need cash flow or cash in the bank to actually bridge that time between building a valuable product and most people are highly overconfident that they have product market fit while it's actually one of the hardest to reach. So, and you really want to be brutally honest with yourself here. How many of these three do you really have? You might have some cash flow because you're still in your job and you're doing this sort of as a side project, but do you really have a scalable acquisition channel or are you close to product market fit? because if you're not jumping into an AI product or an AI SAS right away is quite risky. So I want

to give you an alternative approach where you make money while building the SAS right and as most people think I can either run an AI automation agency as service business or I can jump into an AI SAS there's actually a model where you transition from one into the other and in this model you actually find ideas for potential products you get paid while building them you have time to build up your acquisition channel and you make sure that when you eventually transition into an AI SAS you actually we have product market fit, right? And because the amazing opportunity we have as an AI automation agency, which very few people are in or very few businesses are in, is businesses will come to us with their biggest problems and pay us to develop uh systems for them that solve those problems. So, as you're working with clients in your custom AI automation agency, you can identify systems you've built for them that really solve big pain points and deliver outcomes to that business. And once you've identified a system like that that brings high ROI to a business, you can safely assume that probably this system will generate outcomes and solve pain points for businesses in that same niche. So the next phase in this in this transition is to sell these pre-built AI systems where you really double down on that system you have identified solves a painoint. And I'm not saying this has to

be perfectly productized yet. You can still customize it for each business a bit. But in this phase, you're really doubling down on that specific system for that specific niche. So you're learning how to solve the problem for multiple businesses in that niche. So you're slowly but surely developing the system to become better and better. You

become one of the top experts in that specific niche, building this specific system. You can also then double down on the marketing and acquisition channel towards that specific audience with this specific offer. So you build that scalable acquisition channel. And once you've done that with a few companies, you can safely assume you have product market fit if it delivered outcomes to all of these different businesses. So when you make the transition to an AI SAS, you've already had the cash flow, you've built up an a skater acquisition channel, and you can safely assume you have product market fit. So I think

we're in an amazing position to actually start out as an AI automation agency. And this is really the approach I've taken to building and scaling my AI SEO system. So, how does this system help you with scaling? That the point by the way of this graph is not to say that you cannot scale an AI automation agency. You definitely can. And we have scaled

our AI automation agency too. And I'm going to get to that later in this video. The way I do it is I basically have one team uh focused on scaling the AI automation agency where we deliver custom projects and one team which is focused on productization. Now the point of this graph is if you want to go that more productized route and you potentially want to build more of that product type business, more scalable business, then this can be a really interesting route where you can really hit that next level of scale. Now take these numbers with a grain of salt, right? This is just a ballpark. But the

point of this is if you're running a custom AI agency uh and let's say your team stays the same size, you are going to hit a ceiling, right? You are going to have a limit of the amount of clients you can work with. So there is going to be a ceiling to uh your MR. Now, how does how do these pre-built AI systems uh make you hit that next level of scale is because first of all, if you're really focusing on one specific system for one specific niche, even though you might still be customizing the solution for each customer, you will you'll spend a lot less time customizing the system for each new business because you already know you've already pre-built some things. You already have some more expertise in the system. So you'll spend

less time building out this this new solution uh versus if you're building a completely new solution that you've never done before for a client, right? So let's say you only spend 30% of the time you would spend a completely new project on. Then you can of course also uh service three times more clients uh by focusing on one specific solution for one specific niche. Second of all, it's a lot easier to market and convert clients because now that you have one specific system for one specific niche, you can really hyperarget that specific audience with this specific offer, which makes it a lot easier to market your services or your product. And second, because you've already delivered this system to clients, you can show proof to these clients that this system actually delivers outcomes. You can show proof

that you can actually do this and therefore you can easier convert these clients too. And lastly, you can also still charge the same or even more for these pre-built AI systems because you know it delivers results and you have proof that this system works, right? So, this really can make you hit that next level of scale and this is not going to happen overnight, right? These transitions between phases can literally take months or even years. Uh, but the point is it can be a much safer way to eventually get to an AI SAS. And we are

for example around here, right? We are now hitting consistently over 50k MR with our AICO system. Uh but we're still not transitioning into an AI SAS and we are not even sure if we're ever going to transition into an AI SAS because we're very profitable right now. We are learning a lot about what to build, right? We're still improving the product with each client we work with and we are not transitioning into a SAS yet because first of all, we're still building our scalable acquisition channel because we know that if we transition into an AI SAS, we cannot char charge the same prices as we are charging now. So we'll

need more clients. So we're still building up our acquisition channels. And second, we're still learning how to improve our product and to build it better. But the point is when we transitioning into a SAS, we know that we have product markets fit. This system really solves a problem for our customer or for our target audience. And second,

we have built up our scalable acquisition channels to jump into an AI SAS and being profitable from the get-go. So what are the stages in this process and what should you focus on today if you want to go this productized route? Now I put it here in uh five different stages and when you look at this you want to really think about where are you at right now. Now uh all the way on the left we have the AI agency or the custom AI agency. Here you might start when you're just starting off you're learning about automation uh and you might not have a lot of specific domain expertise yet. you don't know a

specific industry or specific department very well because if you do I recommend jumping into stage two right away but let's say you don't have that uh you can start you know delivering basically automation services to a pretty broad sort of audience and uh the really the main goal when you're in this stage is first of all learning right of course it will be good if you can build up some cash flow but it's really about learning right and also learning about what to potentially niche down into right and the way you can approach this is by doing some warm outreach in your network. What has worked very well for people in my community, for example, is to uh put some uh LinkedIn posts out with things you've learned or things you're building or automating or maybe do some uh Upwork outreach and do some custom projects for people on Upwork and really try to get that those first clients and those first learnings in. Now, in that process, you might identify that you've been able to deliver some good automation solutions to an e-commerce business and you've built up some expertise and you understand a lot better now how e-commerce businesses work. So, you're building a little bit of that domain expertise, which is very necessary in general uh to uh to build valuable systems for for companies, right? It's not just generally having the technical expertise of building these automation systems. A lot of times

we have to inject some domain expertise in that specific solution we're building to really deliver value to a company. Right? So this next stage uh which is stage two which is a niche AI agency which I highly recommend people jump into who have some professional background who have some uh knowledge in a specific industry have worked in a specific industry or a specific department. Let's say you've worked in marketing a lot. I would focus right away on more marketing uh uh based automation solutions. Now in this niched

project you can really have two ways to niche down. The first one is by department marketing sales customer service HR or the second is by industry right e-commerce real estate etc. And of course you can combine these two if you want to niche down even further for example marketing uh automation solutions for e-commerce. Now I for example have a background in sales and marketing. So uh when I started my AI agency and I was still alone I focused on that specific niche. So I offered

sales and marketing uh automation services uh to quite a wide variety of businesses. So I did some inbound sales automations uh some outbound sales automations and I also delivered an AI SEO system to a marketing agency. Now the point when you want to make this transition to a more pre-built AI system. The key to do here is to first of all only accept potentially resellable projects. And what do I mean with this? Once once you start working

with these clients, you'll notice different projects or or or requirements coming in. And the key here is to only take on projects that you can potentially resell to other businesses and that would deliver outcomes to these other businesses because there are many internal workflows or uh processoriented workflows that companies come to you with which are very unique to each business. Now, generally, if you want to make this transition, you don't want to take on those projects because they're going to eat a lot of your time up and generally they're so unique to each business that it's going to be really hard to uh uh replicate in a sense for another business while delivering outcomes. Right? So, in general, internal process automation are hard to resell or to productize eventually, right? So, in general, the ones that are

are generally revenue generating systems, right? lead generation systems, content systems, SEO systems, hiring systems are usually more replicable for other companies and you can sort of assume that it would have value for other businesses in that same niche too. So that's the first thing you want to do. You want to really focus and only take on those projects. Second, you want to identify the ones the systems you've delivered that really brought high ROI to a client. So in my experience when I

was doing this, I delivered this AI SEO system. It was a highly customized one according to their specific SEO process. Uh but it delivered really high ROI for this marketing agency and therefore it got me thinking this this I really have to double down a bit more. And that's what you can do if you've identified that you've you know built a system that really brought a lot of ROI to a company to double down on that. And what I did is I started separately marketing my SEO solutions or my services, right? And

really trying to target a bit more of the marketing agencies and SEO agencies, right? And when I started doing that, I started landing a few more clients where I started automating SEO systems or SEO SEO processes. And this was still highly customized. It was not a a product that I've built. I just offered these these SEO automations to the specific target audience, right? And because I was doing

that, I was learning a lot about SEO. I was learning a lot about what the best way to do SEO was. And also because I was learning, every company still had different ways and processes of doing SEO, but because I was working with multiple marketing agencies and SEO agencies, I slowly learned also which type of system brought the best results, etc. And that's the point and that's the huge opportunity we have in this AI wave is if you focus hyperfocus on one system for one niche because AI is so new. If you've worked probably with two or three clients delivering these specific systems, you're probably already in the top 2% experts uh in this specific field designing these specific AI systems for that niche. So you really can become an

expert quite quickly. So I was working with a few clients. I think I worked with four or five different clients trying to automate different processes in their SEO and I learned a lot. Right? So the next phase in this in in stage four is to really productize the solution. Right? Because in stage three

I was still highly customizing. In stage four you're really trying to build a pre-built selfserve system that the customer can use without customization. Right? This is really the jump from stage three to stage four and that can take quite a while. Right? So if you

want to make this jump from stage three to stage four, you really first of all have to learn what to build, what the perfect processes are in my case in SEO, right? True customer feedback while building while learning with multiple companies. You you're you make sure you've delivered outcomes to multiple businesses to make sure that the system really does provide value. And then you productize the AI system, right? Meaning you make it into a selfserve platform.

Right? Now, this doesn't mean it's a one-sizefits-all or unplug and play. It just means that you've built in the personalization, which is still necessary, let's say, in an SEO system, into the system instead of you customizing it each time. And lastly, if you want to make this transition, of course, you want to also really double down on building that scalable acquisition channel that targets that specific audience with your specific offer, right? Because you are sort of taking a risk here. And of course, you

can also when you transition, for example, from stage two to three, you don't have to go all in right away, right? You can still offer general services trying to market one specific system. But once you go here, you're really going to invest a lot of time and you really want to build that scalable acquisition channel because you're double down on one specific offer or solution. now is this this is what I call the out of the box sort of model which we are using right now where it's basically what we sell is the pre-built Nad system with a front end on air table and a database in air tableable and we give that we sell that as a one-off price with a a support fee uh to the customer and we don't need to customize this right they can either set it up themselves or we can set it up in less than a day for them because the system is already pre-built if you want to learn more about how we set up these productized out of the box systems. In my last video, I show a step-by-step tutorial on how we build the infrastructure for these productized AI systems. But the key point here and the

huge advantage we have is we can still do this with no code, right? Because the advantage of keeping it in no code is we stay very flexible, right? Because even now, although we've sold it to more than 50 businesses, we're still adapting, we're improving, we're learning, and we're constantly changing and and and improving the solution. And because we've built it in no code, we can do that really fast, right? If we've had would have it in code, of course, we can do it a lot faster in code now too with coding agents, etc. But because we have

it in no code, we can do it really fast. We can add new features really fast. So that's the huge advantage. And we and we're already very profitable here. And once you're there and you really start to consistently sell it and it consistently delivers results to your clients you sell it to, then you can eventually transition into an AI SAS.

But it's important to keep in mind that you really have to have your acquisition nailed because most likely here you can charge a quite a big upfront fee uh to set this system up. For SAS in general, your your tickets going to be a bit lower. So you need to have more uh customer acquisition. You really have to have a scale acquisition channel. You really have to be 100% sure you have product market fit. And even though we

know that our system delivers outcomes for most of our clients, we still know at the moment we can do things to improve the experience, improve the outcomes. So that's why we're very happy to stay here at the moment and then eventually you can convert it really to a SAS which is of course cloud hosted and a complete self-s serve right there's zero customization uh involved anymore and the huge advantage after a while of course to transition into a SAS is you have access to the data that's one thing we're missing of course right now we don't have the data because every company runs it on their own NAN uh self-hosted uh version uh so we don't have that data data which we can use of course to improve the product even further and of course when you transition into a SAS you're really going to professionalize things you probably want to focus a bit on hiring now the point of all of these stages is you don't have to go left to right of course or completely step by step right you might start here in stage two and you might even start in stage three right many of the creators are now offering these templates or pre-built sort of solutions including me right what you do have to take into account with these templates that people give away is They're not stage four yet, right? They're not completely self-s serve paddle t tested with multiple clients, perfect solutions, right? If I take my examples, uh my meta ad agency or some of the last builds I've shown, these were just sort of one-off projects we've done for one client. But that doesn't mean it works perfectly for all the clients in the niche. So, if you take one of these

systems or these pre-built templates, keep in mind that you'll still need to customize this heavily most of the time for each new client that you sell this to, right? But it can be a great way to start to slowly but surely build uh build out an out- of-the-box uh solution. And this can take time, right? This can take weeks, months. You don't want to rush into this because you're also risking a little bit if you're really doubling down on one system for one niche. You're of course going to

also put all your effort into that system. to. So you can also decide to keep your options open a bit more, work a bit more with custom projects, discover some potential uh solutions. Then you can even try to market a few systems and see which ones work best. Another example of someone who's taken this approach is Yonas, a friend of mine, also a member of my community, uh who started out, I think two years ago, with a custom AI agency uh where he did some uh custom projects. He built some

voice agent solutions uh for some companies and saw high ROI in those solutions for those businesses. So he niched down into uh only doing voice solutions for businesses. Uh then he built some solutions for hotels and for some other type businesses. Then he noticed especially for hotels, he brought a lot of ROI in his system. So he niched down even further and really doubled down on voice agent solutions for hotels. Then he worked with a few of

these companies and learned a lot about how to build good solutions, voice agent solutions for hotels and became one of the top expert if not the expert in this specific niche because it's so new. And eventually after working with multiple clients, he now is transitioning into complete self-s served SAS uh where instead of him doing the personalization, the customer uh sets up the entire automation solution by themselves on his SAS, right? and he's now been offered some funding. I don't think he's even taken it because uh of course he's been generating cash flow while building the product. Now, how do you sell these AI systems? Now, you can

really have two approaches. You can have our approach which of course is selling the system itself, right? And you can do that with a one-off price and maybe you can charge a cost a support fee uh if they need ongoing help. Uh but you can really sell this at a high ticket in general. Or the second option which many people are overlooking is you can sell the outcome especially again if you're focusing on these revenue generating uh systems lead generation system content system that directly deliver outcomes which is leads booked into the calendar for example to two companies they are very happy to pay for that they don't even have to know you're using AI in a sense because you're basically can position yourself as more of a traditional agency a lead generation agency for example and then you can charge recurring fees commissions on every lead booked in their calendar or even get ref shares. Another example of

this is Andrew, also a member of my community and a friend of mine who uh sells who does lead generation who built a lead generation system for a reputation company that brought such good results and he's automated the system so much that he can now uh serve multiple clients delivering this same type of system and he can really scale this up to interesting levels because he charges a recurring fee. he gets a rev share and the system works really well for each customer converted and a commission for each lead booked into the calendar. So even if you just stick to this model you can make it a really interesting and scalable business model. Now what do you need if you want to sell this sort of out ofthe-box type solution which we are doing with SEO. First of all, it's really important that your system really consistently delivers outcomes for multiple of these businesses, right? And it's important

here the outcome has to be measurable and high impact for the company. And in general, the best type of systems for this are uh systems that generate revenue like lead generation, content systems, right? Because most companies the biggest pain point is lead generation. They can't scale because they have don't have enough leads. So revenue generating systems are usually the the biggest one. Make sure that it

automates an end-to-end workflow. That's generally the more of an endto-end workflow it automates, the higher the value is for the company. This doesn't mean it has to be a completely automated process. We uh actually noticed that adding a lot of human in the loop through that customer interface is really important and most customers actually want that. Um but it is important to to automate an endto-end workflow, right? To cover the entire

process. And second, you have to slowly but surely transform it into a self-s served product, right? While still maintaining uh the outcome and delivering the outcome to the customer, which can be hard and can take time. And this self-s serve doesn't mean it's a one-sizefits-all. It means the personalization or the customization is done by the user inside of the system instead of you customizing it in the NAN workflow. Now, the way we build these AI

systems is by having a database in air table, a front end with air table interfaces. That's why we like air table because we can have uh uh those two combined. Now this is a big mistake I see many people making when delivering automation systems or trying to build AI systems is they use uh Google Sheets or whatever. This is a not a great exper experience or user uh UI or user experience for the user. If you can build a simple front end in something like uh Lovable or Air Table interfaces, the perceived value of your AI system or your automation goes up a lot because the customer feels like they're getting a little bit of a product, right? And

then in the back end, we use NAN to to automate uh the processes. Now, again, if you want to learn more about how we design the infrastructure for these AI systems, I did a full step-by-step tutorial on my last video. I'll make sure to link it up here or in the description below, too. Uh so, just a quick recap. If you want to build and scale an AI product business, three things to really take away from this is first really important, focus from day one almost on building a scalable uh marketing channel, right? You probably

want to focus at least 50% of of your time on really getting good at marketing and building acquisition because whatever stage you're in, this is really going to make the difference between you being able to scale or not, right? And uh one thing I I learned from Y cominator a few years ago is most people are trying eight different channels at the same time. Really try to focus on one maybe two channels and become an expert at it. Right? Most unicorns as they say in the Y cominator most unicorns 1 billion dollar companies have grown to become that large by becoming really good and nailing one acquisition channel not five at the same time. Of

course, eventually you can start building out multiple channels, but most have grown to become a unicorn by becoming really good at one and becoming an expert at one channel, right? So, focus that on that from day one. Second, you want to focus on AI systems that deliver measurable outcomes. Again, revenue generating systems are generally the best. Second, maybe are hiring systems because the two factors that prevent companies from scaling is more leads or more people, right? So if you

can provide uh companies with revenue generating systems or hiring systems, you generally can bring the highest ROI to businesses. And lastly, you really want to build and productize based on feedback, not just on your idea. Don't build out the perfect product you have in your head right away. Make users build it. Build it out of feedback.

Right? And therefore, that MVP, minimum viable product approach is really important. And the huge opportunity and the great thing we have right now with no code is we can now build these MVPs, minimum viable products really fast in no code. And as long as we stay in no code, we can iterate, improve the solution, add new features really quick based on that customer feedback. Of course, if you have some coding background and you're using tools like cursor, you can also do it there. And

it's a lot faster now in those with code too to make iterations and and and improve products. But in general, if you don't have that background, stay in no code until you really make that transition into SAS. I'll do a video on how to build scalable marketing channels uh for AI systems very soon. So, uh stay tuned for that if you're interested. Now, before jumping into how to scale an AI service agency or an AI automation agency, I want to quickly go over another huge opportunity that I think many people are overlooking, which is actually scaling a nonAI service business now that we have AI. if you're

an existing agency owner like a marketing agency owner, a lead genen agency owner, or even another type of service agency like maybe a a web design agency, but even if you're just learning AI and starting out and don't have experience with this, this can be a really interesting business model to hit a very interesting level of scale. uh because this business model can now be completely transformed now that we have AI both if you want to scale as a service business but also if you want to potentially go into a more productized business model because I predict that in the long run we will see more and more of a productization of this service industry and some of the most successful people running AI businesses right now are actually following this approach so there's really two routes to get to this model I think and first of all the amazing position you're in if you are an existing agency owner or a consultant, right? Is that you already generally have some cash flow. You already know how to deliver outcomes to a specific niche or a business and you have the processes in place generally to deliver on these outcomes. And besides that, you usually already have built up some acquisition channels to reach your target audience. Now, what you can do

slowly but surely if you're learning automation is start automating more and more of the processes you already use in the day-to-day to deliver outcomes or results to your clients. Because if you think about it, the biggest bottleneck for most agency type businesses is delivery. And scaling any types of these service businesses generally just means you have to hire more people. And that's really generally the bottleneck of scaling this business model. But now, if you're learning AI, you can start automating more and more of your process delivery. Even if you can automate 30%

of your processes, you're already able to serve many more clients and hit a level of scale that traditional agencies could never scale to. And the upside of following this path is first of all that you have time, right? Because you're already generating cash flow by providing services to to these companies. Also, you are the one using your automation systems to deliver outcomes to clients. Meaning, you don't have to get a perfect system from the get- go. You can slowly but surely try

and automate more and more of your own processes, of your own work uh to deliver these outcomes to clients. And besides just automating, you can also enhance now with AI the outcomes you can deliver to clients, right? Because AI doesn't just automate, it can really enhance the service delivery we're giving to clients. And there are companies right now that are getting amazing results with this approach. A great example is called IQ which is a lead generation agencies. These guys had

a background in lead generation. Now they've learned AI and heavily automate and systemize and enhance the the the process or the service of generating leads for their clients. They can really scale to levels that traditional lead genen agencies could never scale to with margins that are way higher than traditional agency type businesses. And what you can eventually do if you've really systemized and automated uh a process that delivers outcomes to clients, you can eventually productize it and make it into a self-s serve uh product. So you can really hit that next level of scale. But even if you're just

staying here, you can already make this a really really interesting business model. Another approach to get to this business model if you're not starting out as a traditional agency owner or a consultant is to actually take that AI automation agency approach. If you've identified a system that delivers outcomes to clients and you double down on that, you can then make that transition to more of a traditional and position yourself more as a traditional agency. For example, I've seriously considered when I was building my SEO system to actually position myself much more as an SEO agency. And then by using my own SEO system to deliver more traditional SEO ser services, I could first of all have a very interesting value proposition for my clients. I

could probably uh charge a lot less than traditional SEO agencies can. I can serve probably 20 or 30 times more clients than traditional SEO agencies can and therefore I can really scale this business model to really interesting levels. Now I decided I wanted to go more of the productized route to eventually build something even more scalable because of course this does mean you still need more client relationships, client management, uh etc. I I decided here, but this can really be an option, too. And in this process, you also be learning a lot if you eventually maybe want to transition into to a product, right? So, there's

really two two ways to monetize these these AI systems for one specific niche. Another example of someone who followed this path is Josh, also a member of my community, who ran a paid marketing agency. So, he did meta ads for small business owners in Europe. And slowly but surely when he was learning AI he started automating more and more of his service delivery ad generation ad copy generation etc. So first of all he could serve m many more clients he could lower his price for new clients so he could serve a bigger market and he could really hit that next level of scale and then what he did is he made it into a complete self-s served product uh first in no code and eventually transitioned into a SAS. So small business owners

without the expertise in paid ads could now set up uh their ads and their ad copy etc by themselves through his SAS. And the interesting thing when he did this is because when it became a self-s served product the price point lowered so much because there was not that much human involvement anymore that he could now also serve a new niche that was traditionally underserved. So very small tiny business owners traditionally service agencies were too expensive for them. that they couldn't do paid ads, but there was still a market for these guys. They they still have an advantage of doing paid ads to get more customers.

And now we could really serve that audience because the price point was a lot lower. So this is what I'll see happening a lot too because many service providers and service agencies will become uh productized solutions. uh now these underserved niches where traditionally traditional agencies were too expensive for them can now be served with these self-s served SAS type uh business models. So I think this can be really interesting. Another uh example of this is Tal who did a masterass in on cold email also in my community. Tal ran

an uh cold email uh marketing agency or lead generation agency for M&A companies. He was traditionally uh really good at this uh and got great results for his clients because even before AI, he always personalized each email to each client and he got really good results by this. And what he did is slowly but surely automated more and more of his service also the personalization and many other processes in his business. And this allowed him to scale and be able to handle many more clients with the same size of team and therefore his his lead generation agency really hit that next level of scale. And I think many marketing agencies or consultants etc. many think maybe should

I start to think about starting an AI automation agency. The world is evolving. But I'd really recommend to think about this model because you already have that domain expertise. And if you can systemize and automate your processes that you already know can deliver outcomes to clients, it can really be a a quicker and faster way to build a scalable business. And the big upside of this model is you'll have access to lots of data, right? know

exactly what kind of processes, what kind of systems drive outcomes for businesses, which is going to be vital when you transform it into a SAS because you can use that data when creating a SAS to make sure that the self-s served platform actually drives results for customers, which can be a bit more challenging if you're doing this or this model because you might not always have access to all the data on what actually drives results for companies. Now, again, take these numbers with a grain of salt, right? This is just a a ballpark just to give you an idea. probably with this model you can scale even past the one 100k MLR but it's just to give you an idea and lastly what's the road map to scaling an AI automation agency or an AI service business now before jumping into the details there's three main takeaways you want to take out of this if you want to scale an AI service business or an AI automation agency it's these three things right first of all you have to go beyond implementation only right the market this is completely new to most businesses right most businesses need lot more than just technical people executing on projects for them. They need people that educate them on how to adopt and adapt in the new era of AI, right? So that needs a combination of

consulting, training, education. That's what businesses will need. And this is the easiest way for you to grow and scale your AI automation agency to go beyond just presenting yourself as a builder, as a technical person who can implement projects for them. The second thing is, and I'm hammering this on in each of the business model, is you do need consistent lead flow. It's really important in any of these businesses, the only way you're going to scale it is by having that consistent lead flow. And

although in the AI automation agency, you don't need as much of a scalable acquisition channel as let's say in a in a productized or an AI SAS because generally clients will pay you more as a service provider. You'll need to work with less clients. You do need consistent lead flow because you have to say no a lot. You really have to work with the right type of clients and the right clients for you. And that means you do need consistent lead flow and you have to qualify them hard. And

therefore, you need an acquisition channel that is consistent in order for your business to scale. And lastly, the only way a service business you're ever going to scale that is by hiring more people and managing more people. And therefore, you need processes in place that you can give to these new people in your business to execute and deliver the services to your clients. So what does the road map look like to scaling an AI automation agency or an AI service business? Now you might start off I've touched upon this a little bit before. You might start off as a custom

AI agency where you deliver custom projects or implementations to a wide variety of businesses which can be a great place to start if you might not have that much domain expertise in a specific department or industry and you're just relying on your technical expertise. uh you knowing how to build on platforms like nada, make.com, etc., which can be a great place to start. If you already have some domain expertise in a specific industry or department, again, I recommend to go more into a niched AI agency right away because again, it is easier to market if you talk to a specific audience. You do need

some domain expertise generally to provide value in these automation systems. Now, generally, you can start off here with some one-off project pricing, right? Maybe sometimes even hourly. This is usually the easiest way to get started, right? You can do some warm outreach in your network. What's

working great for people in my community, for example, is just sharing their learnings or the systems they've been building on LinkedIn. You might see that some businesses in your network might reach out to you or people in your network might reach out to you because many people know they have to do something with AI. Many businesses have FOMO. They need to do something with AI. Now, they see someone in their network that can do something with AI and they might contact you because they have some ideas in mind. Can be a great way to

start. You can also start with platforms like Upwork or Fiverr and try to get some custom projects in uh through those platforms. And in this phase, you're really focusing on implementations and generally for more SMBs because it's easier to close when you're just starting off. And the goal in this phase is really about learning, right? First of all, you're learning the technical skills, but second of all, you're also, if you might not have that much experience in a specific domain, you're really building up some domain expertise while you're building out solutions for clients, right? Because when you're

building these projects, you really get an idea of how this industry works, how this specific company works. Uh so you're really building up that domain expertise too. And therefore, you can slowly but surely also try to niche down. And building up domain expertise is really really key, right? Because again, you can niche down eventually, which makes it a lot easier to service your mark your market your services. And

second, in my experience, it's so much easier to close a client if you really understand their problem. If you can talk to them on the same level and you have that business acummen and can really level with them when you're talking in these sales calls, the trust in you goes up exponentially and the technical ability will almost be automatically assumed if you really have the domain expertise and can talk on the same level with your client. The conversions become a lot easier too when you're building up domain expertise and you're really niching down. Now, this phase is not easy, right? This phase really is brutal, right? And this is

where many people end up what I call the one-off project hell, right? And this is probably the most difficult phase in your stage. But don't get it wrong, right? This doesn't mean this is not a viable business or or that there's no need in the market. There's a huge need in the market for these service providers and it's only going to grow exponentially in the upcoming years.

Right? So don't take the wrong conclusion here. It is brutal in this first stages but see it as a phase in the process a stage in the process and probably the most difficult phase to get out of this first stage. The key here is to switch in a model which I call a fractional AI officer. Now that doesn't mean you have to be alone. You can also

be already have a small team or maybe a partner. Uh I just it's just a name for me to describe what you're doing in this stage. And the key to this stage is to really start only pitching yourself as an AI partner, not just uh an AI builder and an implementer, right? And you do that to get your clients onto retainers, right? Retainers are key to hitting that next level because it gives your uh business stability, right? Recurring

predictable revenue. So, it gives your uh business stability and really allows you to scale to that next level. Now, I've been pointing this out a few times in in my other videos, too. The key here really is to position yourself as a partner instead of just a builder, right? And the key here is to provide an offer, not just implementations, but a mix between consulting, implementations, and maybe even training. Again, the

market, and this is actually what most companies need, right? They don't just need technical people to execute on projects. They need people that consult them on what to start with. Uh that help educate their employees on how to better use AI. The transformation into the AI is much more than just providing some implementation. Now, and when I talk

about consulting, I'm not talking about um McKenzie type consulting, right? Don't get it wrong. Like even if you're doing one-off projects and just focusing on implementations, you're already providing consulting because many times when we're automating processes and when you're starting out, you'll see that most businesses are actually very messy. And before we start automating processes in their business, we already have to reestablish processes, improve processes in the first place before actually automating this. So a lot of times you're already providing consulting, right? You cannot generally just go in

and automate a process without a lot of back and forth with the client, right? So what I mean with consulting here is just adding a once a week meeting into the offer you give to the client, right? Maybe you can add in one training session for their for their entire team uh uh once a month, right? Where you teach them how to use chatbt better prompting maybe how to integrate MCPs uh just surface level things that could help employees in their business use AI in a better way to become more productive. And because you're going to work with retainers and hopefully higher ticket retainers, you really want to switch your your target audience, your your target market to bigger sized companies that could still be SMBs or mid-size businesses, but you do have to make sure that the businesses you're targeting actually have the money in order to pay you this retainer, right?

Simple math can tell you that if a business only does $20,000 in revenue and you're trying to charge a $5,000 retainer, they're not going to spend 25% of their budget on uh on this, right? So, think about it that way, right? If you're maybe getting them on a 2,000 retainer, maybe they they need probably a $30,000 MR. But you have to target the type of businesses that can actually afford this. Now what you'll see happen once you start pitching this partnership model and retainers is you do get a lot of push back right the push back also comes because companies don't have experience working with these service providers yet so they're a little bit hesitant they don't know what to expect the trust is not there so what you can do and what worked very well when we transitioned when I transitioned into this model is to offer a one-off project or a very small part of their initial idea of a project as a one-off project to build that trust uh and And but the key in this point is that you pitch that partnership model from the start, right?

You say, "Yes, sure. I can deliver this smaller project or this this uh initial proof of concept uh at a fixed price, but just making very clear to the business, this is going to be a retainer model. This is going to be a long-term relationship." And really the way to pitch that is to tell them, look, you oneoff projects are not going to make a huge difference in your business. AI is going to transform businesses and the world and the markets. The only way

you're gonna really make an impact in your business is by making AI and adoption of AI a long-term term priority in your business, right? And making AI a priority companywide, right? And therefore, I only work with companies that make that long-term strategic bet. Now, now some businesses might not be looking for this, right? They're uh shopping around looking for five or six different developers trying to get the cheapest way to build out as one specific project or solution. And the

key here is not to work with those clients, right? You have to work with the right clients. And this is really key in this model, right? Not every business will want to adopt this retainer model. But it really in my experience is key to work with the right clients, right? And I can tell you from

my experience when we first started doing this and and I started first doing this, I probably said no to eight out of 10 companies because they are not aligned with that sort of long-term approach. So saying no is a huge part of making this transition. And the only way you can say no while still building revenue is by having consistent lead flow. Right? The acquisition channel here becomes really key because you have to disqualify leads quite hard. You

really need to have start getting a consist consistent lead flow. Now the way to reach this is by building a personal brand on on one of of the social medias. You can run uh get good at cold email. You can get good at paid ads. You can uh uh run partnerships which some people in my community run successfully. But really that consistent

lead flow is key. And again, I'm going to do a full video on how to build these acquisition channels. So, it might take some time before you can really transition. And this is where why so many people are stuck because this takes time, right? Getting a consistent lead flow going, really targeting uh businesses with with higher revenue, higher MR uh and getting those consistently in and pitching those retainer models. But you really do need

to get there to build a more scalable and uh steady stable uh AI automation agency or AI service business. Now eventually once you have consistent revenue from this model you can switch into the next stage which I call the AI partner agency and this is really where you hit the next level uh if you if you want to scale and that's where you again work with retainer only but in this case you're going to go only 10k plus uh right six figures plus or some AI agencies also they they just work with really really big projects right 50k plus or 100k plus you can do one-off projects in this case but they have to be very charge. Generally in this model, you are going to uh offer again a combination of consulting, training, implementations and maybe even audits because especially bigger companies which you're going to need to work with again right make the calculation if you're going to charge 10 10,000 plus per month you need to start working with really mid to largesiz businesses most likely businesses with at least 50 employees right and these businesses many times also need audits they need to know where to start with AI automation right they need that education okay what is the best approach for us to really make AI this priority and the thing with this too is the once you start working with bigger and bigger clients they actually become easier and easier to work with of course there's a lot of work involved but many times the people pay less and the small SMBs because they have a lot to lose uh they are also the toughest clients to manage right so if you can get to this model and again that's why I'm saying this might be the toughest phase right so see it as a stage you're going to get out of it and once you're here you might only have to work with three or four or five companies that are actually a lot more pleasant to work with. Uh and you can really have a scalable AI business, right? And the key focuses here in the in this stage is to really start skating a team, right? The only way you're going

to be able to manage this is by having more engineers. Now, the generally the way you want to uh do this is by hiring account managers who maintain the client relationship and manage a team of engineers that build out the project, right? Right? So you want to have account managers and um engineers in this phase. You also really want to build that credibility, testimonials, case studies, etc. Because generally mid

to large size businesses, they need that. They need to see that other big companies or companies their size have worked with you and have seen results with them. And because you're going to scale a team, you really have to start building these processes and SOPs so you can hand that over to the new hires and the new people that start working with you. And this again takes all can take time but there is a huge need. This is only going to grow if you're into the AI automation agency model right now.

You're one of the earliest, right? So you will also be one of the earliest transitioning into into this, right? Because but this all can take a few months slash years model. So again, don't get it wrong. Just like it's not a silver bullet, right? This this oneoff

project hell where many people are in is tough. It's brutal, right? But you can you will get out there if you stay consistent and focus on the right things. Once you transition, it only becomes more fun, right? I can tell you on our side, we are very very close to um closing a client on a 7 figure a month deal, an enterprise client. So, we

can literally hit that 100k MR mark with one client only. Is it going to take a lot of our resources and time and and and effort? Yes. But it just shows you the potential of if you stick to this and really focus on the right things, right? you can really scale this into a really interesting business.

And just to finish it off, what is the path best path? What is the best business model? And what should you choose? This really depends on you, right? And it's important sometimes to take a step back and really think what do I want, right? What type of business

do I want to run in a long long term? What do I want my life to look like in the mid to to long term? Because this many people overlook this. They bllightly jump in but don't actually take the time to think what do where do they want to head? And it is important because it will define what you have to focus on today. And second of all, many

people blindly just follow other people's success stories where often times you don't actually see the sacrifices behind the curtains without actually thinking what they want. So this really depends on three factors. Your preference. First of all, what type of business do you want to run? Right?

Do you want a product type business or more of a service type business? Are you more of a people person? Right? Do you like to work with people, manage people, etc. or uh are you more interested in building cool uh products etc. Me

personally, I have managed a lot of people in my life also in my previous company but I don't consider myself an amazing manager uh and I'm much more of a product person. That's why I'm personally following much more of that uh productized route. We do still run our custom AI automation agency but I'm less involved in that so I can focus more on what I like which is building products. Now the second thing there also is what is your goal right? Do you want to build a $1 billion company? Do

you want to go as big as possible? Uh because that's going to mean you're going to have to make some sacrifices, right? And you're probably not going to get there with a service type business. So then you probably want to go the SAS route. Now me personally, I don't have any ambition to make a billion dollar or become a billionaire. I am much happier.

I notice if I have some freedom in my life, do what I enjoy on a day-to-day. And of course, I want to make some money, but I don't have to make uh a billion dollars, right? So if you're happy running maybe a six figure or seven figure business, have some more freedom in your life, right? Running your own business, creating your own teams, then a service business is definitely a great option too, right? And probably a very a much safer option.

It also define much of your lifestyle. If you're going the billion dollar route, the billion dollar SAS route, right? You're going to sacrifice a lot, right? You're going to sacrifice probably 10 15 years of your life of grinding to potentially maybe cash in really big, right? But if you don't want that and you want to have a better lifestyle in the meantime, a service type business is definitely interesting.

And that's why I think the productized route is so interesting. You don't have to make that decision from the get- go. You can slowly but surely productize and then decide if you even want to go the SAS route eventually because even if you're selling pre-built AI systems, right, you're really doubling down on one niche, you can really scale an interesting business to six or seven figures without having to go all in, right? And then the second thing is, of course, your situation. What is your personal situation at the moment? Do you

have kids? Uh do you have a job currently? How much time do you have and how much time are you willing to invest? Right? If you don't have that much time, you probably don't want to go all in on a SAS right away. You want to start out

small, maybe offering some services, etc. Also, what does your financial situation look like? How much are your ongoing costs? Right? How much cash do you have in the bank? And how much cash

are you willing to invest in this venture in in this pursuit? Right? If you have high ongoing costs, maybe not that much cash in the bank, you probably don't want to jump into trying to build a SAS right away and approach it more from a service business at the start at least, right? And lastly, what are your strengths and expertise, right? What's your experience? Because this is going

to help you a lot when building the business, right? Do you maybe have have you worked in an agency? Do you know how an agency works? And that's going to help you a lot if you're uh developing a service type business or you have startup experience like me. Of course, I've run a SAS for 5 years, so I really know how to build products, uh, how to manage product teams. So, that's why

that experience really helps me going more that productized route. And there, of course, the last factor is your domain expertise. How much do you know of a specific industry? How much have you been solving one specific problem for one specific industry already? If you've done that for many years, jumping into a more productized business might make more sense because you really already have that domain expertise and you're might be closer to product market fit. And how much technical expertise do

you have? Are you just starting out learning these tools or have you been a coder all your life? The these can all make an impact in uh what type of business is best. There is no best choice. The best choice is the one you make. But the key takeaway I want to

give you here is take a step back and think what do I really want, right? and what do I want to sacrifice uh for this? And don't just blindly follow what other people tell you to do or their success stories because a lot of times you don't see the sacrifices in the back and you really want to think about how you want your life to look like. Anyway, that's it for this video. If you want to work closer with me and my team, you can also check out my community where we try to help people at least get their business AI business off the ground and help them scale their AI business. Uh, also if

you're interested in learning more about how we build these productized AI systems, you can also check out my last video which I'll link up here. And uh, if you got any value out of this video, I highly appreciate a like and a subscribe. Anyway, that's it for this video. Thank you so much for watching and uh I hope to see you in the next