---
video_title: "How I Built a Competitor Analysis AI System in n8n (No-Code)"
video_id: IiPnsbjEdIY
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IiPnsbjEdIY
video_date: 2025-05-31
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/hibac-acc
  
  Get the free template of this video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/hiba-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/hibac-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/hibac-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:22 - Live Demo
  06:26 - N8N Breakdown 1: Company Setup
  14:05 - N8N Breadown 2: Job Scraping
  22:31 - N8N Breakdown 3: Competitor Report
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too.
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer.
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
In this video, I'll show you how I built a simple AI system for one of our recent clients that does real-time competitor research on a weekly basis. This system tracks every LinkedIn job ad from competitors, sorts the roles by department, and converts this data into a weekly competitor strategy report. And in this video, I'll show you a demo, a step-by-step breakdown of the system, and the template will be available in my community. This system using Air Table here as the front end and NAD as the back end. I'll first show you a quick demo and then I'll give you a detailed step-by-step breakdown of the system here in NAND. So, the reason why

tracking job ads is such a good way to get competitor insights is because job ads tell you something about the strategic future moves of companies, right? The job ads they're posting today will tell you a lot about the future moves inside of specific departments. And second of all, it gives you insights into strategic moves of each of the departments inside of a business. Uh now before diving into the demo very quickly if you're an NAN engineer uh and you're looking to work with me and my team we are hiring at the moment for u NAN engineers in my AI agency. So if you're interested in that make sure to check out the link in the description. So

let's dive in. This is by the way a productized AI system. So if you want to copy and paste this template it should work for you your company or your industry um with this exact setup and this exact template in NAD without any customization. So let me dive into the demo. So first here we can add all the competitors we want to track. So here

I've put in three competitors already but we can just add in a new one here for example. So I can say something let's say relevance AI and all I have to do is add in uh the LinkedIn URL of relevance AI. So I can add it here and you can see it's now added here into the competitors and all I have to do here first is click research. Now just start the test quickly so I can show you. So if I as soon as I go here research, it does the initial research. So basically

what it does here is it first finds the company ID. Uh it creates a Google drive folder so we can save the job ads later into a Google drive and it'll do some initial research. Right? So we get the company website now. We get the company ID which will be important when we're scraping uh the jobs. We get the logo of

the company and we also get the drive folder and a little bit of company description. So this is how we add all the competitors and you can see the status also switched automatically to add to schedule and that's basically where the second part of the automation kicks in which normally gets triggered through schedule trigger every week. But just for the demo I add in a test workflow node here to show you. So basically what this does is it goes through a loop for each of the competitors. So for each of the competitors is first um checks for all the jobs they have posted. Um then it

categorizes each job each job posting uh to a department. It saves each of the job posting into a Google Docs and saves it into the specific Google Drive for each of the competitors. It will update it to Air Table and then uh it will do that for each of the competitors inside of the loop and once it's done it will go to the second workflow where I will generate a report a competitor insights report and send it to email and of course update it to Air Table. So this is going to take a little bit so I'm going to speed it up quickly. So it's now updated the air table. So if

we go back now we can go here to job postings and as you'll see now we got all the job posting from all the different companies. You can see NAN is mostly hiring in sales. Uh HubSpot customer support human resources sales. You can also see the amount of applicants. You can see HubSpot is uh is popular. Uh relevance AI is hiring quite

a lot too. uh the location from where they're hiring, when it's listed, and when the job ad expires. Also, we can look at the exact job posts here in the Google doc. If we go back here, we get uh the full report. So, if we go to the last one here, uh we get competitor focus and strategic insights, right? So,

company one, Vapy, right? So, you can see uh observe focus, VAP is heavily focused on building out both their core product platform and their sales and customer support functions, right? So strategic insights fappy strategy appears to be a rapid dual push for platform maturity and enterprise sales acquisition. Right? So the sign the significant uh engineering hires suggest they enhancing the core infrastructure improving the developer experience dashboard and API and building features needed for larger more complex enterprise deployment. Right. Uh the

strong investment in sales SDR's AES founding sales indicates a clear move to transition from founder sales to a scalable structured sales organization. Right. Capitalize on the anticipated wave of mainstream voice AI adoption. Right. Relevance AI. Relevance AI's

hiring is strongly weighted towards roles focused on building and deploying AI solutions directly for customers, solution engineers, implementation manager alongside significant investment in product design and foundational engineering data science. So you can see uh relevant AI uh strategy centered around category creation and driving adoption through hands-on customer implementation. So uh solution le sales and onboarding model. All right. The significant investment in product design define and simplify the user experience.

I know that's what they're working on. uh engineering hires, global expansion, particularly targeting uh the key US market and overall relevance strategically focused on establishing the AI workforce category by building a user-friendly platform while simultaneously working closely with customers to implement solutions and prove their value especially in the US market. NADN right strategic insights having achieved significant productled growth traction large community high inbound lead volume is now executing a clear strategy to monetize and accelerate growth to direct salesforce with a distinct geographic focus on the DA region Germany Austria Switzerland uh overall NAN is strategically transitioning on or augmenting its PLG success with a dedicated regionally focused sales engine to unlock enterprise level revenue right so pretty interesting I You can see you get quite some interesting insights into more than just the job hiring uh into sort of the strategic insights behind the business. So, and of course this is also sent through email, right? So, you get the competitor analysis here. Same thing

every week. You basically get this overview uh sent to your email. So, let me dive into uh the NAND workflow right now and break it down for you. So, let me walk you through the step by step here in NAND. Again, if you want, you can copy and paste my template inside of my community. Uh also we have one-on-one

tech help available if you need some help in setting it up. So here uh this first part of the automation gets triggered through a web hook, right? And this web hook gets triggered as soon as a new company is added, right? So let me show you how that works in the back end. So this air table interfaces is just an interface on top of actual tables here inside of um air table. Uh if you want

to know and learn how to build these air table interfaces, I do have a full step-by-step tutorial on uh building this uh in my last video. I'll make sure to link it up here too. So if you're interested in that, make sure to check that one out. But basically here, all we need is that name, the URL of the LinkedIn, right? And then as soon as the status changes to uh research, the automation gets triggered, the web hook gets triggered. And we do that here in

air table automations where we have when a record matches conditions which is uh the trigger right as you can see here we've set it up here the table is of course company and then when the status changes to research then this automation is triggered and then the action is running a script and here we have a little code script. I'll make sure to add it to the template too or you can just check it out here make a screenshot and let JGPT do it. Uh and all we have here is two variables which is the web hook URL three variables actually web hook URL which of course we paste from LinkedIn which is this web hook right then we have um the record ID which of course that's what we're going to send over to the web hook which you can just select here and then we have an action which actually is not necessary you can delete this right uh so that's it through that the the first part of the automation is triggered and just just to finish Here we have three tables right we have the company setup which you saw on that first screen in the interfaces then we have the job postings where we have all the job postings will be listed there and then we have the reports here right so if I go back here and then then after that so you can see here this web hook all it gets here is the record ID which we then can later use to get get the details of that specific record uh in the air table node right so here we have a switch uh node this one is actually not necessary Uh I just added it in because uh I was planning to build it out differently but you can take this out too or leave it in. Then we have the get record air table node here and there we get all the details from that specific uh record right so you can see we get the idea we we get the name relevance AI the URL and the status. Now what we do here in the code step all we do here is basically to add in uh to first of all clean the URL.

Sometimes uh users might put in a URL that has something attached to this company, right? Like uh for example, they paste the the the link where it shows posts or there's something attached. So all it does here is it cleans up this URL to the actual right URL and second of all it adds a new variable which is company name uh which is basically this last part of the URL and this is sort of the company identifier which we'll need in the next step. All right. So here you can see in the next step we use the uni pile API call and that's where we pass in that company name right and it's important to be formatted exactly like that that's why we have that little code step generally I just write those code steps uh with GPT right so here we have uh using the uni API so if you don't know uni uni is uh an API where we can basically take actions across many different platforms but mainly uh it's a really good API for LinkedIn for WhatsApp but also for for other channels as you can see here. Now, it is a bit

costly uh to to use this, but if you're going to use this for clients or for yourself or doing any LinkedIn automation or WhatsApp automation, I highly recommend uh using Uni Pow. You can see we have lots of options here. And if you create an account, you can you can start for free. I think you'll add come here and if you go to the documentation, you see you get lots of different options, especially for LinkedIn uh but for many other platforms. So in this case in this first step what we use is we get we simply use this one retrieve a company profile. Now

we use this one to get the company ID which is really important because that's what we need eventually to scrape the job post from right. So that's why we first use this one. And you can see here to retrieve a company profile to get that company ID we need to use this uh URL this endpoint with get and here we have to add in our subdomain our port and the unique company identifier right now that we already filled out of course here this company name that is the identifier and the other two variables you can find in your account if you've made an account here you see uh basically that that first part and the second the port is this Right. So you can just copy this two and then add the rest of the URL there. But that's that's all it is here. So this is your unique

and then your your uh your two variables right here. Then you add in that company name. Then we have a simple get request also you have to add in um a header authentication right with your API key right and the API key you can find also in your dash dashboard here in access tokens here. You can generate a new one. So that's how you set this one up. And

then uh for the qu uh the parameters, we need our account ID and uh accept application JSON. That's it. And the account ID you can find uh also in your dashboard. Uh you'll have to connect your LinkedIn. And then this will be your account ID. Right? So that's how you set it up.

And as you can see here, we get retrieve the company information from their LinkedIn profile. So we get the description, but more importantly, we get the ID. And this one we're going to use later to scrape the job ads from. So that's what this node does. Then we added a field uh just uh to get the logo uh because the logo can be an array. So

there can be multiple so we just make it into an array. And then we uh search for first search for Google Drive folders basically to check uh if if uh a drive folder for this competitor this specific company already exists. So all we do is we pass in the name of the company to check if uh there are any matches inside of Google Drive. if that competitor already exists and if not we have a switch node then it should continue and create a new one right and of course if it already exists it it shouldn't have to do that right so that's basically this switch uh node so you can see the JSON name right is does not exist right so in this case relevance I just added right so it doesn't exist so it's now going to create a new Google drive folder as you can see I just give it the name again of relevance AI and that's also how we can then filter it for next And then uh in this edit field I just change the name to drive folder ID. So the ID of the Google drive folder I just change the name uh to not confuse it with the air table ID. Right? And then

in this last note here of course we update the air table with all the new information. Right? So I match it on the original ID of course. Uh then I add the name, the company ID, the company description, the company website, uh the public identifier, the company logo, right? You saw that logo was added too, and the drive folder ID, right? But the

important uh part there is the company ID, right? So of course that's all then updated inside of the table here and inside of the air table interfaces. And that's basically the first part of the automation. Then for the second part of the automation of course u this uh gets triggered every week right every Friday once a week right and then uh we use a search air table node here and this has one filter and this filter basically checks for that status to uh if it's at to schedule right so if in this air table this one is on add to schedule and as soon as this research was done this will also be automatically updated to add to schedule Right. So we'll take all of those and filter on the ones for at the schedule basically and retrieves in this case four items right for competitors. If you want to know how to

write these fil um these air table filters again easiest ways to just use jet GPT but it's also not not rocket science as you can see right this is the field and this is the the name right then of course we use the loop to get to go over each of the companies. So batch size is one of course and then uh we use a quick uh weight node just to not overload the the API the uni API um after right so we use a quick weight node here and then uh we use here again the uni API now this one's a bit tricky to figure out because it's actually not that straightforward to scrape job posts from LinkedIn they have a lot of protection in place so again I used uni here and I'll show you quickly which one I use. So if we go here to the documentation, you'll see that you do have an option here which is for example list all job postings. But the issue with this one is this is only for your uh LinkedIn post, not for other people's companies. That one is infamously uh famous for being hard to scrape. So

that's why we're using another one which is this one. Get raw data from any endpoint. Right? This magic route is intended for advanced users who wish to use LinkedIn features beyond our current capabilities. Right? It enables you to

create custom functionalities that are not yet supported by our platform using connected accounts. Right? So the way this works uh you will need to identify the specific endpoint containing the desired data using web developer tools on LinkedIn and then copy the URL along with its parameters for implementation. So I'll show you how we did this because it's quite a sort of hacky way we did it. So what we have to pass in as a parameters are the account ID and the request URL. And this request URL is

basically from the Voyager LinkedIn API. Now I'm going to show you how we did this. I'll first show you an N. So the URL is quite simple. Again it's just this link. There's no no variables. Then

of course again we have the authentication which I showed before with the API key. We have a header here with application JSON. Uh and then we have uh a body here with uh the account ID which again you can find here right in your dashboard. This is your account ID from LinkedIn which you can set up right. You can connect it right here.

And then we pass in a request URL. Now you can see this request URL is the a the graph QL uh from the Voyager, right? Which is basically LinkedIn's internal API. And basically what we're doing the way I found it is just to go to a job uh post right we click on in uh view page source and if you click on view page source you uh you get all the details here and here you can find the Voyager API. Now, don't worry, you don't have to do this because I already have it here inside of the template, the exact link. But here, you

can find the specific GraphQL that you can use to actually scrape this specific page to get the data from this specific page, right, which uses the Voyager API, which is from from LinkedIn. Anyway, this is the this is the exact if you want to copy it, right, the the link that you want that you have to use. Um and as you can see to do in order to do that and to to do it for different types of companies the the way we have to change it is by passing in that company ID right which we found in that first uni node right that's how we can do it for multiple companies. So that's why I pass in here that company ID and that's how we get the job post from each of these competitors. So, not extremely straightforward, I know. But again, you

can just copy this. It's already set up for you, but that's why also UniLow is very powerful because you can you can do a lot of things uh on LinkedIn that are not even supported with normal APIs. So, here we get all the all the job posts right back. And of course, this is not the cleanest data, right? Because it's a sort of hacky way. So this is just

basically an error handler for uh sometimes it's it's stored in a different uh format. So that's all this is. I'm not going to bore you too much with this setup. Again, you don't have to change this if you copy and paste the template. Um but that's all this does basically, right? Then we set edit these

fields and then of course we split out over each of the the separate job post, right? So you can see we split out over the job item. So we uh we get you can see here we get 36 items instead of just three because of course we want to categorize for each and create Google Docs for each of the job ads. Right? Then we uh first of all clean it up a bit and only take the information that's important to us and give it better names. So we get the title, the

description, the applicants, the company name, the location, company record ID listed at, expires at uh and a drive folder ID and that drive folder ID of course we get from the original air table node where here below of course we had stored that drive folder ID. So we set all those those variables. Then in the next step we're going to categorize the department for each job post. So very simple prompt here, right? job description where we pass in specific job description for this job, right? And

uh your expert role job classifier given a job description, right? Then we have uh some pre-made departments here, right? We give it some examples. That's it. Again, you can read this in detail if you want to copy the template. And uh

we add a structured output. Right here, we have structured output. Again in my other tutorial also show how to do this really easily, right? And how I create usually these prompts. Then we have an edit field where we add this to the to all the variables we had before, right? Where we

add the department basically and then we create a Google docs with the entire job listing. So first uh we uh create a new doc right that's how it works in n where we create a new uh docs. So again we pass in that Google drive folder to create it in the specific drive folder for each of the competitors and we give it a title right so company name and uh the title of job post right and then uh we append right the Google doc so we add information to the Google doc right so we pass in the ID from that previous step so we identify the right Google docs and then we add in uh text right with the job description Right, pretty straightforward. So you can see we get all the documents and then of course lastly we also update the air table with all of this information into the new into the second table. Right? So you can see we

have the title, description, applicants, location, listed at expires at file URL, department and the company link. So this one last one I'm going to explain you quickly because we're linking it to that original table. So here we have the job postings but it does have to be linked to the original company, right? not to have them mixed and also to be able to show them inside of the interfaces underneath each company. You have to link it to the original company record, right? And the way you do that in air

table is to use that field uh link to another record, right? And what you do have to do in the API is basically pass in original um company record ID. So the record ID of this first table, right? which again of course we got from the original air table node right which is this one right so it's basically this ID right that we pass in here so that's it and then we it's automatically linked that's it then it loops over uh this for each of the competitors right then when it's done it goes to this uh automation here it aggregates all the all the job posts into on right to be able to pass it into our L&M node right so that's why we have an aggregate right and in this case we include all fields so I can just show you outputs we get one long JSON with all the ones we pass that into the N&M chain I put a very simple prompt you can probably expand on this and make it a bit better but it did a pretty good job uh so here create a report analysis of the entire campaign what are each of these companies uh focusing on give educated guesses about the what the companies are doing in terms of efforts from the data give hiring details about every company uh etc. Right. Again, you

can read it in detail if you want. Then we get the output from the L&M. In this case, I use Google Gemini 2.5 Flash. I probably might try the thinking model for this one. Could be interesting. I

built this one uh a while ago. So, uh I don't think it was available yet, but I think it would be an interesting use case for a reasoning model. Then, uh we just change the name of the output to data. Then, we pass it into a markdown to HTML, right? because of course we're going to send out an email. So we're

just creating an HTML out of it, right? And lastly here we send it to Gmail. So competitive analysis we use uh the date of the day and then we pass in uh the HTML here on the data and lastly we update everything to the air table to the final table right which is the reports table with the reports right so uh that's all all it needs a date right again I just use uh an expression right to uh get the current date and competitor report analysis important to use tcast usually uh for this to work and then uh that's it. That's it for the entire automation. Uh quite straightforward, quite simple setup I think but pretty powerful. Company was

really happy with this. Um so uh I had to do some hacking to try and set this up but uh the UniL API is is a game changer and I highly recommend trying it out because you can do a lot with it. Anyway, thank you so much for watching. Uh again you can copy and paste the template in my community. Also if you're an NAN engineer and you want to you're interested in working with us in our agency with me and my team uh you can check the link in the description below and uh apply uh to to work with us. And

uh yeah that's it for this video. If you get any value out of it highly appreciate a like and a subscribe. Thank you so much for watching and I hope to see you in the next one. Bye.