---
video_title: "Lovable Co-Founder Builds an AI SaaS in 10 Min"
video_id: lJX8VkZg-Vw
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lJX8VkZg-Vw
video_date: 2025-03-06
video_description: |
  Lovable link: https://lovable.dev/?via=benai
  
  🔗 Guest link:
  Anton Osika: https://www.linkedin.com/in/antonosika/
  
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/lcbaa-acc
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/lcbaa-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/lcbaa-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  06:25 - Live Demo
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too.
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer.
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast"
---
Hi everyone, very happy to have Anton here, founder of lovable. I think many of you have heard of lovable, but if you haven't, lovable allows you to make websites and entire web apps using only natural natural language. They're also the fastest growing startup in Europe and today Anton is going to show us how to use lovable to build an entire web app from scratch. Thank you so much for being here, Anton. Hi, it's a pleasure to talk to you, Ben.

I I know that you're helping the community of people that want to build businesses on top of AI and and I'm a huge supporter of this, getting more entrepreneurs empowered with AI. Yes, we're doing the same thing in that sense. So, can you give us a quick rundown of what lovable is, what you can do with it and maybe you can share some cool examples of things you've seen people build? So, it's a lovable isn't it? AI software engineer and you can use it to take your idea to if you're entrepreneurial entrepreneur you get the your whole business built on lovable in some cases.

There's also designers that use it just to create just simple websites like your portfolio website, your preferred landing landing pages, product managers do similar things. Developers also use it because it's much much faster than writing code. It's just prompting is much much much faster. And we're also seeing some use cases for marketing where you want to test out different messages and then you can just ask an AI to in a 1 minute you have a website full of great copy writing and so on. I have a one example where Jacob Clark is like 21 years old is understands AI. He's just built out a

lovable agency where he's shipped 12 full products this last month and made $200,000 pretty pretty much. So, that was one example I've seen designers who have had talking to some clients of theirs who were super frustrated with how expensive and slow it is to pay for software. And then so they were having quoted $100,000 for one product. And this this designer, Harry, he just figured I can do this myself with AI. So, he he shipped that product for the customer instead of them paying an old school software agency to do it.

And that those are some of the highlights with lovable. Amazing. So, even though it's natural language, of course there is a learning curve involved, I guess. And there's just some people get getting really good at it that can build softwares for companies really fast. Yeah, totally.

There's a learning curve. This is this is a new way of building. And it's for this uh coding has been like 0.5% of the population can code. With lovable can be used by anyone.

But to the mastery it it helps to be technically inclined. It helps a lot to be technically inclined. And what helps even more is to have a lot of devotion and really wanting to learn this new way of building. Yes, it's very similar I guess to the the the space I'm in, the automation space. We don't really need to It helps if you have some technical background, but you don't really need it to to build powerful, you know, applications if you just put in the work.

Or and learn it for a few weeks {slash} months. So, yeah, it's very interesting. is good because with AI tools like lovable you can always ask the system like I don't understand, can you explain can you explain this part to me? And then that that actually accelerates learning for most people a lot. Yes, yes, exactly. I I I've used that in

my in my learning curve too. I constantly when I run into roadblocks I use AI to solve it for me. Yeah. So, I'd love you I'd love you to see how you actually build build something. So, I don't know what we can build today.

I might have some ideas, but uh Yeah, do do you do you do you ever hire an software engineer to build something for you? At the moment I try to automate everything myself through through these automation softwares, but yes, in the past of course I I did a startup before and we had six or seven engineers. Okay. How was that how was that experience to have seven engineers? It's it's it's it's it's good in in in the sense that uh you know, you you in that era that was 3 years ago when I there was no AI so we needed it. Yeah. But it's very hard if

you don't have a technical background to really know what they're doing, how good they are, etc. So, if you have more control over it which I have right now because I have some automation skills, you can see there was a big upside of actually understanding how these systems work and the speed of deployment when you need a new feature or something you can build it quickly yourself. So, yeah. Yeah, yeah. But I think what I know this is that it's faster to do one person doing everything with AI. So, let's build let's build

something and you you told me about the other idea of being able to post posting on LinkedIn. Exactly. So, I'm I'm thinking currently of building an automation for myself which I want to build soon which is because I I want to be more active on LinkedIn and a lot of times I have ideas popping up in my head, but I don't have time to actually write out a LinkedIn post, etc. So, I was thinking if I could just leave a quick voice message and through that voice message it can write me a a LinkedIn post in that specific LinkedIn style automatically for me would be amazing. And actually I fine-tuned GPT on LinkedIn post. So, it

automatically sort of takes an idea and writes it out in the specific tone of voice and format of a LinkedIn post. So, I think that could be useful for many other people. So, maybe we can try and build a a web app out of it or a SaaS. Okay. Sounds sounds good. So, a web app where

you have you put in an idea that you get the well-formatted articulate LinkedIn post. What's the best outcome scenario if this if this goes really well? What would you use this for? Would you make a business out of it or you would you sell that sell the idea? First I'd use it for myself, but of course if other people like it who knows. Yeah, makes sense. No, but

I'm happy to see what we can cook up. And it's using lovable it takes it it's not instant just like the the writing software in in general, but we can get the first version for sure. So, what I sometimes do is that I like do a small sketch and then I copy paste in an image of like how it's supposed to look, but this seems so simple so you can probably just ask for an app where you put in an idea and you get a LinkedIn generated by AI. Do you have any input on the theme or like how it should should look? Can you use an example of my current website as as sort of the the design? Yeah, yeah, sounds good.

That wow, so that's Ben AI that this one? Yes, this one. Let's let's do it. Should I do should I see that what's here? Can I do a screenshot?

So, you can take a screenshot? Yeah. Wow. Be inspired. Uh by a screenshot.

So, is there like a specific strategy you should use when when trying to build something like this or or you just get started and and iterate from there? That's a great question. I would I would just try the trial and trial and error. There is a few learning resources that I think you should go to the documentation. There are links to tutorials and similar. And there you can

learn a few different web best practices. So, I I I have to say I'm not the person at this point who is the best in the world at using lovable to its full potential. So, you should you should you could join the Discord community and learn from the the absolute super users. I just keep it simple. I just say this is what I want to get and I put in screenshots often. And

then I I do a very I have a very iterative approach. Yeah. What's happening right now? Yeah, so what's happening now right now is that it's creating the first version. And since we want to match this style it's spending a lot of time this this styling exactly how it's supposed to look. So,

this looks like this looks a bit scary. There's all this code, but soon you'll see that we don't never need to look at the code. We can only look at the the application itself. So, that's what we're going to do. Incredible.

And while we wait I can explain some more topics here. So, what we're going to do is that we're going to ask for changes iteratively to the AI. If there's any point a problem, then it then then it is a bit of an a skill set to explain what you are expecting to see and what you are getting that why that is not what you want so that the system can really understand like what you mean and what what exactly what is not working. So, that might happen. We will We will want to since we're using an AI for this this is this is not just a website. This is not

just a plain simple website. We're going to add something called Superbase and that that is pretty much adding the database and the things like the Open AI connection. So, that's the database and Open AI connection. So, that's something we're going to connect with once we have the first UI. And then and when we're done we might just publish this and launch it and start making money on the on the app, I guess.

Yeah, amazing. Wow. It's exactly my style, yes. Okay, that's great. So, do you see anything instantly you want to change or should we just make it connect the AI to this for this to work?

Let's see. Generate your LinkedIn post, enter ideas, select your preference. I see we can even select the tone. And industry, wow.

Wow, yeah. so so so I was actually surprised here. It actually used AI somehow. Uh How did that work? Yeah, it already did a pretty good job.

Maybe we didn't provide something that we we see talk about the flowers. So, does that work? It Yeah, it didn't This still looked like it was an AI generating it, but this is this is it always answers Just template. So, yeah, let's connect proper AI here. And what I said before is that we don't connect something called Superbase and what what you normally do is that you would say create a new project, but I did just create the project here that I think is called LinkedIn post app. And

then I So, now I will connect that that back database and AI connection functionality. So, you all you do you just have to click the button and it automatically adds in the Yeah, so the AI is now now it's connected. Now I need to explain I want AI I want the generate LinkedIn post button to become uh uh to to to call it to use Open AI. Mhm. Let's use AI when I press this button.

Uh it's Open AI, I would say. Yes. Yeah, I can see you have to know what to instruct, right? The the AI, right? Because if you just say use Open AI, it's not going to be enough, right?

There's not enough context. Right, it seems I think yes yes yes Open AI would probably have worked. Um but I figured that this as possible. But it's like it's like it's prompting in general, right? You have to learn how to prompt these models to actually get the best output, right? And to do

the right thing. Yes. And what what I showed you here was that I could select an element specifically. And what this is a new part of this is actually a quite a new functionality where I can edit the the text if I'm if I'm doing a marketing website, I probably don't want to ask an AI to change everything. I could say I might want to change the parts of this with the uh like How do you how do you how do you say this? Um

Like like in Webflow, like in Webflow. So, then now it's the one that's that's now like uh rename for example the entire product to AI Okay. generators, for example. You so you don't have to use the prompt to to change every every text or exactly. I can increase the size or or the uh the fullness. I'll I'll just discard

it. So, here I'm getting um I'm getting something that I that's like not too uncommon, which is that uh there's an error. And what I do then in this case I just say try to fix. And that instructs the sends all of the problems. And this is very Well, I'm a software engineer myself, right? And there's a problem,

I need to understand what happened and try to fix it. That happens very often. With the with AI, I think it happens um less often because it's it's very good at writing code that is quite precise. Uh but it does happen. And then it's you go into debug mode, I call it, and that that's um um usually just saying I'll fix try to fix it and the AI fixes it. Sometimes it

helps to be to kind of ask questions and yourself try to understand what's going on as if maybe you did something wrong. Maybe I I set up I maybe I I have ruined the Superbase project. So, there's a few different things you can do if if there is an uh error, but normally you you just have to say try to fix it. Mhm. That's that's interesting. But yeah, I

can imagine if you have if you have a technical background, it could help you debug it a bit quicker, right? Yeah, correct. Correct. So, what does this Superbase exactly do? In in this scenario, for example. So,

here what we're doing I I can click here and show you that we have something called Edge Function, which are the things that are used to call AI. And here it's called Generate Post, this Edge Function that AI AI has created back-end functionality uh which is um which in the which in this case is just one piece of uh code which is called Generate Post. And that uses Open AI. That's what happens in this case. You can also use Superbase to set up authentication login. So, manage all the

users and so on. You can administer the users, set up email authentications for use for logging in as as so on and so forth. So, it has support for all of these things out of the box. And the Lovable AI can control all of that. Okay. So, so actually what what happened

here is that I I created a connection to Open AI, but you you actually need an AI an Open AI API key. So, I'm going to ask where Sorry, where do I put the Open AI API key?

So, that was the error? No, so the error the error was here. I clicked try to fix and then the error error was solved. So, now it's all it's all Okay. So, I want to add an API key and then I need to put in an Open AI API key. I have it in my

clipboard history, so I'm just going to pull it out and push it push it in here to the um so that it's being able to Someone now is Someone always has to pay for using Open AI, right? The API key handles that for us. So, now it it should be working. So, let's let's say um post about flowers and AI. And it should be working. I I would not

be surprised if there's anything problematic here. But actually it did work. Great. So, full Links by LinkedIn post generator. LinkedIn's by Yeah, great name, too.

Yeah, what do you if you have anything you want to change here, happy to happy to take it. Otherwise, I can just go to LinkedIn and I can post this straight off the bat. You're going to you're going to post this one and raise the intersection of nature and technology. And do these do the the the settings actually the drop-downs? Yeah.

Uh do they work? That's a good question. So, what do you want to have here? Uh educational? Um a short post.

And it's about industry AI. Exactly. Um I I I will also want to generate a post where I published uh the the application. So, I'll While I try this, I'm going to first publish it. And and now I'm going to put that URL.

Okay, here. Where is LinkedIn Inspired uh um I'm going to put the URL of the application itself. So, this is a standalone application. It's already hosted. You can already use it for fully. You can send send it to

your friends. Um and I want the LinkedIn post about that fact. Exactly. Um So, yeah, that generates your LinkedIn posts. And add in the URL, yeah.

Let's do this. I didn't write this post. Yeah, I did.

Here we go. Tying news and AI. I'm going to read this. Uh here we go. I might drop this.

I just dropped a bullet with an AI workshop. Uh-huh, that's pretty good. you. Of course. Are you here?

Ben von Stralen. Yes.

Great, amazing. Is that thing correct? Here we go. Yep, so that's that's the live demo of Lovable. And as you can imagine, um this makes it so much easier for entrepreneurs and people to innovate and you again in education, uh in um business, and I think in government as well. You you don't need to be

blocked by software engineers anymore. Yeah. No, and and there there are just so many SaaS platforms and and companies that I think at the moment charge pretty high seat-based prices that Yes. companies very soon won't be having to pay for for very expensive softwares when they can get one or two people to build this out in a few weeks, right? Yeah, reason that I heard this from a friend today. He has

a super smart unpaid intern. And he's being much much much more productive than the software engineers that he used to hire because he's the super smart intern is using AI. That's the age we're living in right now. Incredible. Yes, it's it's the people I I try to tell everyone is like what wherever whatever your job is or wherever you work you should learn these tools, right? Automation, coding because

whatever you're going to do you're going to create a lot of value for businesses or or for people. So, yeah, jump on to this. So, really really interesting and you can basically just publish it and you have your website live, right? Just like that. So, what I did was I pressed publish and then it asked me if I wanted to launch this as well. It It asked me if I

wanted to go to to lovable launched at lovable, which is an app that we built with lovable, of course, and you anyone can submit to that link inspire. Can we actually add in my fine-tuned model? That's a great idea. So, we will try before we launch it, we can build adding your fine-tuned model. So, Let's ask, can you switch to the model the So, you when you get it the Yes. fine-tuned model. Fine-tuned. There

we go. And see if that switches fine-tuned on LinkedIn posts on really Exactly. And then we can see if I can do the same for message again and get a better LinkedIn post. I think that Yeah, then we make we make our app a bit more uh special, I think. Otherwise, it's more like a chat GPT prompt, right?

Anything else you want to would I give you Do you think this is a well-converting converting website or do you think there's anything else that should be changed on the website? The go to the the the hero section. Yeah. Like I was just clicking all the buttons. Yeah, yeah.

I mean, we can we can improve it, of course, like maybe an an image An image in the hero section. Yeah. So, the news Okay, so he says he's up he's updated the edge function to use the fine-tuned model. And try the same the same prompt, maybe. So, I said something like uh I just create that an app with uh Ben at his podcast.

And here's the app. And it's good. We We have to tell it, I think, what app we created. And it generates LinkedIn posts from ideas. Okay, hope it works. Try.

See if it's difference. It might fail. I hope not, but it is again, if it fails, we need to ask the AI to fix it. Here we go. You can see the tone of voice changed a lot, right? Much better, actually. Yes.

You can book a hands-on session with Ben. I We didn't instruct it that. I just looked at I think this is a meta Yeah, because I I I put that in the fine-tuned model. Yeah. Right? To put in

a call to action for me to add it. That's good. Uh so, I think we need to post this one because it's actually better than the last one. Exactly.

But that is actually a a pretty I I've seen a startup like this. I think there's someone who basically I'm pretty sure he just fine-tuned some models and makes it really easy for people to create uh LinkedIn posts, you know, that are sort of in that format. You can see it with the emojis, etc. uh from a from an idea. So, we basically created that now in 10 minutes. Yeah, we did. We did.

Amazing. Um yeah, that's the way Ben I I'd love to see more entrepreneurs building with AI. If there's anything you see that we can do to improve lovable for this use case or anyone in the community, get back to me. So, Well, who But we launched the launch features is a way to get more exposure once someone build their first product and want to get make a real business out of it. I'm sure there's lots more we could do to help facilitate that building of a real businesses that part.

I I think I think it's really interesting for for people in the automation space, too, is if you have an automation that can be replicated for multiple companies that you run on N8N or uh relevance AI or make.com and have the front end in in lovable with user authentication, you can basically build a SaaS your your automation solution in in a day. All right, which is is pretty incredible. I think there I have to play around a lot more with with with these tools. I I I haven't done it enough, but Thanks for showing me because I can see it's extremely powerful.

Yeah. It It Yeah. It was a great I I just chatted, Ben. Thank you, Anton. Uh and uh if anyone wants to wants to learn more and uh where where what's the best place to to learn how to use lovable the best way? You You

mentioned the Discord channel. Um there's a there's a Discord channel. I think just you try using it having an objective of something you want to build and keep going at it is the best way to learn. There is a Discord community. There is um our lovable's Twitter posts a lot of what people are building. So,

lovable_dev on Twitter is a good thing to follow. Amazing. Thank you so much, Anton. All right. Take care. Have a great day.

Bye.