---
video_title: "The \"Boring\" AI Niches Making Millionaires in 2026"
video_id: 7xBRp-nvCNw
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7xBRp-nvCNw
video_date: 2025-11-06T09:40:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tbnm-acc
  
  Get the full untapped niche list + Yc startup example list here ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tbnm-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tbnm-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tbnm-seo
  
  We are hiring AI Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  Learn N8N (5-hour free course) ⤵️:
  https://youtu.be/-LJueWb3nns
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  01:06 - The $10Tr Opportunity
  03:09 - The "Niche" Blue Ocean Opportunity
  04:14 - Examples
  07:17 - Types of Niched AI Startups
  09:31 - How AI Turns Small Markets into Massive Markets
  14:58 - How to Take Advantage as an AI Agency
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too. 
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast. 
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer. 
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
In the software boom, millions of businesses were born out of digitalizing information, creating a 650 billion software market. But AI is the first technology that can actually automate labor, allowing us to tap into a far bigger opportunity, the labor market, which is $10 trillion in the US alone. To date, only 0.2% of the labor market has been automated. But with open AI moving into the application layer, and established SaaS players transitioning to AI SaaS, the competition will be fierce. So in this video, I'll show you how AI turns small, boring niches into massive blue ocean opportunities for AI agencies and AI startups. Show you how these niched AI softwares are suddenly raising millions from VCs in markets previously considered too small with plenty of examples and show you exactly which niches to go after and why starting an AI agency is one of the best paths to take advantage of this untapped opportunity today, even if you're not a coder. If you don't know me yet, I'm Ben. I've skilled both an AI agency and an AI SEO software to over $1 million in ARR in less than two years, and I've analyzed over 100 Y Combinator startups for this video. Now, as I said, we're the historic opportunity right now. We're seeing the first AI first software businesses popping up, going after the $10 trillion labor market, but most of the application layer is still unwritten and most of the companies in the AI revolution have yet to be founded. And what's becoming increasingly clear is that AI is similar to other technological revolutions. Just like the steam engine or the software revolution, the technology needs to be specialized in order to get high value outputs for specific industries and use cases. Steam engines needed to be specialized to create factory conveyor belts and softwares needed to be specialized to create CRMs and apps. My LNMs are like magic, but they are also messy right and businesses can't deal with black boxes, hallucinations and error prone workflow. So the people who specialize in AI applications for specific purposes and niches do have a gigantic opportunity in the AI revolution. That being said, new AI software are popping up by the day, opening eyes, moving into the application layer with Sora, Agent Kit and Atlas and other initiatives and established SaaS players are quickly transforming into AI SaaS, while of course having large distribution, capital and data modes. So the question becomes, how do we take advantage of this massive opportunity without competing with the big players? Now to do that, we have to look at where the big players are going and where they won't go, at least initially. The large language models and established SaaS players were first of all focused on of course the broad generic horizontal use cases, AI browsers, AI automation platforms, AI consumer applications, etc. Second, they were most likely target the mainstream markets and the big industries they are already in right. Salesforce and Hopspa will transition into AI, CRM's most likely, ZenDesk and Intercom will transition to AI customer service, software and Shopify will become an AI e-com hub. And they will of course also go after the biggest fish out there first enterprise and with AI democratizing software building enterprises will start building more and more custom tools internally too. Now I'm not saying there are no opportunities there, but the competition will be much higher in these industries. So where's the blue ocean opportunity if you don't have big VC connections, a huge amount of startup experience or an existing software business. Now what's left are the niches that were previously too small for SaaS and have therefore been underserved and are also considered too small of course for the large language models. So first of all we want to look at industries that are labor heavy because we can provide the highest ROI to these industries with AI applications. Second, we want to look at niches that are fragmented. This means markets where the market share of the top 50 companies is low. Why do we want to focus on these? Because these markets are far easier to enter and to sell to as a new company. And lastly we want to pick industries and niches with a limited customer base because they've historically been ignored by SaaS because these markets were considered too small for SaaS. Now before showing you why AI software turns that equation upside down and makes these small markets massive market opportunities for AI startups, let me give you some examples of industries according to this formula. Now this is exactly the types of industries where we see a new wave of AI software emerging and many of the businesses that fit the equation are local service businesses. It represents a four trillion dollar market that has largely been untouched by SaaS. It is a very labor heavy and extremely fragmented market and many of them have potential customer bases of less than 30,000. Also often these types of markets don't tend to have mainstream software systems yet meaning they often have fragmented tech stack and often rely on outdated software barely any of which have done anything with AI yet. And in contrast to the SaaS era we're seeing AI software popping up more and more in these tiny niches. Most of the examples here are YC Y commonator startups and YC only invests in businesses with huge exit potential and some of these started as AI agencies. So the types of AI startups we're seeing popping up is for example Barty which is an AI operating system for eye care clinics that automates patient and doctor admin bookings and patient follow ups. Then we have Vettnio which automates notes and admin for veterinary doctors replacing of course manual admin work. Then we have MD Hub and AI front desk admin automation tool for mental health clinics. Then we have Nautilus which is an AI software for car washes that handles everything from membership payments to marketing animations. We have AutoAce which is an AI voice agent for car dealerships to automatically book appointments. Then we have Cohesive which is a lead gen automation platform for genitorial landscaping, roofing and flooring businesses. We have ORA AI run by a friend of mine and a community member Jonas which is an AI receptionist that manages calls and reservations for hotels in Germany. You can see that these are all small niches that have been relatively untouched by the SaaS era. Now service agencies of course is another type of market which is very labor heavy and fragmented. For example marketing, lead gen and recruiting agencies. Now these types of service agencies tend to be a bit more software native and tend to have a bigger potential customer base meaning they have been more served by traditional software already meaning the competition will be higher in this space. I still think there is a still huge opportunity in these service agencies but having a good distribution channel will become more important in these niches. Now this is the approach we are taking of course with our systems for recruiting and our AI SEO system where we target recruiting and SEO agencies. Of course many of these AI startups also niche down by specific geography, by specific channel or specific end customer to find the more untapped niche. If you want a full list of all the startups going after these small niches and a full list of niches according to this formula, just check the link in the description below and I'll give away the spreadsheets here. Now before explaining why these small niches were largely untouched by SaaS and are now being funded by YC and VCs and have a much bigger market potential. I'll show you the type of AI software businesses that are being built in these niches. We're basically seeing two types of new AI software popping up. First of all is function specific AI software inside of one specific labor department for example sales service delivery or marketing and then we also have vertical AI sites popping up. Now for many of these local service businesses sales use cases provide very fast ROI to these businesses because for example voice and chatbot use cases like you've seen in some of the examples and automated booking and intake applications speed to lead automation can really increase these businesses revenue quite fast because they lose out in a lot of revenue usually in these processes. For example auto ace helps those car dealerships with voice agents to booking appointments and answer questions. In operations automating the service professionals admin service delivery documentation client management and invoicing can save huge amounts of time for the service professionals. Again, Vet Neo does this by automating admin for the vet doctor and we do this for example by automating much of the service delivery in SEO and content creation. And marketing use cases become very interesting to for these niches because many of these types of businesses were too small to afford marketing agencies or have internal marketing departments and AI tools can now make it really easy and cheap for these companies to set up their own ad creatives or lead gen campaigns and you see this is what cohesive does for example right they go after the small businesses and make them make it really easy for them to set up their own lead generation campaigns. Now that function specific play is the best part to start attacking these niches but from there there is a second even bigger play which is building a vertical AI SaaS for the niche because many of these tiny niches have been underserved by SaaS there is still an opportunity to become the main operating operating system for the niche with pre integrated and niche specific AI automations and vertical AI SaaS of course have an even bigger opportunity for example right not the list again why see founded is a vertical AI SaaS for car wash businesses right combining both the CRM payments with pre-built AI automations for marketing sales and potentially customer support top line pro does a similar thing for home service professionals and Barty for the iCare clinics now why have these niches been underserved by SaaS and why do they become huge opportunities for AI startups and AI agencies because traditionally the potential market size for these niches was simply too small to be interesting for SaaS and VCs take for example the iCare clinic niche in the US there are around 19,000 clinics and the reason there aren't a lot of iCare clinic specific CRMs for example is because the market size for that software would be too small the value specific CRM with given iCare clinic is pretty limited and with limited budgets and teams of these types of companies the software spent from these niches tend to be small for example a clinic like this which most likely not spend more than a hundred dollars a month on a iCare clinic specific CRM I worked in the CRM space and this is what we tend to see with these industries and giving it a basically a potential market size for the SaaS of 20 million dollars which is far too small to build a successful software SaaS business and that number would only be the case if you actually can capture the entire market which is completely unrealistic therefore these types of small niches have traditionally been served more by horizontal SaaS like a local business CRM or a healthcare CRM but but now AI software completely shifts the equation and makes these small market sizes huge potential market sizes now why is that two main reasons first of all because AI solutions can drastically increase the customer lifetime value or LTV right meaning the amount of money spend on your product or software as AI can turn some labor into software the right software can dramatically reduce internal and external labor spend on for example sales marketing customer service operations etc and this makes a company able to spend far more on a product or software which can increase the lifetime value and in turn the potential market size for the software by an additional two to 15x compared to a traditional SaaS for example barty AI right focuses exactly on that niche and for the full AI suite barty charges $1,500 a month instantly increasing that potential market size by 10 to 15x compared to a traditional SaaS and barty just raised a 12 million series eight two weeks ago I think which I doubt would have happened for a niche specific platform like this in the pre AI era but there is another reason AI can also reduce the customer acquisition cost or CAC when acquiring customers in the niche AI marketing and sales tools can significantly reduce the CAC when targeting smaller niches for example voice agents can automate some of the lead qualification reducing stuffing spend for your software business AI chat bots can automate onboarding and lead qualification even AI optimized algorithms for meta can make it more efficient and cheaper to show ads to small and specific audience AI can do mass personalized outreach without humans we have tools like clay etc and all of these can significantly reduce the cost spend on acquiring a new customer which in turn increases the profit margins on each customer which in turn increases the potential profitable market size even more and besides that with highly niche specific targeting your companies will connect far better with your message versus a generic message again think for example a local business here I am versus an iCare clinic specific AI software you'll connect better with your target cost and these combined factors can really make a too small to target niche of 20 million into a 500 to 1 billion potential market size and there is even a third factor because of improved efficiency of the business true your AI software it can result in a reduced service cost of the business itself and this often leads to more demand for the service and therefore an even bigger potential market size so let's say the doctor spends now less time on admin he can attend more clients the bookings are made more efficiently so the price can go down the convenience will go up for the user and historically what happens is that the demand for the service will go up people people might go to the doctor twice a year previous people who previously couldn't afford the iDoctor will now go because the service is cheaper now many people will also take the conclusion that this means that labor will be replaced and people will lose their jobs but this is not necessarily true and we also have some historical data on this and this is called the Yavons effect where when there's more efficiency in a business or an industry it often leads to more usage just like I explained before which often leads to more labor demand although AI will most likely replace some of the low leverage work and work will shift a bit new work will most likely also be created as people have to manage these AI softwares and also have human oversight and this has already happened in AI radiology software which is already better at diagnosing than human radiologists however this also means that the cost of radiology is going down leading to an increased demand for scams and therefore there's an actual increase in human radiologist demand and the same has happened with other revolutions like the containerization right this initially replaced some labor in docs but resulted in far more trade worldwide and a huge boom in logistics and warehousing jobs in the cloud transition some server management jobs were replaced but it led to a huge boom in new apps on the internet resulting in a huge boom in DevOps and other types of jobs so how do you take advantage of this niche opportunity today again assuming you're not a coder you don't have huge task experience and you don't have huge capital to invest or VC connections the huge opportunity with AI democratizing product building is that building these types of businesses becomes so much faster and more accessible to anyone and the best approach in my opinion is to start as an AI agency because you get paid while potentially building an AI software business and this is exactly the roadmap we have followed with our AI SEO system recruiting system it's what Jonas has followed for our AI and what countless others have done to build businesses like these in literally months you build custom first you learn about the industry you learn about what to build then you productize and the roadmap is simple you can learn AI automation with no co-platforms like an 8n in literally weeks if you haven't yet highly recommend you check out my five hour an identity tutorial because after that you probably know more than enough to start an AI agency and these no-code tools really allow you to provide highly valuable solutions to businesses very fast then of course you pick one of these niches labor-heavy fragmented markets you go out to the market you say do AI automation the huge opportunity we have today is that the whole business world is looking at implementing AI 95% of businesses haven't done anything with it yet and many people just get their first clients by consistently posting on LinkedIn YouTube doing called email paid ads meaning communities and and you just start out building custom solutions by solving the company's pain points you learn about their industry while you're doing this and once you've built a few things and you've identified a high ROI automation you deliver to a client you can try to resell that same solution to other businesses in that same niche giving you more data to build your solution to improve your solution and this is really how good software is built right customer feedback is what feeds and builds good products but again now we can get paid while building products and unlike SAS this is not a 5 to 10 year roadmap once you have a good use case you can build an MVP with a five-coating tool or coding agent really fast or you can start hiring engineers and of course lastly the last step in this play could potentially be to add in more and more tasks and eventually try to become a vertical AI SAS or the operating system for the niche now if you haven't jumped into AI automation yet I highly recommend you start at least thinking about it today because the winners in AI are the ones that jump onto the opportunity now there's literally never been a bigger opportunity I think and if you ever thought about doing something for yourself or starting something for yourself this is the time so if you want more help in starting and building your own AI agency or AI business you can also check out my accelerator in the link in the description where we try to give you the exact roadmap and resources you need to get started to get your first clients also if you want that full list of niches and startups just check it out in the link in the description below thank you so much for watching and if you got any value out of this video I highly appreciate a like and a subscribe it really does help me thank you so much bye