---
video_title: "4 AI Systems Every E-com Business Needs (n8n)"
video_id: Q3HKf8DDiBk
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q3HKf8DDiBk
video_date: 2025-12-30T09:04:23+00:00
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/4paes-acc
  
  Get the free templates from this video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/4paes-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/4paes-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/4paes-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 – Intro
  00:29 – System 1
  06:14 – System 2
  09:20 – System 3
  14:00 – System 4 [Bonus]
  
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too. 
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast. 
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer. 
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
Here are four AI systems that we've sold to e-commerce businesses. These are use cases that almost any e-commerce business can benefit from. So these can be great use cases to sell if you're an AI agency or to implement if you're an e-commerce business. And in this video, I'll walk you through the solutions. And if you want these templates and many more, you can check out my AI accelerator where we help you learn AI automation, get unlimited one-on-one tech help and help you build and grow your own AI business. And if you're a business looking to work with my AI agency, you can also book a free call with us in the description below. The first system is a customizable customer support chatbot widget that can give product recommendations and customer support. Now, of course, I don't have an e-commerce business, but I just deployed it on my own website quickly here so you can see. And we built the system using a combination of NADN, AirTable and chatwood, which is an app we've coded ourselves to make these customizable chat widgets for any website. Now, this widget and the entire system can be installed really fast on any e-commerce website and can give these product recommendations and resolve questions, but also has human handoff built-in whenever necessary through that ticketing dashboard on AirTable. To manage, for example, any unresolved issue or complaint, it can also send emails to customers informing them about opened and closed tickets. Now, this is a very common request we get from e-commerce businesses because customer support is often overloaded in high volume e-commerce businesses. And therefore, they either don't have any pre-sale support or it's really inefficient and time consuming. So we've made this really easy and fast to deploy for any e-commerce store, which I'll explain in a second. So the way it works is when we want to create this for a new website, we basically use this NADN form to fill out the new e-commerce website. And then the first part of the automation is triggered, where we basically crawl the entire website and scrape all the content, including all the product pages from this e-commerce store. We aggregate this data and convert all of the data into a PDFs or multiple PDFs and then upload it to the Google Gemini file storage. And this basically creates a vector store or a rag or a knowledge base for our AI agent later without very complex database management because a lot of these companies don't have that set up or it might take a lot of time. So this new Google Gemini file search approach makes it really easy and fast to create custom knowledge bases for companies like these. So as you can see, what we do here is basically we create a PDF here, right, with the Google Drive, then we upload it to a file store on Google Gemini. And then we just take the name from the file store here, this one, which we can then later add simply to a knowledge base of our AI agent who answers the customer's question here. So it's a really nice and easy way to create these custom knowledge bases. Then for the customer support agent, now we've learned a few things while deploying these systems for businesses. Is that first of all, we've learned that we need multiple agents because we need to escalate potential problems, bugs or complaints to humans while general product or support questions can be resolved directly to an AI agent. Now we have therefore a classification agent first that classifies if this user query flags a potential problem or is just a question we can answer to the knowledge base. And based on that, it gets routed to the customer support agent or the agent who can open a new ticket inside of air table here. So basically this agent can just answer the customer's query and this agent, if there's a potential problem, he's still can use the knowledge base to answer a question. But if it's really a problem, he doesn't have an answer to, he can open a ticket in air table and notify a human to step in. For example, if I would say something like the link to the SEO solution is broken, I get a 404, then it will flag it and it will be routed to the customer support agent who can open a ticket. You can see that the agent now asked me, I can escalate this to the team, just let me know your name and email. So for example, I can say Ben, my name is Ben. My name is Ben. My email is Ben at benai.co. And the system will now automatically create a ticket inside of air table and it will also send an email to the customer, notifying them over on resolved ticket. So if I open my email, you'll see that I get requested, not acknowledged, and it will the same will happen if an issue is resolved. Now this might not be the best question, but it's also going to be for complaints or problems with products, etc. And it will also have created a ticket inside of the ticketing dashboard, as you can see here, broken link. Right, now the customer support team can check it out. Also decide to close the ticket. It will automatically be moved there and also the customer will be notified also about the resolution details. Here by the way is the system to create a record and send an email to the customer. But you can read the full prompts if you clone the template. And if you're going to clone this template, all you need to do is import the JSON file that you can find in accelerator. You'll need to add your fire crawl API in order to scrape these websites. You also need to connect your Google Drive and Google File Storage API, which is by the way, the same API as your Google L&M API. Then once you've scraped your website, you'll need to copy this link and add it into the knowledge base here in the JSON. You can of course adjust the prompts a little bit, according to your specific use case. And then you can test the workflow here in the chat. And once it's ready, you can use our free tool, which is called chatwood, where you can customize the widget and deploy it easily onto a website. So you can see here in the configuration, you can just add in the WebOQRL from an event. So you can go in here, just copy this, add it into the app. You can make it for your account, right? Then you can add in your own logo, name, you can customize the appearance to your brand, and then you get an embed code, which you can copy. And depending on your website, you just add it in the header tag and the widget will automatically appear in the corner of your website. Again, if you need help setting this up or customizing it a bit, we do have 101 unlimited tech help available in my accelerator. So the second system is an automatic bulk product optimizer for Shopify. Now this is really valuable for e-commerce stores as many tend to have hundreds, if not thousands of products, and each of these product pages and listings, they usually have to be optimized for users, first of all, and for SEO in order to rank on Google and AI search in different languages. And this tends to be an extremely time intensive and manual job for many companies. So we built this system using a combination of air table and NADN. And this system basically allows a company to just export all their products from Shopify. Now I don't have a Shopify account, but you can export all your product listings in a CSV from Shopify. They can just upload it here, the CSV. And then it automatically generates SEO optimized meta titles, descriptions, product descriptions, FAQs, tags, and it even does this for multiple languages for all of the products in your CSV, which you can see here. So you get all these optimized descriptions here and the entire content with the FAQs. And then of course, for all of the products, you can export that back into a CSV very simply here, by just changing the status here to read only. And you will get a CSV back, which the company can then upload directly into Shopify to have all their product listings optimized. So how does it work? Whenever a user just uploads the CSV here and creates a new project, then the first part of the workflows triggered here, which is this one, which processes all of the rows and all of the data from the CSV and adds it into the database inside of air table. So you can see it gets the CSV from the air table. We download the CSV, we do some code formatting here, and then we loop over each of the rows to get all of the data into the air table. So then we get the original data from the Shopify into the air table, and then the second workflow here where we triggered, which gets each of the rows and runs it through the AI product optimizer, L&M, which generates all the optimized description titles, et cetera FAQs, and then again, upload that back into the air table. A user that can then still check if everything's all right and make any changes if he wants to. So he can go through all the products, and once he's ready, he can just export it back into a CSV through this form here, which will trigger the last part of the workflow, which outputs the optimized data back into a CSV. So we use the create CSV file here, and I'll put it back into air table, which can then the CSV be uploaded to Shopify to bulk, update all of these product listings. Pretty straightforward workflow, I think, but can save econ teams a lot of time. So if you're going to clone this template, you just need to clone the air table database and the NADN JSON file, which again, you can find in my AI accelerator, then you have to connect your air table account to all the air table nodes here inside of NADN. Of course, you have to connect your specific L&M provider. We use Gemini3 for this one, and of course, you have to change your webhook here at the beginning and connect it to your air table account. The third system is an automatic product ad generator. This is a great system for many e-commerce businesses, because many of these run hundreds of ads for all of the different products on meta. It's one of the most used acquisition channels for e-commerce businesses. And although many of the ads for many e-commerce businesses are very similar in nature, this is mostly still done manually and therefore extremely time intensive. So we've built this system using a combination again of NADN, air table and nano-binana-pro, of course, to generate the images. So this system allows a company to upload a product image here. From there, the system can automatically do product research here on the specific product, can also be done manually to get more information on the product before creating the ad. Then also a reference image can be added. If a company wants a similar layout and style of ad, this can also be a reference image of a competitor, of an ad they like, for example. And based on that, it will create five variations of ads to a prompt. Now a prompt for that can be generated automatically here, and also has human in the loop if you want to change the angle. And then according to the variation, it outputs different types of ads, according to the different angles inside of the prompt. So you can see it follows the brand style, the tone and the reference image. So you'll daily dose of clarity, we get a few options, and the company can choose the one they like most. And then lastly, in the ad gallery here, you'll find all the created ads. And from there, you can also generate the ad copy. So for example here, you can click this and the ad copy will automatically be created. Of course, this has a database behind the interface, as you can see here. But we just use the interface to make it a bit more user friendly. Now how does the automation work here? It's quite straightforward. I think this first part of the workflow gets triggered when a company has uploaded a product image to generate a product research, which will help, of course, when we generate the ads. So this product research here is done by, through the perplexity API, to get more details on the product. Of course, this can also be done manually. Then in the second part of the workflow, this one will be triggered when there was no reference image uploaded. So in this case, it will download the original product image, added to the L&M here, which will create five different variations inside of one prompt, and outputs the prompt back into air tables. The user can still adjust the prompt or the variation of the ad if he wants to. If the user then wants to generate the ads, the third workflow is triggered here, where it gets, again, the product image. It of course also extracts the prompt that we're generated before, and then it will loop over each of the prompts for each of the ad variations here, and generate five different ads. We're using Google Nanobanana Pro, of course, here, to replicate, because it's a bit easier. So we use the replicate API to access Google Nanobanana, and then we request the ads in a second API call, and we do that for all five, and of course, upload them into the air table, and then we update the status of the request here. Now, next two workflows are very similar as the second and the third, but the difference is these get triggered when a reference image was uploaded, because then we want to follow the style of that reference image. So we again download the original image, product image, and the reference image. We analyze the reference ad in one NLM step here, and we use that to generate the ad prompt for the five ad variations. Again, the prompt will be put back into the air tables for the user, can still make some adjustments if you want to, and then in the next workflow is the same one to actually generate the five ads, but based on the reference image. And then the last flow will get triggered whenever someone wants to create the ad copy. For specific ad. So as you can see here, again, it downloads the original product image for some extra reference, and it uses an NLM to write the ad copy. Again, if you want to clone this template, you have to import the JSON file of NLM, and clone the air table database and setup and interface. You'll then need to connect your air table accounts in these nodes of the air table, your perplexity API here at the top. Of course, you have to add your adenams to these adenams nodes here, and you have to connect your replicate API key, which is pretty cheap to use. So it's not going to cost you more than a few cents per generation. And then lastly, of course, you have to connect your specific webhook, which will be unique to you, to your air table database, which if you go into the database, you can find in the automation section. Here's where we update the script with your webhook. The next system is a competitor price tracker. We built this for two companies that promised our customers to always have the lowest price on the market now, because prices and discounts and price changes happen all the time. This is a great system that allows a company to track competitors products in real time, and they also get notified through Slack whenever a competitor has a lower price. Now, again, we use a combination of air table here and an adenam, of course, for the backhand. And we also have a dashboard here where it can easily see the price changes, but also track the prices of a specific product in the past. So basically, they can just go in here, add a new product they want to track, then they can add in all the competitor URLs for that product. So for example, we have Adidas UltraBoost 5X. We can add in all the competitors here with the links. And then the system will start with a scheduled trigger, which can be set on any time interval, let's say every two hours or every six hours. It will then get all of the products first. And then loop over each of the products in the sub workflow here, and the sub workflow will loop here over all of the different competitor URLs inside of one product. And then you can see we use the FireCrawl URL scraper to scrape the website's data, which we then passing to an adenam to extract the price of the product that will be updated to air table. Of course, and it will loop over all of the competitor URLs. Now, just to keep in mind, FireCrawl can't scrape all websites. Some e-commerce websites are famously known to have a lot of anti-scraping methods in place. So if your specific use case for competitor is not scrappable with FireCrawl, you can use some other APIs to scrape websites. The one we've seen work best for hardest scrape websites is Scrapfly. Scrapfly is another API you can use that has some more advanced ways of scraping websites. If it doesn't work for you, you can check out this one and integrate it instead of FireCrawl. Basically, that's all the system does, not too complex, I think. Of course, the prices put out in the table here and then through the dashboard that can track it. Of course, again, we have a database in the back end here. This can also be managed from here. But that's it. Pretty straightforward system. If you're going to clone the template, what you have to want to keep in mind is you have to, again, of course, clone the air table, dashboard and database, then you have to connect the air table nodes to your specific account. You have to connect your FireCrawl API. I think you can start for free with FireCrawl and of course, the Slack integration here. By the way, this Slack integration serves this, and then basically analyzes if a competitor has a lower price than yours. And if so, it will send a Slack message to notify you. Again, if you want some help setting up these templates or maybe customizing them a bit for your specific use case, you can check out my accelerator where we also give you that one-on-one tech support. Unlimited, you can book on a call with one of our AI engineers and they will help you out. We also have lots of courses on how to acquire customers. We have many more templates. So if that's interesting to you, you can check out my accelerator. Now, that's it for this video. Thank you so much for watching. If you want to learn how to get clients for your AI agency, you can also check out the video here above.