---
video_title: "The #1 Overlooked Skill Behind Every $1M AI Business"
video_id: sc-lTA8h-E4
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sc-lTA8h-E4
video_date: 2025-09-06T09:03:54+00:00
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tosb-acc
  
  Get the free template of this video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tos-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tosb-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tosb-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:49 - What is Context Engineering?
  03:09 - The Opportunity
  06:25 - How to approach context engineering
  10:09 - Step 1: Define the outcome
  10:42 - Step 2: Define the process
  12:59 - Step 3: Prepare Context Dataset
  16:06 - Step 4: Design The Context Window
  18:33 - Step 5: Test & Optimize (+ PromptMetheus Demo)
  20:05 - PromptMetheus Demo + walkthrough
  24:05 - Automating & Productizing it with N8N
  25:56 - Example Demo (SEO System)
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too.
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer.
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
Most chat GPT users and 95% of AI automation templates produce generic outputs because they lack one fundamental skill, context engineering. So in this video, I'll explain what it is, why it is key to get good outcomes from AI, and why it is behind almost every successful AI product. Give you simple framework on how to apply it efficiently today, and explain the huge opportunity to use this skill to build resellable AI products fast. This is the exact playbook we use to turn one automation into an AI product that we've now sold to over 100 businesses and scaled to over $1 million in ARR. I spent the last two years building AI systems, worked it over 100 businesses, and this single skill is probably responsible for 90% of our success. All the tools, templates and frameworks I'll share in this video will also be available in my free community in the link in the description below. So what is context engineering? It might sound complicated and some people on the internet make it sound like it's rocket science, but it's really not. The best way I've heard it defined is by André Carpathi. context engineering is the delicate art and science of filling the context window with just the right information. It's the difference between people saying, Hey, please write me a newsletter to JetGPT versus people thoughtfully considering all the context and language model actually needs in order for it to actually write a good newsletter for them. And it's the difference between 95% of N8N templates that look impressive, but actually don't generate any value output and a few that have been carefully built and refined over time to deliver good outputs reliably and consistently. Anyone who's used JetGPT or build an N8N animation with actual consistent good outputs has already applied this concept in some form. And they usually understand that in order to get good outputs from AI, it's not about ordering a language model, what to do. It's more about onboarding a language model. It's about the way I like to think about it. It's like onboarding a smart intern. You wouldn't just say, hey, write me a newsletter and walk off and expect good results. You'd give him plenty of examples, context around your business, personal information, instructions on the tone of voice, your ICP and your business strategy. But besides that, it's also about understanding and breaking down the process. So let's say we're writing a newsletter, we really have to understand what the actual process in the newsletter creation is from ideation to drafting the finalization to image selection. To put it simply, from my perspective, context engineering in practical terms just means defining the steps to follow in a process and defining the right context for each step in that process in order to get good outcomes. Now, not all tasks require the same amount of context for a language model to get good outputs from a language model. Generally, for non-intelligent, general knowledge type tasks, very little context is required to get a good output. For example, if we asked the GPT a math question, or we automate a simple invoicing process, but for these more end-to-end workflows, specific knowledge and creative work, context engineering really becomes essential to get good outputs consistently. For example, writing a quality newsletter, designing ad creatives, writing sales copy or outreach copy, or writing good SEO articles that actually perform. Now, in order to automate those types of processes, it requires, first of all, a lot of work and second of all, at least some domain expertise. And if you think about it, most services provided to businesses are these specific knowledge type tasks. That's why businesses pay very well for these kinds of services, like digital marketing, lead generation, et cetera, because they have specific knowledge that the company doesn't have. And here is really where I think the big opportunity lies with AI right now, because most people in AI focus more on automating these general knowledge type tasks, which is more equivalent to automating the interns work, right? Copy and pasting work, which can be great for cost-coding and saving some time for a business. But I think the big opportunity and where we can really drive a lot of ROI to a business is, and where we're also not competing with the mass market of builders, is in automating service processes and service agencies, because businesses already pay big money for these specific knowledge type services and the results they bring. So there's a gigantic opportunity, I think, in automating and productizing the service industry, it's a $3 trillion market that's ready to be disrupted, because AI is the first technology that can actually automate work. But to automate these kinds of processes, we need to have, first of all, at least some domain expertise. Of course, we have to understand what a good content process looks like, for example, and how these processes work. In my experience, this can be learned quite quick if you dive into a specific field. But second, of course, you need to have some AI automation skills, which if you don't have it yet, highly recommend to learn this today, because in my opinion, it's one of the highest leverage skills you can learn today. And with no-code platforms like NADN, it really is not rocket science, and you can learn this in weeks. I also have a full NADN course on my YouTube channel. So if you don't know how to do AI automation yet, highly recommend checking it out. I'll make sure to link it up here too. But lastly, another skill that I really consider a separate skill, and that many people overlook, is the context engineering skill. And in order to automate these kinds of processes and services, we really need to know how to properly apply context engineering. And a big opportunity you have, if you have this combined skill set of these three skills, is that first of all, most businesses have none of these skills yet. So they are happy to pay for this. Most builders, like usually some domain expertise, or haven't learned how to apply context engineering to efficiently automate these types of processes. And most domain experts or service providers are still stock copying and pasting prompt in chat GPT. They haven't learned how to package these workflows into an AI automation system to be able to automate the process and maybe eventually even package it and resell it to businesses. And basically what I see is that there are very few people who know all of these three skills, and the ones who do really do have gold in their hands, because they can now build AI productized services. This is exactly what we've done with our AI SEO system, which we've now grown to over $1 million in annual revenue. We've not reinvented the wheel. We haven't found it a new language model. All we've done is really package context and our SEO domain expertise into an AI automation system, put a simple user interface on top, and we've now sold it to over a hundred businesses, because we can give them consistent, reliable content that makes them rank in Google and AI search. So how do we automate these kinds of creative or service processes? Now, most builders approach automating these kinds of processes the same way they approach building more repetitive or general knowledge type tasks. And they dive into buildings straight away, because for these other types of tasks, not a lot of context is necessary, and the process is very clear. And most people using touchypt don't even think about the process or the context necessary in the first place. But to efficiently automate these kinds of processes or services, you really need to have a different approach. In my experience, you really need to plan ahead, plan the process, plan the context for each step beforehand, which is actually 90, 80, 90 percent of the work already before you dive into building. That way, we do this and approach automating and productizing services is through this simple, six-step framework. I'm going to walk you through each step in a second and give you frameworks and templates and the tools we use in each of these steps. But this is really the framework we follow. First, of course, you need to be able to identify what a good outcome looks like. Second, you need to define all the tasks required in the process to get to that outcome. Then you need to define the context data set for this process. Now, what do I mean with that? Basically, you can think about all the specific context or information that is necessary for this process to get the best possible outputs. Right? So again, think around context around the business, the user, the ICP, external information from other software, etc. Then four, we need to define what context is necessary for each step in the process to get the best outcomes for each step of the process. And we have to, of course, define the instructions for the system prompts for each of these tasks. And last, of course, you're not going to get this right in the first try. You need to test prompts, the context variables, and sometimes the entire process in order to get this system to automate a process like this reliably and consistently. But once you've done this, you can now package it into an NADN system. So you can get these good outputs with basically just a click each time you do the process again. Or you can even package it into an AI product where you can start reselling it to other businesses. And again, this is exactly what the process we followed for our SEO system. Now, of course, again, if we're doing a simple logic-based automation, like transferring lead data from a web form to maybe a CRM, maybe with some research in between, you don't actually need to map out all of this because the workflow is so logical and straight forward that it doesn't actually need to be thought through like this. But it becomes very different when we're trying to automate services like content processes, ad processes, email outreach, etc. Because besides these types of processes needing a lot more context, they also often don't follow very clear logic. For example, SEO is done differently by every SEO agency, creating content, this approach differently by every person or content creator. So we have to carefully think through the process, your unique process to get to good outcomes. And again, I like the intern analogy. We don't need to give our intern a lot of context. When we give him a copy and paste-stide job, but when we instruct our intern to write our company's newsletter, you of course need to tell him very clearly what a good outcome looks like, what the process is that he has to follow, what information he has to use, and where he can find that information. And of course, he needs to get feedback, do it a few times, I get feedback from you before he can actually get good outputs. But most people, again, approach content workflows the same as these more logic-based workflows. They start building without thinking through the process, which often just results in average outcomes for these types of processes. Now, let me walk you through each of these steps, and I'll give you the templates and the tools we use in each of these steps to make this process a lot more efficient and fast. So first, of course, we have to clearly define what a good outcome looks like for this system. Now, the easiest and fastest way to do this is by simply having examples of good outcomes. If you don't have this yet, you need to do some research. So again, if we take our newsletter example, if you don't have a newsletter example yet, we have to do research on other people's newsletters and find a few we like. Generally, you want to have at least two or three good examples, and this is really the most important piece of context you can have to improve the quality of your outputs. Second, we need to reverse engineer from the outcome. We need to break down the process into the smallest tasks in that process and workflow. Now, why do we do that? First of all, language models and AI are generally best, most reliable, and most consistent when we keep the scope of work as specific and as limited as possible. That's why we want to break down these larger tasks or processes into smaller tasks, also in order to plan the context for each step in the process, because each step will require different context inputs in order to get the best outputs. Also, a third key factor for this is we need to have human in the loop, which really becomes vital and really important in these creative workflows. This is a huge lesson we learned, most businesses and people. First of all, want to be in control still, they want to verify and check, and having human checkpoints between these tasks is one of the biggest insights we've really gotten when building and selling our AI SEO product. This also speeds up the process of building a production ready system by a lot, because generally, most of your time when building is spent on getting out the edge cases, which with human in the loop can now be done by a human instead of sort of over-engineering a perfect system. So in our newsletter example, we wouldn't just get a language model to write the entire thing in one go, to get it with subject lines, call to actions, etc. Instead, we try to separate those into specific tasks, one language model in charge of writing good subject lines, one on drafting a newsletter, one maybe for generating a newsletter strategy, even before that, which we generally like to do with these content processes, etc. Now, again, this can be a different process for different people or different agencies, it can mean different context variables for different people. There is no right or wrong here, because there is no clear logic in a lot of these creative workflows, but they have to be thought through and tested to get the consistent reliable outcomes. And this honestly is one of the hardest skills in AI, because it's almost an art trying to build logic out of creative workflows. But just start with an initial idea that makes sense to you, it doesn't have to be perfect from the get go, but if you can figure it out and it's definitely doable also with the tools I'm going to show you in a second, you have a very unique and sellable solution and it really is your mode, right? Your unique process is your mode in these systems. So the next step is really to start preparing our initial context data set. Now, again, what do I mean with that? We have basically infinite amount of information or context pieces or variables we can feed into this system in order to get to good outcomes. So an easy framework to think about what context you need is to go through the following context categories. First, we have the context of the process, which of course is context by itself, which we've of course already defined in a step before. Now, the second one, of course, is the outcomes, which is very important context category, which we've also defined in a step before. But the third one, which is very relevant and almost always true for these content and creative systems is to have gathered user context. For example, the user context we generally like to gather is business context, personal context, don't know voice context, which we generally do through examples. You can think of mission values, etc. Now, the second context variable we need to get really clear on generally is the target audience or the audience context. You can think of demographic, pain points, ICP, etc. And the last big one you want to think about is what external context do I need? What YouTube, blog, web site links or API data are relevant for this system to execute well on this process. And if you ever worked with a content agency, you know that this, this whole overview is basically exactly what they do. They send you an onboarding doc with lots of questions about you, your company, ask for references and examples, your target audience, and defining all of these context variables are generally for us the starting point when trying to design and automate a creative system or workflow. So again, if we think about our news that are example, all of these data points here are pretty relevant and are really going to improve the outcomes for this system. Some might not be relevant for other systems, but for example, in a newsletter creation, we don't necessarily need external links or external context, but in SEO, we need to use APIs and tools to get keyword data, competitor data, etc. But this is a good framework for you. I think to map out all of the context variables that you'll need in your specific process and to make this a lot easier for you, I've prepared an entire questionnaire to get all of these context pieces, which are relevant for most content workflows very easily. I'm going to make sure to share it in the link in the description below too. I'll show you very quickly. So here we have a basically a context engineering worksheet. So you could just go through all of this and basically we've done the hard work for you by identifying the important context variables you most likely need in most creative processes. The way I like to do it is just use whisper flow. If you don't know it, whisper flow is just a tool that you can talk. So you can just go through this and basically by going through this worksheet, you will easily identify all the context variables or context pieces you need before you start automating your process. So again, it will be in the link in the description below in the free resources section of my community. So when you have reversed engineered your process and gathered, at least you have an idea of the context data set that you will need, the next step is to really to plan the context that needs to be fed into each step of the workflow in order to get the best outcomes for each step. And here's basically where you do prompt engineering, right? You make sure to feed it all the contextual data points necessary for it to get the best output, but we shouldn't overload the model with too much irrelevant data for this specific task. It's about identifying the right type and amount of context in order for this language model to get the best output. And in the system prompt in general, you should try to add the objective for this task and all the context it has access to and how to use that context to achieve his objective. Right? And if you're using chapter, you can add this all into the same prompt. Of course, the context and the system prompt, you don't have to differentiate between the system and the user prompt. This is going to be more if you're going to build in an A-Den. But then in the user prompt, we're going to feed in all the context variables that help this and get to the right output. Now, here's really where you have to take a step back. What most people can don't do and think about what context do I specifically need for this task? Or do I need to give my intern here to do a good job with this task? Now, the context variables will highly depend on the specific task. For example, if we write a subject line or the actual newsletter, we'll need to feed in different guides or context. Now, in general, there are three types of context variables we can feed into language model. The first one are user-generated context variables, context that is directly given by the user. For example, if I fail out some backstory about myself that I want to feed into the system to use stories in my newsletter, that can be generated by me. So it's a user-generated context. Second, we can have context that was generated by a previous N&M step. So N&M generated context. For example, we generally with these content systems really like to generate tonality reports and strategy. So in this case newsletter strategy report based on some other context variables which we can then feed into the system. And thirdly, of course, we have external data as context. For example, YouTube links, blog posts, APIs with keyword data, etc. Which can, of course, be accessed through tools, MCP. If we don't just have a language model, but sometimes we build this into an AI agent. Now, of course, this is just an initial idea. And to get these systems as reliable and as good as possible, we really need to properly test and optimize this prompt for each step to get it from good to great and to get it reliable. So the next step is really to start testing and optimizing. Which is again, what 99% of people skip and why many systems fail to deliver consistent reliable good outcomes. And this is really what I see good AI product teams and the top AI agencies actually focus a lot of energy on this. Now, the tool we use to do this, which has really been a game changer for us is prompt meteors, which I'm going to walk you through in a second. Now, first of all, what are the things you should be testing? Now, there are really four things you can optimize and test. The first one is by improving the prompts and the context variables itself, which you can basically do by improving the instructions to the language model or by experimenting, giving it different context variables to see what gives you the best outcomes. Now, again, prompt meteors is going to be great for this. Second, by testing different language models, do you see a difference in quality using different language models? For example, GPT-5 versus entropic Opus 4.1, etc. Then by testing the process itself in the first place and optimizing the process, maybe you need to make it a little bit more granular, maybe you need to add new steps, etc. And lastly, if you get if you've tested that and you get to reliable consistent outcomes, you can additionally make it optimized for costs by using the cheapest language models that still perform great. Now, you can test these prompts in chat GPT or cloud, etc. But of course, you can only test 0.1, right? To test all of these very simply and have a very good testing framework, we use a tool like prompt meteors. So it's prompt meteors.com, right? So prompt engineering IDE, forge better prompts for your L&M-powered applications, agents and workflows. So you can compose advanced test prompts, reliability, optimized prompt performance, and collaborate with your team. Really been a game changer for us. Highly recommended, check it out. It might be a little bit intimidating when you're just getting started, but it really is not rocket science. So let me walk you through very quickly. Basically here on the left, we have our prompts and our data sets. The way you can see it, basically these prompts are your system prompts, right? The instructions, we give to our L&M and the data sets are all the context variables that we want to feed into the system prompts to get to the best outcomes. So you can see we have the newsletter reference here, newsletter strategy, inside, tonality, et cetera. And basically what I have here is just, for example, the newsletter references, just fed in some examples of other newsletters that I want to feed into the system prompts to get the best outcomes. So if I go here to the newsletter content prompt, which is the one who drafts the final newsletter, you can see that here. We can, first of all, have the system prompt. So these are the instructions, right? And then here below, we can define all the context variables or the data sets we want to feed into the system prompt to get to the outcome. So you can see we have the tonality here, newsletter personality, which is basically a backstory of myself. So we can use personal references, right? We have the newsletter strategy, we have newsletter references, inside and subject for this specific newsletter. Right? Now, the first thing we can do here is start experimenting with different context variables. Right? So maybe we can, you can easily, for example, turn one off. Now this context variable, strategy will not be fed into the prompt. And when I click here on generate, it will now generate it without the newsletter strategy. So this is the first thing I can test. I can generate one width and generate one without. So I can, first of all, define which exact context variables will be best to get to the best outcome. But because I can easily compare here between the two. Now the second thing I can test is also I can test a bit as between different system prompts here. So you can see here I have another option here with two and one. So you can see I actually have made two system prompts. And I can do the same thing. I can do generate with this one and generate with the second one. And again, I can check which one I like best. And slowly but surely I can optimize more and more things. So the next thing you can optimize to is, for example, in the data set itself, we can feed in multiple data sets. So for example, a different set of examples, example outputs, to see which references get us the best output. So if we go back here, we can simply go back to that one, the newsletter reference. And then we can switch between the different data sets inside of that context data set. So then we can again, you know, AB tests between those two, so you want which one is best. And then the last thing we can optimize for is also between different language models. So I can go, for example, cloud 4.1 openers versus chat GPD. So I just click here on generate with 4.1 openers. And then I try one with GPGPT5. And we can see which model gets us the best output. But you can imagine here, you can basically test all the variables you need to test in order to get to the best outcome. And I can tell you, for these kinds of systems, like this newsletter system, 80 or 90% of our time is spent on designing the process behind this creative workflow and testing and optimizing here in prompt meters. This is really 80 or 90% of the process because once you've identified all of this, you know that it delivers good outcomes consistently. You've identified the right models packaging it into an NADN automation workflow is really only 10% of the work because you've done the hard work here. And this is what 90% of people don't do. And if you do it, you get way better results than almost all automation and content workflows out there. Right. So highly recommend you check out this tool and start experimenting with it. In my next video, I'm going to dive a little bit deeper and show you demo over news that are system two. So you get a better idea. But again, highly recommend checking this out. Now, if you've done this and you get to consistent rely on outcomes, you've done again, the hardest part of the automating creative workflows. And you can now of course use these prompts to copy and paste in chat to you. Pt each time you want to execute on this process to get good outcomes each time. But the obvious thing, of course, is to build it into an automation system so you can run this basically with a few clicks every time. Now, there are two ways you can approach it. If you're purely going to use it for yourself or your business is to build a custom automation where you embed all of these specific context inside of the NADN automation. But the real unlock, I think, is making all of the context variables variables in your NADN system so that any business can start using the same system and get the same value out of your system. And this is really where you turn a custom automation into a productized one, which can then be repeated or result to any business and scaled infinitely. Now, there are four important things to keep in mind when you're trying to productize a workflow like this. Now, first, you want to build a separate automation for each of your tasks in your process, right? And we do that to have lots of human in the loop and human verification steps in your process. So again, we're not trying to automate the entire newsletter process in one go for the user, but we separate it into steps that let them pick the ideas, pick the right subject lines and generate the newsletter, right? Then second, you need, of course, to have a database where you can store the user specific context and where you can store the outputs of each of these tasks. We like to use air table because air table combines a database with a simple way to build a front end on top, which is of course point three. We also need to have a front end or a user interface in order for the user or the business to input their specific business context to show the outputs of each task and to have the human in the loop and for them to take actions on them. So let me give you a very quick example. So here, for example, we have our AI SEO agency in a box. That's how we call our product. And almost always the first step in these product-like solutions that we do is a project setup, right? And here's basically where we gather the relevant context for each business. Now, this system is even designed to we can add in as many companies as we want and we can build basically a different strategy and context variables for each of these companies. But basically what we do, this is sort of the onboarding, right? If you think of a service industry agency, this is in this first page, we just gather all the relevant context we need for the business in order for our system to get to good outcomes. So in SEO, of course, it's a bit different, but we ask for the language, right? The CMS in this case, which website do they do it on like image brand guidelines, right? And this the user has to fill out in order for the system to do a good job for their company, right? Now a lot of things we even tried to automate a little bit for them. So we asked for some data points and then we even automate the business overview and strategy reports. Now this is a Spanish one in this case, but the company has human in the loop here, right? So we can check this or the company can check the strategy, the business overview is everything good. But once we have this, we have the relevant context for this business for our system to start doing this, right? And we can do this for infinite amount of different companies. And that's really how we productize it. Instead of having this specific context inside of the automation system to make it only useful for this specific business, we've made those variables so it can handle any business basically, right? And then you can see in the product section, for example, it will generate, it will generate ideas, right? For this company, for example, the user can easily pick the ideas with topics they want to generate the blog articles for once they click on generate content, it will generate the actual blog posts, they can then check it out. And again, we have human in the loop, right? We give them all the information, the keywords that they will rank for, it can publish from here. But again, we have human in the loop, right? So they can look at the images that were generated for this article. And here they see the entire blog posts, right? Again, they can change things if they want. And from here, they can then publish it onto the website. And the key is really to make those inputs variables, right? And the second thing is to separate these large workflows into small tasks with lots of human checkpoints or human in the loop, right? And how that looks in the back end, in an NADN system is generally these first ones are just to generate the initial context for the system, which we can then use in all the subsequent tasks in this workflow to in order for it to get to the best possible outcomes for each of these tasks, right? So we can see we have all these separate sort of automation workflows. Now again, this is a very complex one, as you can see, we've built this out over a long time. But this is the same for simpler workflows. Like that news letter one, I'm going to show you later is we only have three or four of these smaller automation workflows, but it's still an extremely powerful automation or system. Again, if you don't have experienced building a AI products yet in NADN or you don't have experienced you're using NADN yet, I released a full NADN course where you both learn the basics of NADN, but also how to build this productized AI solution. So make sure to check that one out if you haven't already. Anyway, that's it for this video. Thank you so much for watching. I hope this was helpful. My next video I'll walk you through and give you a demo over a newsletter system and also give you a little bit more details on how we build this out, which might get you a little bit more familiar with these concepts that are covered here. If you got any value out of it, highly appreciate a like and a subscribe. And if you want to learn NADN or want to learn how to build AI products out of NADN and AirTable, make sure to check out this video where I'll cover it all.