---
video_title: "Build a No-Code AI Customer Support System That ACTUALLY Works"
video_id: mJwZPK2A7cM
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mJwZPK2A7cM
video_date: 2025-04-24
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/banac-acc
  
  Get the free template of this video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/bana-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/banac-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/banac-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:54 - Demo
  08:05 - N8N Setup & Breakdown
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too.
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer.
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
So, in this video, I'll show you how to set up a customer support agent with a built-in ticketing dashboard without using code. Now, I built this system for my own circle community to help people get faster answers to their tech questions, but it can easily be adjusted to any other community platform like school, uh, Discord, Slack, WhatsApp or Facebook, and can even be used for customer support through email or websites. And the template will be completely for free in the link in the description below. This agent searches through past community questions and uses perplexity to resolve issues. Everything's managed in an Air Table uh ticketing dashboard which updates statuses automatically. Now, if you

don't know me yet, I'm Ben. I run an AI agency since 2023. Since then, uh we've helped more than 50 businesses implement AI and automation into their business. I also run a community where we help founders and business owners use AI in their business. And if you want to work directly with me and my agency, you can also book us in for a free call in the description below. So, first show you a

quick demo and then a breakdown of the system. Again, if you want to copy and paste the template, the template will be available for free in the description below. And if you maybe want to adjust it to your specific use case and you want one-on-one tech help, you can also check out my community. Now, the whole reason buying this system is because we want to help uh help people inside of my community as fast as possible with their tech questions. And so, basically, this system gets triggered as soon as someone in my uh community uh posts a tech question or needs tech help. And what

will happen first is this first part of the automation will be triggered where it gets the circle post. It will uh create an air table ticket and then our AI agent is going to search through past community questions and answers and use perplexity to try and resolve uh the issue and post a comment back. So I can show you a quick example of a comment back. Um so if you take this one how to start connecting uh whatever lovable comes up with with nan. So how to start connecting N with lovable and here we have the BI agent ID it's great that you're exploring possibilities steps to follow understand the basic integration pattern lovable access the user interface uh this input sent to NN via web hook setting up the NN workflow etc etc and it gives you some additional resources uh about your specific question and sometimes it will link back to a post we had earlier about a similar topic right so it will also give the confidence level of the answer uh and that's basically it. So besides that of course

it creates a new ticket in uh our air table ticketing dashboard. So that looks like this uh here basically all the new uh tech questions come in and then we have a few statuses to make sure that we resolve all the tech issues inside of the community. So have not replied replied solved and urgent resolution. Now that's the second part of the automation which is the checking uh the status of uh the post or the tech question if it's actually resolved or not. Now, we do this because sometimes, of course, you need to go uh back and forth a few times to actually be able to resolve an issue. So, uh you can check

the status here by uh simply clicking uh the check mark to check the status of the post, right? And then the second part of the automation is triggered where it basically looks at the post, looks at the responses and takes a conclusion if the tech question is resolved or not or needs extra replies and then updates the status inside of the ticketing dashboard uh automatically. And if the post is solved, either the human uh moves it to solved or uh or the automation detects that it's solved then uh it will trigger this last uh workflow which basically updates the circle post where marks it as solved inside of the title. So let me show you a quick demo. So if I just add a tech question here in the tech help section, uh let me add an post that someone already mentioned. So for

example uh connect ampify to relevance AI how to connect uh or how do I connect ampify to relevance AI just as an example so if I go back here now I can't show you live but here I can show you the execution so it now will get triggered now I'll uh fast forward this quickly to show you the end result. So it succeeded. Now as you can see the agent uh posted back. So if I go back now to the post and I refresh the agent answered. So hi there connecting ampify to rei is definitely possible. Right? Step one, get your

ampify API details. Use relevance AI's API call. Configure the API call. Right? And it even uh mentions some of the past uh posts that talked about this subject subject. As you can see here, we have

another post about

it. And here's another one with a video. So you can see what it does. So in this case, there were there was past information in the community about this. So it mentions those past articles.

Otherwise, it will use perplexity. So if I go back here, I can show you quickly what happened in the background. So the web hook of course I added into circle which then uh triggered this API call uh from circle to get the details from the API call. So you can see we got the status the name of the post. I can show you in schema or JSON right and we get the the text of the post back. Of course we pass that

into the AI agent here. And AI agent as you can see used in this case only the search tool because you could actually find an answer inside of the community. So this search tool basically is an API called to uh circle to the community uh to do a search and that search basically looks for if there are relevant uh posts in the past about this specific topic and if so it'll use that uh to reply and if not it will use the perplexity tool. So if you can maybe we can check another one where it actually used perplexity. You can see in this case it did use perplexity. So that's it. And then of

course it uses again here the circle API to post it back into the into the post into the community. Now of course here also in the air table it adds a new ticket. So if I go back to uh air table you can see it's also added here in new. Now this is basically for us to manage and to make sure that we resolve all the tech issues. So here I can just also click on go to post right to to resolve it right. So I can say uh I

don't know just as an example uh go to uh apply and uh check this page just as an example. And then for example I can uh go back there and then I can move it to replied or actually we can let the agent do this because it can automatically do it. So the way I do it here is I can just check status. Now of course it comes from my own account so probably won't move it to reply. It actually did. So you can see

it automatically updated it to replied right. And it can also identify if it's actually solved. So let's say I just add there I solved it. Thank you very much. So basically that second flow sort of interprets if the extra comments of other people resolve the actual question of the user or not and based on that it moves it through the pipelines. I still

thank you very

much. And so if we do it again right now and we check the status, you can see now it moved it to solved. So that's how the ticketing system works. So now it should also have updated the post here um to solved. So usually it updates the title here to solved. And that's basically a

system. Uh but you can see you can probably adapt this to many other use cases you would have in in uh community management or maybe even customer support. So let me walk you through step by step um through these flows here. Uh and again if you want the template you can always check out the description below. So of course first of all uh this automation gets triggered as soon as someone adds a question in the tech help section inside of my community uh through this web hook. Right? So, I've

just added this web hook inside of my uh Circle account to basically be triggered as soon as someone uh posts something. Now, I'll not show you this in detail because I can imagine you you don't use Circle, but this would be a very similar process for any other maybe community platform. You'd use uh for example, school or Discord uh or even Slack. Uh Slack would have a separate trigger, a native integration actually, but it would be a similar setup. So in this case, I've set up the web hook um uh with to allow for multiple HTTP methods because we use the same web hook for a post method and a get method. Now the

post method is the one uh that will be uh triggered as soon as someone asks a question in the circle community and the get one is the one we set up uh for checking the status from the air table and to mark the post as resolved which also comes from the from the air table. Now you could also separate this into three web hooks but we like to keep it clean that's why we use the same web hook. So as soon as it gets triggered of course we uh get the circle post and this is basically all we do is we pass in the post ID which we get here from the web hook to retrieve the the details from the post. Now again I won't I won't show the circle API in detail because I can imagine it's not very relevant to you but you can just if you have it find the documentation page of circle to find exact details but all this API call does this HTTP request is to get back all the details from the post and uh from there of course we create uh the ticket inside of air tableable here air tableable has a native integration here in Naden uh we work a lot with air tableable uh for management of of these systems uh but you can see we send over the post title the post detail the user email, the username, the status, uh, which is new, of course, because we're creating the ticket, the topics, the post URL, and the user ID. Uh, and then of course we pass it over to the AI agent, which I showed you before. Now, what do we pass

over here in the prompt? We send uh the post title, the post body, and the tools. Um, the tools is basically inside of my community, we have uh different sections for different uh softwares, no code tools. So relevance say.com and then it uh which we also pass over here to the agent because of course it helps uh with context on the issue. Uh then

for the the po the prompt uh I can go through it very quickly. So you're the official assistant for Beni community. Your task is to answer member uh questions accurately and helpfully. Always deliver uh your responses clearly and consistently in HTML format. Now critical workflow follow this exact sequence. Always use the search tool

first. So the search tool basically goes through this uh the past circle post to try and uh find a similar topic uh to try and find answers uh that have been given to a similar query before and sort of prioritize that over uh the next option which is uh the perplexity tool. Right? So if similar questions exist, use those answers into your response. If search results are insufficient, use the perplexity tool. Uh and of course the

advantage of perplexity can also link uh resources and sites resources which you can add into the the answer. Be very specific when you ask perplexity tool. Don't be vague. Then we give an example of the HTML output because we want to have it sort of nicely formatted. Add some important rules. Uh and then we also add in the

confidence level criteria. So uh we have high if it's confir confirmed by multiple reliable sources, medium uh if it's limited sources available or minor assumptions necessary. Low if information is scars or sources conflict. Now this you could also use let's say you have a use case where you have a little bit more of a critical workflow. You can't have your agent answer anything that might be wrong. Uh

then you can also for example use this to route uh your automation into a human in a loop. For example, let's say the confidence level is low. uh you can add in a structured output if the confidence level is low then route it to a human in the loop uh or maybe just add it to air table and leave it to a human. Uh but you can uh you can use this you can even use in another agent to make that evaluation or even research even more if the confidence level is is low. So you can adjust this system uh like that too.

So that's it. Then for the two tools of course we use Google Gemini in this one uh the 2.0 though we use the we use it a lot because it's free and then uh we have the search tool again which is a circle API call to basically just uh use the search function to uh search for past post that might have similar answers right so it's basically this sort of function um so that's it and then we have the perplexity tool I think speaks for itself and then of course it uses the circle API to uh post the comment back uh to to the original post now for the uh this part for the check status Uh this of course is to check the status of a post and is done from air tableable right. So uh from air table you have here a tab which is automations. So if you want to trigger web hooks uh from things that happen inside of air table you have to go here to automations and you can see we have two uh automations set up the check status and the ticket solved. So if I go to the check status

the trigger is simply when check status is marked. So when we click there in the data on check status that's the trigger and then to trigger web hook we always want to use run a script here. Uh now we use always almost always this type of script here and here I'll also make sure to add this to the to the free free template and with this script we can define an action and a web hook URL right so we just add in a web hook URL there and this action is important you can see this is check status because this is basically what defines which route it goes so you can see we have a switch module uh node here and this one is for check status and the other one is for solved ticket. Right? So that's how we're able to use the same web hook.

Again, you could use three web hooks, but we like to keep it clean. So that's it. So that's how it gets triggered. Uh maybe I can show you this flow with an example. So you can start it a bit better. So let's

see. So in this one uh speaks for itself. I think we get all the information from the air table first. Uh just all the all the information. Then we uh get the circle comments.

So we get all the new comments to check for the status right if it's actually resolved. So we get uh let me show the JSON we get all the answers right then we all we do here in the edit fields is we map all the records you can see because we don't need the rest then here in the split out we split split out over the comments right because we don't need the rest so we split out all the comments then we clean it up a bit uh with the HTML to markdown because we want to generally transfer clean data over to the over to the AI by steps later. It's just good practice. And then uh what we do here is uh we do manual mapping because we basically want to add in the name, the username, right? To see who actually responded uh and then the comment, right? To also

check for example if I was the one who created a post and then later I say uh I I resolved it, then this the AI step will know how to update the status, right? If someone else says it, it might not be as relevant. Uh so that's that's how we basically we map uh this for each of the comments you can see. And then we aggregate all the comments together into one as you can see here. So we can pass it over to the N&M chain. And so we pass

in the post IO, post description, the time since posted, and all the comments. Here we have the prompt. You're an AI customer support agent responsible for analyzing tech support post. You'll receive a support query input uh structured clearly containing these detail post title, post description, time since posted and the comments of course. So based on the provided details, your job is to clearly understand the technical issue.

Determine if the provided comments contain sufficient resolution information to indicate the problem has been resolved. Uh provide a clear and concise single line recommendation for the next resolution step and then accurately identify the current status from the following options based on the these rules. Right? to have solved if the issue described in the post is clearly resolved. Not replied if there are no comments or there's only one comment from the Benai agent which of course is not counted in as replied.

Urgent resolution if the issue remains unresolved for one day or more without any replies and replied if comment exists um beyond just Ben AI's agents initial comment. Uh so that's how we will update the status. Then we use a structured output here to uh define the define the status and then of course that will be updated here in the air table the status and that's it. And of course if it's then resolved then it will automatically trigger this automation which I can show you if we go back here to the air table we have the same sort of automation set up here. Of course, when status is solved, then run this script and then it will run that same web hook, but now with the action solve ticket and then it will route it here and this is pretty straightforward.

Again, we get all the details from the air table record and then we post a circle comment that this post has been marked as resolved and it updates the title too. So again, this is just the circle API. You can see circle API and we just update the title. Uh so that's it. I think pretty specific build uh for this one. But I think sort of the

architecture and if you have a similar use case, it might be helpful for you. Again, if you want to copy uh the template, you can just go ahead and and go in the link in description and if you need help in adjusting this template and making uh making it for your use case, uh you can either contact us to work with our agency or uh join our community where we can also help you uh with one-on-one tech help to help you adjust these template maybe for your specific use case. Anyway, I hope this was helpful, although a pretty specific use case. Uh, if you like this video, I highly appreciate a like and a subscribe. Thank you so much for watching, and uh, I hope to see you in the next one. Bye-bye.