---
video_title: "3 AI SEO Systems Every Business Needs (free templates)"
video_id: TGBY7bGYoJM
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TGBY7bGYoJM
video_date: 2025-12-04T10:46:48+00:00
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/3asae-acc
  
  Get the free templates from this video ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/3asae-free
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/3asae-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/3asae-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 – Intro
  00:27 – System 1
  03:35 – System 2
  05:48 – System 3
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too. 
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast. 
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer. 
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
Here are three AI SEO systems we've sold to marketing agencies, e-commerce and SaaS businesses. And as they solve common SEO pain points, these can be great solutions to sell if you're an AI agency or implement if you run SEO in your business. And in this video, I'll break down the solutions and the template will be for free in the link in the description below. If you don't know me yet, I'm Ben, I run a custom AI agency, I also sell a fully productized AI SEO system and an AI accelerator where we try to help other people start and grow their own AI business. But a first system is an SEO research and content generator. This system is built through a combination of air table and an Aden and this system helps companies to write high quality and SEO optimized content fast to help them rank on Google and AI search. Now if you don't know me yet, we sell fully productized AI SEO solution to SEO agencies but sometimes customers don't need the entire setup so we sell small parts or use cases like these. Now how does it work? A company can just add in a topic or keyword here and the system then does in-depth research on search intent, ranked competitors and content gaps and based on that, it generates a fully SEO optimized article together with FAQs and tables and it also generates in-blog images. And although the workflow might not look that impressive, these prompts have been optimized over months through real client feedback SEO data and it's really where the difference is made in these content generation flows. That's also really where the value lies in building out these solutions for customers. I know many people are scared about AI automation becoming democratized and simpler for business systems themselves to do but although these models are getting better, getting good quality outputs out of them really require some skill, knowledge and time and customers generally just don't have any of these and that's why they're willing to make good money for people doing it for them. So how does this automation work? First, it can do in-depth research through this AI agent here who has access to tools like perplexity, a Google scraper and a web scraper to scrape content from ranking competitors. If we look into the prompt quickly, you see that there's clear guidelines on what this agent should do and how it should approach during the research. And this is again what makes the difference between some generic SEO animation tool that anyone can build and one that can produce a high quality output. So you can see in phase one, it's about intent, discovery and landscape mining. So we give clear guidelines on which tools to use, also in which order. In phase two, we tell the AI agent to do a competitor deep dive and phase three, it dives into the topic itself to find more information on it. And you can see that these workflows can take quite a while because they will use sometimes 15 tool calls before putting out the research or sometimes this might take five minutes, five to ten minutes. Now we pass that information into an image generation agent who creates prompt to create in blog images. And from there, we pass it into the writer workflow where we write an SEO optimized article based on the research data. Again, pretty comprehensive prompt. If you get the template, you can read this in detail. And then you also optimize the meta title and the meta description. And then last, you will use another image model and image prompt to generate a thumbnail image for the article. And if you want help setting up this template or customizing it a bit, we also have one on one unlimited tech support available in my AI accelerator. If you're wondering how we built this front end here, airtabized new feature where you can build custom front end, you basically sort of white code the front end on top of the database, which can be a really cool feature and can really add to the value of your solution. Many people overlook this, but a good looking interface can really enhance the perceived value of your solution to your client. So I generally don't recommend deliver solutions into a Google sheet or something like this. The second system is an automatic SEO slide deck reporting system. As you can see, this is quite a complex one and it basically delivers a full SEO report on a monthly basis inside of Google slides. So it analyzes Google analytics and Google Google search console data. It adds that data into a Google sheet from where we can draw graphs and visualize data inside of Google slides. It compares month over month metrics, visualizes it and provides summaries and conclusions directly into the slides. It also creates graphs of course and as you can see and it's generally more in depth than most marketers would do themselves. Now the reason this sells well, besides of course it looking pretty impressive if I may say so myself, is because marketers and marketing directors which are generally very high paying jobs statistically actually spend the majority of their time on data analytics and reporting. I know it for myself, I was a marketing director and I probably spent at least two or three days a month on purely data analytics and reporting. So this is a great use case to pitch for any company that's using SEOs and acquisition strategy. So how does this system work? As you can see, it's quite complex. I'm not going to walk you through each node in detail, but high level what it does, it basically takes that Google slide template that we build which of course you can customize. And in each of the flows here, we're basically updating the data inside of each separate slide for each of the workflows here. The way we do that is by getting the ID from the Google slides, we get then get the data from Google search console and Google analytics through the Google search console and analytics API. We pass that data over into an L&M who analyzes the data, makes the comparison between last month's data and this month's data. We also let the L&M write the summaries in the conclusions that data is then transformed and put into Google sheets. And then inside of the Google sheet, we can draw graphs which we can represent inside of the Google slides in real time. So if you want to set it up, the hard work is done for you because basically all you'd need to do is just connect your APIs. So you'd need to connect your Google analytics API, Google search console API, your Google slides, and of course adjust the template. And you set up these APIs through Google zero auth which you can probably find a video online on how to do that. It's not that difficult. And of course we can also help you inside the accelerator if you want help setting it up. And the last one is an automatic SEO audit report generator. Now this one might look a lot simpler inside of NADN but it's especially useful for marketing and SEO agencies because they spend a lot of time doing SEO audits for their clients. And all they have to do is add in the website here in the form of their clients and their email. And then it automatically analyzes any potential problems on their website that might prevent these businesses from ranking well on Google and AI search and then creates a report in P.E.F. and sends it to the email. It basically allows them to find some quick wins for their clients and make sure they don't have any issues preventing them from being ranked. So it looks at meta titles and meta descriptions of all pages. It spots any potential issues and then adds the URLs of the affected pages. It also gives a score on the SEO impact of these errors and it gives suggestions on how to fix it. It also looks at pages that return error codes or broken pages. It also looks at missing image alt texts. It spots load text to code ratio which might mean that the content loads too slow and provides a bad user experience. And then it also analyzes titles, descriptions and some other factors that can mean potential issues. Now how does it work? A lot simpler than the last one as you can see it's triggered through the form node on NADN. Then we use the data for SEO API crawler to get all the data for potential issues on the website. This usually takes a while so we wait for the API to be finished to trigger a webhook here which then requests the data again from another API call. We convert that data through some code nodes here and then we generate a report in HTML and then we use HTML to PDF here to create a good looking report out of it and then we send it to their email on the last node here. Now you can see that this one doesn't even have AI in the flow and sometimes that's not necessary. Sometimes pure automations can already deliver a lot of value to companies. Thank you so much for watching. If you want to learn how to get clients quickly in order to sell these kinds of systems you can check out the video here above.