---
video_title: "The FASTEST Path to an AI SaaS (Beginner's Guide)"
video_id: 9UFx1R4tMvs
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9UFx1R4tMvs
video_date: 2025-07-19
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to build an AI business + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tfpta-acc
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tfpta-agency
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/tfpta-seo
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  01:08 - What is an AI SaaS?
  04:32 - Delivering Outcomes
  05:42 - How to Find Ideas Fast
  08:45 - The Huge Opportunity With AI
  09:57 - How to Pick the Right Opportunities
  12:39 - How to Build AI Products Fast
  14:10 - The Audience First Approach
  16:15 - The Softwares to Build AI Products Fast 
  18:16 - Tech Stack Option 1
  21:50 - Tech Stack Option 2
  23:16 - Tech Stack Option 3
  24:35 - Tech Stack Option 4
  25:00 - How to NOT compete with ChatGPT
  27:08 - How to Build Partial Autonomy Apps
  30:01 - How to Build the Infrastructure for an AI Product
  37:40 - How to Design Front-Ends for AI Products
  39:47 - How to Use Data to Improve your AI Products 
  40:57 - Last Tips
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too.
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a scalable business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer.
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
Most people in AI are busy building custom and ADN automations or VIP coding SAS clones. But there's actually a huge opportunity that many people are overlooking, which is starting an AI SAS. In 2025, an entirely new wave of softwares is taking over fast. AI legend Andre Karpathy just called this wave software 3.0. Softwares that are not

just helpful tools, but actually do work for us. And in this video, I'll show you exactly what an AI SAS actually is. and I'll give you a step-by-step road map on how to quickly find ideas, how to build them fast, and how to market them, even if you're a beginner. If you don't know me yet, I'm Ben. I grew my own no code AI software business to over $500,000 in revenue in 2025. And this video is a

quick rundown of the lessons I've learned and what I've seen working for other people around me building AI products. So, first cover quickly what an AI SAS actually is and how to design them. Then, a quick and easy method to find AI SAS ideas fast and some big opportunities I think you have right now. Then how to get customers to validate your ideas and your products. Then which tools to use to build an AI SAS really fast. And then how to design

and build an AI SAS that doesn't compete with chat GPT and actually delivers value to customers. So what is the difference between a SAS and an AI SAS? If you look at it in a very simplified way and we look at traditional SAS platforms like HubSpot, Apollo, SEM Rush, we can think of them mostly helping us in the information layer. So they either present us with new data or existing data. in a very user-friendly way in order for us to take decisions and actions faster and better. So, if we

think about HubSpot, a classic CRM, right? It basically tells you here are 10 leads to follow up with, but you still have to decide which leads to follow up with and actually take the action. Now, what we're seeing new software is coming up with more and more is first of all to improve that information layer with AI platforms like 11X, right, with an AI BDR system. There are many other examples of this with day AI which is going to be an AI native CRM is first of all it will improve the information layer because of course now we can use AI to actually instead of just saying here are 10 leads to follow up with they can actually do the research in the back end identify the highest potential leads and tell us and prioritize the best leads. So the information layer is already being improved but more importantly than that in this new AI SAS wave more and more of the action layer is also being taken over by AI. So besides just saying here

are the highest priority leads you have to follow up with today it can actually do the follow-ups and even in a personalized way. Now generally the way we see these AI SAS being built is to still have the human decision making layer mostly done by humans right because AI is still pretty unpredictable and this is also something we have learned a lot of human in the loop and the decision making by a human is really important to make these AI SAS work well which I'm going to come back to later in this video too but eventually more and more I think these softwares are going to be uh transferred into AI SAS 3.0 O uh where even the decision-m layer is going to be taken over more and more by AI. You can imagine when these softwares gather more and more data on how users use these systems and performance data more and more of the decision-making layer can be taken over by AI too. Of course, there will most likely be some decisions, high level decisions that humans still will have to make. But

again, more and more of that decision-m layer could be taken over by AI. And of course, I'm not saying these softwares don't have AI. Many of these are trying to make the transition. But there's really a new wave of softwares coming up that go AI first and they're really going to challenge the established players, traditional SAS players. Now what I see happening a lot in the AI world, people learning VIP coding, lovable cursor, cloth code, is they're building softwares, but I see most people very much focusing on building traditional SAS faster in instead of trying to build AI SAS. And I think the

real opportunity does not lie in building yesterday's software faster but in building software that was traditionally impossible to build. And the interesting thing I think which is happening too of course you can imagine with this type of SAS the seatbased pricing model made a lot of sense because the more people had access to this information the more people in the organization could take better and faster decisions and actions. But as more and more of the decision and action layer is being t taken over by AI, it makes a lot more sense for SAS and softwares to have outcome based pricing. So just a quick recap, this is really the gap we're closing, right? Traditional SAS softwares generally just gave us insights, right? You need to

follow up with these clients and usually there was a human bridge necessary to actually take action and this can now slowly but surely be taken over more and more by AI. So traditional software stops at insights. AI SAS completes the journey. Now besides the mistake of trying to sort of build yesterday software faster with these coding agents, I also see a lot of people focusing on these quick tools that automate a small task in a workflow. So I see them pop up all the time like a YouTube transcription tool with AI etc. But I think the huge

opportunity we have with AI right now is to much more focus on an end-to-end system that delivers as much of an outcome as possible. So instead of an idea generation tool, you most likely want to focus on an end-to-end content system that does strategy generation, idea generation, angle generation, writes the posts, does image generation, automatic publishing. The more of the workflow you can have in your system, the more of an ROI it will drive to the business. And this is really what AI allows us to do right now. Instead of a keyword research tool, you want to go with an end-to-end SEO system, which is of course the system we've built, which does strategy generation, idea generation, keyword research, drafts blog post, puts in images, publishes on the website, and even does performance analysis. Now, I'm not saying you cannot

build a successful tool like this or a traditional SAS. I'm just saying I think I think that the biggest opportunity lies here because you drive the most ROI to a business. Now, if you don't have an idea for an AI product or an AI SAS yet, I want to give you this quick framework that helped me a lot when I first saw it. And that is the following. Most people approach finding product ideas from the solution problem market framework, which is generally a a flawed approach, right? So, I see this

happening a lot too in AI. For example, people learning Nad uh they can now build an AI agent or an AI chatbot. So, that's the solution they know they can build. Then they think, hm, is there some problem I can solve with this solution? Yeah, sure. I mean, let's say

old uh traditional website chat bots are are pretty limited. Maybe I can uh build a better one. Uh and then they thinking which market might need that. Maybe I can help e-commerce businesses with this solution. Now, generally this is a flawed approach because you're forcing your preferred solution onto problems that might not even exist or are not painful enough for the specific market to actually pay for. And second, because

you're thinking solution first, what you'll generally see is that there are lots of other players that already exist or hundreds of others doing the same. So generally a far better way to find product ideas is to go to problem market solution framework. And this is the blueprint many of the successful businesses in the world have followed. They were born out of problems. So you can think of your personal life but ideally your professional life and what are some big some of the biggest problems you are facing on a day-to-day in your professional life. Right? Then

you think uh let's say for example I work in a marketing agency and I uh do Facebook ads and I noticed that creating uh ad creatives and ad copy is actually a really painful and long process and really impacts the performance uh of our ad campaigns. Right? So that that might be a big problem you've identified. Then you think is there actually a market? Are there other people that really struggle with this? And you go like yes

most marketing agencies have this pain point. Uh and then you build a solution around this. Now let's say you don't have a big pain point in your day-to-day or they're unsolvable. It's hard to build a solution around them. Then there is a third approach which is definitely a good approach too which is go market problem solution. And in this case you

can think of a market a specific market first. Ideally one you have experience in. So maybe you've worked in or you know something about uh but even if you don't have the experience you can still follow this meth method. So you choose a market. So let's say I know e-commerce very well. Then you identify the biggest

problems. Let's say I've worked in an e-commerce uh that my business had in that time. You think list out all the problems. What are the biggest problems? And from there, is there something I can build a solution around? Right? But even

if you don't have that professional background or experience, you can still pick a market, learn inside of communities, talk to people about what their biggest problems are and from there come to a solution. And that's why I think if you don't have that much professional expertise or you don't know an industry very well, the AI automation agency is actually a very good way to potentially find product ideas because as an AI automation agency, you're really starting to understand different markets, their biggest problems, and you're already being paid to build solutions. So that's the point I make in my last video too about how to scale an AI business. Uh so if you want to learn more about that approach, then check out my last video. And now that we have AI, a new layer is added to this framework which makes it far more powerful and gives us almost infinite new opportunities because every time we have a new technological revolution like the internet, the phone and now with AI we have a big update or something new almost every month with image generation APIs, video generation, N&M's becoming powerful, more powerful by the day, MCP.

Every time you have a new technology like this, it allows us instantly to build thousands if not millions of new uh solutions that were previously not possible to build. Second, it will also allow us to solve far bigger problems. It will allow us to solve new problems that were previously impossible to solve and it will also create new problems that didn't exist before. And thirdly, because there's a new technology, there's instant market demand. The market knows they need to adopt this new technology. Think when the when the

phone came out or the internet came out, every company now needed to be online, needed to be on an app, needed to have an app, needed to have a website. So there's instant market demand. So with a new revolution like AI, we have thousands, if not 10 thousands of markets. We have hundreds, if not thousands of problems. So we literally have millions of new opportunities for solutions we can build. So with

literally millions of new opportunities, how do you focus on the right opportunities? First of all, you really want to focus on the highest value opportunities. And in general, the highest value opportunities are first of all in B2B. Uh B2C is definitely possible too, but I'd recommend sticking to B2B. Uh and you want to focus on a business's most expensive problems, right? and revenue generating processes

or solutions and labor intensive processes are a good place to start thinking about ideas especially now that we have AI and automation because we can really make an impact for businesses in these two sort of sections or problems. And you can see this happening right many successful AI products at the moment are focusing on these right for example there are multiple of these AI BDR solutions which I mentioned before also we have quite a lot of these software that focus on automating customer service because of course it's very labor intensive uh and if you don't know where to start I think a huge opportunity in AI right now is to think about what service agencies deliver because generally agency services are pretty expensive they usually focus on revenue generating services. And now that we have AI, we can really start thinking of productizing some of these traditional services to deliver AI products that generate revenue. Think uh ad systems for e-commerce, SEO systems for SEO agencies, uh content systems for coaches. Uh Poppy AI is a is a great example of of a SAS that's getting a lot of u traction right now. And it helps,

for example, creators create content fast because that's one of the biggest and most expensive problems for us. I can tell you uh from personal experience. Now the other approach of course to getting to potentially an AI product is of course to start out as a custom AI automation agency which is the approach I took which eventually led us to build our AI uh SEO product. Uh and I think an interesting uh strategy there uh which I highly recommend you do if you potentially want to build an AI product is to target those service agencies. Right? This is exactly the

approach I took because if you think about it, the great thing with service uh providers like marketing agencies etc is they generally already have the processes and the systems in place. They already know how to deliver outcomes to businesses in general. There are uh revenue generating outcomes or processes and they already have the domain expertise. So if you help them automate their processes and potentially productize it, you can safely assume this really drives outcomes for businesses. So you already have that domain expertise from them. And second,

agencies are generally very labor intensive, right? So you can save a lot of costs uh for businesses in the long term. And this is exactly the approach I took, right? I learned a lot while building custom automations for SEO agencies. And eventually that led to me being able to build an AI SEO product that really delivers an outcome to businesses. So if you have an idea, how

do you build a good product? Now, I just heard Mark Zuckerberg explain it very well. The faster you can get the user feedback, the product iteration loop, the faster you can get to building a valuable product. And this when you're starting out really requires a marketing first or an audience first approach. It's very cliche uh but true. The recipe

for failure is to build out a perfect product for 6 months just based on your idea and then go to market because user feedback actually builds good products. And this marketing first approach has three big advantages. First, you validate demand before overengineering your product. Second, you build what people actually want instead of what you think people want. And three, you're building distribution or marketing skills from day one, which is going to be the key to making an AI product actually work. And of course, now the

the product building and product iteration stage is really revolutionized right now with these coding agents and no code tools because we can speed up this loop uh by 10x or if not more uh through these tools and we can also build prototypes much faster. So that brings up the question, should you build a product before going out to the market? Now my recommendation is if you already identified a specific problem uh of your target audience right then you can build a very quick one or two feature MVP right minimum viable product or a very quick prototype right if you don't know a problem yet but you've chosen let's say a specific industry you know something about then I would take the approach of trying to sell AI automation services and let the market come to you and tell you their biggest problems which can eventually leading to you finding product ideas then the next step is to really go out to the market Right? And your goal here is to find audience message fit. Right? And you

want to keep this as simple and as lean as as easy for you to do as possible, but you want to validate the traction for your potential solution and learn from users on what to actually build. So the easiest way you can do this is by just setting up a very quick landing page. And what you want to do is you want to call out first of all your target audience, right? Your market. Make clear make sure that you're calling them out as specific as possible. If you

already identify a problem and you have an MVP or a prototype, you want to add the problem and the solution also in your messaging because the better you can identify their problem and the solution you offer, the more traction you're going to see. And now the huge advantage we have with AI is if we mention AI, it will automatically almost create uh generate more interest, right? So even if you don't have a specific problem and a solution yet, you haven't built this prototype. This is the amazing opportunity we have in AI right now is even if you're just saying I do AI automations for e-commerce businesses you can already sort of see traction which was traditionally if there's not a new technology is very hard to do because generally you have to really call out their pain points or their problems and the solutions you offer so you want to set up a very quick landing page I recommend framer web flow I personally use you can also use tools like lovable to spin up a landing page very quickly and then you want to go out to the market and validate that that demand right and learn from your users so you can use cold called cold email, you can use paid ads, uh you can use your network, you can use content on social media, but really want to go out there and validate your audience message feed, right? So, you can call out multiple problems too if you're not completely sure to test out which gets the most traction, etc. But you really

want to keep this simple, iterate, find the right message, send them to a landing page where you either have a weight list where they can just leave their email or a cannonly link so you can actually talk to them. You can, what a good strategy is in general is to ask for feedback. So you can give the tool for free for example in return for feedback. So you can learn how to build on top and make your solution or product better in the initial phases. And once you have a a better product or a better idea on what to build, you can eventually of course start charging. So

how do you build AI products? So I first cover the core infrastructure for AI products, then the tools I recommend using when building them and then um I'll cover how to design AI products the right way. Now the core infrastructure is no different than traditional software, right? We have a back end, we have a database and a front end. Now the big difference is in the back end of course we're using lots more AI and AI workflows. Now one mistake or one I

think pitfall many people fall into especially non-coders is now that we have these tools like claw code and lovable etc is they decide to build out the entire product through code right away. Of course through these coding agents it becomes a lot easier for us to build this. But I still especially if you're a non-coder highly recommend to stick with no code when you're just starting and building your your first prototypes and your first your first systems. Why? because you do slow down the product iteration loop, right? You

want to keep that as agile and fast as possible because if you want to make a change, which you're constantly going to have to do when you're just building out your product and and and having your first customers, even with the coding agents, making adjustments to the back end, database, and front end is going to take quite some time. And you can also not check the code if you're not a coder. So, it's going to be hard to know if it's actually production ready, uh to know where the errors are, etc. So highly highly recommend sticking to no code when you're just building it out especially now that we have platforms like NADN which are very solid infrastructures for for building sort of your MVP back end uh for these AI products. The second uh mistake I see many people making mostly in the in in the AI space who are maybe doing the AI automation agency many completely ignore the fact of frontends. So a lot of these

AI automation systems are being delivered in databases or raw spreadsheets. Uh now I highly recommend you get in used to uh building some front ends right because front ends are really what the client and the customers are going to use uh with your automation system. So if you have a simple front end a decent front end the perceived value of your system or your your AI system really goes up 10x instantly because it really feels like they're getting a little bit of a product and secondly will really help you if you potentially want to productize you getting in the habit of building front ends for your systems is really going to help you uh potentially productize. So what is the tool stack that I recommend you you start out with when building an I product? It's uh the one we use for our AI SEO product which is the back end in Naden uh the database in air table and a front end in air table interfaces.

Now the huge upside of this setup uh in my opinion is that this has the fastest product uh iteration loop right and you really want to keep that flexibility when you're building your system out right so because you can basically build an automation system in nen in a couple of hours you can set up a database in air table in a couple minutes and build a front end on top of that in the same software in literally minutes too. So you keep that product iteration loop really really fast. Well, if you use a software maybe like Lovable and you build out your front end and custom code with a database and Superbase, etc., every iteration or change you're going to make is going to take you a lot longer than if you use this setup. So, I highly recommend this setup in the initial stages. And you might say, okay,

this is a great setup maybe for your uh prototype or your first MVP, but we've actually scaled our business to over $500,000 in revenue with still having this setup, right? So, you can actually scale this. Now, the business model we use is we actually sell the entire package or the product and uh install it onto their computer. So, we sell it at a high one-off fee price. Basically, sort of like the old software days. Uh now,

of course, if you want to build this into a more recurring sort of SAS type business model, this will probably not be the right setup because you can't really use an air table interface as a SAS, right? You can't integrate payments, etc. And there are some limitations to using n as a SAS and and a database. But if you if you're building out your product, I think this is a great setup. And we're not the only one using this setup. Uh Stephan Pope, a

fellow YouTube creator, also created an AI content system with the same setup. Um and there's some other examples. I can show you very quickly our AI SEO system. So you can see uh this is our our dashboard, our Air Table front end. And as you can see, it doesn't look uh probably you can build something nicer in something like Lovable, but it's very much 8020. I think it looks very good.

Um, and you can make these iterations really, really fast. I'm going to walk you through the SEO system in more details in a second when I talk about how to design good AI products. Uh, but just to give you an idea of the the front end you can build. I also have a full tutorial on uh the setup on how to build a system like this from scratch in one of my previous videos. I'll make sure to link it up here too if you're interested. I'll basically teach the

step-by-step uh process of setting up an AI product with these three tools. Now, you can see here we have the NAN back end, right? It's quite big right now, but we've built this up and iterated a lot over the last couple of months and we basically started out with something which is probably like 25% of this. So that's the huge advantage of having an end as a back end. You can add on top and iterate on your back end really fast and and quickly. Another example I just

saw on uh on this one is from uh some guys here who build a a content system here on Air Table. You can see looks pretty good too. But uh there's multiple people using this setup uh to sell AI products. Now if the downside of course of this setup is that first of all you can't really make this into a SAS right because you have it in air table interfaces. Uh so if you want to go the SAS route I'm going to give you some other recommendations of tools to use.

Uh second because we are selling the actual product onto the computer of our customer we don't have access to their performance data which of course is a big thing you're missing when you're using this business model. But it could still be good in the initial stages because you really get good cash flow if you use this missive model we using right and eventually maybe transition into a SAS right and the the other downside is if you use air table as a database uh you do have some limitations with the amount of records you can store etc. So if you really want to go the SAS route, I'd say in the MVP stage, uh you you you probably cannot use air tableable. So you want to explore uh some of these tools, right? So no loco code, glide, softer, retool, and crossi are basically no code tools to build front ends uh a little bit quicker than with traditional code maybe. H and you

still have more flex flexibility and customization than a tool like air table interfaces. Now, some of these tools also have built-in databases that are a bit more scalable than uh Air Table or Google Sheets, etc. Um, but these generally also have native integrations with popular databases like Superbase, Air Table. So, you can link them directly to your existing databases or you can uh build uh a database directly into these softwares. Now, the advantage of these softwares is you can uh basically integrate Stripe uh login uh really fast and easily. So if you want

to go the SAS route and you want to start MVP and have that fast product iteration loop, I highly recommend checking out these tools. Retool and Glide are generally more focused on inter internal app building. Uh I I like no loco and softer. If you want to keep it flexible and lean and cross is one that goes mobile first, right? So if you're your app or your your product is going to be mobile first, then it's worth exploring this one. And of course

you can use other databases too, right? You're not limited to these. Now if you really want to go the code route uh for your front end then you can explore tools like cloud code right lovable cursor bold h then you probably have to switch uh your database to something a bit more scalable many of these have native integrations I know le lovable with superbase for example but then you can really start using databases like postgress etc. Now keep in mind that if you go the custom code route, right, the product iterations are going to take a bit longer. Even though we have these coding agents, making a a change in your back end in NAN will take some time updating the database structure and from there the custom front end. So this

product iteration loop, you do slow down a bit, but of course you have the upside of having a lot more flexibility in your front end and the database is a lot more scalable. Now, if you're starting out with this, I still recommend keeping your back end on Nad at least in the early stages, right? because there are some limitations to really running in SAS on N8, you probably don't want to do it. But with your first customers and when you're building a product, I I still highly recommend keeping your back end on Nad because you keep that flexibility and the most changes you will make in those early stages are on the back end, right? So I think uh stick to N and then really when you're getting some traction and you're really going to build your SAS then of course you want to go with a custom back end too. Now

the interesting thing you can do now is of course if you've built it out in NADN you can now feed the NAND JSON to something like cloud code etc to sort of uh build that backend system in custom code quite quick but I would only move here if you have an engineering team and really have that early product market fit right because of course product iterations are now going to take a lot longer. I'm going to launch a full tutorial on how to set up custom frontends with cloud code. I've been experimenting a lot with these tools and in my experience cloud code is by far the best. Uh so I'm going to do a step-by-step tutorial on how to set up a system uh like this. So how do you build a good AI product? Now first of all to

start with how do you build a product that does not compete with chat GPT? If you're building AI products you're almost automatically going to be uh uh compared to chatpt. So it's really important that your tool offers more value than chatpt. And a good way to think about this is what are some of the limitations of cha GPT because there definitely are some downsides to it still right so the first ones are of course L&Ms are generally still not perfect right they are unpredictable there are some hallucinations uh so the way we go around that is by building lots of human in a loop in a system which I'll get to uh later in this section too then uh the second thing is typing can actually be a really inefficient way uh to to execute on a process you just think of yourself how many times you have to reexplain the same thing you're trying to do in chat GPT over and over again uh to to to chat GPT. So we can actually build an interface that is much easier to use uh uh for specific process right which I'm going to get to in a second too. Then uh

we also have a problem of having limited uh context inside of uh chatpt both on the process the specific process you're trying to execute. So let's say again we take our SEO uh as an example. Chat GPT might not know exactly what the best way uh to do SEO is, right? It might not have all the context around what the best process is around doing SEO or the context on how to do SEO for your company, right? And the second uh big downside there is also has limited user context, right? Think of how many times

you had to explain chat about your personal situation, about your business, about the exact process you're trying to do. So, we want to integrate that into our system, right? and have that integrated proven process that domain expertise on how this uh workflow should be executed integrated into our system. And lastly, we don't have continuous learning in these systems. So that's something we can really start building into our um AI products, right? Is where

we capturing decision-m data uh and performance data which slowly but surely creates a mode around our product uh where we really have more data to execute on this specific workflow than chat GPT. So I'll go over each of these uh in more detail. So the first thing you want to keep in mind and uh Andre Karpathi talked about this in his last talk uh software 3.0. I highly recommend checking out that video. He explains it

a lot better than me probably. But the key here to keep in mind is the way we want to design AI products at the moment is by having lots of human in the loop. Right? And he he shows it basically with an autonomy slider, right? We want to start out very much on the left side. We

want to keep a lot of human involvement uh in the beginning phases and slowly but surely we can have more autonomous systems but we really want to start out here when we're uh just building our first products right and way we designed this is by having lots of human in the loop and basically the way you can see it is we have the human as the verifier and the AI as the generator right so human manager AI executioner that's really how we can see these AI products and the faster you can get this loop the more value you can provide to your customer so we really want to keep this loop loop as fast as possible. And and the way to speed this up, for example, in comparison to chat GPT is by having less typing to do, having a better sort of internal prompting into your system where the AI generation is better. But we really want to try to keep this loop as fast as possible. And the big upside of having lots of human in the loop in these AI products is first of all, and this is something we've learned too uh while building our our AICO product is most people still want to be in control. They don't want to have a perfectly automated because first of all we cannot perfectly automate things but people still want to be in control of making decisions right especially important decisions. So they don't want a system

that automatically uh finds ideas uh creates blog posts posts them on their website etc without ever checking or verifying what's actually being done. And the second big problem we solve here is the edge case problem. If you've been building uh automation solutions you know you can probably spin up an automation uh workflow quite quick. The hardest thing is actually uh building the solution or the infrastructure around edge cases which you will always have, right? Because optimizing these systems for edge cases is actually where you're going to spend the bulk of your time. So this human in the loop sort of

setup really gets around that edge case problem because the human is still the verifier. So you don't have to design a per overgineer perfect system that resolves all of the edge cases. The human can just sort of spot them and uh decide to not go ahead with the edge cases. Right? The second the third thing it it really avoids it's avoids the the L&M problems we still have rights can still be unpredictable they can produce hallucinations they they don't they're not perfect yet right and because we have the human verification and lots of human in the loop the human can go go around uh the problems of L&Ms at the moment and lastly this gives you this sort of setup gives you a lot of data on how your users use the system how they make decisions which eventually you can add into your system to really make it more autonomous right and slowly But surely once you have more performance data and user decision-m data you can make it more autonomous which I'll get to in a second. So the way you want to

build this out is not by building an enormous workflow, right, that automates the entire process, right? We've all seen it, right? The 100 node N workflows or 20 AI agent team, me including, right? It's really exciting to build these systems, but it's a blueprint for disaster, right? N&M's are not perfect yet. We're unpredictable and these sort

of setups just become really, really errorprone and not production ready, especially for AI products. So the way we want to approach this and I highly recommend taking this approach even if you're building custom solutions for clients but especially when you're building products is to really build as granular as possible and have as much human in the loop as possible. So the way you can look at this is understand the process, break the process down into the smallest tasks and then build a separate automation for each one and then you can bundle them into a product, right? And this is also the way you can start very lean and with a small prototype by just having let's say two or one automation task and then you can easily add on top of this, right? Without affecting each all of the the previous automation workflows you've built, right? So if you take a content

system right think of a content process is not just uh writing a post right away right there's actually lots of smaller steps in between. So we want to first go with idea generation then with maybe angle generation right give a few options to the user let them choose then a few options of writing the posts let the user choose then a few option of images let the user choose and iterate right so we really want to build granular don't try to automate that entire workflow in one go right that will make it a lot easier for you to build these AI products is by basically having sort of this one web hook in uh that connects to our database and then we have a which node here that basically connects all of these smaller workflows in the smaller automation tasks inside of the larger workflow. So instead of trying to automate the entire content creation process in SEO in one go which will be extremely errorprone we break up the entire workflow of doing SEO into very granular steps and tasks and in each of these tasks a human verifies the output takes the decision makes the iteration if necessary and uh executes on the ne next task in the workflow right so really try to break it down and the huge upsides of this is first of all you will have less errors you have way faster iterations when you're building this because if something goes wrong in one specific uh uh part of the automation, you can just go in there, resolve it without affecting it the entire rest of the automation solution. You can easily add features uh uh on top of your existing system. You'll have more data, right? You're you can log uh

the user decision-m data. Uh you have better user experience because humans are more in control and you'll have less errors. And you can also make this system eventually self-improving which I'll get to in a second. So the way we generally set these systems up and I can show you quickly in the NAN here it since my picture there we already have expanded it as you can see and of course you don't have to start out here right we started with 25% or 20% of this entire workflow and through feedback and product updates we've slowly but surely expanded the system into this and now it really takes care of the entire SEO uh sort of sort of process. But the first step in this automation is sort of a context generation. Again, these systems

you don't want to design as a one-sizefits-all. We do want to give the system context on the business, right? SEO requires a context on a business to drive to write good content. It needs a strategy for this specific business, right? So, this is generally what we do and this is not only for SEO. This is

the same for content, right? If you're producing content, you need the system to have context around your business, about the strategy, about the target audience they're trying to reach. So the way we design this is by having these sort of first workflows is always the context generation for this specific client. So these parts of the automation is just doing that and I'll show you how that works in in the the front end. So I'll open the air table here. So

basically here in this SEO project setup, what we have is company information. So here a company could put in their information, their name and their URL and instead of us uh telling them hey write out your strategy and your business overview uh etc yourself we try to make it lots easier for the user. So we generate an initial draft of the strategy and their business overview through scraping and AI and from there the user can make adjustments etc. But the important thing is we have that context here. Now you see the system automatically generates this business overview and SEO strategy. The user can

still adapt this but this will then feed into all the subsequent workflows to give the system context on this specific business which is really going to improve the output right combined of course with our domain expertise around SEO and how to actually write good articles etc but this is really a key ingredient for these AI products right it doesn't mean it's a one-sizefits-all it needs the context on each specific business but make it as easy as possible for the user and the same here we have for example each company might have a different CMS right but again We make it easy for them, right? They can just choose their CMS. They can put in their API keys even and our system will automatically then uh connect that right. So uh this this is sort of the setup we use in that first step. Uh let me go back to the presentation and then from from there you can really start automating the the workflow right task by task. So you have for example idea

generation first you generate 30 40 ideas then the human chooses verifies and chooses the one they want to go ahead with right again you go in the next stage our SEO system by the way is far more has is far more granular than what I'm saying right now but I just want to keep it easy then this the third step might be drafting the blog post again you let the human verify before taking the next action which is adding in the images or doing the keyword research right human verifies And what we're uh testing right now too and what we've just built in to our system is even having performance analytics. So um basically the our system checks now uh for how these blog posts have been performing checks which ones have been performing best makes a report on it and that perform that report we can then use as context generation again when we execute the workflow again and that's how we can sort of start building a self-improving system too. So, I think this part is really interesting to to focus on any solution you build. If you can have some performance analytics in there, you can really start building self-improving uh products. Anyway, if you want to learn more about how our SEO product exactly set up, I do have a full tutorial on our on our SEO system, too.

It's a little bit outdated, but I think it will give you a good idea. So, that's it for the back end, right? Keep it really granular. Again, you don't have to start out with huge workflow. Start out with one or two of these, right? And

you can build from there. And that's really how you build the prototype too. Now for the database again, right, you want to keep it really easy and fast to iterate and adapt because any change you're going to make there in your end workflow, you your database is going to be affected. That's why I'm such a big fan of starting with with databases like air table because you're really flexible. You can make changes really fast. So uh because the database really

the core of your your product, right? And therefore fast iteration is key, right? I can show you very quickly how this looks in the back end. So you can see this is database where the front end is built on top of right and you can see it's quite quite straightforward and then we separate it through tables for each of the parts of the processes of doing SEO right bottom funnel middle of the funnel top of funnel content here we have tech audit here we can set up all the pro all the different companies you want to do SEO for etc again if you want to learn more about how to set up this this entire infrastructure and how to build an MVP I do have that full uh uh tutorial on how to build it from scratch so that's it for the database now for a front end. Again, same here, right? You

want to have a front end that's easy and fast to iterate and adapt because again, any change you're going to make in the back end and in a database will have to be reflected in your front end. And if you have some solution custom code, it's going to take you a lot longer. That's why I'm such a fan of the combination of air table and air table interfaces. Second, you want to have lots of human in the loop. This is really one of the biggest lessons and what Andre Capathi says too right is human in the loop is the way you want to design these AI products at the moment and to go around the issues of AI uh that we still have and lastly to really have a better user experience than chat GPT you should not focus you should design your user interface as much as possible around just clicking right just choosing and clicking instead of writing data entry chatting etc right and that that's how you make the user experience a lot better by having approved proven system uh and by having an easy and fast to use user interface you get better results and faster results than with chat GPT and that's really how we can stand out and and make our product differentiate from chat GPT right so again if I show an so if I can show you example quickly if I go back to the air table so the way we do it here is in air table with just quick actions right here for example generates ideas for blog posts with a little bit of a description I choose which one I want to go ahead with. If I

have decided to go ahead on a specific one, I just click here on generate content, right? The generated content will be presented here. Again, I can analyze the generated content. Normally, I can then decide to actually publish it, but again, I have the human in the loop. I can verify everything, right? I can verify the images, right? I

can make changes if I want to, but if I don't, I just click a button and it will be published, right? I can even schedule the date, etc. So you want to keep it as fast and easy as possible for the user uh instead of them typing yes you can now publish etc and I see that happening a lot now that we have agents people are designing a lot of these systems where where you have to talk but if you're automating or or really resolving a specific workflow it should be really easy for the user with clicks to go through that workflow instead of chatting lastly how do you slowly but surely build more of a data mode right and how do you make your system more and more autonomous over time which this is what where I think AIS is heading more and more once your system or your your SAS or your product receives more and more performance data from more and more clients of course you can build this into the system right and this will really help you uh uh slowly but surely autonomize the solution right you're also logging ideally decision-m data so the way if you're logging this decision-m data and the performance data you can slowly but surely first take the first action which is a little bit more autonomous which is adding suggestions in the interface if you already know which sort of idea they generally pick. You can start adding suggestions in the interface. You can steer the system towards more of those types of ideas.

And eventually once you get more and more performance data, you can start automating some of the decision-m in your system to make it more autonomous. Most likely for the highle decisions, you still want to have human in the loop, but you can definitely start automating more and more of the process, right? And this is again what Andre Kapati talked about that slowly but surely you can have this autonom autonomy slider, right? where it becomes more and more autonomous. Now, just to finish it off, if you still don't know where to start, a big opportunity again that I see is going after the service industry, right? Especially the tech

service industry, meaning marketing agencies, lead genen agencies, because they focus on revenue generating systems, right? Because this is really most one of the most expensive problems uh companies have that they're already paying for and can bring them high ROI and to not compete with the big players in the market. And I think there's a huge opportunity of focusing on niches, right? Really small niches, building these systems for small niches, I think you have a very interesting value proposition because if you focus on these small niches, you'll not necessarily compete with the big players like uh uh 11x etc. Right? If you f if

you build a great email outreach system for one specific industry like uh then this or e-commerce, you uh can definitely provide more value than some of these bigger players and especially than than chach. Sorry. So, think email outreach systems for e-commerce, LinkedIn content systems for business coaches, ad generation systems for dentists, SEO systems for local businesses. Just a few examples, but uh I think you get the idea. Anyway, that's it for this video. Uh again, if you want

to learn how to build sort of your first MVP with this setup, I have that full tutorial which I'll link up here, too. And if you got any value out of this video, I highly appreciate a like and a subscribe. And if you want to work closer with me and my team, uh, get some tech one-on-one tech help to build out your first solution, you can also check out my community, uh, where we try to help you set up, uh, your your AI business. That's it for this video. Thank you so much, and I hope to see you in the next one. Bye.