---
video_title: "Stop Using Claude Without This Second Brain Setup"
video_id: 82hCt3xH9Gc
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=82hCt3xH9Gc
video_date: 2026-08-29
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to get all my skills & tech help ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/sucwt-accelerator
  
  Try the App here: ⤵️
  https://baalda.com/
  
  Get the free setup guide ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/sucwt-free
  
  Get Help Setting up Your Second Brain ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/sucwt-os
  
  Join My AI Operator Program ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/sucwt-aioperator
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/sucwt-agency
  
  Claude Routines Tutorial 📺
  https://youtu.be/LLE6oMh7SxE
  
  Second Brain Setup 📺
  https://youtu.be/qo4YZvC1q5I
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Wispr Flow: https://ref.wisprflow.ai/ben-van-sprundel
  n8n: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Apify: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 – Intro
  00:30 – Why a Second Brain Matters
  01:21 – Where Obsidian Breaks Down
  02:42 – The Usual Workarounds
  03:25 – Why We Built Balda
  04:18 – 1. Team Sharing & Sync
  05:36 – 2. Permission Settings
  06:06 – 3. Backups & Version History
  06:30 – 4. MCP & Connector
  07:49 – 5. Open Source & Self-Hosting
  09:0 – How to Set It Up
  10:16 – Turning On Sync
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI businesses, and now I help professionals and business owners use AI better than 99% of people in their industry. And I (try to) show you exactly how.
  
  I believe anyone with domain expertise can use AI to transform the way they work and grow their business. You don't need to be technical.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  
  1. How to stop feeling overwhelmed by AI and actually start implementing
  2. AI automation tutorials you can follow along with, even if you're not technical
  3. The strategies and systems that actually move the needle with AI
---
Using a second brain for Claude is probably the most valuable thing you can do in AI right now. But while most people have been setting it up with a tool called Obsidian, there are real limitations with this tool, especially in team settings. So, in this video, I'll show you a new app that me and my team built that has all of the features that Obsidian lacks as a second brain, including easy team sharing, permission settings, automatic backups, and more. I'll show you a full demo and show you why you might want to consider using it, how to set it up fast and for free, even if you're new to the concept of a second brain. Now, the app we built is called Balder, but before showing you a a demo and all of the features of this tool, let me quickly go over who this is actually for and why I built it in the first place. Now, if you've been on

YouTube over the last couple of months, you've seen the concept of a second brain or AI operating system everywhere. Uh it's blown up because of one simple reason, it gives your AI agent persistent context and memory across different chats, across different AI providers, and even across your entire team. And this means that instead of your AI tool giving you generic outputs, uh you and your team's AI agents can always pull relevant context and have memory, giving you far better output. Now, all of this context around your business, your team, and the memory, of course, just lives in uh text files on a folder in your on your computer that you give your AI agent access to with folder access, uh so it can use it to give you better output. But because this becomes messy quickly with hundreds of files and subfolders, most people have been using this tool, Obsidian, in order to organize all of these files and these folders in a better way. Because, of

course, what Obsidian is, this tool is just a visual overlay of a folder on your computer. And even though it is a great tool, if you've been using it uh for yourself, maybe across your team, or maybe even uh implemented it for clients or other people, you might have noticed some real limitations with the tool uh for the second brain use case, which is exactly why I built this app. So, what limitations am I talking about? Firstly, there's no team sharing or team syncing of the context and memory in your second brain directly from Obsidian. Secondly, there are no permission settings in a team setting, so you can't have some files private, some read only, and some open to the whole team. We also don't

have version control or backups. So, when something goes wrong, and sometimes things go wrong in your second brain, there's no real way back. And also, you can't turn your second brain into a connector or an MCP, which means no schedule tasks or routines can automatically update your second brain to keep it up to date with your latest meeting transcripts, your email communication, your lead statuses, or any other relevant information you need to have up-to-date info in your second brain. Now, because of these limitations, many people have been using a variety of solutions to sort of build workarounds for these problems through maybe GitHub, Google Drive, Dropbox, iCloud, Notion, or an Obsidian plugin called Relay. I've used a few of these myself, and you might have seen them on my channel. But, if you've tried some of

these, you know that most of these are sort of clunky workarounds instead of real solutions. And depending on the exact workaround you use, there are always usually still limitations. Mostly, they're either not real-time syncing and updating, meaning you can get conflicts in your context docs, or you need to do manual backups. There are no straightforward permission settings. And in essence, it just becomes also just very impractical, technical, and error-prone, especially to set it up across a team that might not be that technical. And this is exactly why we

decided to build our own app that gets around all of these limitations. It basically takes all of the good things from Obsidian, and then we have added the features that are missing to actually make this practical to roll out across a business. Now, it's an open-source app, so you can use it for free for yourself. You can also use our hosted version. The link also will be in the description below. You can use and

download it for yourself for free, and I'll walk you through how it works and how to set it up, including how to set up your initial second brain if you're still new to that. So, as you can see, it looks very similar to Obsidian. It's essentially the same concept. Um so, it's still connected to a folder on your computer, and it's just a nicer way to um visualize some of these MD files. We also still have these wiki links, of course, and we also still have the graph view uh that many people like from Obsidian. But, we've implemented all of

the features that are lacking in Obsidian to make this, I think, a better setup if you use it as a second brain. Now, firstly, we have implemented easy team sharing and real-time sync. So, for sharing uh a second brain setup with a team member, all you need to do is go into your settings, go into vault settings, go to members, and there you can just invite one of your team members with an email. You can decide if they become an admin or a member. And when they download the app and log in, they just need to fill out one code uh and the entire second brain will be instantly loaded and set up on their computer. So, we don't actually need to

share folders with other team members that are maybe non-technical or not really AI native, and they don't have to do any technical setup. It will be automatically loaded into their vault account. And then, second, we have real-time sync. So, when I or one of my agents or anyone else across the team updates one of these docs, for example, here, it's updated and synced in real time across the entire team's second brain. And because there are no delays uh like with many of these workaround solutions that I covered, you won't have any issues with conflicts, etc. We can

even see our team members if they're inside of the doc or adapting something live. We can also have multiple second brain or folders here in the same account. Um for example, if you have one personal one and one for your team, you can share it easily and switch between them very easily. Now, the next thing we've built in, which we've seen a big need for across businesses, is all the permission and control settings that you might need. So, again, in the vault settings, we have a tab called access. And here we

can basically decide for every folder, subfolder, or file to set it on shared, read-only, or private, so it's only for you. Or I can do it for a specific file, like my strategy doc, and I can even have member-specific uh permission settings. So, I can decide it for each of the team members in my account if it needs to be read-only or um shared. Next, we've also built in automatic backups and version history, so backups will basically be made every day automatically or can be created manually here. And also the second brain owner, which I'm not in this case, can also revert the second brain to an old backup at any time. The version history can

also be checked for each of the files by just uh clicking here, where you can then see when a change was made and by who, and can also be reverted. Next, it also has a built-in MCP and connector for Claude or any other AI tool you use, and this means we can basically run Claude routines or schedule tasks that can automatically pull real-time context from your softwares, uh for example, your meeting transcripts or your email communication, and automatically update your second brain with the latest data. So, all you need to do is just copy this link here, go to your connectors, click on add, click on add custom connector, add in the link here, give it the name you want, for example, second brain. Now, mine's already connected, but you click continue. Then you can just look for it, second brain.

You then click on connect here. You log in You log in to your account, and then you can see all your vaults appearing, and you can decide for which vault you want to create this connector or MCP. So, in this case, I'll choose this one. And now I have an active MCP or connector setup in Claude that can access my second brain. And again, this means that I can now run routines here um where automatically, for example, meeting transcripts get updated as soon as meeting finished. Now, if you don't

know how to set up these routines yet, I have a full tutorial uh also covering this, which I'll also make sure to link in the description below. And in my AI accelerator, we also have a full uh second brain course together with skills that actually help you set up these routines and set up your initial second brain a lot easier and faster. So, if you don't have it set up yet or these routines yet and you want to do it a bit easier, definitely check out my AI accelerator. Now, lastly, we've made the app entirely open source and this basically means two things for you. First, we've allowed for basically easy self-hosting. So, by default, the data

will basically be synced through the server that we manage for the app, but you can also easily set up your own self-hosted version. So, the data will only run through your own servers and can also maybe a GDPR compliant if that's a need for you. All you need to do is go to the GitHub repository of Baldur, which I'll also link in the description below. If you scroll down here, you'll see an option of self-hosting, which is here. You then just click here on deploy on Railway. You create your own Railway

account, of course, and you can set up your own server. And then when you're back into the app, you can just replace this link for your own server link and then you basically have it self-hosted. I've also prepared a full step-by-step guide that you can go through. It covers basically all the features of the app and how to use it, including step-by-step how to set up your own self-hosting version in the first link in the description below, so you can check it out and read it in more detail. And secondly, because it's open source, of course, it also means you can fork it and basically either improve our entire app or their features. You can customize

it, basically do whatever you want with it for yourself. Again, you can just find the GitHub link in the description below. So, how do you set it up? Really easy. You just go to baldur.com. Again, link in the

description. You can just download it for your specific computer. Once you've installed the app, you'll land on the onboarding screen. Here you can either create a new vault, which basically creates a new folder on your computer. You can open an existing one, of course, if you already have a second brain. You

can just open your existing folder through this option or you can join a team. So, if you've already been invited, you can just log in with that email and put in the code and automatically that entire second brain will be updated in into your account. Now, of course, if you don't actually have the files yet or a second brain yet, that's the first thing you need to do. Again, I have a full video covering exactly how to set this up fast. Also, you can check out my AI accelerator where we have a full second brain setup course together with the skills that make this entire process really fast and easy for you to do.

We also offer unlimited one-on-one live tech calls to help you with any issues you might be facing and a community of serious business owners and professionals, many of which have already rolled out a second brain successfully across their teams. And I also just launched three new beginner to advanced cloud courses, so definitely check it out if you want to set this up a little bit faster and in the right way. Now, when you're signed in with a new account, automatic syncing and team sharing it's not turned on yet, you so you can just go to your vault settings, go to general, and here you just click on turn on sync. Now, it sets up the server for you, uploads all the file files there, and now you can see we get all of the options. So, you can, of course, invite your team members. You

can also create your MCP from here. You can set up the permission settings from access. And in order to use it, of course, it works exactly like you used to with a second brain. Here in general, you can also see where the folder is stored. And then in your AI provider, you just find that exact folder to give your AI agent access to the second brain.

And if you want to self-host it, of course, you have to set up and deploy it on your own Railway server, and then you can just go to your account settings to connection and change it to your server link. Now, we built this a couple of weeks ago. We've been actively using it, and it's working really well for us, but as it is new, we'd love to get your feedback. So, please let me know in the comments below. I'd really appreciate it. And again, if you're looking to dive

deeper into this and work closer with me and my team and get the full second brain course including the skills that make this entire process of setting up your second brain a lot faster and easier and according to our file structure, definitely check out my AI accelerator in link in the description below. And if you want to learn more about AI and a second brain, you can check out the video here above.