---
video_title: "5 Insane Fable 5.1 Use Cases (Endless Possibilities)"
video_id: uzDH5ZpzyRg
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uzDH5ZpzyRg
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  ➡️ Get all the free prompting guides and skills here: https://benai.kit.com/d6dd22b49d  
  ➡️ Join my AI Accelerator to get all my skills & tech help: https://c.benai.co/htata-accelerator
  ➡️ Work with my AI Agency: https://c.benai.co/htata-agency
  
  Join My AI Operator Program ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/5icf5-aioperator
  
  Get Help Setting up Your Second Brain ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/5icf5-os
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Wispr Flow: https://ref.wisprflow.ai/ben-van-sprundel
  n8n: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Apify: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 – Intro
  00:21 – Fable 5.1 Overview
  01:06 – Use Case 1
  04:47 – Use Case 2
  06:26 – Use Case 3
  09:30 – Use Case 4
  10:46 – Use Case 5
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI businesses, and now I help professionals and business owners use AI better than 99% of people in their industry. And I (try to) show you exactly how.
  
  I believe anyone with domain expertise can use AI to transform the way they work and grow their business. You don't need to be technical.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  
  1. How to stop feeling overwhelmed by AI and actually start implementing
  2. AI automation tutorials you can follow along with, even if you're not technical
  3. The strategies and systems that actually move the needle with AI
---
Entropic just released their most powerful model yet, Clot Fable 5.1. Now, I've been testing it over the last days, and honestly, it's really impressive, but you do have to know when and how to use it to avoid burning tokens. So, in this video, I'll show you five good use cases for Fable 5.1 with real examples, and I'll show you how to actually prompt this model to avoid burning tokens. Now,

if you haven't seen it yet, the new Fable 5.1 model significantly outperforms Fable 5 and Opus 5 on research, uh, coding, reasoning, and after testing it myself, uh, I can tell you it is really impressive. And even though it's actually cheaper to run than Claw Fable 5, it is still a very expensive model. So, it becomes really important to know when to actually use it and how to use and prompt it efficiently to avoid burning tokens. Now, in the bigger picture, what it comes down to is you only want to use these models for complex end-to-end tasks that actually provide you with a lot of potential value. So, it actually

makes sense for you spending a little bit more on this. And second, with these types of models, you want to spend much more time in the pre-planning of the task and giving it a good prompt in order to avoid these models going off in the wrong direction and burning a lot of tokens. Starting with the first one, research tasks. Fable 5.1 of course is longunning and has made some of the biggest improvements here uh on its research capabilities. Now the reason is

because they have been uh trained on multi-step web research and deep research task and have improved reasoning across uh large amounts of content. For example, I used the model to help me plan and create a pre-outline for a new YouTube video. I basically asked it to go through CL's big library of customer case studies here to identify good tips and strategies to improve AI adoption in a business. uh for a YouTube video that I'm planning on this topic. It then went ahead. It took

around 10 minutes. It spent up four sub agents and it analyzed 40 different customer stories and extracted 260 tactics. And it then created a full uh video outline with tips and strategies that I can teach in my next YouTube video. And honestly, the output is really impressive. It even gives me specific references and links for each of the tips. It tells me how I can apply

this to my target audience. It also gives me a oneliner here. And I'd say it's really 80% ready for me to record. Now, the reason I actually used these very powerful, more expensive models for this use case is because for me, video outlines are very high leverage, high-v value task. So, I'm willing to spend a bit more uh money on a better output.

But also, the reason I got to a very good output with one prompt is because I actually spent a little bit of time in the pre-planning on this task, which is really the key to do with these types of models. So, the way I recommend pre-planning good prompts for these types of models is in one or two ways. The first one is to always use a prompting framework that incorporates all the best practices for prompting these types of models. And the reason I'm such a fan of going through a framework like this is because it forces you to think about each of these and actually articulate it. So you're actually applying these best practices always and the chance you're going to get to a great output right away uh without the model going off in the wrong direction is a lot higher. So in this

case for example, I actually sat down for 10 15 minutes building this prompt. I tried to define the job as well as possible. I defined the why it needs to do this job which is really important because these models respond very well to the intent behind the request and actually thinking about the guard rails or the rules is one of the most important ones because essentially what you're doing is you're thinking through what could go wrong when it goes off and you prevent problems before they happen. So in this case for example I said every point has to be practical to apply for small business owners or service provider helping companies adopt AI. The tips shouldn't be too obvious, too technical, or too specific to one company. They need to be generally

practical because I predicted that it might just come with a very long list of very specific, unpractical tips or advice. And then lastly, defining what done looks like is really important with these models because they tend to do too much, not too little. So clearly defining the exit criteria or giving it an example output is probably uh one of the most important things to do with these types of model. For example, I specifically said that I want around 10 to 15 uh points. If I wouldn't specify that, it could actually go off and try to find 50 uh different ones uh resulting in huge token burn. Now, this

prompting framework will be for free in the first link in the description below, too, if you're interested. But the really the mindset you need to have with these models is to spend a bit more time on pre-planning instead of prompting and iterating on outputs. You can also use the interview me skill to help you pre-plan a prompt like this and think through the task a little bit more together with Claude. If you run it and give it some context on your task, it will start asking you a couple of questions to get more context on your task and then it will essentially at the end give you um a prompt in the exact framework that is good for prompting these uh fable 5 models. Now the interview me scale is also for free in the first link in the description below which brings me to the second use case which is design. Now, Fable 5.1 uh

follows instructions extremely well. It has new powerful uh vision tools and it seems to sort of understand taste better and therefore it's just generally really powerful for design use cases. For example, I used it to redesign uh the landing page of a new app that I recently launched, which is basically an app for your second brain like Obsidian, but we've implemented some features like team sharing and permission settings that were lacking in Obsidian as a second brain. You can use it for free by the way uh if you're interested in the link in the description. So I gave it a prompt in the same type of prompting framework. Again, you just want to spend

a little bit of time also in design use cases actually thinking through what you want to get out of it and maybe more importantly give it good references because again Fable 5.1 follows instructions extremely well well and has these vision tools. So if you give it references uh it can really follow them uh really well in my experience. So in this case, I gave it this website as a reference. And this is the redesigned landing page that it gave me, which you can see really follows the style of the reference that I gave. It also looks

clean, nice, minimalistic, and a lot better than my original one. And it even incorporated some of these really specific animations, as you can see, when I hover my mouse, that come from this reference website that I gave it, and it actually oneshotted this website redesign. Uh, so if you're going to use it for design, again, I really recommend pre-planning and getting some references uh so you don't have to constantly iterate because that's where you're going to burn the tokens. And if you want to get get some good references for good websites, I've also listed a few good sources to find good website designs in the free resource link in the first uh link in description. Which brings me to the next use case, using it for data analytics. But before doing

that, very quickly, if you enjoy this type of content, you'll really enjoy my AI accelerator community where I just launched three new beginner to advanced Cloud courses that walk you through step by step how to actually use Cloud to automate your work as a nontechnical professional or business owner. We also have unlimited one-on-one live tech calls so you can uh resolve any problem you might have. We have a big library of skills and plugins across all business departments that you can use or customize for yourself. We have multiple weekly Q&As with me and my team and a community of professionals and business owners actively using AI to automate their own work or to build AI businesses. So if you want to dive deeper into this definitely check it out in the link in the description below.

Now again similar to research because Fable 5.1 is so strong at longunning tasks and interpreting uh complex unstructured large data sets. One of the most powerful use cases I think for Fable 5.1 are analytics use cases. So, for example, I use it to analyze all my customer support calls, support tickets, and Q&As's in my community over the last two months to give me a report with insights on potential new videos I could do around my customers pain points, uh, around new features to develop in my product or my community, and to get better insights in who my target audience or my customer profile is. It

then went ahead and analyzed 346 support calls, 15 Q&As's, and 305 support tickets with comments. and it gave me this dashboard as a result. As you can see, it's extremely detailed and useful. It gives me 16 of the most common issues with specific examples and references. It also gives me a prioritized list of product development ideas based on customer pain points with again specific examples. And it gives me a very

comprehensive breakdown of my target audience and my customer profile. And lastly, it even gives me a breakdown of the most common themes mentioned across calls and the support tickets. And I'm was very happy to see that the number one theme is positive feedback. Now again, I actually really put effort into this prompt and thinking about what I want to get out of it, which is especially important for data analytics use cases because they can become uh very costly very quickly. And one more important thing I'd recommend when you're uh letting it interpret interpret large amounts of data is a sub agent instruction because one simple instruction is going to potentially save you a lot of cost. Basically, when

you're uh letting it interpret lots of data, it will spin up sub aents. Uh and what you want to do is specify that it has to use and run the sub agents on set 5 because if not, it will run it through the fable model and that's where most of your cost will come from. And if you actually let them run on set 5, it can literally mean it's only a tenth of the cost or even less uh than running these sub agents on Fable. So, putting in this line uh really important when you let it interpret lots of data. Also defining what done looks like especially important in analytics use cases otherwise it just goes off and does too much in my experience. And also if you

want to get these outputs into these nice dashboards uh I always use our slashinstant UI skill that basically puts the output inside of a dashboard that I showed you. Uh I'll also make sure to add that skill in the free resources in the first link in the description. Now the fourth use case is simplifying complex concepts or complex data. Now, Fable 5.1 seems to be a lot better than Opus and Fable 5 at presenting information in an easy to understand way for humans, which was a little bit the problem with Opus 5, especially because it tends to be very technical, overly verbose, and just hard to read for human. For example, here I

asked both Opus 5 and Fable 5.1 to help me visualize the architecture of my company's second brain using the ELI 5 scale, which is basically a skill that helps you visualize complex topics in a simple way. So with that exact same prompt in Opus 5, you can see I got this output, which is decent, but as you can see, extremely complex, hard to understand, and especially the copy is really sort of unreadable. and Fable 5.1 with that exact same prompt gave me this. As you can see, both the designs

and the copies uh are really simple and easy to understand and it really breaks down the entire concept in a very simple way, which again also again shows just the power of using these models for design and for copywriting. Now, the ELI 5 scale is a skill from Entropic that I really like and and does this. So, if you're interested, I'll also make sure to add it in the free resources. The last use case is using Fable 5.1 with your second brain. Now, if you're

unfamiliar with the concept of a second brain, it's basically a way to give your AI persistent context and memory across different chats. And this means that instead of your AI tool giving you generic outputs, your AI agent can always pull relevant context and memory, giving you far better outputs. For example, in my second brain, I literally have thousands of context docs, which are just text files around me and my business. So, I have all my meeting transcripts, my strategy docs, projects I worked on, etc. Now, if you're completely unfamiliar with this, I have a full video on setting up your own second brain, which I also make sure to link in the description below. But if

you already have one, some really interesting use cases open up because Fable 5.1 especially excels at context retrieving. And in my experience, it tends to take into account and read many more of your context docs before giving you an output, which with some of the other models has been a problem for me. it just doesn't read enough of the context to get full context on me and my business before giving me an output. So again, you can use these models together with your second brain for highv value tasks where it needs to gather a lot of context before giving you an output. For

example, here I wanted to do an analysis of the trajectory of my business over the last year to get a better idea of the progress we made internally, what decisions we've made, what we've actually stuck with, and what bottlenecks we've resolved. And I purposely left this prompt a little bit more open to see how much context from my second do it would actually use uh before giving me an output. And then I also gave that exact same prompt to uh cla to see the difference. And the difference is actually crazy. Fable 5.1

read 225 files inside of my second brain while opus 5 only read three which is exactly the problem I sometimes face with these models. I just have to really clearly instruct it to to read specific documents in my second brain. While the whole point of the second brain of course is that the data is already there and the claude MD should just route it to the right direction and Fable 5.1 seems to be far more efficient than that. Also again the report they gave me after uh doing this was really impressive and a little bit confronting because it seemed like I struggle still with a lot of the same bottlenecks as a couple of months ago. Also many problems

I've had in the past are not solved yet. But I think uh it's still a very interesting reflection use case, especially if you have a second brain with some data built up already. Anyway, the point is if you uh want to do a task that requires a lot of context from your second brain and is high value, I'd recommend trying to explore doing them with uh Fable 5.1 because you'll be surprised how much context it gathers before giving you an output. Again, if you want to dive deeper into AI, definitely check out my AI accelerator where we also have a second brain uh setup course together with other courses, of course, one-on-one live tech help, a big library of cloud skills and plugins, and a community of people actively automating their own work or growing AI businesses. And if you want

to learn more about how to prompt these new cloud models according to best practices, you can check out the video here above.