---
video_title: "How to Connect ANY App to Claude Instantly (with 1 click)"
video_id: M_E460gRHIQ
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M_E460gRHIQ
video_date: 2026-08-24
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator to get all my skills & tech help ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/htcaa-accelerator
  
  Join My AI Operator Program ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/htcaa-aioperator
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/htcaa-agency
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/ 
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Wispr Flow: https://ref.wisprflow.ai/ben-van-sprundel
  n8n: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Apify: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 – Intro
  00:47 – What Is Composio
  01:20 – Benefit 1
  01:59 – Benefit 2
  02:48 – Benefit 3
  03:35 – Benefit 4
  05:18 – Benefit 5
  05:48 – Benefit 6
  07:09 – Benefit 7
  07:50 – Benefit 8
  08:45 – Limitations
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI businesses, and now I help professionals and business owners use AI better than 99% of people in their industry. And I (try to) show you exactly how.
  
  I believe anyone with domain expertise can use AI to transform the way they work and grow their business. You don't need to be technical.
  
  I make videos that cover:
  
  1. How to stop feeling overwhelmed by AI and actually start implementing
  2. AI automation tutorials you can follow along with, even if you're not technical
  3. The strategies and systems that actually move the needle with AI
---
Connecting Claude to your softwares and the internet is fundamental in order to automate work with AI. But if you've used Claude's built-in connectors, you've probably seen the limitations. Many apps are simply not available or have limited capabilities. Custom MCPs can be hard to set up and maintain and can spend a lot of tokens. And managing connectors across a team is even more messy. So in this video, I'll show you

how to instantly connect Claude to almost any app with one connector called Compozio, show you how Compozio solves almost all of the limitations we have with the built-in connectors and MCPs, and show you why it's a must-have for rolling out connectors easily and safely across a team. Now, to be clear, this is not a sponsored video. Me and my team have been using Compozio over the last weeks, and I just believe it's really useful, and we now use it to basically connect all our softwares to Claude and other AI providers. So, what is Compozio and why should you be using it? Now, I'll cover eight benefits of using Compozio, but the two big ones are the ease of use and the ability to connect to many apps we can't connect to in Claude. Now, you can see Compozio

basically as a meta connector that you can plug into Claude or any other AI provider to really easily and instantly have it connected to more than a thousand different softwares here. So, I basically just have one connection here with Compozio to give Claude access to all of the softwares and connectors that I need. And the nice thing with Compozio is that they make it really easy for you to connect all of these softwares. Usually, all it requires is just a login. So, you don't have to copy and paste API keys generally or uh do complicated MCP setups. Usually, it's

all you need is just a login. And then when I tell Claude something like, "Analyze the video outline in my Notion and help me write an intro using the YouTube intro writer skill and add the intro variation in a Google Docs," the Compozio connector just routes it to the right tool. So, first here, it uses Notion, then it uses the skill to write the intros, and then again, uses Compozio to access Google Doc, which, if you know, is actually not possible with the native connections of uh Claude. And that's really the second big advantage of using Composio. It connects to far more apps, including some of the really common and useful ones that Claude doesn't natively have access to. For

example, we have access to all of the Google softwares, including Google Sheets, Google Drive, Google Docs, Google Analytics, Google Slides, and all the other Google products basically, which are normally very difficult to connect to Claude. It also connects to all Microsoft products, which are also hard to connect. It also connects to ad platforms, Meta Ads, Google Ads, LinkedIn Ads. It can even connect to social media apps, which are notoriously hard to connect like Instagram, LinkedIn. It can also connect to WhatsApp, X, Twitter, YouTube, and some of these are really easy with just a login screen. And basically any other

software you might be using. I haven't found an app myself yet that is not available in Composio yet. Now, some of these connectors are of course available in Claude, and if not, sometimes they have MCPs or ways to set it up yourself. But there's another big benefit of using Composio over some of these built-in connectors, which is that many of Composio's connections have far more capabilities or tool calls than the native connectors or some MCPs. For example, Claude's built-in Gmail connector only has 27 different tool calls and can't actually send emails for example, while Composio's Gmail connector actually has 63 tool calls and actually allows you to send emails. So

even if the app is available in Claude or through an MCP, because Composio sort of specializes in trying to optimize these MCPs and connect connections for AI agents, they are often better and more capable. So it's definitely worth checking it out. And another really nice thing in Composio is that besides more tool calls, is that we can actually connect multiple accounts of the same software, which again we can't natively do in Claude. For example, if you have multiple Gmail accounts like me for example, and you want to run automations or workflow on those accounts, you can't really straightforwardly do that inside of Claude right now. And with Composio, you can see I've just connected my professional and my personal account, and you can just add as many accounts of any software that I want. And then I can

just tell Claude analyze both my email inboxes and flag anything that came in over the last 24 hours. And then I can just tell Claude something like analyze both my email inboxes and flag anything that came in over the last 24 hours. It uses Composio again. It analyzed both my professional and my personal account and flagged anything that's important. But we can add multiple accounts for any software you use in Composio, and this of course also means that you can do this to, for example, connect to inboxes or accounts of different team members in your team, also. Now, quickly before

continuing, if you enjoy this type of content, you'll really enjoy my AI accelerator community, where I just launched three beginner-to-advanced Claude courses that walk you through step-by-step how to actually make Claude and AI useful in your work for you as a non-technical professional or business owner. We also have unlimited uh one-on-one live tech help to help you with any problem you might be facing right now. We also have a big library of skills and plugins for marketing, operations, sales, product, and design that you can use and customize yourself, and a community of serious professionals and business owners actively learning and working with AI. So, if you want to dive deeper into AI and start automating your work reliably, definitely check out my AI accelerator in the first link in the description below. Now, the next really nice thing with Composio is that because all of these connections are set up in your Composio account, it also means we can use all of these softwares instantly in any AI provider, whether that's Codex, Grok, Claude, or any AI tool you have, but just connecting the Composio connector to these tools. So,

we only have to set up these connectors once to use them across any AI provider. Now, before continuing, you might be wondering, what does Composio actually cost? Now, their pricing, I think, is extremely fair. We can do up to 100,000 tool calls per month for free, and even work with three team members. And then you can start paying $29 if you go over this, which honestly is pretty hard to go over in my experience. Now, also, if

you're business and you use AI and connectors across a team, Composio is going to be a really useful for you, too, because if you've tried to do this with Cloud or any other AI provider, uh, you've noticed how difficult this can be, because often if you want to give another team member, for example, access to a software, he'll need to sign in to that account, so you'd need to share your login and password info. There also isn't a lot of, uh, control and permission settings, which of course can be risky for some businesses, and Composio basically makes both of these extremely easy to do. Because I, as the admin of the Composio account, can just log in to all of the softwares uh, my team needs, and then can share it the Composio connector with them, uh, without having to share all the password and login info for all of these softwares. You can also connect, uh, team members to the same Composio account, so they can also log in to their softwares. And of course, when setting up these softwares, I can also set up the scopes for these softwares. I

can decide the specific actions that can or cannot be taken within these softwares, and then anyone, uh, using this same Composio connection instantly have has access to all of these softwares with the specific permission settings built in. And if you want even more control settings, uh, they also have Composio for teams. Now, I haven't tried this yet, but it will give you even more, um, control and permission settings uh, option. So, can be very useful if you're trying to roll this out across a team. And if you're not convinced yet, there are two more, uh, benefits that I've noticed while using this. Um, firstly, because of course the

main uh, purpose of Composio is to make these MCPs and tool calls work as efficiently as possible, it also means there's no maintenance of the connectors or MCPs for you. Again, if you've been using connectors in Cloud, you've noticed that many of them, uh, you have to reconnect every couple of weeks. If you've been using custom MCPs or building your own MCPs, it means you have to maintain, update them, and make sure, um, that you have all the right tool calls. And all of this is done, of course, automatically uh, for you by Composio. It automatically reconnects to your softwares. It keeps the MCPs

updated. It makes them actively more efficient and adds functionalities without you having to do anything. And lastly, using Composio you can actually become more token efficient than using your own MCPs and connectors. Now, why is that? It's because basically every connector or MCP that you have installed inside of your Cloud Desktop will be loaded in the context window every time you open a new chat regardless if you actually use the app or not. You can see

that it loaded 10,000 tokens here of MCP tools without me having used anything inside of this chat. And I already have basically deactivated most of my MCP connectors. If you're interested in seeing what you spend in every chat on MCP tokens, you can use the {slash} context in the Cloud code tab to see how much you're spending. And the way Composio helps solve this, of course, is you can essentially just have one MCP with Composio instead of your 30 or 50 different MCPs. And then Composio just routes and uses only the one it needs in each specific task. Now, of course,

there are some limitations. Some of the connectors in Composio are not working perfectly yet. But the whole point of this is Composio's whole purpose is to make them as efficient as possible. So, they they'll be actively developing them and making them better. So, I highly recommend starting to use it and trying it out. It's really simple

to start. You can just make an account on Composio. Then you go to connect apps and you can connect all your apps. Once you've done it, you go to connect to my agent. You select the platform you want to connect it to and it will give you an overview of how to do it. In the Cloud

Desktop specifically, you can just go to browse connectors, search for Composio, and then connect your account and you instantly have all your softwares connected. And again, if you want to dive deeper into AI, get access to my beginner to advanced Cloud courses, unlimited one-on-one live tech help, the library of skills and plugins my team are building out, weekly Q&As with me and my team and a community of professionals and business owners. Definitely check out my AI accelerator in the first link in the description below. And if you want to learn more about how to get more out of Claude and AI, you can check out the video here above.