---
video_title: "How we Automated Meta Ads with 3 AI Systems"
video_id: JDjxeB-UEoc
channel_name: "Ben AI"
channel_id: UC3KK7ENB_ierAXvrxVNnbZQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JDjxeB-UEoc
video_date: 2026-01-13T09:19:35+00:00
video_description: |
  Join my AI Accelerator + get all my templates ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/3amaa-acc
  
  Get our SEO Solution ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/3amaa-seo
  
  Work with my AI Agency ⤵️
  https://c.benai.co/3amaa-agency
  
  We are hiring Marketers and Engineers! Apply here ⤵️
  https://ask.benai.co/join-ben-ai
  
  🔗 My Socials:
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/benvansprundel/
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/benai_25/
  Tiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@benai_25
  X: https://x.com/ben_vs92
  
  💻 Softwares I use (some of these are affiliate-links, thanks!):
  N8N: https://n8n.partnerlinks.io/zr6ttnlrb8dw
  APIFY: https://www.apify.com?fpr=benai
  Free Prompting Tool: https://promptcowboy.ai/
  Skyvern: https://www.skyvern.com/
  Relevance AI: https://relevanceai.com/?via=ben
  ElevenLabs: https://try.elevenlabs.io/fps0xgonqagd
  Sendspark: https://sendspark.com/?via=ben-ai
  Make.com: https://www.make.com/en/register?pc=benai
  Agentive: https://agentivehub.com/
  Dumpling AI: https://www.dumplingai.com/?via=ben-ai
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 – Intro 
  00:35 – System 1 
  04:08 – System 2 
  06:02 – System 3 
  
  👋🏼 About me:
  I'm Ben. I built two $1M ARR AI Businesses & I (try) to teach others how they can too. 
  I believe non-technical professionals have a unique opportunity in the AI era to build Profitable Business fast. 
  
  I make videos that cover:
  1. Why AI is the best time in history to build a business.
  2. How to Learn AI Automation fast as a non-developer. 
  3. AI Business strategy to help you build a business fast
---
Here are three AI meta-add systems that we've sold to marketing agencies, e-commerce and SaaS businesses. Meta-add management and optimization tend to be very time-consuming processes, so these can be great use cases to sell if you're an AI agency or to implement if you're a business running meta-add. And in this video, I'll walk you through the solutions, and if you want all of these templates and many more, you can check out my AI accelerator where we help you learn AI automation, yet one-on-one unlimited tech support, and help you build your own AI business. And if you are a company looking to work with my AI agency, you can also book a free call with us in the description below. At a first system is an automatic product ad generator. This is a great system because many companies run hundreds of ads. Some agencies run ads for different companies on Meta. It's one of the most commonly used acquisition channels, for example, e-commerce businesses, but for many other businesses. And although many of these ads are a similar nature, most of it is still done manually and pretty time-consuming. So this system saves companies a lot of time that do meta-ads. Now, we've built this system using a combination of air table here and NADN. Of course, I've shown this one in a previous video too. So the way this works here in the workboards, we can basically just add a new product. So we can just attach an image of the product. In this case, it's an ad already, but we can also upload just a product image, and we can add the product name and the product notes. And then from there, we can automatically generate the product details. We'll basically do some research online on this specific product. We can also add this manually if we want or just change whatever the NNM put out. Now this is important because, of course, this is going to be used as context when we're generating ad variations and ads in general and also the ad copy. Right? So we need some context on the product. Now based on that, we can also add in a reference image. If we find a competitor ad or something like that that we find interesting, we can add that as a reference and then our new ad will be generated according to that style of the reference image. Now in this case, we haven't added it and then we can add in the amount of ads we want to generate in this case five and then we can generate the ad prompt automatically. So it's going to generate now five variations of different ad formats. Again, we keep the human in the loop here. So if you want to change the aspect ratio, for example, or the angle of the ad a bit here, you can do that simply here. But if you think this is good, you can generate the ads and then all the five different ads will be generated here. So you can see here, it uses the same product image in different formats. Of course, again, you have some way to guide this a bit more through the system. And then all the ads you've generated will be presented here in the ad gallery and from the ad gallery, you can also generate ad copy if I click in here and in this case, it's already done. So you can see here, the ad copy will also be automatically generated. So that's the system. How does it work in the backhand? Pretty simple. We have the webhook here, which gets triggered through air table because of course, this is just the front end on the backhand. We have a database. Right. It can also be managed from here, but I prefer to do it through the interface. And this first one gets triggered as soon as we do the first product research. So this first workflow here. Basically all it does is it uses a complexity search to do some more research on the product. But again, you can do this yourself too or adjust anything it outputs. And the second flow will create the prompt, right, which I showed you before. Now, in this case, this second workflow will get triggered when there's no reference image uploaded. So in this case, it will just take and download the image to get some context. They will get fed into the LNM here. We'll generate the prompt for the five ad variations in this case and output that back into the air table. And then this third workflow takes those prompts. If we've adjusted it, it will take the adjusted prompt and then generate the actual images based, of course, again, on the original product image. In this case, we use nano banana pro through replicate. Right. If you don't know replicate, it basically hosts many image and video models. So it's an easy way to use this. Again, you can connect this by just connecting your API key. So in this case, it loops over five different ads. You can also do way more, of course, if you want, but it loops over them and outputs them into the air table and then updates, updates the status to complete. Right. So that's it for the second and the third. And then the fourth and the fifth are very similar workflows as these two, but these will get triggered when there's a reference image uploaded. So in this case, you can see that we have two times this because it downloads the product image, the original product image and uploads it and the same for the reference image. And we pass that context into an L&M here, which will take that data and generate ad prompts and variations based on both the reference image and the original product image and then outputs it into the air table. And then, of course, the next flow will actually generate the ads again, based on the reference image and the original product image. And then lastly, this last workflow gets triggered as soon as you want to generate the ad copy. And again, it takes the original product as some context. And of course, the product research data and based on that, it will write the ad copy for the ad. So pretty straightforward system, I think, if you're going to clone this template, you just have to import the JSON clone the air table interface and database. Then you'll need to connect your specific air table account to all the air table modes. You'll have to connect the webhook here URL because you'll get a unique one to your air table database, which you do here in the automations section. Here we have the third one, which is run as script. And here you'll see webhook. This you'll have to change to your specific webhook for each of these. Then you, of course, have to add in your perplexity API key here, the specific API key for the language models you use in all the L&M steps and your replicate API key to. It's not going to cost you more than a few cents per generation, so don't worry about the cost too much. And that's it. Now the second one is a meta ads buying tool. This one scrapes all of a brand's competitor image video and text ads automatically analyzes them and then writes a weekly report on the strategy your competitors use. Now many brands and HZs spend a lot of time analyzing competitor ads and this system basically continuously checks on a weekly basis. All the new ads competitors might have posted, which can speed up this research process. And of course, know what your competitors are doing in the market. And of course, if there's an ad that stands out, it can also be used as a reference ad in the previous system I showed to generate some ads for yourself. Now we use this system, not surprisingly, again, using a combination of air table and an A&N. So here a little bit of a simpler workflow as you can see. The way it works is quite simple. You can just add a competitor here and then you have to add in the URL of the Facebook ad library of the competitor. Now if you don't know where to find that, this is basically public information. Let's say we have Jim's shark. You can go to the app out page on YouTube, go to see all and all the way to the bottom. You go to ad library. There we can see. I have an app locker, but yeah, there you can see basically the ads they're running. So that's the page we're scraping. So this is the page we need the URL to create a new competitor. Then we have all the competitors listed here and then we can track all of the ads over competitors here. So here are all the ads from Jim's shark. If I open it up, you get the insights on the ad copy, the headline description, the image in this case, it's not a video and some improvement suggestions. And then here, lastly, we have the weekly reports where we get insights on the strategy our competitors run. So that's it quite straightforward. You can either manually trigger it here or on the schedule trigger, like I showed you on the weekly report. Then we get all the competitor Facebook ad library links URLs. We loop over each of them and use an appify scraper to specifically scrape those Facebook ad libraries. So we do that. We update the data. We update the status. If it has ads, we add it into another sub workflow here because we have to loop over each of the product items one by one. So here we go over each of the ads, check if it exists. And if it is a new ad, we download if it's a video to video or if it's an image, the image. And then we pass that into an LLM to do some analysis, of course, and to maybe give us some suggestions on how we can improve this type of ad for ourselves. And we output that. We format that again and we output all of the data back into air table. And then this last flow here generates gets all of the ads from one competitor, analyzes them, gets passed into this NLM, analyzes them and generates a report on a weekly basis on the strategy your competitors use inside of ads. Again formats it and sends it into air table. So quite straightforward workflow. If you're going to clone this, you can simply import the JSON again. Of course, again, you have to connect your air table account. You have to connect your appify API key here. This one's already set up for you, but you just have to connect your API key. The rest is mostly done for you. And of course, you have to add in your specific LNM API keys. And that's basically it. That's how you can set it up. And of course, there's a database behind the air table interface. And if you need some more help adjusting these templates or setting them up for yourself, we do have the one on one tech help available with my AI engineers inside of my accelerator. Now, the next one is an automatic meta ad campaign reporting system. I've shown this one in a previous video, but I want to include it in this one because it's especially useful for meta ad agencies because they spent a lot of time on the campaign reporting to their clients and for themselves. So we built this system using a combination of an 8N Google sheets and Google slides. Basically, what the system does is it analyzes the performance of the campaigns over the last months completely automatically. And it creates these graphs, visuals and conclusions automatically in the slides. It compares different campaigns you're running, the platforms, the placements and the demographics. And again, this is just a really useful system for really any type of business that runs meta ads because they tend to spend a lot of time on reporting and ad optimization. Now this one is a bit more complicated as you can see, as a lot of code notes, etc. But most of the hard work is already done. If you're going to duplicate the template, you don't have to change that much. The hard work is really mostly done for you. So really what you have to do is connect the Facebook Graph API to get the data from your meta ads or your client meta ads. You also have to connect your Google slide API and Google Sheets API and then it should work for you. You can adjust the template here to your specific branding, etc. But if you connect those APIs to these notes here, it should directly work for you. Now if you want to know how to set up these APIs because the Google slides and Google Sheets API can be a little bit more tricky to set up because you have to set up Google zero off. I'll make sure to put a link also with the resources on how to set up the Google zero off. So that's it for this video. Thank you so much for watching. Keep in mind that templates are great, but generally need to be customized a bit to each specific use case or client or for yourself. So if you need some more help in customization and learning AI animation and learning how to build systems like this yourself, you can check out my AI accelerator where we give you the tech support you need. And also we try to help you build your own AI business. So if that's interesting, you can check out my accelerator. Also, if you want to see a fourth meta ad system, I've done a previous video on another system we did which automatically generates ads script for people running video ads on my diets. So if that's interesting to you, you can check out the video here above. Thank you so much.