---
video_title: "Autor de \"Como as Democracias Morrem\" fala sobre STF e partidos de centro-esquerda"
video_id: 9ioZmqv3DZA
channel_name: "exame"
channel_id: UCauE-yGwb8bJ55BswgrGxAg
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9ioZmqv3DZA
video_date: 2026-08-06T21:04:39+00:00
video_description: |
  Para Steven Levitsky, professor da universidade Harvard e coautor do livro "Como as Democracias Morrem", os partidos de centro-esquerda, como o PT no Brasil, vivem uma crise por falta de um projeto claro que mobilize os eleitores.
  
  Nesta conversa com a EXAME, Levitsky fala ainda sobre o avanço de governos populistas pelo mundo, diz que o STF brasileiro é um dos tribunais mais poderosos do mundo e analisa o estado atual dos sistemas democráticos pelo mundo.
  
  Leia a entrevista completa também em texto, na edição de julho da revista EXAME (https://exame.com/edicoes/)
  
  Apresentação: Rafael Balago e Ivan Martínez-Vargas
  Produção: Luciano Pádua
  
  📱 Acompanhe a Exame em todas as redes sociais: @exame
  
  🔴 Acesse o site: https://exame.com/
---
Fore!

Foreign! Foreign!

Brazil. Professor

Leitzki, thank you very much for speaking with Isam today. It's a pleasure to have you here with us. H we'd like to talk about the state of democracy around the world, the impact of President Trump policies on Latin America in the upcoming Brazilian election. Mr. The Trump administration has decided to impose a 25% tariff on Brazilian products starting on July 22nd. My first question is, do you

consider this a trade policy decision or a major primarily politically motivated as the Brazilian government asks? >> Most of the Trump administration's uh trade policy decisions have been fairly political. It's very very hard with Trump and with the administration to discern a pattern. I was in Brazilia in August, not long after the Trump administration imposed 50% tariffs um directly in uh in in response to the Brazilian judiciary's uh effort to hold Jer Bolsado accountable for trying to overturn an election. that was a um it was a a a personal and and political decision that had absolutely nothing to do with trade.

So, it's um it's very hard to find a a a pattern. Um this this is a it's sort of a confused and fairly inept foreign trade policy and that that changes from day to day with the humor of of the president. Um and and I'm not a trade expert, so it's very hard for me to to evaluate this this move, but there there's no coherent economic policy in what the Trump administration is doing. That is for sure. >> The first um tariff that that ended up benefiting more uh President Lula campaign rather than benefiting Flappy Bonaro. And with the second one, we we

already have well, it was published yesterday, but we already have uh this this post showing that most Brazilian people uh see that as as a measure to benefit Bonaro so that they they are more likely to vote uh for Lula. Uh h how do you see this this like the motivation uh behind Trump Trump uh foreign policy and of course the effects that are most likely not not exactly what what he would like to to be. >> Yeah. Um look these guys are not very smart. uh there's not a coherent strategy um behind these interventions. Um the

the US government decided uh to have a or the Trump administration has decided to to take a very very uh old school very naked uh interventionist approach coming out in in countries even like Germany uh and taking a position on which party they think should win um you know help openly helping one side against another in in many different elections. uh without serious study uh about the consequences. Um there's a long history of going back to Peron in Argentina in the 1940s to US interventions that backfire if they're done in a too too aggressive, too bullying a way. But this administration doesn't know history, doesn't care, doesn't think about it. Um there have been some cases where US interventions appear to have um have sort of gotten Trump what he wanted. Uh the the support

provided to MLE, maybe the intervention in in in the Honduran election. But there are many other cases, most notably Canada where um Trump has really really benefited uh the other side, the the the more liberal uh and and left center forces. And I don't think this administration either either they don't understand or they don't care, but they're not putting a lot of time and strategic thought into these interventions. But what precedent does this this politically motivated tariff policy have for democracy in the in other countries and and of course for international relations or or well Trump doesn't doesn't see him himself as as he sees himself as a as um very powerful ful force politically speaking. So, but the result is is not exactly what he would like to be.

>> Yeah. Again, Trump is not an expert on on on foreign policy. He is a very very um kind of narcissistic, very US- centered view of of the world. He doesn't really operate as if other governments seriously exist. Um he he doesn't think much about uh Denmark when he talks about just taking Norway um or excuse me taking Greenland um and and he he is hearkening back to an era in which great p an era before World War I um when great powers uh simply prayed upon poorer and weaker states.

And you know that it completely abandoning the rules-based very imperfect but but but significant rules-based international order that was constructed in the 20th century. Um I don't think we know what the long-term consequences of this are. I think my my hope is that uh we can put back the rules-based international order once we get Trump out of office. Um but this is doing great great damage. I mean um it is very very uh difficult to to keep we have way too much capacity as human beings in the 21st century to to destroy one another to uh to go back to a world in which um the powerful just take what they want. And um Trump is trying that

out in Latin America. Uh it it worked for Trump at least in the short term in Venezuela. I'm not confident that in the long run that will will produce much of benefit to to anybody. But it was very easy for Trump to do what he wanted in in Venezuela. Uh he has bullied governments in Mexico, governments in Colombia. He said other governments like

the Malay government that that and the Ecuadorian government that are very cooperative and um Brazil is the one place where in in Latin America where the Trump administration has had to confront the limits of its power. The the Brazilian government to its great credit did not back down uh despite the sanctions and the and the tariffs in uh last year. And I don't know I don't I have not I don't know the the reasons why they're coming back at it. But um we are seeing now in Iran and other places the limits of this kind of um uh thoughtless exertion of of of power. Um Trump is making big mistakes. He is

costing the US in terms of its image, its international standing. uh now in Iran much more um and I don't I don't think he fully understand understood who who he was um picking a fight with in Brazil either. Brazil is not Honduras. >> Uh once Trump has having difficulty to deal to Brazil and and Iran for example, uh do you think Trump will try harder to to get what he wants or he's trying to go to some some other place to try to uh do these policies? >> That's a good question. um the

normally when Trump doesn't get what he wants uh he kind of abandons and and and tries somewhere else. I think that um that Lula, the Brazilian government's response to the US tariffs, which is really kind of unique in Latin America. It's the only government that that seriously pushed back against the Trump administration's bullying. Um I think it worked. I think Trump responds to bullying or or responds to when when governments give in to Trump. When they

capitulate to Trump, he just continues to bully. And when they push back, he tends to back off. Now, and uh and that's mostly what he's done so far in in Brazil. In Iran, he's really in a mess because uh he wants to walk away. He wants to quit. I I think what the Trump

administration would love to do is uh run away from the situation in Iran and uh you know probably go after Cuba, which is an easier target. Not maybe not as easy as they think, but easier than Iran. Um but he's stuck because um he's made things much worse than the status quo ante in Iran. uh and walking away at this point in Iran is a humiliating humiliating surrender. Um that leaves Iran more powerful than ever before. So

So he's really stuck. He's made a a huge mess of Iran. I think his instinct is to flee and find an easier target. But in Iran, it's just it's just really complicated and very costly. Oh, now speaking about the the Brazilian presidential elections that we we will face in in October, um what are your expectations in a scenario where the two main political camps now uh President Lula and Flav Bunaro portray each other as as a threat to democracy. Not exactly

in the same terms, but but mostly in this regard. >> Uh it's not ideal. The level of polarization in Brazil is um is quite high, I think. Um not not quite as dangerously high as in the United States, but it's but it's very high. as it is across Latin America and the combination of fragmented party systems and um high levels of discontent and social media and a ballot leads um kind of polar camps often of the left and the right to make it into runoffs uh like we saw in um in Peru, like we saw in Colombia, like we saw in Chile. Um and that that's sort of bring

about an a what I consider an an exaggerated polarization. But um whenever two competing political parties view one another as the enemy as an existential threat. Um, it it's a danger to democracy because when you view your political rival, your opponent, as an enemy, as a subversive, as an existential threat, a threat to to to national security, then you become willing to use any means necessary to stop them, to use authoritarian means to stop them. And that is exactly what we saw with Bolsonado's coup attempt in in 2022 23 that was justified uh because you know we we need to do whatever we can to prevent Lula from coming back in office when the stakes are that high uh there's a temptation to subvert to break the rules to subvert democracy and um unfortunately that that that level of polarization exists in Brazil today >> but in recent interviews, you said that Brazilian institutions respond better to authoritarian threats uh than for example uh the United States uh authorities. Uh but but but can can we say what are the motives of this difference? So I think it's pretty clear

so far um it's the I don't know if we've written the last chapter of these stories but um so far Brazilian institutions have clearly outperfor performed better than than than American ones. We have two presidents who um very clearly tried to overturn democratic elections um that that's basically violating the the cardinal rule of democracy. uh that uh it's a crime against democracy, which is a serious crime. Uh in one case, the uh the the effort to hold the president accountable was slow. It was um uh it was halfbaked and it was completely ineffectual and the president returned to power and began to subvert democracy. That's the United States. In

other case, the the the investigation, the prosecution was very aggressive. uh and ultimately effective in holding the the cool leader accountable. Bolsonado is in uh is in is in prison today. Um I I think the biggest difference between the two countries is that Brazil has an experience with authoritarianism. uh Brazilians from the very beginning uh rec certainly the Supreme Court recognized the threat that Bossado uh posed recognized how fragile democracy can be uh and believed based on past experience that it's that it's important to aggressively defend democracy and the rule of law in the United States. We take democracy for

granted. Americans have no experience with authoritarianism. They have no experience with losing their democracy. Most Americans still to this day don't believe that it's possible that we could lose our democracy and slide into authoritarianism. And I think that overconfidence in our institutions led us to um uh let to to make a a series of of huge mistakes. Sir, the justice in Brazil has

a trouble because the Supreme Court of Brazil, the STF, has been criticized to be doing more than it should and it face a crisis of public confidence. Um, how do you see a way to these justices recover the public trust? >> I mean, that that is a political process that Brazilians are going to have to to figure out. I mean uh [snorts] institutions and elites across the democratic world today have a crisis of trust not just the Brazilian Supreme Court and um very very few whether it's parliaments governments uh courts very few institutions have shown in the last decade or 15 years a capacity to sort of quickly rebuild trust. there is a trust a crisis of of of trust and confidence in uh in at least institutions across the democratic world. Um so I have no idea how how how

to do it. I I do think um the the Brazilian Supreme Court is it might be the most powerful Supreme Court in the democratic world. Uh it exerted a lot of uh of power in in its battle against Bosanado. It's its reach into into the Brazilian political system has been growing for many years. It certainly kind of accelerated after the the Lavagato process. And um

and I I think it is I think it is going to have to um pull back eventually for the Brazilian democratic system to work well. I mean, I I think that their that the court's decision to aggressively go after Bolsonado, I know it was controversial, and I know it was double-edged, I think it was the right decision. Uh, a a crisis of of a return to authoritarianism is much worse than the crisis created by an overly aggressive Supreme Court. Um, but I think, you know, I I I think ultimately be other political actors in Brazil. Uh, it'll be the other branches of government, the executive and the legislature that will have to work hopefully to find a a legal and and consensus based way to restore some equilibrium to the political system. Um,

but it's really not for me to to know or to say how. uh in in yeah professor but I would like to to speak about uh follow the follow this question in recent elections for example in Peru that I know you you follow very closely and also Colombia and also in in in Brazil the last election in 2022 uh defeated candidates question or delay recognizing the results even in the right wing and also in the left wing. What explains this phenomena and how can democracies rebuild this the political trust in elections? >> Excellent question. Um I think it's a it's really quite tragic that this has happened and I and I don't feel like I have a convincing explanation for why it's happening. uh because Latin America

um had reached a point in the late 20th and early 21st centuries where um losing candidates were accepting defeat really across the board. I mean obviously there were authoritarian cases like Venezuela, Nicaragua was not the case. The one big examp what big exception of course was Amnlo who refused to accept defeat in 2006. But outside of that there were many close elections in Peru uh and and elsewhere and and Brazil as well where um losing candidates accepted defeat and that's really really important. I don't know if uh if Trump's constant unwillingness to accept defeat uh his his unwillingness to do it in 2016 uh he's is uh you know before before he won he he said he uh he might not accept the results if if he lost uh and then he obviously tried to overturn the election in 2020. That seemed following proving

politics that did seem to influence the right in um in Peru for example the the forces behind Kiko Fuki Morty just months just a year after Trump refused to accept the elections in 2020 they didn't accept their defeat in 2021 and now you're right the left has done it in Peru the left has done it uh uh kind of bizarrely in Colombia or Petro anyway not not necessarily the left but um it it is a terrible disease and it and it tends to to feed on itself one once people begin to to denounce fraud it becomes it becomes easier it becomes habit but it's really really destructive of democracy and so to my knowledge the only the only way to overcome that is through example I mean political leaders who have authority need to be very clear I mean it um they need to tell their supporters their allies, their followers that yeah, it sucks. Too bad we lost. You know, you Brazil lost in in the World Cup and we cry, but we have to we have to accept defeat. Um, and it's the same in in politics. It's a it's a basic rule. Democracy only works

when losers accept defeat. And um if if politicians don't do it, I think I suspect I mean in addition to to to Trump's example, which is a a nefarious, terrible, terrible example. I think social media also is playing a role here. Um there is there's a need, a constant need in politics now to feed uh feed your base with with excitement and um doing the right thing, doing the responsible thing and saying no, it's not a conspiracy. It's not fraud. They

didn't cheat. Um this is not fascism coming. We just lost the election and we need to go home and accept that. That just doesn't that doesn't generate um social media followings. And so I think politicians are that are have this incentive to radicalize and that fraud claims are um are part of that. It's

really reckless. It's really irresponsible. It's going to break democracies if political leaders don't get a hold of it and behave responsibly. >> Professor, you mentioned the technology, the social media, and we had one example in Colombia, the campaign of Abad Despella uses a lot of AI to create content in a massive amount of content to reach more people, more targets with different messages and also to analyze the data of how this content is going to in social networks. And how do you see the use of the AI in campaigns and if this can be in any way bring more more threats to democracies?

>> Look, I'm not an expert on this. I'm not an expert in AI. This is a rapidly changing uh political technology that what we know is it's it's here. It's it's here to stay. Um politicians will use it. And all new technologies are

double-edged. they they bring um uh positive opportunities and they bring threats and um it uh there's no question that AI uh in in terms of uh its manipulative capacity can do great damage and be a threat to to democracy. I think um but nothing is inevitable with all we were whether it was radio whether it's television whether it's internet social media um individ politicians governments citizens can all learn how to adapt to these new technologies. the the um the danger lies in just accepting them and um and not studying their consequences, not thinking about their consequences and not being willing uh to regulate them when necessary. I think the the danger in the United States or with the the US's very lzair model is that we just accept um new technologies without without thinking about how they ought to be regulated. Um, so I I can't see I'm not

an expert on this, so I can't see far enough into the future to to really answer your question. I think we know uh that this is a rapidly changing technology. Politicians will use it. They will innovate with it. And um uh the the question is whether governments and citizens can learn how to adapt to them, to learn uh how to operate with them. uh before

it becomes a threat to democracy. >> In other phenomena here in Latin America is the elections of leaders with an radical speech uh and establishment and systems like Malaya, Ventina, Espel in Colombia, Ber Salvador. Uh what factors do is can explain this trend in your view that people want to keep electing leaders like this? I would say there's a supply side and a demand side. Uh the demand side I think we're all familiar with. Um voters are very

um very very discontented. Um there has been a kind of a um a perfect storm of events over the last decade in Latin America that have left voters very discontented. just to to highlight three things. Economies in most countries in the region have been pretty somewhere between mediocre and bad since the end of the commodities boom a decade ago. Um the uh the COVID hit Latin America harder than any other region on earth.

We know that the pandemic and the pandemic responses left voters in a very angry, grumpy mood throughout the democratic world. that was Latin America was hardest hit and I think it was um we're the the effects in terms of public trust and public discontent are still being felt and on top of that actually two other factors um crime and and and the the expansion of criminal organizations um across the region uh are are making life uh miserable for citizens across uh across Latin America. People are afraid to leave their homes. Businesses are being extorted. Uh crime is is a is a serious serious problem for citizens in almost every country in the region. And

finally, there have been large-scale corruption scandals. Brazil is one country, but almost every country in the region has suffered a major corruption scandal that has touched the president, the vice president or other key members of the political elite. There are very few countries in Latin America that have escaped that trend in the last decade. So, poor economies, COVID, crime, and corruption. Voters are angry. Um, voters

are really, really angry. And there's a lot of evidence that social media is, in addition to the realities on the ground, social media is exacerbating this decline in trust. So voters are in a mood to vote um against the system, but there's also a supply side. It's much easier because of social media to be an anti-system outsider than in the past. 30, 40, 50 years ago. um you needed

politicians needed the um to remain on good terms with the mainstream media, with business sector, with labor, with political party leaders because if you went out on your own in say the 1980s, there's no way that you could get the financing, the media coverage that you needed to reach voters. Um it was hard to be a populist 40 or 50 years ago. Today, it's easy to be a populist. You don't need the support of anybody. You just need a YouTube channel and a an ex account uh or a WhatsApp account and you can reach voters outside of of the establishment. So um it's just much much

easier to be a bouquet or a a mle today in the era of social media than ever ever before. It was um you know what what Peron did in 1945 1946 was a once in a century event mobilizing uh the masses to defeat the entire political elite. When Boule did it, it was easy. He just had you a couple of million Facebook and Twitter followers. And so it's social media has made it easy to be a populist. um what de despera and and

mle and bkle really didn't have to work that hard to to reach voters and mobilize against the them against the system and so we're living in a populist era. There's no going back. It's now it's going to be easy to be a populist now going forward. and um this combination of a pretty angry electorate and the fact that it's really easy to to to kind of get up in the morning and decide to be a bouquet or to be a despa um it's a real challenge for democracy. You you made a point that is far more easy way more easier to be a populist right now. uh mainly because of

of of social media and algorithms and so on. Did democracies take too long in your view to confront the powers of these algorithms and and big tech companies? >> Possibly. I mean um you know countries vary. The uh Europeans have regulated uh social media more than um than the United States has. uh Brazil has been

has been more inter interventionist certainly the Supreme Court has been than than the United States. So not all countries are alike. I think the United States was was was too slow. Um and uh and obviously the United States is kind of a is continues to be a model for at least for the the Western Hemisphere. So it yeah it's had consequences that that said this has moved very very fast right the technologies it's it's democracies always move somewhat slow um that that that's kind of built into to democracy democracies require going through certain processes uh building consensus and um democracies are really not equipped to to respond overnight to crisis and um you know algor algorithms didn't emerge overnight and I agree with your point that that the at least in the United States we were too slow but this has changed very it's been a very rapid technological change I think it would have been a challenge even for the most um it would have it would be a challenge for any democracy even one that was really running to keep up it is still possible to regulate Dan and uh without unduly restricting freedom of speech and also internationally because uh well regulations are by any means national but we know that big taxs operate internationally and with similarities from country to country.

>> Yeah, it's certainly possible to to to regulate. I think the longer you wait the harder it is. Uh the problem in the United States is one we've allowed uh big tech firms to accumulate enormous enormous wealth and power which gives them leverage over the political system that makes reform harder. Um, and second of all, both politicians and citizens have gotten used to an unregulated environment. And so, uh, it's harder to take something away from them than to regulate it, uh, beforehand. And so, the

more time passes, the more that this unregulated uh, system uh, exists and entrenches itself, the harder it is to regulate. And professor, you mentioned this populist wave in the world and we had other populists periods in time like in the early the 22nd the the last sec the last century and do you see an end for this this trend like thinking in long term do you see no way like democracy can go back and deal with that in a more broader way? >> I I find it very difficult to peer very far into the future. There there are some things that are not going to change. I think um what I call political establishments, traditional political parties, traditional media, uh traditional interest groups, business, labor, I don't think, um they're ever going to have the power uh over politicians, the influence over politicians that they had in the 20th century. I think um elites

as we know them are pretty dramatically weakened. um by social media technology by by um basically by the internet and it's hard for me to see that going back. So in that in that sense I think we've entered a a kind of a permanent populist era. Uh that that's both good and bad. That that's a more democratic era, but it's also more unstable. Uh we're we're in a

world where you know almost anybody with the right um social media strategy can get elected president and that's both again it's democratizing but it's it's it's dangerous as well. Now, whether whether electorates will get tired of being governed by um kind of crazy uh angry amateurs, whether we'll get tired of being governed by Trump and Malay or Desperella um or Bosado, I think it's unclear. That's the key question. Um there is some reason to think well you know if these guys govern badly, if they fail to deliver on their promises of making things better then maybe societies will return to um to electing more more experienced more capable people. Um but we haven't yet seen much evidence of that and it it will depend in part on how these guys fare. Bossanado governed badly, Trump

governed badly, MLE has had mixed success, Boule has had enormous success. So you know that to the extent that these guys are perceived as succeeding that will prolong this populist era. If if in five years it looks like Despella was a disaster, Mle was a disaster, Trump was a disaster um then maybe maybe uh electorates will move back in a in uh in a more traditional direction. But um so far I don't see any evidence that this populist era is is slowing down. >> Professor, I want you to go back to the US elections this year, the midterms.

Uh, how do you see the possibilities of Trump trying to change the rules to get more votes in some states? And also, how do you see the way the opposition, the Democrats are acting in this moment to try to go back to the game in the American politics? >> Go back to the game. >> Yes. It's like because because Trump had a great win in 2024 and I think Democrats Democratic is trying to get the speech yet get the way to to go to the elections with a better message.

This time the Democrat party we should we should remember that in democracies political parties lose elections. It was the Democrat. What the Democrats did in 2024, which was lose the presidential election by 1.5 percentage points, is a completely normal thing to do. They they simply lost. Um

there Trump has already tried uh seriously to manipulate the results of the election. his gerrymandering scheme means that probably the Republicans will steal about 10 seats. They'll have 10 seats that they wouldn't have had had they not reshuffleled these these districts. It is possible already with the with the rules in place that the Democrats will win the popular vote for the House of Representatives and yet the Republicans will win control of the House. Um, Trump has also made a serious effort to pass legislation that would make it much more difficult to register and vote. That looks like it's going to

fail in the Senate. So, it won't it won't actually pass. And there is fear of a number of other manipul uh acts of manipulation. Maybe mobilizing ICE and security forces to uh to harass or intimidate voters. uh maybe uh declare some kind of emergency and and and steal or or have the federal government seize ballot boxes. Um those

things don't seem terribly likely that um this is not a very um this is a pretty inept government and most of the things that they try to do they don't do very well. They don't plan very well. They don't think things out and when they start to implement their their plans they they often fail miserably. The Iran war is a great example of that. Uh this government has not shown me the capacity because you know fraud election fraud is hard to do in a big country like the United States and they haven't shown me the capacity to do it. So, if I had to

predict, I don't think uh there there may be some uh kind of haphazard efforts to manipulate the elections, but um again, election manipulation is really hard, and my guess is they probably won't succeed. So, I think there's a good chance that the opposition Democrats will win the election. Um but the Democrats have have a number of of challenges. They rep they're a very very diverse very heterogeneous party. The Democrats have absorbed the the sort of traditional center right that uh supported Reagan and supported Mitt Romney in the past but now is anti-Trump and they range all the way from a traditional free market center right to democratic socialist factions that are emerging in some cities. So it's a very

very broad party a very big uh it's like it's one big uh mbe uh super diverse and um the other problem which also faces the PT is that the center left in the in the in the world lacks any kind of a program. It lacks a project. Um it lacks any kind of a um a message that really inspires voters. This is a global problem for the center left. um one that eventually I think they will overcome. But right now,

the only political force that really inspires people, that gets people out of bed at 7 in the morning on a Saturday to work for the party, the only political force that inspires is the far right. And I think that's true in Brazil. I think it's true in the United States. It's true in most of Europe. And that's a challenge for the Democratic party.

They basically represent a defense of the status quo. And um people are angry with the status quo. People don't want the status quo. And that is that continues to be a challenge for the Democrats as it as it is a challenge for the PT in Brazil. >> And how the center left became so so identified with this status quo around the world.

>> I I think it has to do with um with liberalism's victory in in the cold war. Um I I think there was a a a decade or 15 years in which basic liberalism which encompasses everything from European social democracy to to you know centerright parties like the maybe the passage of the Bay and Brazil um their their project was unchallenged whether it was uh you know Tony Blair or Bill Clinton uh you had kind of a convergence of center left and center right over a a broadly liberal model um that was that was unchallenged and um it that that model achieved uh a number of objective successes. Uh we became more prosperous than ever before in history. There was also a significant expansion of rights uh and and an erosion of traditional hierarchies whether it was advances for ethnic minorities uh or LGBTQ groups or women. Um these advances were embraced basically by there was uh by by again liberal groups from the center left to the center right. Um

and so that success of the last 30 years I think um undermined innovation. it uh and they basically became the forces in power and uh the the the new right, the illiberal right became the outsiders, became the the the the party, the the political forces that uh that had to promise dramatic change. And again when we particularly in the last five or six years when uh COVID and economic slowdown in crime led to discontent in Latin America and when COVID and large-scale migration led to discontent among about onethird of voters in Europe and the United States, the the far right was the was the party that was in in a position to appeal to that discontent. They are the party of um of disruption and radical change the way that the the new left was in the late 1960s. Okay. Professor, uh since the

publication of your bestseller book with professor deblat, how democracies die seven years ago, do you believe the situation of liberal democracies around the world has improved or worsened? And and what's the forecast now for the future? Again, you're asking me to predict the future, and I I can't I can't do that very well. Look, in the United States, it's gotten worse. Uh it's gotten considerably worse. This the

second Trump administration has been much much more damaging to democracy and to and to the frankly the liberal international order than um than than the first one. I when we wrote how democracies die, we could not imagine the authoritarian destruction that that Trump is engaging in right now in the United States. So in the United States, things are much worse. Globally, things are about the same. Uh there is a lot of talk in the media and among observers, and I recognize I'm I I hold a minority position here. Um but people talk over

and over and over and over and over again about the threats to democracy and how authoritarianism is spreading. And if you actually look at the numbers, if you actually look at the number of democracies in the world, it's been a flat line. There are more democracies in the world today than there were in in the year 2000. There are um uh you know maybe three or four fewer than there were a decade ago despite all the crises and all the challenges that we've been talking about. Um Hungary is more democratic today than it was when we wrote how democracies die. Poland is

more democratic today than when we wrote how democracies die. Honduras and and Ecuador and Bolivia if you're interested and Guatemala are more democratic today than we wrote when we wrote how democracies died. So India is worse. Um there are a few countries that have backslid but there are other countries that um that have uh sort of reverse backsliding in order better place than they were a decade ago. and several important countries and I would put South Korea and Brazil in this category have at least so far managed to survive major threats. So stepping back and looking at

democracy in the world, I think it's it's fair to say that democ despite a number of really important challenges, the growth of China, the aggressiveness of Russia, um difficult economic circumstances, the the changing technologies and uh social media and AI and the maybe most importantly the Trump administration, COVID, all of these challenges, the fact that the um that the number of democracies in the world is more or less the same as it was 10-15 years ago is a pretty good sign. It's a sign of resilience. Um but these all these threats remain real. Trump, Putin, China, social media, AI, crime in Latin America, the these are all real stressors. And so um I don't want to predict a decline in democracy but I think it it's still going to be a very very challenging period.

>> Just to concluding our conversation one last question. Are you working on a new book nowadays and are any other topic that you are working more and studying more at these times? Yes, I'm I'm working on two books that are related to what we've talked about today. Um with Daniel Ziblad and Lucen Wei, we're writing a book uh called The Great Abdication, which is about the um surrender of American democracy in the second Trump administration. uh we have an entire chapter that contrasts what happened in the United States to events in Brazil and South Korea, countries that we think uh handled threats to democracy better. So

I'm writing a book about the um the current breakdown of of US democracy. Uh and the other book which is so that that's a pretty pessimistic book. The other book uh is is about global democracy and about the resilience of global democracy and um reflects the relative optimism that we have about where things stand in the rest of the world. If you look at Europe, if you look at East Asia, if you look at Africa, even Latin America, um there are all kinds of problems. The levels of discontent are very high as we've talked about. We see populists getting elected,

but democracy hasn't died in Chile. It hasn't died in Colombia. It hasn't died in Argentina. Um it it's surviving. And so the the second book is about the why globally democracy seems to be um surprisingly resilient.

>> Professor, thank you very much for your time today for this really great conversation with us here in Examine. Have a good day there. [snorts] >> Thanks very much. >> Thank you, professor. Foreign