---
video_title: "Wonderful words you should start using"
video_id: OKZ8aQk3zTY
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OKZ8aQk3zTY
video_date: 2023-12-09
video_description: |
  Enjoy these weird and wonderful words from me and Susie Dent! And remember that the first 500 people to use my link will receive a one month free trial of Skillshare: https://skl.sh/robwords12231
  
  For this video exploring the most wonderful rare words in English I am joined by my hero, Susie Dent! She's the star of Dictionary Corner on British TV show Countdown and the UK's undisputed Queen of Words. In this video she gives us her top 5 wonderful words... and I give mine!
  
  📚SUSIE'S LOVELY BOOKS📚
  Roots of Happiness: https://a.co/d/3ZMw4On
  Interesting Stories About Curious Words: https://a.co/d/0tqu4qY
  
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: http://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  🇩🇪UNTRANSLATABLE GERMAN: https://youtu.be/YUVtkWfzWCs?si=XfLghqhk8a8Dr2st
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  http://x.com/robwordsYT
  http://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  Edited with Gling AI: https://bit.ly/46bGeYv
  
  #etymology #english #SusieDent
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
  0:27 Susie Dent
  1:00 CONFELICITY
  3:00 SCURRYFUNGE
  3:41 ULTRACREPIDARIAN
  5:04 Skillshare
  6:16 RESPAIR
  7:02 THUNDERPLUMP
  7:39 BUBBER
  9:31 CACAFUEGO
  10:30 NIMGIMMER
  12:08 PHILOBRUTISH
  13:09 TWITTERPATED
---
I’m really excited about this one. Have you ever felt twitterpated? Have you ever scurryfunged, been thunderplumped or fallen victim to a bubber? Not sure? Well you’re about to find out As I with the help of one of my absolute heroes… Susie: I can see my book in the background Rob: You can!

…talks you through ten weird words that you should start using today. Welcome to another RobWords. Okay, why am I so excited? Because this video features Susie Dent. All British word nerds will already know who she is.

Jimmy Carr: It’s Susie Dent! Rob: She is the Queen of TV word game Countdown and the nation’s empress of etymology. And now she’s here to bring us her top five weird and wonderful words from the English language. I’m going to bring five along to the party too and I’ve been trying really hard to find ones that I don’t think Susie will know. We’ll see Her five are up first.

What have you got for us Susie? It’s such a positive word. It’s never been in the OED but it’s been in some rare glossaries. And t's confelicity. And confelicity is joy in other people's happiness.

There's a Hebrew word, firgun, which is a little bit like it. It's real altruism. So there's no ego, there's no agenda. It's just I am so happy because you're happy. And it's just such a beautiful word.

It is, isn’t it? Con, meaning “with” and felicity from the Latin for happy, fēix. It’s shared happiness. It's not quite the opposite of Schadenfreude but we all know that word from German, obviously, but we don't know this one. You might have also heard the word Freudenfreude - which isn’t actually a German word at all. It was made up in a New York Times article.

But it was done so to express a similar idea to confelicity. It’s pleasure in someone else’s pleasure. German also has Fremdscham, doesn't it? Which is great, which you can't quite translate. Sort of stranger... It's not quite shame… It's kind of cringe, isn't it?

Yeah, that's how you'd say it, right? It’s when you feel someone else's embarrassment. Yes. But also there's an edge of, thank God it wasn't me in there. And actually, I have to while we're talking German, you told me before we started recording that you took your computer to a computer store and it just wouldn't work at home. And then you took it in and it worked perfectly.

It’s true. I looked like an IDIOT. And I said to you, there is a word just for this in German, which is Vorführeffekt and Vorführeffekt... So it's “demonstration effect” essentially.

And this is when, exactly what happens is, you know, your washing machine is broken down, technician comes, it works perfectly. Or if you take your child to the doctors with a hacking cough and the moment they go into the surgery, it just disappears. So I love that Vorführeffekt. A bonus one from Susie there. I should have included that in my recent video about untranslatable German, shouldn’t I?

Anyway, what’s Susie’s second wonderful English word? This is an Americanism and I tweet this one every Christmas. It's scurryfunging. You know about scurryfunging? I do not. It sounds marvellous.

To scurryfunge is to madly dash about the house, trying to tidy up because guests are about to arrive, which is great. We scurry and we funge. We’ve all done it right? And we shouldn’t feel guilty about it either, because people have been scurryfunging in one way or another since at least the 1700s. The specific usage we’re talking about is recorded as a US dialect term described as “A hasty tidying of the house between the time you see a neighbor coming and the time she knocks on the door.“

I love that one. Number three, I think you will be familiar with… ultracrepidarian? No, I don't know it. Okay. So this one is born in a story involving the Greek painter Apelles, who used to apparently eavesdrop on people coming to see his works and listen to what they were saying.

And he overheard one cobbler criticise the way that he portrayed a sandal in this one particular painting, buthe thought, well, fair enough, he's a cobbler. And then the cobblers started to complain about the shape of the leg and the thigh, at which point Apelles had had enough and the story became very well known and it was rendered in Latin as, ne ultra crepidam, not beyond the sandal. In other words, stick to what you know. And so an ultracrepidarian is someone who loves to hold forth on subjects they know absolutely nothing about. So I think we all know some of those.

I think I might be one. The first recorded usage of ultracrepidarian is in a set of essays by a writer and painter called William Hazlitt. In his 1822 collection “Table-talk” he has a go at all kinds of people, but shows particular disdain for grammar pedants - “mere word-catchers” as he calls them. He adds that “the title of Ultra-Crepidarian critics has been given to a variety of this species.” Love it. It’s great to broaden our vocabulary like this. It’s

a wonderful way of just generally upping our game. Another way is to sign up to this video’s sponsor, Skillshare. I, for example, have been using it to learn how to make my newsletter better. Skillshare has thousands of engaging classes taught by world-class creatives, who can help make 2024 the year that your side hustle really comes to life. Whether you fancy starting your own newsletter, you want to get good at graphic design, you want use AI to increase your productivity or maybe you want to start your first Etsy shop, Skillshare has what you need to turn passion into paycheck.

I for example got a great deal out of the classes from artist and newsletter guru Marlee Grace all about how to write something that’s actually worth reading. She is wonderfully engaging and talks through every single step right up until hitting send for the first time. Now, the first 500 people to use my link below will get a 1 month free trial of Skillshare and just think how much you can learn so much in a month. Loads. It’s free knowledge - so, you know, just give it a go.

Now, if you enjoyed my last video, you’ll like this next one. What have you got for us, Susie? I talk about the lost positives and the lost counterparts to a lot of the negative words that we use, like uncouth and unwieldy and gormless and ruthless, et cetera. And very often their positive parents are in the historical dictionary. But there's another one that has one record in the OED, and that is respair. And respair is fresh

hope and a recovery from despair, which is just beautiful. And it's there as a noun and a verb. That's lovely. Respair. A word we need!

It's a word we need. And every New Year's Eve, I think this is the year, this is going to be the year for respair and I don't think it's quite arrived, sadly. Sad. But perhaps we can respair a little, with the help of Susie’s fifth wonderful word. It’s a belter.

Okay. I'm going to go with a thunder plump. And a thunderplump, I've made it into a verb, but strictly speaking, it's only an English dialect dictionary as a noun and a thunderplump is a sudden heavy downpour that soaks you to the skin in seconds. But I like to say I've been thunderplumped. I've definitely been thunderplumped once or twice already this Berlin autumn.

Oh, I can imagine. Thunderplump! I think that’s probably the most satisfying of all of Susie’s words. Certainly to say, anyway. All right, it’s my turn now.

And I went pretty bloomin’ deep looking for words that I thought Susie wouldn’t know. So let’s see if any of them land. Have you ever heard the word bubber? Susie: Oh… No Yesss I’ll read you one of the definitions of it from a dictionary that was written in 1669. You know, one of these ones, there seem to be all these books that just list silly terms from around that period.

And this one says, "a bubber goes to the ale house and steals there the plate". So, a parasite, really? It's more specific than that. It's someone who goes to pubs and steals tableware. Oh, so seriously does that? So it's not just like they'd steal people's food,

they literally steal the plate? They literally steal the plate, yeah, exactly. It also means a drunkard but the more specific usage is that. There are a lot… I’m going to look it up on the OED, which is what I spend my life on now. Yes, you're absolutely right.

A person who steals tableware from a public house, also a heavy drinker, also occasionally a drinking bowl. That's amazing. I love that. That's a little bit like tosspot, isn't it? So the first toss pot was somebody who was a heavy drinker and would literally toss back their pot of beer and ask for another one, so it had a very specific sense originally.

This started us on something of a role when it came to old terms for pub habits. I love these. So there's a great word, shot clog. I don't know if you know shot clog. No I don’t.

Okay, so a shot clog is the person who you only tolerate in the pub because they're buying the next round, which is brilliant. I looked this one up. The idea is that someone would merely be a clog at the bar, but for the fact that they’re paying the “shot” - that’s the bill. And there's also a snecklifter, and a snecklifter is somebody who opens the latch of the pub, peers in and looks to see if there's somebody who will buy them a drink. I remember having a beer called a Snecklifter.

There is, absolutely. There we go. I don't think there is a beer called Toss Pot, however, but there should be. Okay, so I got her with bubber. Let’s see if I can go two for two.

Do you know cacafuego? Susie: Yes. Damn! So this is a fire sh**ter, really, isn't it? It's a bit horrible.

I was going to say shiter, but… Shiter, sorry. …notoriously foul-mouthed Susie Dent says “sh**ter”. Oh, well, of course. I do know that one and I know about the ship, the Cacafuego, and how it was just all mouth and no trousers, really. But it's a brilliant one. So it's a blustering bragger, isn't it,

essentially a cacafuego? But it's just so evocative. The Cacafuego was the nickname given to a grand Spanish galleon that was all-too-easily seized by the English explorer and privateer Sir Francis Drake during his trip around the world, despite its supposedly formidable armaments. But the name does literally mean poo-fire. And I think the ship, in turn, is named after a Spanish insect that was said to fire flames out of its tail.

Amazing. Yeah. No, it's fantastic. It's a great word. Right, onto our next weirdly wonderful word.

Are you aware of what a nimgimmer is? Susie: Ooh. Err… I know… is this… Yes, I've definitely heard it. Is it from criminal slang? Well, almost certainly. I don't think it's being used politely. It's a medical professional,

a doctor, a physician or an apothecary, or as one definition puts it, or anyone that cures a clap or the pox. Oh, lovely. Pox doctor. They had all sorts of horrible names for doctors in the 17th century, I discovered. Indeed they did. Others include leechman, pisspot, pill-monger and clyster-pipe.

A clyster being a medicament that is administered… twixt the buttocks. Up the bum. They also have loads of names for the pox or syphilis or whatever that blamed other countries. So we called it morbus gallus, the French disease, and the French called it neapolitan bone-ache, blaming it on Naples. So everyone just said, It's not ours.

There's definitely a whole video to be done on the phrases for things that we blame on other nations. We tend to pick on the Dutch and the French and occasionally the Irish, don't we in English? Depends on who we're up against at the time. Okay, mine have all been a little bit negative so far. So in the spirit of Susie’s lovely new book about the happy words we should be trying to use - She hasn’t asked me to plug that, by the way.

I’m plugging it because I read it and I like it - I thought I’d try to be a bit more positive with my fourth pick. Here we go. One that's quite nice is and it's only ever been used once, so far as I could tell. Oh, okay. I probably won't know it then.

But I bet you'd be able to work it out. It's philobrutish. So a love of nasty people? Yeah, it's one step further back on the word sort of brute. Okay.

Because it’s a love of animals. Aw! Okay, I'm going to look this up in the OED now. Yeah, please do. I think it's in there, but I think it's hyphenated.

I'm sure it will be. Oh no, but that still counts. Does that still count? Yeah, you're right. Characterised… Oh isn’t that lovely... Characterised by kindness to animals.

But it sounds like absolutely not, doesn't it? Exactly. It sounds like completely the opposite of what it is, which I think is quite a pleasant phenomenon in itself, to hear something sort of aggressive sounding that's actually...

So, brutish: of or pertaining to the brute or lower animals as opposed to man. So it is slightly predicated on the fact that we see ourselves as being entirely superior, which I'm not that fond of. But kindness to animals is incredibly important, so I'm all for that one. Delightful. Time for a fifth from me. And it’s also sort of animal-related.

I've got one last one. OK. I think a lot of people might know it, but I didn't. Twitterpated. Susie: Oh, I love that. I think they use that in Bambi.

I think that's where it comes from. I’m right. This is one of those rare occasions where a word’s first recorded usage is by an owl. It’s from a lovely scene where the owl explains why so many of the animals seem to be full of the joys of spring. Why are they acting that way?

Why, don’t you know? They’re twitterpated. Twitterpated? Twitterpated is kind-of “loved up” or “besotted”. It’s just like, you’re just all… and you're kind of quite infatuated a little bit in love, maybe a bit befuddled. It's lovely. It's gorgeous.

It's love struck. Yeah Yeah, it's really charming. There is also bewitted, which is lovely, which I use all the time. So if you are betwitted, you were overcome by pleasing excitement. So that's a lovely one, too.

And I also found in your book, Twitterlight, as an alternative to twilight. Yeah. It's gorgeous. So, yes, maybe it's a good thing that Twitter is now X, because we can have fun with the Twitter words again We can be Xpated. Oh, no, definitely not. That sounds like X-rated and it just…

Yeah, I didn't like it the second it came out of my mouth. Sorry. But, yeah, Twitterpated is lovely. So there we have it. 10 glorious new and unusual words that we can all start using today.

Susie did not disappoint. Thank you very much, Susie Dent. Thank you Rob. Indeed we actually had quite a long chat and I’m going to be popping some more snippets of it on my brand new Patreon, so please do go over and check that out. There’s a link below.

And I’ll also leave a couple of links to Susie’s brand new books which would both make fabulous Christmas presents. I’ve read them both. They’re really great. Watch one of these videos next, I guess, and I’ll see you there. I am the snottiest YouTuber.