---
video_title: "The mysterious case of the \"lost positive\""
video_id: a7TfjCIbtng
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a7TfjCIbtng
video_date: 2023-11-25
video_description: |
  Welcome to the world of the LOST POSITIVE. Lost positives are the extinct words that only remain in our language in their negative form. Could you ever be ruthful, feckful or gormful, just as you can be ruthless, feckless and gormless today? Is "chalant" the opposite of nonchalant? If you're not disgruntled are you "gruntled"? Find out as I explore a wide range of lost positives (and a handful of imposters).
  
  ⭐️PATREON: https://www.patreon.com/RobWords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: 
  https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  📚SUSIE DENT'S LOVELY BOOKS📚
  Roots of Happiness: https://a.co/d/3ZMw4On
  Interesting Stories About Curious Words: https://a.co/d/0tqu4qY
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  http://twitter.com/robwordsYT
  http://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  Edited with Gling AI: https://bit.ly/46bGeYv
  #english #etymology #language 
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 What are lost positives?
  0:59 INNOCENT / NOCENT
  1:30 Susie Dent!!
  2:58 RUTHLESS / RUTHFUL
  3:38 FECKFUL / FECKLESS
  4:46 GORMLESS / GORMFUL
  5:49 WHELMED
  6:38 INFLAMMABLE / FLAMMABLE
  7:11 DISGRUNTLED / GRUNTLED
  8:50 NONCHALANT / CHALANT
  10:30 UNKEMPT / KEMPT
  11:44 UNCOUTH / COUTH
  12:58 UNRULY / RULY
  13:20 INEPT / EPT
  14:36 INCESSANT / CESSANT
  14:53 INEVITABLE / EVITABLE
  15:12 UNWIELDY / WIELDY
  15:32 INDEFATIGABLE / DEFATIGABLE
---
You know you can be gormless but how about gormful? And if you’re far from being ruthless are you therefore ruthful? Can your nonchalance turn chalant and your unkempt hair turn kempt? Keep watching to find out as I welcome you to the unruly world of lost positives. Time for another RobWords.

So just quickly… what is a lost positive? Well it’s the positive form of a word that only seems to exist nowadays in its negative form. These are sometimes rather grimly called “orphaned negatives”. You’ll pick it up as we go along. In this video I’m going to run you through many of the most surprising lost positives - hopefully leaving you feeling at the very least “whelmed”.

I’ll also give you a heads-up on some lost positive imposters. The words that never were. So, here we go. I’m going to start with the one I’ve just been dying to tell you about since I came across it. I was just innocently researching this subject when I stumbled upon a lexical bombshell.

Not only can something be innocent, but once upon a time, it could also be “nocent”. Don’t believe me? Check out this quote from the 17th century, describing a rival’s tendency “To Kil al that came in their way without discriminating nocents from Innocents.” Now there are those who’ll argue that nocent shouldn’t be on a list of lost positives Including one of the masters of the genre. That’s a lost negative.

That’s Susie Dent. Yes, THE Susie Dent. The Countdown queen and Britain’s leading word nerd. I don’t think she’ll mind me calling her that. I tried to impress her with this nocent fact the other day and this is her take on it.

That is a lost negative just as maculate is a lost negative, because we have immaculate, meaning without stain, but maculate that also gave us the macular of the eye is all about being stained. So that’s a lost negative. When Susie Dent tells you you’re wrong about a lost positive, you’re wrong about a lost positive. That was actually a clip from a much longer chat I had with her that’s going to be part of my next video. So stick around for that.

She’s also got a couple of gorgeous books out that you should buy. I bought them, they’re an absolute joy. Anyway, nocent may not be a lost positive insofar that to be nocent is actually negative but I still think it was worth a mention because it’s satisfying, right? But its usage has, you know, died a death over the past few centuries. The word “guilty”, which has been in English since the very start, has ultimately won the day.

Meanwhile, innocent has all but seen off its Germanic counterpart, unguilty. We can only guess at why. Perhaps because innocent just sounds more innocent. To me, it certainly sounds less ruthless. But could we therefore describe it as ruthful?

Can anything, indeed, be ruthful? Well, you bet it can. Ruth is a lovely old word, meaning compassion or empathy. If someone is full of ruth, they have a sensitivity for the misery of others. The fact that one of the most famous judges in US history was called Ruth is either highly ironic or highly appropriate, depending on your point of view.

While someone who is ruthless is merciless, someone who is ruthful is merciful. So that’s the truth about ruth. But what the heck is going on with feck? I’m going to have to be careful with this one, aren’t I? Today we have the word feckless.

Someone who is feckless is sort of useless. They lack energy, they lack wit. They lack… feck. As amusing as that will sound to those of us who are more used to another use of that word - particularly our friends across the Irish Sea… Mrs Doyle: “He loves his cup of tea.” Father Jack: “Feck off!”

…“feck” has a long history in English as a noun meaning effectiveness. Indeed, feck is a variant of the word “effect”. By extension, you could totally reasonably say that someone who is “feckless” is lacking in effectiveness, in efficacy, in capability. But if the opposite were true, you could absolutely describe that person or their actions as feckful. I.e.

effective. Here it is in use in 1568 in a sentence that isn’t at all hilarious. “I culd nocht cum..without sum gret and fecfull purpois.”

The feckless may well be joined in their den of ineptitude by the gormless. The Oxford English Dictionary describes the gormless who walk among us as “Wanting sense, or discernment”. A gormless individual is not the sharpest crayon in the box. So can one be gormful just as one can be gormless? Well no.

I mean, I can’t find any examples of the word gormful actually being used. But while gormful isn’t a word - beyond certain ironic modern usage - you absolutely can be full of gorm. Gorm is a glorious old Viking word - we get it from Old Norse. In Middle English, one could “take gorm” or “nimen gorm” - a use of a sadly obsolete Old English verb also meaning “take”, like German nehmen. To take or nimen gorm was to pay heed to something or to take notice of it.

Gorm, however it was spelt, was attentiveness. More genuine lost positives still to come. I just want to flag up some words that seem like they should qualify, but actually don’t. First up is whelmed. So, you can be overwhelmed and you can be underwhelmed.

But the word whelmed doesn’t exist as a counterpoint to either of these. To “whelm” something is to overturn it or capsize it, you know, like a boat meaning that whelmed actually means the same as overwhelmed. The over is merely an intensifier of the word’s pared-down sense. And the word underwhelmed is a very, very recent invention coined to provide an antidote to the modern, less literal meaning of overwhelmed, i.e. overcome or overpowered.

Another word that deserves a mention despite being ineligible for lost positive status is inflammable. Knock the in- off inflammable and you get a word with exactly the same meaning. Both inflammable and flammable mean “can be set on fire”. Flammable is actually a much more recent invention, and serves to avoid any potentially life-endagering ambiguity created by that distinctly negative-looking “in-”. Inflammable though, actually comes from “to inflame”.

And lastly, before we get back to the real business of rediscovering lost positives, I want to bring to your attention the word “gruntled”. This word doesn’t need to exist. The dis- at the start of disgruntled is not there to negate anyone’s gruntlement That’s definitely not a word. This is a rare use of dis- as an intensifier. We see it in the word dis-tribute, for example, which is to give out widely.

Dis-gruntle means to grunt a lot. However, if you look in some dictionaries you will find “gruntled” listed as the opposite of “disgruntled”. Why? Well it’s all thanks to one of my absolute favourite authors: P.G.Wodehouse.

In one of his many witty tales of English high society, he writes “I could see that, if not actually disgruntled, he was far from being gruntled.” That particular use of a lost positive - albeit invented - for comic effect, is by no means an isolated incident, actually. Here’s an extract from a highly feckful article in a 1994 edition of The New Yorker that was crammed full of flipped negatives. “It had been a rough day, so when I walked into the party I was very chalant, despite my efforts to appear gruntled and consolate. I was furling my wieldy umbrella for the coat check when I saw her standing alone in a corner.

She was a descript person, a woman in a state of total array.“ Jack Winter’s whimsical writing gives us some food for thought, doesn’t. Let’s take one or two of his examples and run with them. How about that first one? If one can be nonchalant, can one be chalant?

Well, yeah, sort of. So, if you know a bit of French, you might be aware that chaleur in French is heat. A good way of thinking of nonchalant is to think of someone lacking heat, lacking energy, lacking vigour. So delete the non- and you get someone who is riled-up, who is fit to bursting with vim. Or at least you would, if chalant ever existed in English.

Indeed, I can’t find any evidence of its existence in French either. However, I did find in the Oxford English Dictionary, the word calent, which gained some usage in the 17th century. And it meant warm or hot. Now, that isn’t the word from which nonchalant derived, but it shares its ultimate Latin root: the classical Latin calēns, which means “being hot”. I’m not very good at winking.

Now at around this point in a video I’ll usually take a moment to seemlessly slip in a mention of the video’s sponsor… but not today! So you can take your finger off the skip forward button. But just allow to mention that if you appreciate what I do on this channel and in my totally free newsletter - link below - then please, just consider signing up to my patreon. Patreon dot com slash RobWords. It’ll mean that I can continue taking time off my real adult job to make these things.

Now, the danger with nonchalance is that if you take it too far, you can become laid back to the point of scruffiness. You can become… unkempt. So if it’s possible to be unkempt, is it possible to be kempt? Well yes, it totally is. It simply means well-groomed.

Kempt is actually a word that’s undergone something of a resurgence over the past century or so. However, its history goes way back. The Anglo Saxons were using the word cemban to mean to disentangle. Usually hair, body hair, horse hair as well. In the Middle English period the word had started to look more familiar.

Check it out in this rather judgy quote from the 14th century: “If a man haue a kempt hed þanne he is a leccherous man.” I’m not sure that particular pearl of wisdom has stood the test of time. Anyway you can trace a line from that Old English word camden through to kempt and unkempt today. But you can also follow it along another path that still brings us to the present day. Kempt is etymologically-speaking the same as the word combed.

That’s a satisfying one, isn’t it? If you were to match the dishevelled look of the unkempt with a somewhat disordered demeanour, you could be faced with someone who is out and out uncouth. Uncouth is mostly used these days to mean lacking in manners or refinement. So can you be couth? Well I think you’ve been watching this video for long enough already to know how this goes.

Indeed you can be couth. Or at least, you could. There’s little evidence of the word being used beyond the 17th century. But before that, it enjoyed hundreds of years of usage. This is the earliest recorded form, from Old English.

But you have to take a few steps before you get from the meaning of that word to what couth would mean if we were to use it today. If something was “couth”, it was well-known or familiar. That meaning developed into something more like “customary”. And then from that, “uncouth” came to mean something that was not customary, something that was unconventional, something that was “not the done thing”. If we were to reintroduce couth now, it would best be used to mean well-mannered or polite.

Well-behaved, even. Certainly not “unruly”. Ah ha! We’ve got another one, haven’t we? Well sort of.

Ruly did once exist as a word - as did rulely, but good luck saying that fast. However, any modern usage of ruly, is almost certainly just a back-formation from “unruly”. There’s something just a bit unsatisfying about that. To me that kind of makes it inapt to be in this video. !napt!

Well actually that definitely doesn’t qualify because the word “apt” is still alive and well. But inapt shares its etymological makeup with another word: inept. Both inapt and inept started out life meaning ill-fitting or not appropriate. But inept’s meaning has, you know, morphed into something more like incompetent. So could we ever be ept?

Well look in the dictionary and you might conclude “yes”, but look a little closer and you’ll see that the answer should really be “no”. It’s only ever been used as a deliberate counterpoint to the word inept. This isn’t the very first usage of “ept” but it gives you an idea of what sort of mindset is responsible for this kind of lexical crime. They’ve committed the same one three times here actually, giving inept, inane and inert the same vile treatment. You could say, “innocent until proven nocent, Rob.”

Well I’m having none of it. Inept is inapt for this video. Let’s regain our ruleliness and fire off a handful of more genuine lost positives. First up, cessant. If something is never-ending - it doesn’t cease - it’s incessant.

If it does, it’s cessant. When it was briefly in use in the 17th and 18th centuries, it meant “inactive” or in hiaitus. Next, it was inevitable it would come up at some point: evitable. French speakers will recognise this word as meaning “avoidable” - evitable. And indeed, it once served this purpose in English.

Evitable’s extinction isn’t inevitable, though. Let’s start using it again today. Or perhaps I should say “start wielding it again today”. Because wieldy is our next lost positive. While something that is unwieldy is awkward to handle or control, something that is wieldy lent itself to being effectively wielded.

And if you’re not too tired of these, let me just squeeze in the word “defatigable”. If someone is indefatigable, you just can’t tire them out. And someone who is defatigable is easily wearied. They can be fatigued. You know, I couldn’t find a single other video on YouTube about lost positives, so congratulations on getting to the end of what, so far as I know, is the first one.

If you’ve enjoyed it, I’ve got lots more videos about quirks of the English language here on my channel, so I’ll see you in whatever you choose to watch next. I’m just going to stand here trying to look gormful. What does gormful look like?