---
video_title: "There's a better English alphabet."
video_id: D66LrlotvCA
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D66LrlotvCA
video_date: 2023-12-22
video_description: |
  Enjoy this exploration of the Shavian (𐑖𐑱𐑝𐑾𐑯) alphabet! And play War Thunder for FREE on PC, Xbox and PlayStation. Use my link https://playwt.link/robwords to download the game and get your exclusive bonus: multiple Premium Vehicles, Premium Account, an exclusive 3D decorator for your vehicles and much more. See you on the battlefield!
  
  The Latin alphabet is useless for describing the English language. We're constantly having to use combinations of letters to express single sounds! That's why the Shavian alphabet - or Shaw alphabet - was invented.
  
  It was designed as part of a competition paid for by George Bernard Shaw, via money left in his will. Its 48 characters represent every sound you can think of in the English language. It's more efficient and it's easy on the eye too.
  
  *The Shavian Alphabet*
  *𐑐* Peep - *𐑑* Tot - *𐑒* Kick - *𐑓* Fee - *𐑔* THigh - *𐑕* So - *𐑖* Sure - *𐑗* CHurch - *𐑘* Yea - *𐑙* huNG 
  *𐑚* Bib - *𐑛* Dead - *𐑜* Gag - *𐑝* Vow - *𐑞* THey - *𐑟* Zoo - *𐑠* meaSure - *𐑡* Judge - *𐑢* Woe - *𐑣* Ha-ha
  *𐑤* Loll - *𐑮* Roar - *𐑥* Mime - *𐑯* Nun - *𐑦* If - *𐑰* EAt - *𐑧* Egg - *𐑱* Age - *𐑨* Ash - *𐑲* Ice
  *𐑩* Ado - *𐑳* Up - *𐑪* On - *𐑴* OAk - *𐑫* wOOl - *𐑵* OOze - *𐑬* OUt - *𐑶* OIl - *𐑭* Ah - *𐑷* AWe 
  *𐑸* ARe - *𐑹* OR - *𐑺* AIR - *𐑻* ERR - *𐑼* ARRay - *𐑽* EAR - *𐑾* IAn - *𐑿* YEW
  
  🎓Evan's brilliant website: https://shavian.info/
  🔁 Convert words to Shavian: https://readlex.pythonanywhere.com/converter
  
  ⭐️MY PATREON COMMUNITY: patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: http://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  http://robwords.com
  http://x.com/robwordsYT
  http://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Why our alphabet is bad
  0:57 Introducing Shavian
  1:42 George Bernard Shaw
  2:40 War Thunder part 1
  4:01 The competition
  5:50 Letter names
  6:21 Letter shapes & sounds
  9:29 Is it phonetic?
  11:26 Accents
  12:33 Countries & names
  13:41 It's more efficient
  15:38 Too many letters?
  16:16 Why is it forgotten?
  17:20 How YOU can use it
  18:24 War Thunder part 2
---
This is English. But so is this. And this one This one’s better. And I’m going to show you how to use it. You know one of the reasons why English spelling is such a mess - and it IS a mess - is that we’re using the wrong alphabet.

What’s wrong with the Roman alphabet? Well, there is a clue in the name. It was originally used by the Romans and the Romans were not speaking English. That’s why their alphabet doesn’t have a letter for the th in that, for the ch in chat or the sh in… share. It also has nowhere near enough vowels to represent all of the English vowel sounds.

Now, we’ve done our best over the centuries to try and deal with that by hashing together letters by doubling, tripling or even quadrupling them up in a way that is, to say the least, consistent. So is it time for a change? Is it time for this? This is the Shavian alphabet - an alphabet designed specifically for the English language. Every sound that you can think of in any word that you can think of in English is represented by these 48 letters.

Just a second. Have a look at this book. It’s a copy of the first book ever published using the Shavian alphabet back in 1962. And it even comes with an explanation of how to read and understand the Shavian alphabet. It’s Androcles and the Lion George Bernard Shaw, the Irish playwright and Nobel laureate.

The Shavian alphabet is named after George Bernard Shaw but he did not invent it. Let me explain. You see, George Bernard Shaw thought that the alphabet that we’re currently using was trash. He saw the Alphabet as a tool of his professional craft and thought it was extremely inefficient. So it was kind of a lifelong passion of his to fix it.

That’s Evan Gallagher, who runs shavian.info, and you’d struggle to find anyone alive today who knows more about Shavian than him. He’s going to help us understand how it all works. As a writer, he just wanted to save a lot of time and a lot of money and save ink and paper in printing books and the like, and frequently came back to that argument during his life. Shaw was too busy being one of the preeminent writers of his day to fix the problem himself.

However, he left a vast amount of money in his will to enable someone else to do it. But after Shaw’s death in 1950, things got messy. Stick around to find out. First, to get a bit used to the Shavian alphabet, and how darn efficient it is, keep an eye on the captions in this next bit. Because I just want to introduce you quickly to something I’ve been having a lot of fun with just recently and that’s War Thunder.

It’s a vehicle combat game you can play for free on your PC, Xbox or Playstation, where the makers have paid ridiculously close attention to detail. They’ve recreated the most iconic tanks, planes, helicopters and ships from the past century, right down to their individual components. And you can ride them into battle in a full 4k immersive experience. If you’re a history geek like me - if you’re into your world war 2 or cold war - this is a great game for you. I had a lot of fun flying around in my vintage British fighter plane. All just using my keyboard and mouse, too.

I loved customising the vehicles, the music really sets the scene, the sound effects are just satisfying, and you can tell it’s been lovingly made. Play War Thunder for free on PC, Xbox and PlayStation. Use my link below to download the game and get your exclusive bonus: multiple Premium Vehicles, Premium Account, an exclusive 3D decorator for your vehicles and much more See you on the battlefield. THE WILL So George Bernard Shaw leaves much of his fortune to the sole pursuit of inventing a new English alphabet. What do you think happens next?

Well, exactly what GBS almost certainly knew would happen. The will is contested by a couple of worthy organisations who felt the money really ought to have been in their hands. In the end the dispute was settled out of court and the £100,000 Shaw initially left to the alphabet project was busted down to a rather more modest £8,300. But that was more than enough to run a competition - with a cash prize of half a grand - for someone to design the new alphabet. An alphabet that Bernard Shaw insisted would need to have a minimum of 40 characters to properly represent English.

As you can see here, he quite literally did the math… ss. He also stipulated in the will itself that the alphabet must enable English to be written “without indicating single sounds by groups of letters or by diacritical marks” - so, basically, no accents. In the end, around 500 people entered the competition, which had received shedloads of publicity from the court case. However, the judges weren’t blown away by any of the entries. Inventing an alphabet is hard, it turns out. I should know: I’ve tried.

Yes, all right, should have got rid of C, you can stop telling me now. The prize money ended up being shared between four entrants, but after a bit of refining one of the four alphabets emerged ultimately victorious. This one designed by art graduate Ronald Kingsley Read. A man who could accurately be described as letter-obsessed. This is the Shavian alphabet.

So let’s get to know these characters better. Well all good introductions begin with a name, and each letter in Shavian is named using an existing English word that contains the sound the letter represents. Some of the names are kind of cute, like peep for the /p/ sound and ha-ha for /h/ . Others are less adorable, like gag and ooze. And some are just a bit strange.

I mean, what’s Ian doing there? Who invited Ian? Anyway, those are the names… but what about the shapes? The Shavian Alphabet was designed at a time when handwriting was still, I guess, the dominant way that most people in everyday life used the Alphabet. And each letter was designed to be written with a single stroke of the pen, so it was quite efficient.

Great! So noo dots or crossbars. None of these letters requires you to take your pen off the page. You can see that one or two of them look a little like their Latin equivalent. The /s/ looks like an S. The /z/ isn’t a million miles from a Z. The g is

somewhat G-like and the oh in words like oak has the distinct ring of an O about it. But it’s best not to rely too heavily on that idea. What here is a dead-ringer for a C is actually the /l/ sound, and this very V-like fellow actually means oo. [Future Rob] Sorry to butt in Rob, but it’s actually more like an /uh/ sound. Still isn’t a V though.

But anyway, mostly these letters look nothing like the Latin alphabet. That’s because their shapes follow a logic that our existing alphabet does not. Their shapes are based on their sounds. You see all these tall letters? All but two of them represent what are called “voiceless consonants”.

These are the consonant sounds you make without using your vocal chords. Sounds like /p/, /t/ and /ss/, which you make just using your breath and your lips. Go on, try it. Puh, tuh, ss. Puh, tuh, ss You see! Not using your vocal chords.

On the other hand, most of the deep letters represent the consonants where you do use your vocal chords: like /b/, /d/ and /z/. Can you hear it?

Your turn again… You’ll notice that a lot of the deep letters are just the tall letters rotated through 180 degrees. And that’s because /b/ and /p/, for example, are similar to each other, just one of them is voiced. The same goes for /d/ and /t/, and others there too. The remaining four tall and deep letters - yea, hung, woe and ha-ha - are just designed that way for convenience. I think it’s to stop them being confused with others, I’m not totally sure.

The others being the so-called short letters, which include what are known as the liquid consonants, as at the start of loll - LOL - and roar, the nasal consonants mm and nn, and the vowel sounds. Have you ever noticed that all our existing vowels are short letters too? So that’s the forty sounds George Bernard Shaw reckoned we needed letters for. So what about the other 8 in Shavian? Well these are all compound characters that incorporate common combinations of sounds like ear and yew.

But there we have it, our new phonetic English alphabet. Except, hold on a second… is it actually phonetic? Evan? It's often described as phonetic, but I think really it's better described as phonemic, which means that it represents, I guess, the common types of sounds across English accents, but doesn't represent the exact sound that each of us say. Right, so this is a little tricky to get your head around. But just let me try to explain.

The Shavian alphabet does not tell you how to say a word, like the international phonetic alphabet does. It tells you which of the sounds in your own personal repository of sounds to apply. Because not everyone speaks English the same way. So, for example, think of how you say the word helicopter. Specifically: how you say the end of that word.

Do you actually pronounce the R? I don’t - I say helicoptuh, as do speakers of British Received Pronunciation, or Australians like Evan. [news reporter] Authorities are investigating the conduct of a peckish pilot who landed his helicopter right next to a Maccas to pick up his takeaway. But speakers of so-called General American English, just as an example, do pronounce the R. Helicopturr.

Can you hear that urr sound, despite my atrocious attempt at an American accent? So if Shavian were a phonetic alphabet, the word helicopter would have to be written differently by a speaker of British Received Pronunciation than by a speaker of General American - like it is in the international phonetic alphabet. But that isn’t the case. That last letter in the Shavian word helicopter - the compound letter array - isn’t telling you what the end of helicopter should sound like. It’s telling you to use whatever sound your accent makes in these situations.

It’s a good system. But one that forces you to become acutely aware of what sounds you are actually making and when. One of the first things people realise when they start learning Shavian is that, hang on, I have an accent because I'm reading what other people are writing and it's not how I say it. So you begin to see English in a different way, and it's quite kind of liberating to see your own language that way. We're used to sort of the cognitive dissonance of reading letters in words that aren't actually pronounced and haven't been pronounced for hundreds of years. And just seeing it written as we speak is quite a novel experience.

So when writing in Shavian, are we just supposed to replicate our own speech on the page? Well, not exactly. There is a standard, but it's not mandatory. No one, obviously, can enforce a standard in Shavian. The standard was established in Androcles and the Lion, which is based on British Received Pronunciation. So it's got those very British vowels.

Today, people tend to spell either according to the way they speak themselves, or they adapt to the standard, or they go somewhere in between. I tend to think of the standard spellings in Shavian as more like a theme on which people can make their own variations. An interesting case is proper nouns, so names for people and places. Writing just a year after unveiling his alphabet to the world, Kingsley Read said, “it is to be hoped that we can agree how to spell our countries.” And he recommended the following. Interesting he opted for Nyoo Zealand, and not Noo.

And by the way, the dot in front of each of those is called a namer dot. It’s Shavian’s replacement for the capitalisation of first letters. Other punctuation is pretty much the same as we use now - although some people drop all or some of the apostrophes. Anyway, those are countries. But on people’s names, Kingsley Read said: “Obviously our own names should be spelt as we wish them spoken. Though no Britisher will spell a British "John"

otherwise than ·𐑡𐑪𐑯 there is no reason why an American "John" should not be ·𐑡𐑭𐑯 he so wishes.” That’s interesting isn’t it? So if we were ever to adopt Shavian, I might suddenly find myself spelling my name Rob differently to other Robs - of Raabs - around the world. How would it work with your name? But why should we adopt Shavian? What’s the point of it? Well it

goes back to George Bernard Shaw’s original aim. It is more efficient. Think about it: this system not only gets rid of the need for multiple letters to make single sounds, but it also eradicates silent letters completely. Shaw once wrote: “I should be able to spell t-h-o-u-g-h with two letters, s-h-o-u-l-d with three, and e-n-o-u-g-h with four: nine letters instead of eighteen: a saving of a hundred percent of my time and my typist’s time and the printer’s time to say nothing of the saving in paper and wear and tear of machinery.” The Shavian alphabet achieves that, and would come as enormous relief to Shaw’s typist, I’m sure.

Another space-saving characteristic of Shavian is that double letters are banned, unless the repeated letter is actually sounded out twice. The double N in unnamed is fine, because you hear two ns. But the double N in the word annoyed is just frankly annoying. Oh, and also, some common words have been reduced to just a single letter, representing the dominant sound in them: namely: the, of, and, to, and for some modern users, for. All of these little savings soon add up.

How much more efficient is it? I've never really done the statistics myself, but I think I've read that it saves at least one in six letters. When you see androcles and the lion on the page, the Shavian Alphabet takes about two thirds of the space of the roman Alphabet. Partly that, I think reflects the streamlined design of the letters, but also it reflects the absence of redundant letters that don't contribute to the sound of the words. Okay, let’s do our own experiment. This is the preamble to the US

constitution in the Latin alphabet. And this is it Shavian. What a timesaver. But do you know what isn’t saving anyone’s time? Having to learn 48 letters instead of the 26 letters that we have to deal with now.

How do you justify that one, Evan? One thing to remember is that the conventional Latin Alphabet actually has 52 letters, because you have capital letters and lowercase letters, which are all very differently shaped from each other. So you could argue that it has fewer letters than the Latin Alphabet, but more efficiently used. What’s more, the way the Shavian letters have been paired up with one another, means you’re having to learn considerably fewer than 48 shapes. Another win for Shavian, I reckon.

So if Shavian really can save English speakers the world over time and money, and also rescue us from the tyranny of English spelling, why 60 years after it was given to us does almost everyone seem to have forgotten about it? As native speakers we spend about six years or more learning to spell with conventional spelling. That's a lot of time invested and people, I think, are reluctant to give that up, and that's probably why it didn't catch on so much. Learning a new Alphabet as well is something like going back to kindergarten, in a way, is quite a big ask for a lot of people. Yeah, and can you imagine all the faff of having to slowly replace every book, every sign written in Latin script with Shavian?

And the cost of it? Shaw’s three million dollars suddenly wouldn’t seem so enormous, would it? What’s more, because Shavian is specifically designed for English, it’s not great for describing other languages. And if we were to stop learning to read the conventional Latin alphabet, we’d also lose the ability to read every other language that uses that alphabet too. So the practical case for Shavian is sort of lacking. But that doesn’t mean it isn’t worth learning and using.

It’s quirky, it’s fun, and… did you know it’s already on your computer? Every character has its own unicode. And if you go to Evan’s website, you can download a Shavian keyboard right now onto your computer or your phone and start typing. Evan developed those himself. The man’s a genius. And if you don’t want to download one,

there’s also one at shavian.info that you can just play around with. There are Shavian fonts you can download - which I did for this video - and if you just fancy seeing what your name or whatever looks like in Shavian, there’s also an online Latin alphabet to Shavian alphabet converter. There's no copyright claims on Shavian. There's no ownership of it. So it's really

free to anyone to use in any way they want to. There are people who use it for journaling, for art, for calligraphy, geeking out on social media with other people who love languages and alphabets. The main thing is just, it's there to have fun with, really. I think. Thanks so much to Evan for all his help with this video. And thanks to War Thunder for sponsoring it.

Play War Thunder for free on PC, Xbox and PlayStation. Use my link below to download the game and get your exclusive bonus, an exclusive 3D decorator for your vehicles and much more. Use my link below and while you’re down there, why not leave a comment? You can leave it in Shavian if you like and I’ll try my best to read it. Next, why not watch my own attempt at trying to improve the alphabet next, or this video instead, and I’ll see you over there.

Take care, my friend.