---
video_title: "What dinosaur names literally mean"
video_id: 7FOamlJf-28
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7FOamlJf-28
video_date: 2023-10-21
video_description: |
  Let's explore the stories behind the names of the world's favourite dinosaurs. 
  🦕Which dinos are the "roof lizard", "egg thief", "chicken mimic" and "arm lizard"?
  🦎Why aren't dinosaurs lizards?
  🦖How do scientists name dinosaurs?
  These questions answered – and many more – in this voyage through dinosaur etymology.
  
  Thanks to Casius Morrison from London's Natural History Museum for his expertise.
  
  #etymology #paleontology  #dinosaurs
  
  Sign up to my newsletter here: https://robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  http://twitter.com/robwordsYT
  http://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
  0:34 What "Dinosaur" means
  1:54 MyHeritage
  3:18 Dinosaur categories
  3:36 THEROPODS: T-rex, Velociraptor, Gallimimus etc.
  8:45 SAUROPODS: Diplodocus, Brachiosaurus, Brontosaurus etc.
  11:40 CERAPODS: Triceratops, Styracosaurus, Hadrosaurs, Pachycephalosaurs
  14:27 THYREOPHORANS: Stegosaurus, Ankylosaurus
  15:15 Names after places
  16:25 NON-DINOSAURS: Pterosaurs, Plesiosaurs & Ichthyosaurs
  17:35 DINO TEST
---
The chicken mimic. The egg stealer. The roof lizard. The tyrannical king. Every dinosaur name - no matter how complicated it looks - has a simple, literal meaning and in this video I’m going to explain some.

With expert help, let’s excavate beneath the Latin and Greek, and understand why dinosaurs are called what they’re called. At the end we’ll put your new knowledge to the test - by working out what these ones mean too. So let’s get dino-down to it iIn another RobWords. Right. First thing’s first, what is a dinosaur?

Well, etymologically speaking, dinosaur is made up of two parts from Greek meaning terrible and lizard. These are “terrible lizards”. And that’s not terrible as in, you know, “rubbish”. They’re not rubbish lizards, but more like “terror inspiring”. Cassius Morrison from London’s Natural History Museum can explain.

Richard Owen, the one who coined the term dinosaur had probably more in mind like fearfully great based on their size. And they were just ginormous. They were massive compared to any known reptiles at the time. Right, because they are reptiles. In fact they’re lizards aren't they?

I mean, it says so in the name. They aren't lizards because lizards sort of have fallen posture so their limbs are sort of 90 degrees to their bodies whereas with dinosaurs the limbs are directly below. Okay. So, perhaps they are rubbish lizards after all. And in fact, when I said this mere moments ago: “They are reptiles”.

I was only half right. I was right about these dinosaurs. But not about these dinosaurs. Birds are as much of a dinosaur as Tyrannosaurus rex is a dinosaur. Yup.

I am technically supposed to be referring to these guys as “non-avian dinosaurs”

The non-avian ones. So dinosaurs get split up into two groups and it’s all in the hips. You have the lizard-hipped saurischians and the bird-hipped ornithischians. So let’s take them one at a time. Following the branch of the lizardy-legged saurischians we find the fearsome theropods - whose name means “beast feet”.

Theropods are the dinosaurs that include Tyrannosaurus Rex, velociraptor and birds, they're characterised by having three digits on each of the limbs. So this is on the hands and on the feet. They were given the name “beast feet” by the people who kept finding the terrifying tracks of these mystery animals. So let’s meet a few of them. Well, we have to start with the dinosaur king, the t-rex.

Tyrannosaurus Rex is literally the tyrant lizard king. There’s fierce debate over whether or not they still deserve their regal title. Especially since the discovery of larger theropods like the spine lizards, the spinosaurs, and Giganotosaurus, the giant southern lizards found in Argentina. But Cassius reckons the T-rex is still on top. So therequite good precedence for it to have that title in terms of it being the apex predator in its ecosystem at the end of the age of the dinosaurs and having a very strong and deadly bite force as well.

Indeed Tyrannosaurus Rex’s reign only came to an end as a result of the catastrophe that saw most dinosaurs wiped off the face of the earth. By the way - have you ever wondered why Tyrannosaurus Rex has two names - tyrannosaurus and rex - when all the others seem to have only one? Well… All dinosaurs have two names. They have the genus name i.e.

Tyrannosaurus, and then they have a species name which is Rex, for example, Tyrannosaurus Rex. However, most dinosaurs are only known by the genus names such as Triceratops, Stegosaurus, Apatosaurus, Brontosaurus, Brachiosaurus and so forth. So T-rex gets special treatment - a kind of royal privilege - but from now on I’m just going to be referring to genus. Now, as Cassius mentioned earlier, the theropods also include the raptors. These prehistoric pilferers have a name meaning “thief”.

You have the egg thief, the cruel thief, the graceful thief and of course the speedy thief, the Velociraptor. Which didn’t actually look like that. It looked more like that. There is plenty of stuff out there about why Jurassic Park got this wrong. Various factors were in play such as Mr Spielberg liking the name velociraptor, but not thinking that was all that scary.

And also, differing ideas about raptors from when the book was written. At the time of writing the Jurassic Park novel, Michael Crichton was in contact with several scientists and he was speaking to a scientist who had found a very raptor like dinosaur in North America and they thought it was a species of Velociraptor which subsequently turned out not to be a species of Velociraptor, but a closely related dinosaur called Deinonychus. And there was actually an even larger dinosaur found closely related to that called Utahraptor. So you did get these massive raptor-like dinosaurs up to maybe 7 metres long. There us is in the fossil record a raptor-like dinosaur as seen in Jurassic Park, it’s just not technically Velociraptor.

But the Velociraptor is by no means the only misunderstood member of the family. I mentioned Oviraptor earlier - the egg thief - that’s ovi like ovum or ovary. Well that name is basically slander! Their fossils were found close to eggs, so it was assumed they were stealing them. But nope.

We actually know that these oviraptorids were actually really good parents and they actually were found on the nest because they died protecting the nest. So they actually had their wings over them and they would actually sit on the nest and actually get buried by the sandstorm. So they shouldn’t be called “egg thief” they should be called something more like “good mother”. Except that name is already taken by Maiasaura - the first dinosaur found with definitive evidence of parenting. That’s not a theropod though, so let’s get back on track.

Other honourable mentions go to Carnotaurus - the meat-eating bull - so called because of the horns on its head. It needed them to make up for its tiny, tiny arms. And also, Gallimimus. The galli bit comes from the Latin for chicken and the mimus has the same root as the word mimic. This is the chicken-mimicking dinosaur.

This is quite a famous dinosaur. It's in Jurassic Park. When Alan, Lex and Tim, they're running away from them and then T Rex bursts out and eats one. And a lot of dinosaurs get this term mimic because people see similarities between them and other living animals. Ironically, obviously, they came first because they lived millions and millions of years ago and the living animals are now.

But again, it's this idea of trying to use comparative anatomy of living creatures to try to understand these prehistoric animals. Now let’s shift our attention from the thundering theropods to the stomping sauropodomorphs. Known for their massive size and long necks, their name means… lizard foot. Okay. This group is made up of the sauropods and their ancestors.

They’re the long-necks. You’ve got the Brachiosaurus - the “arm lizard” - so called because check out those front legs! Much longer than those of its pal the Diplodocus, whose name means double beam, because of some distinctive bones in its tail. But let’s face it, the issue with this dinosaur is not what its name means, but how on earth do you say it. When I worked for a certain Big Broadcasting Company, I was told to say it “dip-lodder-cus”.

But Cassius - who works at a museum whose star attraction for many years was a model of this particular dinosaur’s skeleton - pronounces it: Dipler-DOC-us. I mean the fact is, both are fine. These dinosaur names are all less than a couple of hundred years old and though they’re made up of Greek and Latin components, they don’t actually conform to any of the rules of either of those languages so why should the pronunciations? Anyway another dodgy dichotomy when it comes to the sauropods involves these two: Brontosaurus and Apatosaurus. This is a whole saga.

So for a long time it was thought that these two names meaning ‘thunder lizard’ and ‘deceptive lizard’ because of some confusing bones referred to the same animal. Brontosaurus and Apatosaurus were coined within just a few months of each other by two scientists who had basically made the same discovery. But because Apatosaurus was coined first, that became the official name for this sauropod. However, for some reason, Brontosaurus caught the public’s imagination more - probably because thunder lizard is epic - and stuck around as an alternative name. Apatosaurus came first and therefore has the priority over that type of animal.

However, in 2015, there was a new paper which said Brontosaurus has distinct features from Apatosaurus and both should therefore be valid. Now more work is going on and who knows where that story will turn next? So for a while it seemed Brontosaurus wasn’t really a thing, but now it appears that it is. You need a big ol’ brain to stay on top of all this, which is unfortunate for the sauropods. But what they lacked in wits they made up for in heft.

That’s why one sauropod is named Seismosaurus - the earth-shaking lizard. You know, like seismology - the study of earthquakes. So those are your lizard-hipped dinos, the saurischians. But let’s now look at the other type of dinosaur - the bird-hipped ornithischians. First up it’s the cerapods.

Though the name literally means horn “horn foot”, it’s actually just a smooshing together of the terms “ceratops” and “ornithopod”. All will become clear. The cera bit has the same root as the word keratin, for example, which is a protein found in rhino horn, and among other places. It means horn. So the Triceratops… well, let’s work it out together.

Tri is simple, It’s three like triangle, tricycle etc. Cerat we know is horn. So three horn. And where are the horns? On its face - and in this case that’s what the ops means.

You could also say that it means eye - because it has the same root as optical or optician. Another of the cerapods is the Styracosaurus. It’s another of the ceratopsians, it has a horny face. But the name means “spike lizard” because… well, just look at it. As well as the ceratopsians, the cerapods also include the ornithopods.

Orni we’ve seen already with the ornithischians and also in words like ornithology. It means bird. Plus the he pod bit we’ve also seen elsewhere. It’s also in words like tripod. These are the bird-footed dinosaurs.

Among them is the Iguanodon, which has teeth like an iguana. You also have the Hadrosaurs, the so-called “duck-billed” dinosaurs. But that’s not what the name means. They’ve been rather unflatteringly dubbed the “bulky lizards”. Among them is the awesome-looking Parasaurolophus, which means “nearly Saurolophus”.

So this one is actually named after another dinosaur that it was similar to, Saurolophus. And that in turn means “lizard crest”. It’s named after that thing sticking out of the back of its head. Sitting alongside among the bird-hipped dinosaurs are the pachycephalosaurs, although this is actually just a small group. So what’s going on with the name here?

Now, knowing that pachyderms are thick skinned, right, elephants and such, I'm guessing there's some thickness involved in the pachycephalus. Actually. cephalus, also, that's like head, isn't it? So, it means thick head lizards. Yes, that’s correct.

That's satisfying. They have these really thick domes on their heads, the function of which is, again, highly debated but they have this really unique feature within dinosaurs of having these really thick domes on their skulls. The running theory was that they used these to bash the heck out of one another in the most extreme form of tête à tête. Although there's some doubt over that theory now. So that’s the cerapods.

On now to the thyreophorans - the formidable “shield-bearers”. These guys can be a little bit defensive. The best known among them is without doubt Stegosaurus - the creatively-named “roof-lizard”. Why? Well because of these ruddy great slates sticking out of its back.

Palaeontologists reckoned they looked like roof tiles. Another thyreophoran is the walking tank, Ankylosaurus. This name could be translated as “crooked lizard” - the first part of the name has the same root as the word “angle”. But the Greek ankylos can also mean “fused” and that’s what it actually means in this sense. They have this fused armour on their backs that keeps them safe.

So far I’ve only really talked about the dinosaur names that relate to their characteristics. But there is of course a huge swathe of dinosaurs whose names are simply based on where they were found. Argentinasaurus was discovered in Argentina. Edmontosaurus was found in Edmonton in Alberta, Canada. And Riojasaurus isn’t some sort of dino-wino, it was discovered in La Rioja, also in Argentina.

And there are loads named after places in China and Mongolia. There they have amazing preservational conditions over a long period of time. So Mongolia has sort of the last age of dinosaurs, the later part of the Cretaceous, and China has everything from lots of great Jurassic sites and lots of great Cretaceous sites. The region’s disproportionate number of dinosaur discoveries has actually brought about a change in naming conventions, usurping the duopoly of Latin and Greek. Now you occasionally get dinosaurs that are given Chinese names - often with the suffix “long” or “lung”, which is Mandarin for dragon.

For example, Mei Long is the sleeping dragon dinosaur. By the way, you may be thinking that I’ve missed off some pretty significant players on the prehistoric stage. But that’s probably because they’re not dinosaurs. For example, these Pterosaurs, the “wing lizards”. The pter at the start of their names is the same as the pter at the end of helicopter, which means spiral wing.

By the way, we don’t pronounce the P in pterosaur but do in helicopter because in English a word can’t start with pt. It just can’t. So we drop the p. In the middle of a word though: no problem. Anyway, among the pterosaurs are the Pteranodon - the toothless flyer - and the Pterodactyl - the wing finger, both of which are not dinosaurs.

Plesiosaurs are also not dinosaurs. Their name means “near lizards” because their bones were distinctly lizardy. But we know that lizardy bones do not a dinosaur make. And icthyosaurs are - say it with me - not dinosaurs. Hard luck.

Basically, if it swims or flies - and isn’t a bird - it’s also not a dinosaur. So, up top I promised that by the end we’d be able to decipher these dinosaur names ourselves. So let’s see how we do. Actually, just hold on a second, me. Let’s go back and give you a few seconds to see if you can get these.

If you need longer, hit pause. That’ll do. So let’s see how we do. First up, Ornithomimus. Well we’ve seen the start of that loads of times.

By now, you know that it means bird. And remember how mimus relates to mimic? Ornithomimus is the “bird mimic” dinosaur. Stegoceras sounds like a hunky hybrid between the stegosaurs and the ceratopsians. Well, we’ve learned that stego means roof and ceras comes from the Greek for horn.

And indeed, Stegoceras had a horny-topped head. Archaeoceratops has that archaeo bit that we find int the word archaeology, the study of the ancient. And we know that ceratops is “horn face”. So Archaeoceratops was the ancient horn-faced dinosaur - actually the precursor to the triceratops. And lastly, Fukuiraptor.

Well we know that a raptor is a thief. And this is one of those dinosaurs named after where it was found. This is the thief from Fukui in Japan. Okay, my vocal chords are getting dino-sore, so let’s leave it there. Next, why not check out my video all about the many Latin words that have found their way into English.

And also, you could sign up to my newsletter. Go to robwords.com/newsletter to secure your weekly dose of word facts and language fun. Just do it. And I’ll see you in the next one.