---
video_title: "Top 10 words we should steal from German"
video_id: YUVtkWfzWCs
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YUVtkWfzWCs
video_date: 2023-11-11
video_description: |
  Enjoy this tour of untranslatable German! Start speaking a new language in 3 weeks with Babbel 🎉. Get 60% OFF your subscription during their Black Friday sale ➡️ HERE: https://go.babbel.com/t?bsc=1200m60-youtube-robwords-nov-2023-promo&btp=default&utm_term=generic_v1&utm_medium=paidsocial&utm_source=YouTube&utm_content=Influencer..robwords..USA..YouTube
  
  German has a knack of expressing things in one word that takes English-speakers much longer. In this video I give you my top 10 'untranstlatable' German words that English should steal.
  #German #English #language 
  
  📝 Sign up to my FREE NEWSLETTER: https://robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  http://twitter.com/robwordsYT
  http://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  Edited with Gling AI: https://bit.ly/46bGeYv
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
  0:34 10 - JEIN
  2:24 9 - KUMMERSPECK
  3:39 8 - BACKPFEIFENGESICHT
  5:22 7 - SPRACHGEFÜHL
  6:31 Babbel
  7:48 6 - STURMFREI
  9:00 5 - SCHNAPSIDEE
  10:15 5.5 - WEGBIER
  11:33 4 - KOPFKINO
  12:33 - Why is German so good at this?
  14:25 3 - FERNWEH
  16:17 2 - ZUGZWANG
  17:49 1 - FEIERABEND
---
Wanderlust, Schadenfreude, Doppelgänger, Zeitgeist. English speakers have occasionally turned to German to help fill gaps in our language. German just has this way of expressing in one word that would normally take us, i dunno, three? But these are just the tip of the iceberg of what dear old Deutsch has to offer. So let’s dive below the surface.

Here are my top 10 untranslatable German words that English should steal. Los geht’s! Let’s go. First on my list at number 10 is the shortest and the sweetest. It’s jein.

So you know the German for yes is ja and the German for no is nein. Well if you smoosh them together, you get jein. And it means exactly what it sounds like - a mix between yes and no. It is the perfect word for when you could go either way. Like… Would you like another of these salt-filled cheese-covered pretzels?

Jein - they are delicious, but I’d also like to not have a heart attack in my 30s. It a yes… but also no. I feel like it also kind of reflects this, like, middle-of-the-road attitude that a lot of Germans have. That’s my pal Marie - a real life German - she’s going to help me explain a few of these. For me it would be if somebody would ask me “Are you looking forward to your next work week?” I’d

go “jein”. There are things that will be fun but there are is also stuff I’m not excited about. The word was popularised in the 1990s by Hamburg hip-hop outfit Fettes Brot, and their somewhat humorous song “Jein”. In it the guy is faced with a series of dilemmas such as whether or not he should cheat on his girlfriend who’s gone on holiday without him. When he gets a tempting offer from another woman he says.

Ja, klar. Äh, nein. Ich meine… Jein! Jein. Jein. Jein.

Soll ich es wirklich machen, oder lass es lieber sein? The reason jein is only at number 10 and not higher up the list is that we might be better off coming up with our own yes-no hybrid. I mean, Swedish has done and I bet there are others. So how about “yo”? No. That one’s already taken.

“Nes”? What do think, is that one any good? Jein. At number 9: the next German word I think we should slot into the English language is Kummerspeck. Now we can actually break this word down into two parts - Kummer, meaning sorrow or grief, and Speck meaning bacon.

Kummperspeck is that little bit of extra timber you may have taken on, when you’ve turned to good lady gluttony for solace. This is the result of comfort-eating basically. Exactly. So I would say probably the most common example is if somebody just went through a breakup or through another sad event in their life, and then they gain a little bit of weight because they maybe spent more time in bed, more time eating junk food, and then they usually, once they reappear into society, will say, Oh, ich weiss, ich habe Kummerspeck zugelegt. Or they'll be like, ja, Kommerspeck.

We’ve all been there right? Who among us can say they’ve never sought solace in the bottom of a tub of Ben and Jerry’s. But how exactly do you explain your temporarily inflated state? No English word is going to cut it. That’s why we need a helping of German grief bacon. We need the word Kummerspeck.

Up next, at number 8 it’s Backpfeifengesicht. The German language is great for helping us describe some of the darker feelings that all humans experience at one time or another. The word Schadenfreude is such a gift because, who hasn’t taken pleasure in someone else’s misfortune? Even if the English lexicon likes to pretend that we haven’t. Backpfeifengesicht is another word that isn’t nice but speaks to something we have all experienced.

We’ve all encountered someone with a Backpfeifengesich. That is: a face that’s just asking for a slap. You would say, Äh, der hat so ein Backpfeifengesicht. He has such a Backpfeifengesicht. He has such a slappable face.

As German band Die Ärzte melodically put it: “Backpfeifengesicht. Wenn du glaubst dass dich jemand mag, irrst du dich. Backpfeifengesicht.” It essentially kind of means that you have an irritating appearance or that you’re ugly, it’s not a kind word. Backpfeife is a slap to the cheek and Gesicht is just face. There’s

also another word: Ohrfeigengesicht. Ohrfeigen is to box someone’s ears. Backpfeifengesicht expresses in one word something that English I don’t know two or three. It’s not higher up on the list though because, well 1) I’m not sure now is a great time to be introducing new insults to the English language. And 2) it takes a fair bit of practice to get right. But once you’ve got it, it is enormously satisfying. Backpfeifengesicht.

Number 7 is a rather more positive potential import into English. It’s Sprachgefühl. Sprach Gefühl literally means language feeling. But its meaning as a whole is a little harder to express. But maybe that’s because I myself do not have Sprachgefühl.

Sprachgefühl is the intuitive ability to know the right words to say. Someone with Sprachgefühl always reaches for the perfect term or ideal idiom in any situation. I think in English we would maybe say that someone has “a way with words”, or they are erudite or eloquent. But Sprachgefül is more versatile than those words, because you can also have a Sprachgefühl for a foreign language. I think we would perhaps call it having a feel for a language. If you just kind of have a knack for

it Du hast ein gutes Sprachgefühl entwickelt. You’ve developed a good Sprachgefühl for it. This word actually already has some currency in English but you only find it very high-brow usage. I’d like to see all of us get a little bit of Sprachgefühl. Now if you want to develop your own Sprachgefühl for a foreign language, may I heartily recommend to you Babbel, who’ve sponsored this video. You don’t

need me to tell you how rewarding learning a language can be. Not least because you can find all the quirky words it has that your mother tongue does not. And Babbel is one of the top language learning apps in the world, using intuitive lessons to help you learn a language through real-life conversations. I’ve been using it to learn Spanish, which I decided to do after a recent trip to the France-Spain border. One side of the line I was fine ‘cos I can kind of speak French but the other: Perdido.

With Babbel you can set yourself a goal and it’ll give you all the tools you need to meet it including live teaching sessions, podcasts, games, flashcards and of course lessons you can do whenever and wherever you want. I’ve found I can make fast progress with Babbel because you’re very quickly learning sentences that you can actually use. ¿Puedo comer el pretzel? No. Babbel has a variety of different subscriptions, including a lifetime one, and you can get 60% OFF during Babbel’s Black Friday Sale using my special link in the description. There’s a

Okay, back to our exploration of untranslatable German and to our number 6: Sturmfrei. It breaks down into the words for storm and free and it expresses the unique state of freedom that comes with being left alone in the house. Being able to do as you please without the usual storm of consequences. The best example would be if you’re a teenager and your parents are out of town. You would have Sturmfrei. But it works for adults too.

Like, for example, I could write my friends and say, hej, ch habe gerade Sturmfrei, which would mean, “Hey, there’s no one else here. Come over, we can party.” Ein sturmfreie Bude I’ve also heard, right, which is like a free house. By the way, German also has these two words specifically for when your partner, wife or husband temporarily isn’t around. They translate into straw widow and straw widower.

Again - we’re talking about situations that we’ve all been in at one time or another - but that English is currently ill-equipped to describe. That’s why Sturmfrei has stormed its way onto my list of German words that we should steal. Okay, here we go, we’re into the top 5. At nummer fünf, I give you Schnapsidee. We can simply translate this as “Schnapps idea” with reference to Germany’s hard liquor of choice and it describes something that seemed like a good idea when you were drunk, but less so in the cold light of day.

If somebody says das war eine Schnapsidee it usually means that it didn’t work out. Would they be saying that it was literally an idea they had when they were drunk? Or could it be a bit like saying, it was a pipe dream, it was never going to work out, I got carried away? Exactly. It means I got carried away.

Schnapsidee isn’t the only handy German term that comes served with a shot. There’s also the doubly excellent word Schnapszahl: meaning schnapps number. A Schnapszahl is a number like 11 or 33 or 55. One that gives you the impression that you’re seeing double. How big a part of German culture is Schnapps?

Huge! So you'll have a schnapps while you're playing cards with your friends. You'll have a schnapps after dinner. And when I have a stomach ache, my grandmother other will be like, here's a shot of schnapps. While we’re talking German tipple, I simply have to introduce you to one of my favourite German words of all time: Wegbier.

You could translate it as “way beer” perhaps and it’s the bottle of beer you buy, perhaps from one of Germany’s famous late shops, to drink on your way somewhere else. Usually somewhere where you intend to drink even more of them. One of the best things about this country is that you can drink in the street and no one has a go at you! It’s one of the few things they don’t have a go at you for. Anyway, Marie, any more boozy terms we could borrow?

One more important one related to beer is called “Kontorbier”. So the counter beer, and essentially it's a beer to counter your hangover. It's the beer that you drink the next day after a heavy night of drinking, when you're very hungover and you need a remedy. And so you have a small beer and that's your Konterbier to counter your hangover. Fight fire with fire.

That is perfect. Yeah. We have the phrase the hair of the dog that bit you, which I think is a reference to an old rabies cure and what's the best hair of the dog that you can get? It's an extra little beer. A little Konterbier.

Just a little one. Now, I’m a little worried all this alcohol has knocked us a little bit off course. So let’s get back to our top 10 German words that English should steal. In at number 4 it’s Kopfkino. This literally means head cinema and it’s all about the power of your imagination.

The theatre of the mind is something that you do occasionally here in English, right, but that's basically what this is, right? It's how things play out in your head. Exactly. So it usually will be used if you're, for example, having a conversation with someone and they say something that evokes pretty vivid images for you mentally. So if my friend says, oh, I'm going to the Maldives tomorrow. And I'll be like,

oh Kopfkino. Because I'll be like, imagining her in the Maldives or imagining me in the Maldives. And I'll have this very vivid movie almost running through my mind. Kopfkino expresses something beyond simply the word “imagination”. That’s why German has both. And I think we should too.

That’s why it’s at number 4. I just want to take moment here to discuss why German is apparently so good at coining the right term for the right moment. Well, if you look back at the words we’ve discussed so far, a lot of them have something in common. They’re essentially just compounds, made up of two or three other German nouns that have been attached to one another like train carriages. And this is what German speakers down the centuries have been most likely to do when they’ve needed a new term for something. Whereas in English,

we’ve tended to look beyond our own language when we’ve needed a new word. We’ve either built a new one from Latin or Greek, or borrowed one from another language. When the television came along, we named it using this unwieldy mix of Latin and Greek, whereas in German it was named using existing German terms. By the way, Television and Fernseher mean exactly the same thing. It’d be as if we’d called the TV the Farseer.

But there hasn’t always been this difference in approaches between English and German. Old English - the language as it was being spoken up until around a thousand years ago - also built up words by slamming together other ones. A person’s body was their bone-house. And there’s this beautiful Old English word uhtceare, which meant dawn care or dawn sorrow. It’s the angst you get as you’re lying in bed at night. A sensation that certainly didn’t die out with the Anglo-Saxons. In fact,

maybe that’s one we should also start using too. My point is, changes in the way English works mean we’ve lost the ability to elegantly build up words in the way that German does. And that’s why, in the cases that I’ve mentioned, we need German’s help. Okay, let’s get back to it. We’re into the top 3 and at number three it’s Fernweh.

So, you know homesickness? Well this is the precise opposite. Fern means far - like it does in Fernseher - and Weh is sort of soreness. Fernweh is a yearning for faraway lands. If I haven't taken a vacation in a long time, then I'll start feeling really Ferweh and start looking at Google Streetview of Algeria or Spain or wherever.

But actually, it reminds me of another German word that we already have taken into our language. Because I think this is the closest word to it in English, and that's… people in English might pronounce it wander-lust but Wanderlust, right? The need to sort of get out there is what Wanderlust is, right? Yeah. In German it's love of hiking, I guess, it's love of exploring. So I

would use Wanderlust pretty literally if I'm going on a big hiking trip. Not just on your regular Sunday afternoon walk, but on a significant hiking trip. But Fernweh is something tied to a long journey of a big vacation. So I wonder if maybe it'd be worth us substituting out Wanderlust and replacing it with Fernweh. Because actually, Fernweh kind of fits our definition of wanderlust a bit better than even wanderlust does.

We should try to establish that. Yeah. The campaign starts now. So German actually has Heimweh - homesickness - and Fernweh - awaysickness, if you like. I suppose we could just start saying “awaysickness” ourselves, but I recommend we take the rather more succinct Fernweh and add it to the English lexicon. It’s looking for an excuse to travel, anyway.

Okay, we’re right up at the business end. The top two. And my number two German word that I think we should steal is Zugzwang. Zugzwang us used in those moments where circumstances have conspired to leave you with no choice but to act. When you’re forced into taking a decision you are in Zugzwang.

The term actually comes from chess - where Zug means “move” and “zwang” is “force” or “compulsion”. It’s a point in the game where you are forced to make a particular move, even if it’s going to harm your chances of winning the game. It’s an enormously useful term that has rightly found usage well beyond the “game of kings”. For example, if somebody really has to make a decision because it's the last minute, then you would say, Oh, der ist unter Zugzwang. He's forced to act.

That is such a good word. I think this is one of the best examples we've got. Because we experience, people being that position every day. Or we will find ourselves in that position maybe every day, and we don't have a word for it. I think society would really benefit from having that term because it describes the human condition, human situation pretty well. And it helps maybe understand other people's actions better.

Quite right. I realise we have gotten a little bit deep here, but anything that helps us better relate to one another and comprehend each other’s motivations is a good in my book. That’s why Zugzwang is a worthy runner up. So now it’s time. The number one word that I think English should steal at the earliest possible opportunity.

The word that fills every hardworking Helga or Heinrich’s heart with a glee that until now we’ve had to live without. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you “Feierabend”. So you know that bit of the day that you probably look forward to the most? That bit after you finish work, and before you go to bed. What do you call it?

Well, let me stop you there, because you don’t call it anything because we don’t have a word for it. But German does and it is Feierabend. Feierabend is the post-work evening but it’s much more beautiful than that because it means basically it’s cause for celebration. Indeed, Feierabend literally means celebration evening. It’s cause to celebrate every working day of the week and who doesn’t need that?

Admittedly, the people you see blankly staring into middle distance on the train on the commute home don’t appear in a particularly celebratory mood. But that’s maybe because they’ve neglected to have a Wegbier. And I’m not sure what this says about how much Germans enjoy their jobs. But usually the end of the day working in a German office comes with a chorus of Schönen Feierabend! Schönen Feierabend. Have a great Feierabend.

And I think we deserve that too. That’s why Feierabend is top of my list of German words that I think English should steal. So which was your favourite? Let me know in the comments. There are also plenty more where these came from: Treppenwitz, Honigkuchenpferd, Sitzpinkler, which is probably worth a whole video in itself. I’d welcome your suggestions for others.

Next, check out my video about how to read German without actually being able to speak it. Or this really cool one I just did all about dinosaurs and I’ll see you over there. Right. Feierabend!