---
video_title: "The origin of every English city's name"
video_id: 517gTjBLVy4
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=517gTjBLVy4
video_date: 2024-07-27
video_description: |
  Join me for an etymological tour of England. And go to https://ground.news/robwords to stay fully informed and see through the headlines. Save 40% on unlimited access to the Ground News Vantage Plan for one month only.
  
  In this video, I delve into the origins of the names of every city in England: from the mysterious story of London to the terrific tale of York.
  ❓What's so new about Newcastle?
  ❓What was Nottingham's disgusting former name?
  ❓Which is the only city named after a woman?
  Join me as we travel through time to answer these questions and more.
  
  CITY TIME CODES BELOW 👇
  
  ==RESOURCES==
  📚 Caroline Taggart's book is a tremendous read: https://www.amazon.com/Book-English-Place-Names-Villages/dp/0091940435
  🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 Info from English Heritage: https://www.english-heritage.org.uk/visit/inspire-me/origins-of-english-place-names/
  🌐 Superb work by m@ at The Londonist: https://londonist.com/london/outside-london/englishcitynames 
  
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: http://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  http://robwords.com
  http://x.com/robwordsYT
  http://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
  1:01 London
  1:53 Lincoln
  2:24 Colchester
  3:23 Chichester
  3:28 Winchester
  3:36 Manchester
  3:50 Chester
  4:07 Lancaster
  4:17 Doncaster
  4:29 Exeter
  4:51 Leicester
  5:25 Worcester
  5:29 Gloucester
  5:44 Norwich
  6:16 Southampton
  6:46 Wakefield
  7:05 Stoke-on-Trent
  7:20 Ground News
  8:58 Cambridge
  9:32 Oxford
  9:50 Hereford
  9:57 Chelmsford
  10:14 Bradford
  10:18 Salford
  10:35 Coventry
  10:50 Lichfield
  11:04 Sheffield
  11:21 Leeds
  11:44 Kingtson-upon-Hull
  12:22 Ripon
  12:45 Ely
  12:58 Portsmouth
  13:14 Plymouth
  13:26 Bath
  13:48 Wells
  13:58 Bristol
  14:47 Liverpool
  15:12 Canterbury
  16:05 Salisbury
  16:29 Peterborough
  16:49 St Albans
  17:22 Westminster
  17:34 Preston
  17:53 Birmingham
  18:25 Wolverhampton
  19:00 Brighton & Hove
  19:34 Nottingham
  20:14 Derby
  21:10 York
  21:57 Durham
  22:27 Sunderland
  22:57 Newcastle
  23:34 Milton Keynes
  24:28 Southend-on-Sea
  24:45 Carlisle
  25:09 Truro
---
Right! The origin of every English city’s name. There are 55 of them… That’s quite a lot. So let’s get cracking. Welcome to another RobWords.

First some quick context: England’s place names are a product of England’s history. They’ve been influenced by - in order -the Celtic Britons who were around from the Iron Age, the Romans who spent a few centuries there, the Anglo Saxons who came after them, the Vikings who took control of a massive chunk of England, and then William the Conqueror’s Normans. Throw in some Christianity and a millennium of lazy pronunciation and mishearings and you get to the place names we have today. Now we’re just going to look at the cities, because we would be here all day otherwise. Contrary to popular belief, there are no specific criteria for a place in England to be designated a city.

It’s just at some point the monarch has to have decided that it is. None of this “it has to have a cathedral or a university” nonsense. That’s why they’re of all shapes and sizes. So with which city do we start? Well how about with the City of London?

Because, not only is London our nation’s capital, but it is also potentially one of the oldest - and most mysterious - place names that we have. The earliest known name for London is what the Romans called it: Londinium, but we have no idea what that means, or where it came from. The Romans liked to adapt the existing names of places, rather than come up with new ones. But historians haven’t been able to make any Celtic words fit. Could it be from this meaning marsh with a fort?

Nope. There’s no evidence of a fort. Could it be from this meaning “fast flowing river”? Maybe but it’s a bit of a leap, isn’t it? So historians think the name could come from even before the Celts, from a language we know nothing about.

Wow. That’s great, but now I need to give you one we can explain now, don’t I? So let’s go with the presidential sounding Lincoln, a city whose cathedral was once the tallest structure in the entire world. Its name is a Celtic-Roman hybrid. The Celts named it Lindon - no relation of London - using their word for pool, and the Romans called in Lindum Colonia after they built a colonia there - a retirement village for soldiers.

Through a few centuries of laziness and mumbling, you get from that to Lincoln. One of the theories behind how Colchester got its name is from one of those Roman colonia stuffed with ex-legionaries. It looks like it’s named after the River Colne, which in turn might be named after a colonia. But some historians reckon Colne is actually Celtic, because it pops up in other names in other parts of the country. Now, the -chester in Colchester is the bit we really have to talk about because the story behind it is surprisingly… surprising.

At first glance, it seems simple. The Romans built a fort there and their word for a fortification was castrum, so they slammed that on the end of the name. Easy. But nope. Yes, the chester comes from the Latin for fort, but the Romans did not put it there.

It was the Anglo-Saxons who put the chester in Colchester to say: “Hey that’s where the Romans were!” And the same goes for every -chester, -caster and -cester in the country. So let’s tick off some cities. You’ve got Chichester, which is probably named after an Anglo-Saxon called Cissa. Winchester, with the Win thought to come from a Celtic word for a meeting place pronounced wenta by the Romans.

Manchester is potentially named after a breast-shaped hill - meaning it’s related to the words mammal and mama, rather than man. The Romans called it Mancunium, hence the locals are still called Mancunians. And then there’s Chester, which is frankly just cheating. It was a Roman fort like the rest of them but has resisted attempts to differentiate it with something extra at the start. The names Legechester - “legion chester” - and Westchester failed to stick.

Etymologically identical to the -chesters are the -casters. Lancaster was the fort by the River Lune, in turn thought to come from a word meaning healthy or pure. Doncaster is at the River Don. Don is just a Celtic word for river, so it’s literally the River River. As are the various River Avons - also Celtic - and RIver Ouses.

Exeter is another “caster” on a river, which used to be this mouthful before it was passed through the laziness filter. It’s named after the River Exe, which again, probably means River River. Specifically a river replete with fish. More on rivers to come - and also bridges, because there’s a lot of crossover. Pun intended.

But first the final Roman forts: the -cesters, not a single one of which is pronounced like it’s spelt. We do it to confuse tourists. Cirencester stays true to its roots, but it is not a city, so we’re not interested. But we are interested in Leicester: It’s named after a Celtic tribe and to the Anglo Saxons was Ligera Ceastre. You can actually see a version of that on this super old map.

But bit by bit we shed those tiresome syllables - in pronunciation anyway. Speech didn’t match spelling because, you know, most people couldn’t read. To the West, saucy little Worcester is named after the Weogora tribe. And the southern city of Gloucester was the fort at Glev, thought to maybe come from a Celtic word for glow. So with all those cesters, casters and chesters, the Anglo-Saxons gave a nod to the Romans who’d come before them.

But almost everywhere else they named or renamed using their own language, Old English. And they’re responsible for the vast majority of the place names we have today. Among them, Norwich, which is the north wic, wic being an Anglo-Saxon word for a settlement or village. It gives us the -wick place names too. The northernness of Norwich is likely in comparison to their fellow East Anglians down in Ipswich, which isn’t a city and I bet they’re annoyed about it.

East Anglia is of course so called because the Angles were there. Another Anglo-Saxon pairing are Northampton and Southampton, but this time it is the southern settlement that is actually a city. Southampton was originally actually another -wich. But it changed from hammwic to hamtun. In this case, the hamm bit comes from the Old English for an enclosure - probably the same root as when we say something is “hemmed” in, in fact.

We’ll talk about a different Anglo-Saxon ham a bit later. But anyway, the ton or tun refers to a farmstead or village. Eventually it becomes our word “town”. Up in West Yorkshire, Wakefield shows off another Anglo-Saxon suffix. Field meant… well have a guess.

Yes, field. And a wake was a kind of medieval village festival, so despite sounding somewhat funereal, Wakefield is actually a fun, festive name related to fairs. Another city with an Anglo-Saxon name is Stoke-on-Trent. The River Trent is referenced to differentiate it from various other Stokes. Stoke coming from the Old English for outlying farm or settlement.

The same word also gives us the place name-ending -stock. Now, I’ve shown you lots of maps during this video, but here’s one more - a very important one. It is the electoral map of the UK following this month’s general election, where large parts of the country turned red as Labour won a historic majority. But now they’re in power, getting an unbiased view of how the government is doing can be tricky. Take this story, for example, on Labour’s decision to release offenders early to reduce prison overcrowding.

There are nearly fifty outlets reporting on it from all over the world, but you can see that the language they use varies, with for example left-wing outlets stressing it’ll prevent the “collapse” of the prison service. Meanwhile, right-wing media emphasize that “thousands of criminals” will be released early onto the streets. Now here on my channel, we delve into language and its history to understand how words and context shape meaning. And Ground News does something similar with headlines, allowing us to see different perspectives on the same story. Ground News is an app and website that compiles news articles globally, providing additional context to help you make informed decisions.

I’ve partnered with Ground News a few times because I believe in what they do. And in a crucial election year like this, it has never been more important. I get to follow news most important to me like the UK so I know what's going on back at home. Plus, with the Vantage plan I use, you get access to the Blindspot Feed, showing you stories that are under or over-reported. That way, you won’t miss a thing.

See through the headlines and stay fully informed. Go to Ground.news/robwords or just use this QR code to get 40% off unlimited access to Ground News. Now I said we’d cross this bridge when we got to it, and that’s the bridge bridge. Because Cambridge is so called because there was a river crossing there.

It was originally called Grantabrycge because it was on the River Granta, however it appears that the Normans struggled to pronounce that with their fancy French mouths, so it morphed into Cam-bridge or Cambridge. And then, rather ridiculously, the name of the river was changed to fit. So the river running through Cambridge is now called the Cam. Although at some other points it is still the Granta. Cambridge’s university rivals in Oxford can also pin their place name on a passing river.

Ford is a really common Anglo-Saxon suffix meaning, well, ford. It’s a place you can get across a river because, often because it’s shallow enough. Oxford is where you could easily lead oxen over the river. Near the Welsh border, Hereford means “place where an army can cross”, this time over the River Wye. Then across in Essex - so called because it was the eastern kingdom of the Saxons - you find Chelmsford.

It’s thought to be named after a fella called Ceolmaer, who also gave his name to the River Chelmer, which you can ford there. And then, back in Yorkshire, Bradford simply means broad ford. There’s one more ford city left, and that’s Salford. The sal bit comes from the sallow trees that were in abundance there. They are a type of willow, and also immortalised in the names Sale, Sellafield and Selborne, among others.

Salford ain’t the only city to be named after a tree. The tree at the end of Coventry means just that: tree. It’s reckoned the rest of the name comes from whoever owned that tree. One theory is that it was a Saxon called Cofa. And another tree has taken root in the name of Lichfield. In fact not just one, but many.

The Old Celtic name meant grey wood. The Saxons added the -field to make it “field of the grey wood” or “grey trees”. Another notable field is Sheffield: the field next to the River Sheaf. Sheaf itself means to divide or separate - for example to be a-sceáf in Old English was to be expelled. The river acted as a boundary between territories.

Yorkshire’s rivers feature heavily in its place names, actually. We already heard about Doncaster’s Don, into which the Sheaf runs incidentally. But also, the name of Leeds flows from the River Aire, albeit indirectly. Its Celtic name - Landensis - meant people of the fast-flowing river. By the time Anglo-Saxon monk the Venerable Bede was taking notes, it’d become Loidis.

And Kingston-upon-Hull, commonly known as just Hull, is named after the river there, which is called the Hull: either from the Celtic for “muddy” which it flippin’ is, or the Old Norse for “deep” which it presumably also is. Old Norse is the language of the Vikings, by the way. Plenty more on them to come. The Kingston bit of Kingston-upon-Hull literally means king’s place or king’s estate. The King in question is Edward I, who according to legend was chasing a hare in the area one day, and fell in love with it.

The area, not the hare. So he had it for his own. The area not the hare. And the tiny, tiny North Yorkshire city of Ripon perhaps also gets its name from the nearby waters. Its earliest recorded name is Inhrypum but no one knows precisely what that meant.

One theory is that it means “at the river bank” and that’s backed up by its location near where two rivers meet. But I’m actually more convinced by the theory it’s named for the Hrype, who were an Anglian tribe. Now, arguably England’s worst watery place name belongs to the similarly small city of Ely, which means “eel island”. Yes, Ely is thought to get its name from the fact it's a bit eely. And on the south coast, Portsmouth is so called because it had a port at the mouth of a river.

Although a famous old document called the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle claims Portesmūða was actually named after a Saxon called Port, which is a slightly less boring explanation, I suppose. And the equally mouthy Plymouth sits at the mouth of the River Plym. Plym perhaps simply comes from the Anglo-Saxon for plum, so I could have mentioned this one in the tree section too. Another watery one - perhaps the wettest of them all - is of course the city of Bath, which is named after the Roman baths that were there. The Romans called it Aquae Sulis, meaning Waters of Sulis.

Apparently Sulis was a local goddess of water and healing. The Anglo-Saxons simplified things by just calling it Bathan or Baths. The nearby cathedral city of Wells has a similarly literal, liquid-related name. Its Old English name Wella referred to the three wells dedicated to St Andrew there. Now, while we’re in the vicinity we should bring up Bristol whose name is something water-adjacent.

Quite literally: it’s thought to mean assembly place at the bridge. At one point it was Bridge-stow. However the theory is that the name changed because of a quirk of the local accent. Supposedly folk in the area had a habit of pronouncing Ws as Ls - a bit like some people now say giw instead of girl, or bottew instead of bottle. Now Bridgestow really did have a W at the end, but it’s thought that fancy folk keen not to seem ignorant may have over-corrected that W into a L, even though it was never meant to be an L in the first place.

Thus, with a bit of laziness thrown in around the middle, you get from Bridgestow to Bristol. Although, I think locals kind of do pronounce it Bristow. One last wet one is way up in Liverpool, which is actually a comparatively new name. It was first recorded in the 12th century, so after the Norman Conquest. The pool bit is thought to refer to a muddy tidal creek that perhaps no longer exists there.

And the liver? Well, maybe it was shaped like a liver? Ach. Sorry. I don’t know, actually.

I couldn’t find a good explanation for that one. Yap. Now, before we get onto the Viking and Norman nomenclature - Norman-clature - we need to sweep up some more Anglo-Saxon stuff because there’s a really common place name suffix - or group of suffixes - that we haven’t talked about yet. You see, when the Angles and Saxons felt one of their territories was under threat - usually from the Vikings I just mentioned - they would build their own little fortifications. Fortifications that they called burhs.

And the locations of these forts are preserved in the place names ending -burgh -borough, -brough, and -bury. The city of Canterbury was the burh of the Cantii, what the Romans called the people of Kent. Although the twist in the Canterbury tale is that it was the Jutes who built the fortification there, not the Angles, nor the Saxons. Although the term Anglo-Saxon actually refers to all three groups. And more, in fact.

Salisbury played host to another Anglo-Saxon burh. The Salis bit though - that we now so apathetically pronounce - is something of a mystery. It’s thought to potentially have the same root as the Sarum in the name of the astonishing nearby historical site of Old Sarum. Indeed at one point Salisbury was called New Sarum. But where that Sarum comes from… nobody knows.

Another city that’s thoroughly boroughly is Peterborough. In fact, the locals for a time just called it borough but eventually realised that wasn’t specific enough. So they extended it to Peterborough in honour of the monastery around which the protective walls had been built. A monastery dedicated to none other than St Peter. Once the Anglo-Saxons left behind their colourful pantheon of Pagan gods, and converted to Christianity, they took to their new faith with gusto.

And the Peter in Peterborough is just one holy hint at that. Another one is in the name of St Albans. It’s named after the very first British saint, St Alban, who was martyred there, in what the Romans had named Verulamium. He was executed in the 3rd or 4th century for becoming a Christian, a conversion that the Romans would not that long after rather hypocritically make themselves. The City of Westminster also has obvious ecclesiastical links.

The minster in question is the abbey that remains there today. The West part may well have been to contrast it with St Paul’s to the East. But hiding its holy history just a little bit better is the Lancashire city of Preston. You’ll recognise the -ton bit, the Anglo-Saxon settlement suffix, but Preston is specifically thought to be the settlement of the priest or priests. An abbey was set up there by St Wilfrid.

Right, we’re making some amazing progress, aren’t we? Let’s keep going. The priests of Preston weren’t the only people to get a place named after them. In fact, the Anglo-Saxons made a bit of a habit of it. Birmingham is named after a fella called Beorma. That’s where the Birm bit comes from.

The ing bit is an Anglo-Saxon element meaning “the people of” and the ham also from Old English, an ancestor of our word home, means homestead. So Birmingham means homestead of the people of Beorma. It was the home of Beorma’s tribe, the Beormingas. Also in the West Midlands, Wolverhampton has nothing to do with wolves. It’s thought to be named after a lady called Wulfrun, who was granted the land by Ethelred the Unready.

If so, that makes it the only English city named after a woman. Although there is a theory that Ely is named after the famously female St Æthelthryth, rather than eels. Let’s hope it is. Anyway, Wulfrun’s new land included a place called Hēantūn, meaning something like “high farm”. Her name plus that gave Wulfrūnehēantūn, which in the thousand years since has become Wolverhampton.

Back down on the South Coast, the city of Brighton and Hove needs to be taken in two parts. The Brighton bit was originally Beorhthelm’s tún, or Beorhthelm’s farm. Beorhthelm is thought to have been a person, perhaps named for his “bright helmet”. The much longer name, Brighthelmstone was in use until as recently as the 19th century. The Hove bit of Brighton and Hove is, I’m afraid, yet another mysterious one.

It’s perhaps from the Old English “hofe” meaning courtyard - the German Hof means the same thing now. Okay, hold onto your feathered hats, because we’re off to Nottingham next, where I suspect the tales of Robin Hood would have been somewhat less romantic had they gone with the city’s original name. Nottingham hasn’t always been Nottingham. It used to be “Snottingham”. That’s right, it was named after a fella called Snot and specifically means the homestead of the followers of Snot - there’s that “ing” again.

These are Snot’s people. It’s a city of snot. Snotty, snotty Nottingham. It perhaps isn’t the association with nasal discharge though that meant Snottingham lost its S. More likely the Normans just struggled with saying the sn sound.

And lucky for the city that they did. Okay: it’s Viking time. Because while we’re in Nottingham we’re in one of the so called “five boroughs” of the Danelaw the massive chunk of England that the Norse invaders seized from the Anglo Saxons. To this day you can see where the Vikings were just by looking at the names of the places. Close to Nottingham is the city of Derby, another of the five boroughs, and more prestigiously, my hometown, which we used to spell it in a way that actually fits with how British people say it.

The -by in Derby is a classic Scandinavian suffix. It’s a fairly generic one meaning anything from farm, to settlement, to village. So let’s just say place. And in Derby’s case it means place of the deer. It replaced the Anglo-Saxon Northworthy, which I rather like, but anyway other Viking -by places include Whitby, Grimsby and Selby.

However, Derby is the only one to have achieved city status so far. As important as Derby and Nottingham were to the Danes, they were nothing compared to their beloved capital of York, the development of the name of which has been satisfyingly organic. The Celts called it something along the lines of Eburus, which the Romans adapted into their name, Eboracum. Both meant “place of the yew tree”. However, when the Anglo-Saxons came to adapt that, they got their translation a little bit wrong and called it Eoforwic: place of the wild boar.

The Vikings put their spin on that and called the place Jorvik. But after they left, the locals struggled with that V. To the people who remained a V was the same as a U so they likely pronounced it along the lines of Yoruik. And from there, you basically are already at York. Now further north Durham wasn’t actually in the Danelaw, but it appears to have been close enough for Old Norse to have influenced the name.

It used to be called Dunelm or Dunholm, a hybrid name combining the Anglo-Saxon for hill, dũn, and the Scandinavian word, holme, meaning island or sticky-out-bit-of-land. It reflects the fact it’s on a hill almost completely surrounded by the River Wear. Over the centuries the “ham” became anglicised and the name morphed into Durham. While we’re on the Wear, let’s follow it up to Sunderland, a city with an unusual story to tell. So you know how if we say something’s been “ripped asunder” we’re saying that it has been detached from something else?

Well that idea gives Sunderland its name too. It is “land” that has been in some way “sundered” from somewhere else. The leading theory is that it refers to the fact the land was granted to a group of monks living on the opposite side of the river, hence the Wear sundered it from them. I really like that one. Now let’s take the short trip to Newcastle where the name requires rather less explaining.

It means new castle. It’s finally time for the promised Norman nomenclature the Norman-clature because William the Conqueror’s lot bloody loved a castle. They couldn’t get enough of them. Did you know there wasn’t a single castle in England before the Normans turned up? But after they arrived they put them anywhere and everywhere where that they felt a little bit unsafe.

The castle in Newcastle was probably new in comparison with the castles the Normans had already built in Durham, York and Richmond to protect against Scottish invaders. The Normans actually didn’t generally meddle all thatt much with England’s place names. But on a few occasions they added to them to show off that they were now in charge. For example, the town of Ashby de la Zouch was just called Ashby until the Zuche family took control. And Leighton Buzzard was so called by the Busard family.

But there’s only one current city that the Normans renamed in that way, and it is Milton Keynes. Now, there’s a bit of a joke - although I think some people think it’s true - that the place is named after a pair of Johns: the poet John Milton and the economist John Maynard Keynes. But that isn’t the case. The Milton bit is a simple bit of Anglo-Saxon. It is a shortening of Middleton meaning middle village.

All Suttons mean southern village and all Nortons mean northern village. A nyway the Keynes bit comes from the Cahaignes family who came over with our friend Willy the C. Wow, just three more cities to sweep up. The ones I didn’t know where else to put. Okay, first: Southend-on-Sea, whose simplicity is surely its strength. The

original settlement was at the south end of a village called Prittlewell and it sits on the sea. At the other extreme of England is Carlisle, whose name is perhaps a Roman-Celtic hybrid. It’s thought to mean fort of Lug, who was a Celtic god of skills. The Romans called it Luguvalium. But after they left, the locals translated it back into their local - sadly extinct - form of Celtic, Cumbric in which it was Caer Luel. And thence Carlisle.

Our final city name comes from another Celtic stronghold, way down in Cornwall. It is the tricky-to-decipher Truro. This name might come from the Cornish - another Celtic language - tri-veru, meaning three rivers. But maybe not. It might be from another lost term meaning place of turbulent waters. We don’t know.

The mystery remains. The Celtic languages have so much more to offer in terms of place names. That is why I have limited this video to just England. Wales and Scotland have their own stories to tell. But if you have enjoyed this video, I’ve posted some extra stuff about English place names on my Patreon here.

And I think you’d enjoy this video as well. Thanks to Ground News - check them out too - and thanks to you for watching. I’ll see you in the next thing. Cheerio. Nyäää.