---
video_title: "The worst English phrasebook ever written"
video_id: hXfeh0Rf5gI
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hXfeh0Rf5gI
video_date: 2024-12-07
video_description: |
  Pedro Carolino could not speak a word of English. However, that didn't stop him writing a guide to the English language for Portuguese speakers. The resulting book - with its peculiar vocab and backwards turns of phrase - has brought joy to English speakers around the world for over a century. Abraham Lincoln and Mark Twain are among its biggest fans. I think you will adore it too, so allow me to introduce you to "English As She Is Spoke".
  
  📕 FREE DOWNLOAD: Here's a version of the book with my notes: https://tinyurl.com/AsSheIsSpoke
  
  👚 TSHIRT "This girl have a beauty edge": 
  US: https://tinyurl.com/USbeautyedge
  EU: https://tinyurl.com/abeautyedge
  
  👕 TSHIRT: "Craunch the marmoset": 
  US: https://tinyurl.com/craunchmarmoset
  EU: https://tinyurl.com/CraunchEU
  
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://x.com/robwordsYT
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Intro
  0:25 English As She Is Spoke
  2:20 Should we find it funny?
  3:30 Hilarious vocabulary
  4:12 The French connection
  8:47 "Idiotisms and proverbs"
  10:54 Jose da Fonseca
  13:13 Abraham Lincoln
  14:14 Mark Twain
  16:28 How to find the book
---
This room is filled of bugs! This girl have a beauty edge. These peaches make me and to come water in mouth. This English phrase book is unintentionally one of the funniest books ever written. Mark Twain described it as perfect.

This guy was a fan too. I think you're going to love it as well. So let's explore it in another RobWords. "Dress you hair", "no budge you there". I have a story to tell you.

It is a story of extraordinary confidence matched with even greater incompetence. It's the story of this book. "English As She Is Spoke". Almost certainly the most misguided guide to the English language ever compiled. It was Originally published in 1855 in Portuguese as "The New Conversational Guide in Portuguese and English" or "O Novo Guia de Conversaçāo, Em Portugues e Inglēs".

Ok, I made rather a mess of the Portuguese pronunciation there because I do not speak Portuguese, a fact that I am happy to admit. But if only the writer of this book, one Pedro Carolino, had shown the same level of self awareness, then his name might not have gone down in infamy. Because even the most casual look at his guide to conversational English tells you that he can barely speak a word of it. Otherwise he could never have written such "familiar phrases" as he calls them as "That are the dishes whose you must be and to abstain", "help to a little most the better yours terms" or "I am confused all yours civilities". He's confused.

"Have you understand they?" Absolutely not, Pedro. But luckily for us, Senhor Carolino's appalling grasp of English makes this book a joyous and hilarious read. My life would be poorer for not having read such beautiful and supposedly handy phrases as: "Give me some good milk newly get out", "It must never to laugh of the unhappies" "I dead myself in envy to see her." There are so many more where those came from.

Particularly in the appropriately named Idiotisms and Proverbs section, which we will get onto. But first, I do feel I need to point out something. I wouldn't normally mock someone's bad English. I think anyone who is making an effort to speak a foreign language should be praised for it and not have the mickey taken out of them. However, in this case it's different, because this is a man claiming to be a master of a language of which he is not in order to make money.

He actually sold these books. And even if you ignore that this was a commercial endeavour, his book would have only harmed the "studious Portuguese and Brazilian youth" that it was aimed at leading them completely down the wrong path on their English learning journey. In fact, it seems evident that it did do precisely that. The story goes that this book came to the wider attention of the English speaking world in the 1860s after it was found on the Portuguese island colony of Macau being used as a school textbook. Those poor kiddies may well have gone the rest of their lives thinking it is normal to say, "he burns oneself the brains", "he is valuable, his weight's gold", and "he do the devil at four".

I haven't got a clue what he's getting at with that one. And "English As She Is Spoke" is not just a phrase book. It's also a not-so-helpful guide to English vocabulary. In it, Pedro introduces us to such typical English trades as the porkshop-keeper, the chinaman and the lochsmith. Such delicacies - or "Eatings" - as a little mine, a dainty dishes and some wigs.

Such popular pastimes as the games of gleek, carousal and keel, and such commonly encountered marine life as a sorte of fish, the wolf and the hedgehog. Now, I actually do know what he's getting at with the hedgehog. I'll get into that shortly. But first we have to ask, how on earth did this happen? What gave the mysterious Pedro Carolino the confidence to compile this compendium of corrupted English, a language with which it would appear he had barely a nodding acquaintance?

Well, that was a question puzzled over by early English speaking readers of the book, but one to which they quickly agreed upon an answer. An answer that is set out in the introduction to the version of the book that was distributed all for the sake of a good laugh at the expense of poor Senhor Carolino. So this is actually a modern copy of that book. And in the intro it says: "a little consideration of the shaping of our author's English phrases leads us to the conclusion that the materials used have been a Portuguese French phrase book and a French English dictionary." So what it appears Pedro has done is studiously copy out the Portuguese words and phrases from someone else's Portuguese to French phrase book and then translated the French bits word by word into English using his French to English dictionary.

So what so many of the examples in this book actually are are French sentences with English words. All of a sudden, so much more of it makes sense. For example, he attempts to teach his students the phrase "He laughs at my nose, he jests by me", which is obviously utter gibberish in English. But if you know that the French equivalent of he's laughing in my face is "Il me rit au nez" literally "he laughs to my nose", Pedro's botched English is somewhat more explicable. At another point in the book, he claims that a common English expression is "To build castles in Espanglish".

Invented word aside, if you know the French idiom "Bâtir des châteaux en Espagne" it makes more sense. That's the French for "to build castles in Spain", and it means an unwise or unrealistic endeavour. An English equivalent would be "build castles in the sky", which is actually a much better translation of the original Portuguese "build castles in the air". However, Pedro's detour via French means we've ended up with something utterly silly. Oh, and the aquatic hedgehog thing? That is because at one time the French

words for hedgehog and sea urchin were the same. Which makes sense. They're both spiky little fellas, aren't they? Dear Pedro just picked the wrong option in his dictionary. So 19th century sleuths cracked Pedro Carolino's code: this translation via a third language, French.

However, it is not at all surprising that they managed to do so, because the author did an absolutely terrible job of covering it up. For example, the book is full of confusing references to francs instead of the British or Portuguese currency. In scenarios set out within the pages, people keep asking each other how their French learning is going. And at one point there's even a joke that only works in French. In the anecdotes section, we're regaled with this amusing tale: "The Commander Forbin of Janson, being at a repast with a celebrated Boileau..."

Boileau was a poet, I think "...had undertaken to pun him upon her name." Confusing.

"What name, told him, carry you thither? Boileau: I would wish better to call me drink Wine." Did you get it? I'm sure you did, but let me just explain it anyway, because it's always better to explain a joke, isn't it? You see, Boileau sounds exactly like the French "bois l'eau", which means "drink the water".

That's why the commander quips, "I would wish better to call me drink WINE." Classic. How does the anecdote end? Well, seeing as you asked: "The poet was answered him in the same tune. And you, sir, what name have you choice? Janson?

I should prefer to be named John-Meal. The meal don't is valuable better than the furfur. I honestly have no idea. Anyway, Carolino is using French jokes in a book that has no business containing them. What's more, he incorrectly refers to people from England as Englishers.

He clearly knows very little English and probably very little French either. This knowledge that we have to factor in French when reading Pedro's gibberish actually makes what he writes arguably more enjoyable. Knowing that this isn't just bad translation, it is the product of a whole misguided process. As promised, let's look at this book's notorious Idiotisms and Proverbs section, which is an absolute goldmine of grotesque abuses of English. He, of course, probably means idioms rather than idiotisms, but I think he might have accidentally stumbled upon the truth.

A favourite among scholars of the tome is Pedro's supposedly common English saying "To craunch the marmoset". It turns out it is an attempted translation of the highly idiomatic French expression "croquer le marmot", which means to wait impatiently. This does in one way translate into "to bite" or "to crunch the marmoset". However, it actually harks back to an old French use of the word "croquer" to mean to knock, and a marmot as an old word, not for a marmoset, but for a door knocker. So it means to knock on a door impatiently.

It has nothing to do with consuming monkeys. Although, fun fact, in modern French, a marmoset is called a "ouistiti", which is the word that French people use instead of cheese when they take a photo. Cute. Anyway, other classics in Pedro's idiotic list include: "In the country of blinds, the one eyed men are kings." Close, but not quite right, is it?

"A horse baared don't look him the tooth", which is an interesting take on don't look a gift horse in the mouth and "It want to beat the iron during that it is hot". Almost. And another close, but yet so far one is "The stone as roll not heap up not foam. This makes a lot more sense if you understand that the French words for foam and moss are the same. There are so many more of those, and I'll tell you how you can enjoy them for yourself at the end.

But first I want to point out something else unusual about Pedro Carolino's approach when writing this book. He refers to himself as "we" throughout the introduction. Now, it might just be that he's got his English or French pronouns all muddled up. That's certainly not beyond him. But it's also probably because he wants us to believe that this book has two authors.

Indeed, originally, two people were credited with having compiled it: Pedro Carolino and a much more highly reputed writer of language books named Jose da Fonseca. Now, I don't think a huge amount is known about Jose da Fonseca, but thanks to the work of a linguist named Alexander MacBride from UCLA in the early 2000s, we do know a few key things. One of them is that Jose da Fonseca could speak very good English. He was, in fact, the Author of the 1837 "Guide de la Conversation Française et Anglaise", a guide to French and English conversation. It was credited to Joseph da Fonseca.

But according to MacBride, there is plenty of evidence that Jose and Joseph or Joseph were the same person. And that book is a perfectly competent, even useful introduction to English for French speakers. So if Jose da Fonseca had a good grasp of English, how could he have possibly played any role in producing this hilariously misguided take on the language? Well, the answer is he didn't. Or at least not knowingly.

You see, we know that Pedro Carolino was in possession of two books: a Portuguese-French phrase book and a French-English dictionary. But we also know which specific book one of those was. It was "The New Conversation Guide in Portuguese and French" by one Jose da Fonseca. What it seems may well have happened is that Pedro Carolino, having copied so much from Jose da Fonseca's work and not being entirely shameless, decided to give him a co writing credit. An act of generosity that ultimately resulted in Jose da Fonseca's name being instead dragged through the mud along with Carolino's as it was linked with a book that would have never met his own standards.

Lacking in quality, this book may have been, but something that it hasn't lacked over the past century and a half or so is fans. And in high places, too. After its discovery in Macau, it became a sensation either side of the Atlantic, with British and American readers scrambling to get copies of it. And we know that at least one of those copies found its way into the hands of a certain Abraham Lincoln, who's said to have used it as an amusing distraction during the American Civil War. In her political biography of Honest Abe, "Team of Rivals", Doris Kearns Goodwin writes how in the depths of the war, "Fred Seward records a pleasant evening that January when Lincoln walked over to Seward's with John Hay to share a humorous language guidebook.

English As She Is Spoke, as John Hay read aloud its queer inverted sentences, Lincoln and Seward laughed heartily, their minds finding a brief but welcome relief from care." Indeed, who couldn't laugh heartily at such unintentionally bad advice as "Take attention to cut you self" and "Take care to dirt you self". I can see why this book was such a welcome distraction. You really can just open it at any random page and find something to laugh at. Yeah. Okay, here we are.

We have a list of "Woman Objects", and on there, "The paint or disguise". I think he meant makeup. And Abraham Lincoln wasn't the only American national treasure to take a shine to English As She Is Spoke. Another is none other than Mark Twain, who loved it so much he agreed to write the introduction to the American print run. You know what, let me just read you some of that, actually, because it's Mark Twain, so it's brilliant.

And you're going to just see how much he loved this book. Let's do it. [Puts on tragic American accent] "In this world of uncertainties..."

Don't worry, I'm not actually going to do the accent. "In this world of uncertainties, there is at any rate one thing which may be pretty confidently set down as certainty, and that is that this celebrated little phrasebook will never die while the English language lasts. Its delicious unconscious ridiculousness and its enchanting naivete are as supreme and unapproachable in their way as are Shakespeare's sublimities. Whatsoever is perfect in its kind, in literature, is imperishable. Nobody can imitate it successfully.

Nobody can hope to produce its fellow. It is perfect. It must and will stand alone. Its immortality is secure. Many persons have believed that this book's miraculous stupidities were studied and disingenuous.

But no one can read the volume carefully through and keep that opinion. It was written in serious good faith and deep earnestness by an honest and upright idiot who believed he knew something of the English language and could impart his knowledge to others. One cannot open this book anywhere and not find richness." Mark Twain, everybody. And let's leave the video there because it's cold out here and I don't wish to "catched cold in the brain".

I do recommend you read this book. It's actually out of copyrights, it's in the public domain, so you can find it for free all over the Internet. Or you can buy yourself a floppy copy like this for not very much money. Or...

I tell you what, I'm going to leave a link in the description with a version of it that includes some of my notes and highlights. It'll be totally free for you to access unless you want to pay for it. I have to give a quick thanks to Jesse Hammer, a subscriber to my newsletter who introduced me to English As She Is Spoke and enriched my life in the process. And thanks to you for watching. And let me leave you with some good advice: "Of the hand to mouth one lose often the soup."

Something to remember. Take care.