---
video_title: "A guide to the alphabet"
video_id: tBQCup27ukE
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tBQCup27ukE
video_date: 2024-10-26
video_description: |
  Let's explore the wonders of the English alphabet. And🔓remove your personal information from the web at https://joindeleteme.com/ROBWORDS and use code ROBWORDS for 20% off 🙌 DeleteMe international Plans: https://international.joindeleteme.com
  
  In this A-to-Z guide, let's understand our alphabet from top to toe.
  
  𐦃 Where did our letters come from? 
  🐝 How did they get their names? 
  📊 Which ones do we use the most? 
  🦶 Which is the most English word?
  
  These questions answered and many more. Welcome to another RobWords.
  ==
  🔡MY LETTER ORIGINS VIDEO: https://youtu.be/CYqqFqoLnnk?si=qSm1YjkCeO4e4zya 
  👕COOL T-SHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  RESOURCES
  📈 LETTER FREQUENCY: https://www3.nd.edu/~busiforc/handouts/cryptography/letterfrequencies.html 
  🔡 OLD LETTER NAMES: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/English_alphabet#/media/File:Chart_of_the_English_alphabet_from_1740_(from_James_Hoy,_Irish_Spelling-Book).png
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  http://robwords.com
  http://x.com/robwordsYT
  http://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
  0:52 Letter origins
  3:00 Letters lost and found/fabricated
  6:31 Æ, Ð, J, V W
  12:44 And per se &
  13:48 Letter names
  15:28 Most-used letters
  18:50 The most English word
---
[PARTY HORNS] It’s party time because this guy is officially 500 years old. Happy birthday to the letter J. Wondering what the F I’m on about? K. Keep watching as we explore the wonders of our alphabet in another RobWords.

Now, I think it’s fair to say I’ve been guilty of trash-talking the alphabet on this channel in the past and I’ve been right to do so. It is not very good at its job. But for now we’re stuck with it, so LETTERS get to know it a little bit better. Where did these characters come from? How have their names changed over time?

You’ll never guess what Z used to be called. What letters have we lost and gained? And which letters do we use the most? By the end of this video you’ll know the answers to all of those questions and just maybe you’ll have learned to love our alphabet a little bit more. So let us begin at the start with the origins of the alphabet.

These 26 letters are remarkable really. The oldest of them can be traced back some six thousand years as far as Egyptian hieroglyphics. The letter A, for example, is thought to be descendent of this hieroglyph of an ox. E started out as this fella waving his hands around and K was originally a drawing of a hand. O was an eye and M was some wavy water.

I actually did a whole video where I went through every single letter and where they came from, which you should probably watch after this one. But even the letters that we can’t track all the way back to ancient Egypt have passed through the hands of a host of historic civilisations, each of which has helped to shape them into the characters they are today. We call our alphabet the Roman alphabet, but we also need to thank the early Semitic societies, the Phoenecians, the Greeks, and the Etruscans. The only letter we truly have to show g-gratitude to the Romans for is the letter G. Before them, cuh and guh were being written using the same letter: what we now call a C.

But the Romans are credited with having the bright idea of differentiating between the cuh and guh by adding a spur to the letter for one of them. So the Romans were by no means the inventors of our alphabet but we do have it because it was the alphabet that was used by the Romans. Because that meant that it was the alphabet used to write out Latin. The earliest traces of anything that you could call “written English” do not deploy the Roman alphabet. They’re written out in runes - a system of writing to which I recently advocated that we return.

However, that changed when scholars - mainly Christian monks - started to apply the alphabet they’d been using to write out Latin to describe the English language as well. This is ultimately why the alphabet we use today is a little unsuited to the task. It was never designed for English and had to be knocked into shape to make up for differences between our language and that of the Romans. So let’s take a look at that in a section I’m going to call letters lost and found …slash fabricated. Our alphabet is 26 letters long. Fact.

In fact, here they are listed in alphabetical order for you. By the way, that order hasn’t really changed in something like three thousand years, which is pretty darn remarkable. Anyway, we have 26 letters. But at times, the English alphabet has been shorter. And at other times it’s been longer. Allow me to explain how.

So the Roman alphabet as used by the Romans didn’t have 26 letters. It had 23, which was more than they needed really, because they didn’t really use Y or Z, except when writing out Greek words, and C, K and Q were all essentially performing the same duty. They were all making a kicking kuh sound. The Romans differentiated between them by putting them before different vowel sounds, but the jobs they were doing were essentially the same. Indeed, we also have the same triple trouble with this trio in English now.

The King and Queen can’t keep coming to Qatar. Quite. But the shortcomings of the Roman alphabet were apparent straight away to the scholars who were pioneering in applying it to English. So to make up for the lack of letters for sounds that were common in English but absent from Latin, they kept hold of some of the runic letters that had been used for English for centuries. One of which is the one I’m constantly going on about on this channel. One that I’m so keen on that I made a tshirt about it -

“Hard core thorn!” - the letter thorn, representing the “th” sound that was essential to English but non-existent in Roman writings. Another rune that made the cut that I also love was called wynn and made a wuh sound that the Romans never believed needed its own letter. They were happy just using a combination of vowels like in the word equus where they just used a pair of Us for that sound. Interesting idea. More on that later.

But we’re able to trace the origins of the alphabet because there is a paper trail, slash vellum trail, slash inscription trail. And similarly, as we go about our daily lives both on the internet and off it, we leave behind a data trail too. Be it in government public records or on our social media, information about us is being stored in all kinds of places. And there are companies that specialise in collecting that data about us, analysing it and then selling it on to people who can use it for whatever they want. These companies are called data brokers and we have no control over who they give our data to once they have it. This puts us

at risk of - at the very least - being targeted with spam, or phishing emails. But at the very worst things like identity theft. But this video’s sponsor DeleteMe can help you protect yourself from these risks. I’ve been using it myself. DeleteMe knows who these data brokers are and can find out if they’ve gathered have information about you.

Look how it searched dozens of them for me. And it found out that, yes, some of them have my personal data and so, on by behalf… it got them to delete it. That’s given me a lot of peace of mind and - at the very least - an emptier spam folder. If you want the same you can get 20% off DeleteMe consumer plans if you go to joindeleteme.com/robwords and use the promo code ROBWORDS at checkout.

That’s joindeleteme.com/robwords So scholars kept hold of the runes thorn and wynn because it help them make up for the shortcomings of Latin. And another rune that English scholars felt they couldn’t do without was a rune called ash, which made an “a” sound like in the word ash. I think it even looks a bit like an ash tree, right? Right?

But rather than use the rune, they drafted in this character: a combined a and e, and called that letter ash. Don’t confuse this, by the way, with the æ hybrid we use today. It made a slightly different sound. So in Old English manuscripts you’ll see the word “that” spelt like þæt. But you’ll also sometimes see it written like ðat.

And that’s because another solution to the lack of a “th” sound in the Latin alphabet that caught on was an adapted version of the Latin D, creating a letter called eth. Eth and thorn were interchangeable in Old English but where they still exist - namely Icelandic - thorn makes the “th” sound in thorn or three, and eth the “th” sound in eth or there. The difference is subtle to us, but obvious to those who have to use it. Anyway, to my mind one of the great tragedies of English is that we went from having two letters that could represent the “th” sound to our current situation of having to use two letters. Indeed, none of the old letters that I’ve just talked about survived, as you well know.

So how do we get from the Romans’ 23 letters to our 26? Well if I were to summarize how in two words I would say: “doubling up”. I’ve actually been very clever there, as I’m sure you’ll soon realise. One of the letters that we have but the Romans did not is our birthday boy, the letter J. Classical Latin did not have a “juh” sound.

That’s right, the civilisation of Julius Caesar didn’t have a J. His name was Iulius, just like the Roman month of January was Ianuarius. To the Romans there was no J, only I. However, long after the Romans were gone, in the medieval period, speakers of the languages that Latin had morphed into - the Romance languages - started to see a need to differentiate between what they saw as two distinct usages of the letter I: those where it was acting as a vowel in words like in the classical Latin “amicus” meaning friend. Or those where it was acting as a consonant, like at the start of “Iulius”.

Indeed, in Iulius, it plays both roles. So scribes started to differentiate between these two versions of I by giving the consonant version a dangly little tail. And it is the Italian Renaissance grammarian Gian Giorgio Trissino who is credited with being the first to adopt the use of j as a separate and distinct letter from i. And he did it in 1524. So… Happy 500th birthday, J!

[pathetic party horn toot] You’ll perhaps have noticed that so far in this J tale that at no point has it made the sound that it does to us today. But after its adoption by the Romance languages its sound changed with the habits of those languages. We get our J sound from the French who gave it to us as they endowed us with words like jolie, joi and justice. Jolly, joy and justice. The juh sound doesn’t appear much in Germanic languages, so J continues to represent a sound much closer to the i consonant of Latin in German, Dutch and the Scandinavian languages: the yuh sound that we represent with a Y.

So the Romans doubled up on I and J, using the same letter for both. And they did exactly the same thing with two other letters too: U and V. These letters are interchangeable in Classical Latin, it basically just depends on how pointy you’re feeling. There was no vuh sound in Classical Latin. This famous phrase, “I came, I saw, I conquered” is not venny, veedy, veechee, but uenny, uidi, uici - exactly as if the Vs are Us because… they were.

I should say - er, Nota Bena - you will have heard V sounds pronounced in Latin words like vox, via, and veritas because they are pronounced in Ecclesiastical Latin. That’ss the way that Classical Latin has been spoken in the context of the Catholic church for hundreds of years. It sounds lovely and makes a lot of sense from an English speaker’s perspective, but it’s apparently not all that true to the ancient pronunciation of Classical Latin. Anyway with this U-slash-V we have the same situation as we did with the Roman i. It is doing two jobs: a vowel job and a consonant job.

Take the word uniuersum - universe - the U-slash-V in the middle is behaving differently to the ones either side of it. It’s acting as a consonant. And that difference becomes only more apparent as that middle noise turns into a v sound in Italian and other Romance languages. So eventually it’s seen as necessary to have a separate letter for the vowel and for the consonant, hence we end up with the curvy vowel U and the razor sharp consonant V. Now, If it were up to me, I’d have made the V the vowel.

Whateuer. Okay so we’re up to 25 letters now. Which is the 26th? Which, which, which? Well, it was wuh. Double-U. Or double V - you decide.

As we’ve already learnt, they were the same letter. Although our runic letter wynn was doing a good job, it didn’t ultimately win. It was replaced by the Romanesque practice of using two Us or Vs next to each other to make the wuh sound. Remember equus from earlier? Et voila, here we have our 26 letters of the alphabet. 26 letters: no more no less.

Except for a brief period when it was more. Pretty recently too, as this 18th century book teaching American kiddies how to read shows. Who’s this at the end? Yes, for a while it was common to teach the alphabet with ampersand as the final “letter”. And I do wonder why not. I mean, we do write it.

It isn’t a number. It isn’t punctuation. It must be a letter. But its half-hearted position at the end of the alphabet is what gives the ampersand its name. It is a corruption of the phrase “and per se &”, which one would say as one recited this extended alphabet after zed.

Or zee in this case, I suppose. Or maybe even… Actually, I’m not going to spoil the surprise just yet. But we’ve just learned about how ampersand got its name so what about the other letters? Well, LETTERS have a look–- Actually, I already made that joke, didn’t I? Let’s have a look at letter names.

English letter names are boring. Unlike the delightful names given to each of the runes that came before them, we’ve just named our letters after the sounds they often make. Double-U is the only letter in our alphabet with a name of more than one syllable. Go on, check.

See. We could actually fix that anomaly if we wanted to just by bringing back the name of that runic letter, wynn, and applying that to W. And before you tell me I have no chance of bringing about such a change, allow me to point out that the names of letters have varied over time as this lovely old table of letter names shows. This is from 1740. You can actually easily find it on Wikipedia if you want to have a poke around but check out a few of these.

Look how the G is listed as ghee. H is each. Q is just cu. It also lists i consonant and U consonant, just to show I wasn’t talking complete nonsense earlier. But it saves the best bit til right at the end.

It lists this letter as not zee, nor as zed, but as… Uzzard. Nice! Let’s switch back to that one. It was also sometimes called izzard. Other old letter names include “jot” for J, “tay” for T and “ix” for X.

But if Z was still called uzzard, it’d absolutely be my favourite letter. However, what is our language’s favourite letter? Which letter do we use the most? Well I’ve been probing around looking for statistics on this sort of thing and I came across some research by Samuel Morse. Samuel Morse is the guy after whom Morse code is named: the system of relaying messages using dots and dashes either by transmitting dits and dahs over telegraph, or with flashing lights.

This was before the telephone, you see. Each letter in Morse code is represented by a combination of short and long signals, the dots and dashes. But Morse wanted to make sure that messages could be sent as quickly and efficiently as possible. And he realised a smart way to do that would be to allot the simplest dot-and-dash combinations to the most commonly used letters. But which were they? Nobody seemed to know.

So he carried out his own research. He simply grabbed a lot of papers and counted up how often letters appeared. It must have been an unbelievably tedious job without a computer. This was the mid 1800s. And here are his results. He was clearly a fan of rounding up or down.

E turned out to be the most commonly used letter and it wasn’t particularly close. T came second, followed by A, I, N, O and S. If you play Wordle, this is useful information. So now let’s look at the Morse code alphabet and you’ll see the most common letter, E, is represented by a single dot. The second most, T, is just a single dash.

Then A is just a dot and dash. And then they get gradually more complicated with the least common letters requiring a whole four strokes. Z is a two dashes followed by two dots. Numbers are a different story, by the way. They are their own rather satisfying system.

But what I think is cool about all of this is that it shows that the original Morse code was designed specifically for the English language. Because other languages use different letters with different frequencies. As such, other Morse codes have been developed for some of those languages. But what Morse’s little experiment revealed was the frequency of letters in English text. However, written text is dominated by a fairly small number of words.

We use the same words over and over again as we speak and write. If you take all the words in an English dictionary and then count up the frequency of each letter in those, would you get the same result? Well thankfully the clever folk at Oxford did just that and the answer is “not quite”. Yes, E comes out on top again, but T gets bumped from the silver medal position to sixth. Its appearance in words like “the”, “there”, “this” and “that” clearly helped it out in Morse’s test.

Meanwhile R gets an upgrade from 9th to 3rd. And according to Oxford, Q is the least commonly used letter in the English language, followed extremely closely by J. Now this research is even more useful for Wordle and also goes a long way to explaining the letter values in Scrabble. Both bits of research combined also explain why code-breakers - if they suspect that a code is just English in disguise - will often start by subbing in an E for whatever the most common cipher is. Pretty cool.

If you’re a proper massive geek you’ll also enjoy this research into where letters most commonly appear in words. Someone just went through a massive corpus of documents collected by Brown University and crunched the numbers. The darker the colour, the more common the letter in general and the bump on each graph shows where in a word that letter is most likely to appear, the beginning, middle or end. So an English word is most likely to begin with a T. And it’s most likely to end with an E.

Now that makes sense. The most commonly used word in English is actually “the”. Fits very nicely. But what about letters that primarily appear in the middle of words? Well, if you take that into account, by my reckoning, based on this research, we can say that the most typically English word that we have is… Toe.

So there you have it: the English alphabet from top to toe, from A to uzzard. If you’ve enjoyed this video, maybe consider subscribing? I’ve noticed that most people who watch my videos are not subscribed. And if you haven’t seen my video where I go deeper into the origin of every letter of the alphabet, you might like to watch that next. Otherwise I say try this one here.

And I’ll see you over there, and in the meantime take care.