---
video_title: "Words we've ruined."
video_id: CVbCY51iz1k
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CVbCY51iz1k
video_date: 2024-02-10
video_description: |
  Let's explore the words that we've destroyed through misuse. And get your 7-day free trial and 40% off Blinkist Annual Premium here ➡️ https://bit.ly/RobWordsFeb24
  
  I hope you enjoy this exploration of skunked, bleached and mangled words. In it, we'll discuss the words that have been misused to the point of rendering them useless! And we'll get expert help from Peter Sokolowski from Merriam-Webster dictionaries.
  
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: http://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  http://robwords.com
  http://x.com/robwordsYT
  http://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
  1:49 Skunked words
  2:40 BEMUSED
  3:27 NONPLUSSED, AMBIVALENT, DISINTERESTED, PERUSE
  5:04 Blinkist
  6:25 UNIQUE & LITERALLY
  8:39 Bleached words
  9:07 GENIUS, HERO, LEGEND
  11:33 Etymology vs. Usage (DECIMATE)
  13:45 ENORMITY
  15:00 Historical changes (NICE, SILLY, WEIRD, APOLOGY)
  16:20 Changing now (PROBLEMATIC, TRUTH)
  17:17 Rob on his high horse
---
Researching this one literally killed me. Perusing all the quite unique ways we use words these days is enough to leave anyone nonplussed. Or do I mean ambivalent? How ironic if I got that wrong? How bemusing would that be?

Anyway, come on all you legends and geniuses. Let’s get to it. Sorry if that was painful. But this video is all about those words whose meanings have changed, for better or for worse. Mostly for worse.

Now, please don’t think that I’m some pedantic bore. Who the heck am I to tell anyone how to speak? But there are times when words are misused or overused in a way that causes us all problems and that’s what this is about. To help us sort information from the misinformation or do I mean disinformation? I’ve called on an expert.

This is Peter Sokolowski from Merriam Webster, the makers of America’s leading dictionary. His personal copy is massive. The working title of this video is words we've ruined. And I'm trying not to be terribly, terribly negative, because really, I'm actually not that negative about this sort of stuff. I'm pretty laissez-faire about the way people use words. But I'm laissez-faire up until the point where it affects the words

that I can use. If I stop being able to use a word, because it's been used wrongly so often that now I can't be understood if I use it, then all of a sudden it is my problem. So I've got to draw the line somewhere. [Peter Sokolowski] Sure. Sometimes people ask dictionary editors to corroborate or to support whatever is viewed as the correct way. And I always like to say,

first of all, correcting somebody's English is bad manners. I won't do it, and it's not necessary for me. However, if you're a teacher or a parent, that is part of your job. [Rob] Peter’s hopefully going to keep me grounded during all of this. So, have you ever been about to say something then stopped yourself because you’re not sure if the word you’re about to use will be properly understood?

Not because it’s complex, or rare, but because the word is so widely misused that you think the listener might think you mean something else? Dictionary writers have a term that. They say the word has been “skunked”. Of course, they wouldn’t be so judgmental as to say the word has been “misused” they’d say that it had taken on an alternative meaning, or something like that. Here’s how the ever-tactful Peter defines skunked.

[Peter] Well basically it means that a word has been used in competing ways with enough frequency that one is no longer entirely certain which way the word is being used when you encounter it. [Rob] A great example of the word that’s mid-skunking right now is the word bemused. The standard meaning of bemused is along the lines of “marked by bewilderment or confusion”. Being bemused is being baffled. But it is increasingly being used to mean something different.

Increasingly it’s being used to mean the same thing as amused. So we’re at the point now where if you left a comment below saying “Oh Rob, your video left me most bemused” and I don’t know you… I’m not necessarily going to know what you meant. Were you confused or amused? And that means you as a commenter are just better off not using it. Bemused has been skunked [Peter] I think bemused is the gold standard.

The other one that I think of is nonplussed because its original meaning is perplexed or confused. But it's often used to mean relaxed or unimpressed. You have to really wonder when you encounter that word with which meaning is being used. And so I would not use nonplussed in writing, and I would not use bemused in writing. [Rob] Another one along similar lines is the word ambivalent.

This is one I’ve definitely used wrongly before. Ambivalent means you don’t really care either way, right? No! I mean, yes it does now, but only because of bozos like me misusing it. Look in the dictionary and you’ll see the word was coined by psychoanalysts only a century ago to refer to “profoundly opposing emotions, beliefs, attitudes or urges”.

It doesn’t mean disinterested at all. Oh flip, that’s another one. I meant uninterested, didn’t I? Peter? [Peter] Disinterested meaning neutral or objective and uninterested meaning simply “not interested”, “not intrigued”.

It's clear to me that that's a distinction that many people don't make. Many very educated people don't make. But I find that to be a useful distinction. [Rob] Isn’t it weird how so many of the words we use for “uninterested” are up for debate? Maybe we should be taking a little bit more interest in their definitions.

Perhaps peruse the dictionary occasionally. Oh god, there’s another one. Peruse. Used to mean examine with attention and in detail, but now it’s used for a cursory look through. May as well not use it.

Skunked. One of my favourite writers on the subject of how English has changed is the linguist John McWhorter. In his book Words on the Move he talks about how the word “like”, which comes from Old English, has both given us the word ending “ly” but also become an indispensable verbal tool for us, like, millennials. I haven’t actually read that book yet, but I do know the key messages because I use this video’s sponsor, Blinkist. Blinkist has over 6-thousand-500 book-summaries and podcasts, each of which you can absorb in around 15 minutes.

A search for “language” for example gives you a huge range of summaries of books from many of my go-to authors on the subject. I’ve just been for a little Sunday morning run and I managed to absorb the key points of two books about how the English language is changing. Not bad for less than an hour. Sorry you had to see this. I’m genuinely hooked on these. They’re not a replacement for reading a book,

but reading or listening to these Blinks as they’re called is the best way I’ve found to understand an author’s main points in a swift and entertaining way. What’s more, Blinkist spaces enable you to share your favourite titles with friends and family, even if they don’t have a premium Blinkist account. That said, viewers of this video can get 40% off Blinkist Annual Premium. Start your 7-day free trial by clicking my special link in the description. It’s free knowledge. What’s stopping you?

I asked the subscribers to my newsletter and my followers on X for their suggestions of skunked words and thanks to them for some of the ones I’ve already mentioned. But two words came up more than any others. In at number 2 was “unique”, a word that shouldn’t really be used with modifiers, right? Something is unique or it isn’t. It’s a one-of-a-kind or it isn’t.

It can’t be quite unique, it can’t be very unique. It’s unique, or it’s not. That’s how it goes anyway. I’m going to upset a few people here and say, I don’t fully subscribe to that. If something is one in a million, isn’t that more unique than something that’s one in a hundred?

Feel free to hate on me about that in the comments. But where I do agree is that we’re maybe just best off steering clear of the word unique. If you say unique and you mean one-of-a-kind, you can’t guarantee the listener or reader isn’t going to think you just mean it’s a bit special. So unique is at number two, but it’s not uniquely disliked because another word attracted even more ire from my online friends. And that word is literally… literally.

I think we all know what this is about. You come across it literally everywhere. This newish usage of literally to not mean literally at all. [Peter] Literally literally means by the letter or very specific. Of course, it's also frequently used as a modifier, a modifier that adds intensity to a sentence.

So the example I love is “I literally died laughing”, because in that sentence, it's completely clear that you did not die, that you're using the term as hyperbole. It's marking intensity. [Rob] So has literally been literally skunked? Well I’m not sure what being literally skunked would look like but you could definitely argue that it is figuratively skunked. If I write “literally all my friends are getting air fryers”, can you be certain I’m exaggerating?

Maybe I only have two friends. I don’t. I’ve got at least three. The cat does count. I think in that case, it probably is skunked. But

there is another term that we use for words that have suffered like literally has. We say those words have been “bleached”. [Peter] So if I just said I died laughing at that movie, the sentence actually has the same meaning. It doesn't change at all, which means the semantics, the meaning of that sentence, are carried by the verb died and laughing. Right? So

died laughing is what carries the meaning that means literally is now sort of sucked of meaning. It's removed, it's bleached, as we say. If we’re going to talk about words that have been “ruined” we have to talk about words that have been bleached. The term is actually “semantic bleaching” and it refers to a word losing some of its meaning, or it’s meaning being diluted, through a change in usage. One of the big ones of our time is “genius”, right?

The word was once reserved for the likes of Albert Einstein, but the other day I got called a “genius” for knowing the keyboard shortcut for paste without formatting. Control, shift, V on a PC Command, shift V on a mac. How about hero, too? Rescuing someone from a burning building is heroic. Buying croissants for the entire office is not.

There are loads of these. To be a legend, you used to have to be a traditional story or myth. Now you just have to have bought the last round. Ooh, and there’s a really new one. Wild.

Have you ever noticed how everything’s wild these days? Up until very recently that descriptor was reserved for the savage and extreme. But now it can be found in most mundane of scenarios. You know the supermarket didn’t have any organic eggs? Wild.

I said I wasn’t going to get wound up like this. Peter Sokolowski, help me out here. [Peter] This phenomenon of semantic bleaching works for a number of words in English. The word amazing or the word stunned, or the word absolutely, or the word fantastic, or fabulous, or the word very itself - very from the French vrai, from true, right? So we are not using these words in their etymological senses, but we're judging literally a little bit more harshly, a little bit more precisely.

And the same goes for the word unique. And I think that's because literally and unique have transparent etymological meanings that are clear. Unique means the one and literally means the letter. And so because those two are kind of very easy to decode etymologically, I think those are the ones that we pick on the most or the ones that we notice the most. [Rob] But I think that it's more the case that they're just at a different stage in the sort of corruption journey as well.

Right? Because actually, the etymologies of words like fabulous, that would have been very clear to people that it came from the word fable a long time ago, but then its meaning changed, and literally: people will have been aware what that meant for a long time, and many of us are still aware of where it comes from, “to the letter”, but it's changing now to mean something else. So Peter and I are hitting on a key issue here. Which do you think is more important to honour? A word’s etymology - so what the components of the word literally amount to - or the word’s most common usage?

One word more than other embodies this dichotomy and that word is decimate. Many of you will already know this, but the word decimate comes to us from Latin. It was a term used by the Romans to describe the militaristic punishment of selecting and executing every tenth man among a rebellious legion. The deci at the start means 10. As a result, you’ll often hear it said that something has only been “decimated” if it has been reduced by a tenth - because that’s what the etymology dictates.

However, its actual usage in English is almost never that. It’s arguably more severe - it means to reduce drastically, not just by a tenth. And it has been used to mean that for hundreds of years. So after centuries of being most often used as something akin “devastate”, surely that is what it means in English [Peter] And the other thing about the word decimate for me is that its context is always very clear, unlike the word bemused, it seems to me. So if you say stock prices were decimated in the sell off yesterday, it's completely clear that you mean utterly destroyed or utterly reduced.

that's one of those words that people complain about or might complain about, kind of only to, if you'll accept this, only to show off. You're actually kind of pulling out your latin card, you're kind of saying, I know the etymology, and that means I know the word's real meaning, [Rob] I know that’s going to upset one or two people. But let me try and win them back by saying that etymology is important. It’s often the best way to find your way to a meaning of a word. Particularly comparatively late entries to the English language, like many words from Latin and Greek.

Etymology gets us to that original English meaning of ambivalent. It gives awesome back its strength and makes bemused less bemusing. You can play your Latin card with me, and I’ll still be impressed. And I’ll wish you’d been around to tell me that I’ve been using this word wrongly my entire life. So I've been using enormity as interchangeable with enormousness, “the enormousness of the situation”, you know.

I didn't realise that enormity doesn't mean that at all. It means… Sorry. Oh, gosh. This is the OED. Apologies.

[Peter] I love the OED. I mean, I use it every day, of course. [Rob] Well, it says, enormity is “a breach of law or morality, a transgression crime, in later use, a gross and monstrous offence”. So when people talk about, say, “the enormity of the Holocaust”, for example, they're not talking about how big it is, they're talking about how monstrous it is. [Peter] That's right. And in the so called first dictionary of English. So from 1604,

the first monolingual dictionary of English, “enormious” is what it's given as. A lot of these terms are given in kind of more latinate type spellings, but it defines it as “unorderly or out of square”, because, again, etymologically, a-norm means outside of the norm. So being enormous means just simply out of the norm. And that has come to mean large. [Rob] The narrowing down of the meaning of “enormous” to just mean extraordinary in size happened centuries ago.

And it serves to show us that the things we-slash-I have been complaining about here are not new phenomena. I’m sure several of the comments below this video as you’re watching it are along the lines of “languages evolve, deal with it Rob”. And that’s right, of course. But we can all reserve the right to be irritated by it. I’m sure plenty of people grumbled when nice started being used to mean pleasant instead of foolish.

I’ll bet they tutted when silly was deployed to mean daft instead of innocent. And Shakespeare would perhaps roll his eyes that we misread his usage of weird to mean odd instead of clairvoyant, as he intended. Our apologies to The Bard for that one. Oh and here’s another interesting meaning change: apology. Now it means to say you’re sorry, but for hundreds of years - and as its etymology dictates - it meant “words of defence”.

Suddenly the titles of all manner of pamphlet from centuries past make far more sense. And so do those “I’m sorry if you felt offended” type “apologies”, too. Following on from that modern politicians’ favourite, let’s just take one last look at the times in which we live now because we can see that there are words whose meanings are changing right in front of our eyes. One I’ve noticed is “problematic”. Its meaning is broadening significantly to not just mean “presenting a problem”, but also “potentially presenting a problem”, and “potentially offensive”, or even just “potentially something that someone else won’t like”.

It’s become politically charged to the point where, actually, I’d rather not use it. [Peter] Problematic is a good one that, yes, I agree with you, I probably wouldn't use it in its most basic neutral sense because of the freight of judgement that has been brought and superimposed effectively onto that. [Rob] Another one to watch is the word “truth”. It’s gone from being something absolute to being something subjective. Something that someone can own. You can have your truth and I can have mine.

I’d argue if you’re putting the word “my” before “truth” you need to ask yourself if you’re talking about the truth at all. You may well be. But maybe not. Anyway, I’m starting to sound a bit self-righteous. My point is: the words we use do matter.

It matters that they mean the same to the person who is saying them as they do to the person who is hearing them. And that’s why, sometimes, skunking and bleaching are a problem. They make that shared understanding of a word just that little bit harder. And I think that’s worth avoiding. [Peter] I think we should all celebrate precision and accuracy in our language, and if you care about these distinctions, then you are responsible for keeping them.

At the same time, the job of the dictionary is to record the language for you, but also for everyone who doesn't keep those distinctions. [Rob] Thanks so much to Peter. He’s wonderful, I just love chatting to him. Leave your suggestions for skunked and bleached words below - I’ve just realised I forgot to mention ironic didn’t I? You know what’s wrong with that.

And if you like learning what words mean, can I heartily recommend to you that you sign up to my free newsletter and also check out my Patreon. Thanks so much to Blinkist for sponsoring this video, go to the link below to sign up for that 7-day free trial. And you should watch this video next, I reckon. I’ll see you over there.

I’ve got literally nothing else to say.