---
video_title: "The unique Spanish of Gibraltar"
video_id: JLh_H3eGFlM
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JLh_H3eGFlM
video_date: 2024-06-29
video_description: |
  Allow me to introduce you to Llanito! And go to https://ground.news/robwords to stay fully informed and see all sides of every story. Save 40% off through my link to get unlimited access on the Vantage plan for one month only.
  
  The British Overseas Territory of 🇬🇮Gibraltar has a language like no other. Llanito (or Yanito) tells the story of this unique territory's history at the gateway to the Mediterranean Sea. It melds Andalusian Spanish with the many languages that have been historically present on 'The Rock'. Most recently it has absorbed hundreds of words from English.
  
  However, Gibraltar is in danger of becoming a monolingual society, with Llanito fast losing ground to English. In this video I explore how it can be saved.
  
  Camera: Martyn Williams
  
  📚LLANITO RESOURCES📚
  Dale's website LLANITOLLANITO: https://www.llanitollanito.com/llven.html
  Gibraltarians for a Multilingual Society (GFAMS):  https://www.gibraltariansfams.com/
  
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: http://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  http://robwords.com
  http://x.com/robwordsYT
  http://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  #Llanito #English #Spanish
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
  0:31 Gibraltar
  1:06 What is Llanito?
  4:20 Ground News
  5:55 Spanish words: English grammar
  6:30 Is it Spanglish?
  7:30 Spanish words in English
  9:18 Miami English
  9:55 The threat to Llanito
  12:07 How to save Llanito
---
One of Europe's most weirdly wonderful languages is in trouble. You've probably never heard of it, but if you can speak English, you can understand an awful lot of it. Oh, there's some nice bread. You fancy that con aciete y tomate? It is a glorious mix of English and Spanish, and it only exists here in Gibraltar with the help of some locals.

Let me explain to you what it is and why it's worth saving. I thought my language was not being protected, so I had to stand up and do something about it. Welcome to another RobWords. Gibraltar is a British Overseas Territory dangling off the bottom of Spain. Hence the red phone boxes, the red pillar boxes and the union flags that you'll see flying around the place.

English has been the official language of Gibraltar ever since the British arrived here back in 1713, even though back then no one here spoke it except for British service personnel. Basically, people were speaking a variety of different spanish dialects and Genoese, who were the biggest group here. But over the past three centuries, English has now taken hold and because of educational reforms, pretty much everyone here speaks it. However, what has also developed is a unique version of Spanish called Llanito. Llanito is a special variety of Andalusian Spanish, which is slightly different to the Spanish that's being taught in schools all around the world.

That's Castilian Spanish. But unlike Andalusian dialects in Spain, Llanito is crammed full of English vocabulary as well as words from languages that have been historically present on the rock, like the ones I already mentioned, but also Hebrew, Maltese, Portuguese. But the English words really stand out. I'll give you an example that most Gibraltarians can relate to. You're in the UK, you're in London in a shop, and suddenly you hear somebody speaking, "Mum, te gusta el dress?

Ahi no se, shall I buy it? You just know it's Llanito. That's Davina. She's a Llanito speaker and works for Gibraltar Cultural Services and part of her job is promoting Llanito. For me, it's the language of the heart.

The certain love and passion that's reflected in that language that's kind of like, unique and particular to us Gibraltarians. If I were now to be speaking to a friend, I'd be like, "Me voy comprar un cafe would you like something? Not quite sure lo que me voy a pedir hoy. It could go something like that. I've also been speaking to Dale and Manuel, who are both Llanito speakers too, and also hoping to secure its future.

It was important for me to promote my own language, you know, something which is quite unknown. There's not that much information out there, so it's important to get that so that the world can see it. When do you speak Llanito? Mainly with people closest to me, family, friends. Maybe a little less so with my children, because the younger generations are increasingly speaking English rather than Llanito or Spanish.

I think the English words that have made it into Llanito speak to the unique coming together of cultures. Here, for example, I love the fact that Llanito has the word keki for cake instead of a spanish alternative. You can also sit down for a "drink" rather than "una bebida" and perhaps have a "pain' de cerveza", a pint of beer. But there are loads of other English inspired words. The word for liquorice in Spanish, it's "regaliz".

In Gibraltar, we say "likirvá", and it comes from the liquorice licking bar. English is, of course, the language of education, it's the language of government, it's the language of professionalism. And that's reflected in the borrowed words too. For example, "tixe", which is a teacher. "Nes", which is a nurse.

"Bas", which is a bus. "Raba", which is a rubber. That's distinctly British English rubber as well, isn't it? Because I know in America they wouldn't call it a rubber. "Printa" "Scana" all technical terms will come from English.

And then there's also the phenomenon of Spanish words that have had their meanings changed to fit their English relatives. Manuel explains this much better than I could. The Llanito word for the operating theatre is el teatro. The Spanish word is quirófano. Completely different. So we would say.

"Ha entrado en el teatro" for somebody who's gone into the operating theatre. Whereas a Spaniard might understand that as he's gone to the theatre to see a show. In fact, I've heard of people having misunderstandings in Spain. We'll get deeper into Llanito and the threat it's facing in a second. But as I mentioned, many Gibraltarians are proud British citizens.

However, the UK's decision to leave the European Union has obviously had an outsized impact on them. In fact, at time of recording, the governments of Spain, the EU, the UK and Gibraltar still haven't agreed on things like where customs checks should take place now and who should carry them out. However, finally, a deal seems close and I've been able to follow all sides of the debate using this video's sponsor, Ground News. Ground News is an app and website that gathers news articles from around the world and allows you to compare coverage to get the full picture. In the case of the Gibraltar talks, you can see how over 20 articles covered the latest developments, both in the UK and the EU, but there's little coverage on the right wing, with right wing sources preferring generally not to talk about Brexit these days.

You'll see some articles say the parties are within kissing distance of a deal, while others just say they've made significant progress. Now, I've worked with ground news a few times before now because I really like what they do, and in a big year for elections like this, it has never been more important to get multiple perspectives on any story and to understand their biases. Plus, with the vantage plan I have, you get access to the Blindspot feed where you can see news articles that are under or over reported, so you can discover stories you may be missing. So see through the headlines and stay fully informed. Go to ground.news/robwords or use this QR

code to get 40% off unlimited access to Ground News. Back to Llanito, Llanito also contains all these words that conform to English grammatical rules, like the English gerund form. Our words ending with -ing pop up in Llanito, despite that definitely not being a thing in Spanish. Just have a listen to Dale here. I'm a teacher, so my conversations with other teachers might be "Tengo que hacer printing este document" "Tengo que hacer printing el exam" "Tengo que hacer marking esto".

Plus Llanito speech tends to be peppered with English cliches too, like "come on" or "well", or "anyway". Although I think for moments of real emotion, they tend to opt for the Spanish. It just hits harder. Now, if you're watching this in, say, the southwestern United States or in Puerto Rico, you might have been screaming at your screen so far, just saying, "Rob, we have this too. It's Spanglish" or whatever, and I see what you're saying, but it's not the same.

In fact, at one point I used the word Spanglish here to describe Llanito, and it did not go down well. While a lot of what's going on the other side of the Atlantic is essentially all about code switching. So flipping back and forth between Spanish and English, often mid sentence Llanito is different because in Llanito there is code switching, sure. But there are also many English words that are essential. They have replaced the Spanish alternatives.

That's not code switching. Another notable thing about Llanito is that it sometimes uses the English construction of a sentence rather than the Spanish. An example that a lot of Gibraltarians have given me is that they would say "Te llamo pa' tra'" for I'll call you back. It's more English than Spanish. You say "Te llamo pa' tra'".

You don't need to say "pa' tra'". You just say "te llamo". That means "I'll call you". Just, I think we're doing it from I'll call you "back". So far, we've only been talking about english words entering Spanish, but obviously there's been some traffic the other way around, right?

English has been borrowing Spanish words for centuries. For example, we took the word siesta from Spain to describe the Iberian habit of having a nap in the afternoon. And remember that a fair chunk of the USA used to be Mexico, and other parts were Spanish colonies. Plus, the USA is on the Central America's doorstep. Hence a whole host of, for example, US states and US cities have Spanish names, and in these areas, Spanish words have flooded into English.

We have the word buckaroo as an alternative to cowboy, which is from the Spanish word for cowboy. "Vaquero". Ranch is from Spanish, and rodeo is pretty obviously from Spanish. Then there are features of the landscape as well, like canyon and weather, like tornado. And by the way, tornado is windy opposite, the gentle breeze is also from Spanish.

But that transfer happened in Europe a few centuries earlier. Oh, and how about animals? The alligator, something the British never needed a name for until they found themselves in Florida, gets its name from Spanish "el Lagarto": the lizard. When english adventurer Walter Raleigh talks about them, he actually refers to them as "The crocodiles, now called alegartos". And this is all, to say nothing of how we've gorged ourselves on words for delicious Spanish and Mexican delights like fajitas, burritos, tortillas, and salsa.

This Spanish influence on food, vocab is more acute in the United States than it is in other Englishes. For example, American English uses cilantro from Spanish, where British English uses coriander from French. Both words, by the way, do come from the same latin word, coliandrum. But this borrowing from Spanish can't really be seen as a direct counterpoint to Spanglishes or Llanito. However, really recently, linguists declared that they'd identified a new dialect of English that has some unusual grammatical features taken from Spanish.

They called it Miami English because it's spoken in Miami. Many of the words and phrases that appear peculiar to that city in southern Florida are a result of the high level of immigration from Spanish- speaking countries. For example, folk in Miami can be heard referring to beef as simply "meat". Or instead of saying, "I got out of the car", they might say, "I got down from the car". These formulations will be familiar to speakers of Spanish.

Pretty cool eh? But let's get back to Llanito, because Dale and Manuel are so worried about the potential loss of this to the outsider, at least. Really quirky way of speaking. That's why in the past couple of years, they formed Gibraltarians for a multilingual society, an organisation aimed at preventing English being the only language of Gibraltar. It's always been a multilingual society, yet we are now heading towards monolingualism.

It's quite the contrary of what's happening around the rest of the world. As a teacher, someone who works as a teacher, as a linguist, I thought my language was not being protected, so I had to stand up and do something about it, and that's what we do. So why is Llanito under threat? Well, the same educational reforms that made English the dominant language here at times discouraged and even punished the use of Llanito. As a result, a whole generation or more felt actively discouraged from teaching their children Spanish or Llanito.

And with languages, if you don't use it, you lose it. It's been that insistence on English being so important, that very little importance has been given to Llanito. It's almost like we've taken it for granted. I feel very much it's been taken for granted and nobody really has stopped to think about it until now. Certainly, I think something that most people would agree is that Llanito is being lost with the younger generations, although there's also a drive and a want and a desire to make sure that, you know, we keep it alive.

I spoke briefly to a linguist from the UK who is in Gibraltar studying Llanito. She was adamant that there is a class thing going on here. I put that idea to Manuel. Yes, obviously, English has always been the language of the elite. We go back to the colonial days.

It was obviously the language of the colonial masters, and anybody who wanted to be close to the colonial masters would be speaking English and trying to imitate, as has happened in other parts of the British Empire. So, yes, it has had that connotation. Not anymore, I would say. I think with younger people, it's no longer the case. It is the norm.

English is now the norm. So how do you go about saving Llanito? Well, you need to get new people speaking it right. And a good way is to start with young people. Now, Llanito hasn't traditionally had a written form.

There have been attempts to make one, but it's really existed as a thing that people use to speak to one another, not write down. But now you are starting to see more books coming out written in Llanito, and in particular, children's books. This one that Davina's showing me is supposed to explain Llanito to kids, but it also works pretty well for lanky English YouTubers, too. "Oh, no. The pavana has taken my patatas."

That's quite a common occurrence. So the seagull has taken his crisps and then "What? Are you even. Llanita? Let me take you around Gibraltar.

"Vamanos! Let's go!" So it's really good fun. Actually, work to preserve. Llanito has really kicked up a gear just recently, and people like Davina, Manuel and Dale are really dedicated to saving it.

So I suppose the question you have to ask is why? I always have a huge problem when people ask me, what's your mother tongue? Because it's not English and it's not Spanish. It can only be Llanito. That is my mother tongue.

It's so intrinsically linked with who we are as a people, with our identity, and that's something that Gibraltarians are very proud of. Llanito is a language which is unique to Gibraltar. And if you want to find out about Gibraltar's history and learn about Gibraltar's history, Llanito is the gateway to that. It strikes me that it would be a shame for Llanito to be lost. It represents a unique coming together of a unique set of languages in a unique part of the world.

And I think it deserves some love. Thanks for watching this video. It was a bit different, wasn't it? The algorithm reckons you should watch this one next. And I reckon you should sign up to my free newsletter by going to this address here.

Thanks to the people of Gibraltar for being so welcoming. Thanks to my pal Martyn, who has been holding the camera. And thanks to you for watching. I'll see you in whatever you choose to watch next. Cheerio.

Whup.