---
video_title: "Old English words we should bring back"
video_id: G0hV2q8aw6M
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G0hV2q8aw6M
video_date: 2024-04-06
video_description: |
  Let's resurrect some Old English words! And  🌏 get NordVPN's 2Y plan + 4 months free here ➼ https://nordvpn.com/robwordsvpn It’s risk-free with Nord’s 30-day money-back guarantee! ✌
  
  Enjoy these 10 Anglo-Saxon words that I think we should bring back.
  
  Apologies for my Old English pronunciation. I really tried.
  
  LINKS & SOURCES
  Max Miller making medieval mead: https://youtu.be/1MAB-VVqjOE?si=v2XZhzLbdI9zDtWr
  Old English anthology: https://www.oldenglishaerobics.net/anthology.html
  Anglo-Saxon wisdom: https://blog.oup.com/2015/09/old-english-wisdom/
  https://bosworthtoller.com/
  https://oed.com/
  
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: http://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  http://robwords.com
  http://x.com/robwordsYT
  http://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  #AngloSaxon #OldEnglish #etymology 
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
  0:42 What is Old English?
  1:15 WINETREOW - friendfaith
  3:03 HRÆDWYRDE - wordhasty
  4:52 RUNCRÆFTIG - runecrafty
  6:50 WUNDORSMIÞ - wondersmith
  8:29 NordVPN
  9:53 HWÆLWEG - whaleway
  11:18 EARDFÆST - earthfast
  12:50 MEDUDREAM - meadglee
  14:57 AERSLING - arselong
  16:28 UHTCEARE - morrowsorrow
  18:45 FULLÞUNGEN - fullthungen
---
We’ve lost so many good words. Old English could describe a whole host of human conditions that now we just can’t. That joy you only get from listening to music. That feeling of fun from drinking with friends. Or even that sense of dread you get when lying in bed at night.

We had words for all of these but now we’ve got nothing. So let’s right this linguistic wrong right here and right now. Here are 10 Old English words I think we should bring back, rated and updated for the modern world. Make yourself nice and earthfast because it’s time to head arselong into another RobWords. So we’re going way back with this one.

Old English - capital O, capital E - is the language being spoken in England around a thousand years ago well before Shakespeare and even before Chaucer, who were technically speaking Early Modern English and Middle English. Old English is the language of Beowulf: the gloriously gritty tongue of the Anglo-Saxons. It tells us so much about what made those guys tick and a lot of it is seriously relatable. We still need these words. So let’s get cracking.

Well to begin with dear friend: you hopefully have people in your life who you feel you could tell absolutely anything. People outside of your family in whom you have complete trust. Well, the Anglo-Saxons had them too and they described that special variety of understanding between pals as winetreow: friend-faith. Yes, in Anglo-Saxon times, wine was your friend. Or at least “wine”.

Wine was “win”. But in Old English, you could have a gūþwine. That was a “war friend” or a comrade. You could have a “sundorwine”. That was a “special friend” Or you could even have an “unwine”. That’s an unfriend, I suppose.

And if a sundorwine were to suddenly become an unwine, the Anglo-Saxons would feel winegēomor which was friend-sorrow: the sadness that comes with losing or missing a mate. Aw Friendship was a big deal back then, as it is now. But as well as friendship - or freondschipe - Old English also had fēondscipe, which was the opposite. A feond was your foe, your nemesis, your enemy. It’s the origin of our word fiend.

The treow at the end of winetreow becomes our word “true”. So we’re talking about true friends here, and I think it’s a truly excellent word that we should bring back, but perhaps in an updated form. I was thinking “friendfaith”. What do you reckon? “I love my mates, there’s so much friendfaith between us.”

I like it. Is it better than just saying “trust”? Yeah. Four out of five for this one for bringbackability. I mentioned I’m rating all of these, right?

Now, friends come in all shapes and sizes don’t they? And I reckon we’ve all probably got that one friend who occasionally fails to engage their brain before their mouth. Well, Old English had a word for those who don’t think before they speak and that word was Hrædwyrde. It means “hasty with words”. The word pops up in an Old English poem called The Wanderer, where the speaker is listing the qualities of a wise man, saying they should be “ne tō hrædwyrde”: not too hasty with words.

There are some more wonderful words in this passage too. How about “hatheort” meaning “hot-hearted” or “angry”. He also says a wise man shall be geþyldig - which is our old word for “patient” before the French gave us patient. German-speakers take note: it is remarkably similar to your word for patient, geduldig. Another great word in there is “wanhydig”, which means reckless. More literally, mindless.

You could also be “lytelhygdig”, which was small-minded. Or you could be bealohydig, which was evil-minded. Or even dēophydig, which was deep-thinking. Pretty much the opposite of the word I’m suggesting we bring back: hrædwyrde, or I’m going to say “wordhasty”. In Old English you could also be an overspeaker, so someone who talks too much, or a two-speaker: someone who says one thing to one person, but another thing to another.

Someone who is two-faced. Although, it could also just mean bilingual. Frankly, I think we could bring just about any of these back. But let’s focus our efforts on hrædwyrde - “wordhasty” - which I’m giving four-out-of-five because goodness knows there are still plenty of wordhasty people around. Okay, next: Sherlock Holmes. Miss Marple, Monk, Scooby-Doo. What do all of these have in common?

That’s right. They’re all rūncræftig. That is to say, they’re all really good at solving mysteries. Why on earth don’t we have a word for this? We love a good super sleuth.

Well luckily, we can just dredge this one up from Old English. Rūncræftig. The cræftig bit is to be skilled at something: to be crafty, but not in the sense of sneaky, necessarily. For example, a well-read Anglo-Saxon could be described as bōccræftig: book crafty or “book-smart”. Another beautiful word we should maybe bring back.

Actually, a further one is leóþcræftig. A lēoþ is a poem or a song, so to be leóþcræftig was to be good at writing poems. And if you were really good, you could even call yourself a leóþ-wyrhta - a poem-wright. I.e. a poet.

How lovely is that? Anyway, I want us to bring back rūncræftig: someone who is artful at solving mysteries. Rūn meant mystery. But is it related to runes, you might be asking? As in the old alphabet we used before we shoehorned English to fit the Latin alphabet - a video in itself, probably.

Well maybe. The words in Old English for rune and mystery are written the same. And depending on the context the word could also mean whisper or secret: a, I suppose, quiet expression, a bit like the written word, right? But the link is not definite. I suppose, in itself, it’s a bit of a rūn.

Runes and mystery: can it really get any more oldy-worldy than that? I love this word, rūncræfty. We don’t have an equivalent to it now, so so far as I’m concerned it gets a five for bringbackability. Don’t keep it a secret. Start using it today.

Now, someone who is particularly crafty with words, we might describe as a wordsmith. Someone who’s handy with heavy metals, we’d call a blacksmith. And you’ve probably heard of a goldsmith, a locksmith or even an arrowsmith. But have you ever heard of a wundorsmiþ? This is my next word and you can perhaps guess what it means. It’s a wonder-smith:

someone who makes wonderful things. How gorgeous is that? It’s versatile too. A wundor can also be a miracle, so a wundorsmiþ is also a miracle-worker. Magical.

Old English had many a smith and not all as wonderful as the wundorsmiþ. For example, in Anglo-Saxon times, you could be a wrōhtsmiþ. That’s a crime smith or a criminal. You could also be a tēonsmiþ. that’s a griefsmith or an evil-doer.

But on the upside you could also be a Hleahtor-smiþ: that’s a laughtersmith or a comedian. We lost the H at the start of laughter, but, you know, the word’s still kind of recognisable isn’t it? But I think we could use another word for makers of the magnificent, so I’m recommending the wondrous wundorsmiþ for reintroduction into the English language. And we barely need to even change it. I’m actually tempted to keep that cool Old English letter at the end, thorn, a letter for whose reinstatement I have regularly pushed.

But until we succeed in that, let’s pop a TH at the end. Three out of five for wondersmith because miracle-worker is already doing a similar job in some contexts, all right. You know what the Anglo-Saxons would have doubtless seen as a miracle? The Internet. But a time-travelling Ethelred or Æthelwuf wouldn’t need a wundorsmith to help them stay safe online, they’d just need NordVPN.

NordVPN puts up a kind of bordweall, a shield wall, that protects you from all manner of online threats. With a single click you can disguise your location, and browse the internet safe in the knowledge that you’re not being tracked. Plus you can use the net like you’re in a different country, meaning you can access content that isn’t available where you are. I’m a British guy living in Germany and I use this all the time to keep up with what my friends are watching back home. NordVPN’s Threat Protection feature also keeps you safe from scammers.

It’ll identify malicious links before you click on them and weedle out dodgy-looking files before you download them. What’s more, its Dark Web Monitor can alert you if your data ever turns up on any feondlic websites. …unfriendly websites. So secure yourself online with NordVPN. Viewers of this video can get the 2-year plan with an extra four months for free by going to nordvpn.com/robwordsvpn or clicking my link in this video’s description.

There’s a 30-day moneyback guarantee, so you can try it. Be mōdcræftig. Give it a go. Mōdcræftig means smart. Okay, this next one is a word for which we definitely already have a few alternatives.

but I think we should bring it back because it is so much better than anything we’re using now. You see, Old English formed on an island. It was the product of a mix of dialects spoken by Germanic tribes who’d come across the sea and they had an epic word for the waters they crossed. They called the sea the whale-way. The word appears in an Old English poem called The Seafarer - although it’s actually a bit of a controversial one, because some versions have it written slightly differently, in a way that would actually mean “death road”.

Ooh heck. But let’s give the whales the benefit of the doubt because the Anglo-Saxons seem to have been mildly obsessed with them. For example the Old English word for a walrus was a horshwæl, or “horse whale”. Plus bringing back whaleways, would mean we could start to call ports whaleway stations, and fishing nets whaleway lines and I really, really want that. You can also translate it as whale-road too, so American viewers can also have their fun with the puns.

Another tempting Old English term for the ocean was weoroldwæter - the worldwater. Pretty cool, but not better than whaleway. I also like the way it defers to the deep’s natural inhabitants. It’s an easy four out of five for me. We’re staying on dry land for this next one. Firmly on dry land

because next I want us to bring back “eardfæst”. A modern way to say this would be “earth fast” - and its fast meaning “firm” or “fixed” like in steadfast or in “hard and fast”. Or also in the word fasten. And eardfæst meant to be firmly in the ground, both in a literal and a figurative sense. Literally, you could describe a rock that has become stuck in the soil as earthfast, but if you’re feeling like you’ve firmly established yourself somewhere, or you’ve made yourself at home, you could describe yourself as “eardfæst”.

It’s like, “settled”. The idea of fastness crops up a lot in Old English. Someone who was tight with their money was fæst-hafol, a sort of “fast-haver”. A well protected area was a “fæstland” and someone who was firm of mind, who was resolute, was “fæstrǽd”. This word eardfæst stuck around for a fair while.

It lingered in certain Scottish and Northern English dialects usually to specifically describe a boulder sticking out of the ground. But if we’re to start using earthfast, I say we use it in its more emotive sense: that of feeling “grounded” and “settled”. Just a two out of five for bringbackability for eardfæst because there are alternative words, but none of them create such a vivid picture for me. Now once you’ve got yourself nicely settled in, nice and earthfast, what are you going to do next? Perhaps pop down to the local pub? There’s just a

special joy that comes with having a drink with your friends isn’t there? I don’t know how to describe it… But the Anglo-Saxons did and they called it medu-dreám. Literally: mead-joy. The word crops up in Beowulf where it refers to rejoicing with mead. Mead is the lovely, sweet fermented honey drink that was the booze of choice of our forebears. If you’ve never tried it, you should do. It’s delicious.

Go watch one of Max Miller from Tasting History’s videos on how to make it. In fact, watch all his videos. They’re great. Anyway the Anglo-Saxons appreciated the special contentedness that comes with sitting in a mead hall, perhaps astride a mead bench, or in their favourite meadseat. And they’d call it meadjoy, or perhaps meadglee? Yes, I like that more.

I like the assonance, the repeated vowel sound. The second part of the word is a bit of an unusual one. It’s possibly what eventually becomes our word “dream” - it certainly looks like it, doesn’t it? - but possibly not. It’s still a bit of a leap from that meaning of “joy” to “things you see in your sleep”.

But anyway, it pops up in lots of places in Old English. For example, in this word, which is taking joy in your own country. It’s a sort of patriotism. It also had a second meaning, which was “music”. Music being an instrument of joy itself.

For example, a skilled musician was said to possess drēamcræft. And another glorious Old English word this one, which means music-glee and describes the pleasure derived from listening to music. Gorgeous. We should definitely bring that one back too. But I’m sticking with medudream - mead-glee - and giving it a bringbackability score of 3.

I could have gone higher, but I worry that being able to easily describe how great it is, might inadvertently encourage us to drink too much booze. Now, a little overindulgence with alcohol can wreak havoc down below and that’s where we’re heading with our next word. It is aersling, which means “backwards”. You know how you can go headlong into something? Well aersling is the opposite.

It is arselong i.e. in the direction of your bottom. That bit at the start does indeed become our word arse. And just FYI: in the 17th century the word “ass” appears because of a fashion for dropping R sounds in some dialects.

The same period produces, bust as a variation on burst and cuss as a variation on curse. Anyway, back to Anglo-Saxon arses. Your bumhole was your earsgang, a gang being like a passage. Your bum - buttocks an’ all - could be your earsende, and this unfortunate tree and its even more unfortunate-looking fruit was known to the Anglo-Saxons as an “openears”...

An open arse.

I can’t for the life of me work out why. Anyway, I want us to bring back earsling or arselong as an alternative to backwards. I think it has a bit more urgency to it, like headlong is a little hastier than forward. But because we do already have an alternative, arselong is getting just a 3 out of five for me. Still, better than a smack on the arse.

Right, let’s move forward onto our next word, which is probably my favourite because it just speaks to me. And I bet it’ll speak to you too, because we’ve all struggled to sleep at one time or another. Our next extinct Old English word that I think we should wake from its eternal sleep is uhtceare. It’s literally “dawn care” or “dawn sorrow” and it describes that sensation when you are lying in bed before the sun comes up, and all your worries seem to come to the surface. Isn’t that word relatable?

If you’ve never felt the dawn-sorrow, lucky you. Or perhaps we could invoke an old word for the morning and call it “morrow-sorrow”. Yeah, I like that. This word appears in the Old English poem The Wife’s Lament where a woman describes lying in bed wondering where her husband is. He was exiled across the sea, and she went with him but they’ve become separated.

This is bleak Anglo-Saxon verse at its most depressing. She also speaks of sinsorg - an everlasting sorrow. Sorg actually very much like the German and Dutch words for worry or care, today. Anyway, we’re talking about dawn care or dawn sorrow and Old English had all kinds of words for dawn activity. It had a word for a din made early in the morning.

It’s used to describe the sound of the battle between Beowulf and Grendel. It also had a word for a thief who struck at night. Plus there’s this epic word for a dragon that flies in the twilight: the uhtfloga. Pretty cool. But I want us to bring back uhtceare because you never know, being able to describe this specific type of anxiety might even help us to deal with it.

I think the idea that people have been feeling this dawn dread for at least a millennium is sort of comforting. It’s satisfying to say, we don’t have an alternative and it has the potential to make us feel better. That’s why uhtceare is getting 5 out of 5 for bringbackability. To my mind, that last word really is the whole package. And in fact, Old English had an elegant word for something that was complete to the point of perfection: fullþungen.

It quite literally means fully developed, fully grown, or at its full potential and I think it is the perfect word with which to round off this list of ten Old English words that I think we should use to fill in the gaps of Modern English. Although, let’s face it, we’ve covered far more than 10. If this video’s left you feeling fullþungen, then I reckon you’ll like this one next. And also, you should check out my free newsletter It’s full of word facts and language fun Plus I have a Patreon where there’s lots of other wordy stuff that no one else gets to see. Check it out and I’ll see you in the next thing.

Cheerio