---
video_title: "Did Shakespeare invent as many words as people claim?"
video_id: z_UtRe9DgvE
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z_UtRe9DgvE
video_date: 2024-11-16
video_description: |
  Let's explode some Shakespeare myths! And "zounds": The first 500 people to use my link will get a 1 month free trial of Skillshare: https://skl.sh/robwords11241
  
  William Shakespeare is arguably the most significant cultural figure of all time. But has his contribution to the English language been overstated? Let's find out:
     🧐 Did Shakespeare really "invent" 1,700 words?
     🎭 Which common phrases did Shakespeare give us?
     📚 Is there any truth in claims Shakespeare didn't write his plays?
  These question answered and many more in this myth-busting episode of RobWords.
  
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://x.com/robwordsYT
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
  0:14 Shakespeare facts
  1:20 Words Shakespeare DIDN'T invent
  10:29 How many did he invent?
  13:36 Words Shakespeare DID invent.
  16:24 Phrases from Shakespeare
  17:55 Did he write his plays?
---
Shakespeare. The most influential cultural figure of all time? Probably. But did he really do everything he’s credited with? [mysterious whisper] No.

Let’s find out in another RobWords How now! What cheer? Y’alright? So here are the facts. William Shakespeare - who did exist - wrote about 40 plays.

The precise number varies based on whether you include ones he collaborated on, and whether you include plays that have apparently been lost. One of which is, incidentally, the counterpart to Love’s Labours Lost. Did you know there was a Love’s Labours Won? But no trace of it remains. Spoooooky.

Unless of course it was just the original title of As You Like It, which it might well have been. So pinning down the precise number of plays Shakey wrote - I like to call him Shakey, by the way - is a little bit fraught, even before you entertain the idea that someone else wrote some of them, which we won’t entertain… for now. So let’s say 40-ish plays. He also wrote 154 sonnets - Zounds, not bad - and a few other poems. Point is: he was prolific.

And in his works, William Shakespeare used upwards of 20-thousand different words - some calculations put it at closer to 30-thousand. And of those 20 to 30-thousand words, 17-hundred are thought to have been completely new to the English language. That’s a huge number. It is about ten times as many words as I’ve used in total in this video so far. But you know that number’s legit because it’s written here.

And here. And here. And here and here and here. So it must be true then, right? We’ll see.

And just look at all the examples given of the words he coined. Such variation from the charmingly multisyllabic to the marvellously mundane. Look: bedroom. He invented “bedroom”! Here it is actually, the first known written usage of it in Shakey’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream.

Lysander is trying to snuggle up to a reluctant Hermia in this scene as they find a spot to sleep in the woods. She firstly tells him to back off: “Lie further off yet; do not lie so near”, she says. Then Lysander goes on to say “Then by your side no bedroom me deny, For lying so, Hermia, I do not lie.” And just like that, Shakespeare’s done it. He has coined a new word, combining two existing little existing ones to give us “bedroom”.

Wow. Except, hold on. What is a bedroom? It’s a room with a bed in it, right? We can agree on that.

But when Lysander says bedroom here, he’s not talking about a room with a bed in it, is he? He’s talking about “room” in Hermia’s bed. Space in her bed. That is not how we use the word bedroom now at all. So can we really therefore say that this is Shakespeare inventing our word “bedroom”?

At around the same time, the word does emerge in the sense that we understand it today, but not from Shakespeare. Check this out from a different writer in 1600. [In plummy voice] “On the other side of the kitchin shall be the farmers bed-roome.” I don’t know why I put that voice on, sorry. And this example rather suggests the word was in reasonably wide usage already in spoken English because this quote is from a translation of a French text. When translating something into English,

you don’t invent words as you go along, you use words that already exist in English. That is kind of the point. By 1600, people were probably already using “bedroom” as an alternative to the earlier “bed-chamber". So, therefore, did Shakespeare invent our word “bedroom” like so many sources say? I don’t think he did.

There are other words that are attributed to Shakespeare that were almost certainly in use before the Bard used them. “Kissing” is a good example of one. Our pal Willy appears to have been the first person to commit the word to paper. He used it a few times, like here and here. But the verb “to kiss” goes way, way back to the snoggy Anglo-Saxons and beyond.

Smoochy English-speakers have been kissing one another for over a thousand years. So it seems very unlikely that in the centuries running up to Shakespeare’s use of the word in his plays that the word “kissing” never passed anyone’s lips. Shakey gets credit for being the first to write it down, but we surely can’t give him credit for inventing the word “kissing”. And this is the case for some of Shakespeare’s other so-called coinages Ah, now there is a word he appears to have genuinely invented: coinage. Although only in the sense where it doesn’t apply to coins.

And actually that’s another nuance to bear in mind when assessing Shakespeare’s inventiveness. For many examples, Shakespeare didn’t invent the word out-right, he just came up with a new way to use it. Take for example… err… gossip. That’s a good one. Gossip is another really old word. It started out as the Old English godsib.

The god is the same as at the start of godfather and godmother and the sib is the same as at the start of the word sibling. A godsib was a friend or relation invited to be present at a baptism: a god-relative, if you like. It also developed to mean a woman who accompanied an expectant mother at the birth and by the mid-1500s it had morphed further to mean a woman who engaged in rumour or prittle-prattle such as one might among one’s close friends. Here it is being used in 1580. But Shakespeare is perhaps the first to use it to mean the loose talk itself when in The Comedy of Errors he writes this exchange: “Go to a gossips’ feast and go with me; After so long grief, such nativity!”

“With all my heart, I’ll gossip at this feast.” You can even see the Bard’s workings there on the page. He’s taking the noun “gossips” and through wordplay turning it into the verb “gossip”. So he definitely appears to have done something there. Something creative and clever.

But has he invented the word “gossip”? This word that existed in Old English? Nehhh. Let’s poke a few more holes in some “Shakespeare invented it” claims. This site says he invented “submerge”. Oh yeah?

Well what’s this word doing here then, over a century before Shakespeare used it. This is printing pioneer and friend of the channel William Caxton using it to mean exactly what it does now. It doesn’t appear to have been in wide usage directly after that use by Caxton, so I guess you could argue Shakespeare popularised it. But that’s not inventing it. Meanwhile, other writers are using it in his lifetime too.

So there’s Shakespeare being essentially gazumped by the daddy of English printing, William Caxton. But there are other occasions where it seems like big names got to using words just ahead of Shakespeare. He’s sometimes credited with inventing the glowingly gorgeous word “radiance” by putting his own twist on the word “radiant” in King Lear. But here’s Christopher Marlowe using it around a decade before King Lear is thought to have been written: “Thine eyes whose radiance burnes out mine.” Marlowe is of course one of the writers some people like to claim actually wrote Shakespeare’s works.

Another is Francis Bacon, and here he is being credited by the Oxford English Dictionary as using the word “essay” - or a form of it - slightly before Shakespeare apparently “invents” the word by importing it from French. The Bard is also sometimes credited with first borrowing this word from Dutch and giving us the verb “to rant”. But when Hamlet says, “Ile rant as well as thou” he appears to just be using a different spelling of a word being used by other writers at around the same time. So have I made my point? It seems a lot of the words that are commonly attributed to Shakespeare weren’t invented by him at all.

Look at this A-to-Z list of his supposed inventions. By my reckoning only around half of these are strictly correct. And the smart folk at Merriam-Webster over in the US have also gone out of their way to point out that Shakespeare is wrongly getting the credit for some of his best-known innovations. So let’s go back to this number again. Given everything I’ve just told you, does it still seem likely that he coined 17-hundred new words?

17-hundred? Do you wanna know what I think? I think… Yes. Yes, he probably still did. I’ll explain why in a sec. But first,

did you like the way that text appeared as if it was being hand written? I made it do that using a special animation technique that I’ve just learned using this video’s sponsor, Skillshare. Skillshare is the world’s largest learning community for creatives with thousands of classes led by industry experts across film, design, music - the food of love - and also things like marketing and boosting productivity. It has many of the tools you’ll need to take your career, hobbies and side-hustles to the next level. So I edit these videos myself and I’m always looking for ways to make the graphics a bit more fancy - to gild my video’s lilly, as Shakespeare might have said - and Skillshare has classes that have been helping me to do that.

But I’ve also just started watching a series by author Myla Goldberg about how to boost one’s creative writing. I’m expecting to hit Shakespearean standards within no time. Maybe not. If you want to tap into all of this expert knowledge too, you can for free because the first 500 people to use my special link in the description of this video will receive a one-month free trial of Skillshare. So get on. Get thee to Skillshare today.

Okay, back to this number: 17-hundred. 17-hundred is actually a conservative estimate of how many words Shakespeare gave us. Past numbers have been much, much larger. This is from a book published in 1906. It’s written by a guy called Harold Bayley who has managed to get a hold of some early volumes of the Oxford English Dictionary - at the time called the New English Dictionary - And in there, there are details of the first known written usage of each word.

Bayley explains how he counted up all the first citations in two 143-page sections of the work-in-progress dictionary each accounting for what he reckoned would be one percent of the final thing. He then used that information to project how many of the words in the finished dictionary in its entirety - and therefore the English lexicon as a whole - would have been first used by various writers. The numbers are bonkers, as you can see. But the most bonkers is Bayley’s conclusion about Shakespeare. He says “Calculating upon this basis we are indebted to the poet Shakespeare for enriching our English tongue with the astonishing total of 9,450 newly coined or newly used words.”

Nine thousand, four hundred and fifty. That is, what? Five times the number we’ve been talking about? However, over the century since then, the number of Shakespeare first citations in the OED has fallen significantly as more, earlier quotations have been found. So how many is it now, you might ask? Well…

I don’t know. Sorry. But maybe we could just try something. Something highly un-scientific, but no less scientific than what Harold Bayley’s was up to. Nowadays, if you pay your subscription, you can search through the Oxford English Dictionary in lots of clever ways.

So let’s see if we can do that to get some idea of how many words the folk at Oxford now think Shakespeare first used. On paper, at least. What we can do is look for words first used in the years when Shakespeare was active, so the late 1580s and up to his death in 1616. Let’s assume he didn’t coin any new words after that. And then let’s select “quotation author” and write in “Shakespeare”.

And this should in theory give us words first used in Shakespeare’s time and for which the OED has used a quotation from Shakespeare to illustrate that. Here we go. Is the number we get going to be closer to 9,450 or 1,700? Well… It’s three thousand. Three thousand.

Now some of these will not have Shakespeare as the first citation, just an early one. We couldn’t specify that in the search, could we? So we need to check for that. This could take a while. Result one of 3,047, here we go… Okay, I’ll come clean with you. I already did this search and checked

a load of these so that you don’t have to sit through me doing it here and now. And you know what? For the majority of the ones I checked, Shakespeare really is given as the first person to use the word, or use a specific sense of that word. He’s the first person quoted using “should” as a noun, meaning something you should do. He’s the first to call clothes you invest yourself in “investments” and he’s the first to describe something that’s been said as having been “related”.

He’s also the first to use denote and devote and call the dawn the dawn instead of “the dawning”. He apparently coins the word successful by sticking ful at the end of success. And then he goes one further and invents successfully as well, building on his own previous invention. His writings include the first reference to someone who employs another person as an “employer”. Before then the word’s only applied to people employing objects.

And he introduces the word hostile to the English language, apparently borrowing it from French. The point is, the majority of those three thousand appear to have genuinely been first used in print by Shakespeare. Which leads me to believe that that 17-hundred figure, which I think was first quoted by linguist David Crystal and his talented actor son Ben in their book Shakespeare’s Words a couple of decades ago, isn’t wide of the mark at all. It might even be an underestimate. You see, Shakespeare was writing at a time when English was being enriched with new words at a pace that even surpasses our own.

New experiences for English speakers brought about by colonialism, advancements in communication and culture, for example, mean new words are needed to describe them. Plus the renaissance saw lots of words from other languages like Latin and Greek flooding into English. Not without some resistance, however. And there’s also a general playfulness in the way that the likes of Shakespeare are writing that creates the perfect conditions for new terms to pop into existence. For quirkily turning verb into nouns - like Shakespeare did with “hint” - and nouns into verbs - like Shakey did with “championing” - and nouns into adjectives like when he was the first to describe something as “gloom…ie”.

But also borrowing words from other languages, adding suffixes and prefixes or taking them away. Shakespeare is writing just before efforts to standardise English - to essentially freeze it in time - are fully underway. As a result, Shakespeare’s age is something of a word-forming free-for-all. Linguists and historians reckon that the number of words coined between 1500 and 1650 - a period encompassing Shakespeare’s lifetime - was upwards of 10 thousand. Shakespeare is the most quoted writer in the Oxford English Dictionary.

Can you guess what the most quoted text is? Yeah, it’s the Bible. Anyway one of the big things about the Bard in particular is that not only has he given us a lot of words, but he has given us a huge number of phrases too. Something I suppose you can also say of the Bible. To this day, we are quoting Shakespeare all the time - usually without even knowing it.

Every time we “break the ice”, “come full circle”, or “have too much of a good thing”. He gave us “foul play”, “as luck would have it” and “dead as a doornail”, “for goodness sake”. A “wild goose chase” “with bated breath” “for forever and a day” is not “the be-all and end-all”, but there’s “neither rhyme nor reason” for it without Shakespeare. Oh and knock knock, who’s there? Another quote from the Bard.

There are “countless”, “varied” examples. Oh yeah, they’re both Shakespeare words as well. Sometimes he manages to squeeze two immortal phrases into a single sentence. “Though I am native here and to the manner born, it is a custom more honor'd in the breach than the observance.” That’s Hamlet.

So again, we come back to the overall point that Shakespeare did influence the English we speak today an awful lot. Definitely more than anyone else. And English’s position as the most spoken language around the globe - planet Earth that is, not the theatre - means that Shakespeare is therefore probably the most influential linguistic figure the world has ever seen. However, let’s address the elephant in the room. That’s not one of Shakespeare’s by the way.

Can one man really have been this prolific? Especially the son of a farmer’s daughter and glove-maker from a Warwickshire backwater who didn’t even go to university. Well you’re probably aware that some people have said that he couldn’t have. So, let’s talk about that but only briefly because these aren’t claims that Shakespeare would have had to face down in his own lifetime. The idea that the playwright from Stratford-upon-Avon didn’t write his own plays - the so called anti-Stratfordian theory - doesn’t take any firm shape until the mid-1800s. That’s over 200 years after Shakespeare’s death.

To my eyes, the main argument is essentially classist. That’s why the contemporary writers floated as possible “real” authors of Shakespeare’s works went to Oxford or Cambridge, Whereas poor old William had to settle just for Stratford grammar school. But very few scholars of the Bard nowadays entertain the conspiracy theory, really, that William Shakespeare didn’t write his own plays. There’s just too much evidence to the contrary. Shakespeare was massively famous in his own day - he performed multiple times for Queen and King.

Contemporary writers make mention of him as a playwright and appear to have accepted that he wrote the dramatic works he was putting on. And there is a consistency in style and language choice that you don’t get across 40-odd plays if they’re written by different people. Claims that Shakespeare wasn’t who we think he is are probably - as Othello might have put it - “false as hell”. But I’ll leave you with one fact that might well surprise you, and that the doubters do sort of have in their favour: Did you know that not a single example of a play written by Shakespeare’s own hand survives? Not one.

We are largely reliant on a folio of his plays compiled by a couple of his friends - John Heminges and Henry Condell - after his death, who sourced the texts from old prompt books, notes, quartos and the memories of other actors. Ultimately, they had complete power over what went into those definitive versions of Shakespeare’s plays and although they clearly loved the guy - both men named their sons William - can we be certain that every quirky new word in there is actually Shakespeare’s? Who knows. It is not “a foregone conclusion” but maybe one day “the truth will out”. In the meantime, I recommend you watch this video next or check out my podcast Words Unravelled, which you can also watch here on YouTube.

There are hours of wordy nerdy fun for you there to enjoy. I’ll see you in whatever you choose to watch next. And until next time… Good riddance. That’s Shakespeare.