---
video_title: "The world's smallest language"
video_id: PY3Qe_b9ufI
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PY3Qe_b9ufI
video_date: 2024-01-27
video_description: |
  Join me as I explore Toki Pona. And remember to try Opera browser FOR FREE here: https://opr.as/Opera-browser-RobWords . I have found it to be most "pona" 👍
  
  toki a! I hope you enjoy my exploration of Toki Pona, the world's smallest language. With enormous help from a couple of Toki Pona speakers, I'll do my best to explain how a language can function with only around 120 words.
  
  Thanks to jan Mimoku for the TOKI PONA SUBTITLES
  
  🎶  jan Usawi's music 🎶
  @janusawi8794 
  https://janusawi.bandcamp.com/
  
  🎓 Toki Pona resources 🎓
  Discord: https://discord.gg/nbgXCC6
  Main site: https://tokipona.org/
  Tokiponize your name: https://www.reddit.com/r/tokipona/wiki/tokiponize/
  One of many great video courses: https://youtu.be/J93GWOMbgdg?si=8lt9ycIkHvvwTdxX
  
  🟡 More from me 🟡
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: http://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  http://robwords.com
  http://x.com/robwordsYT
  http://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  Edited with Gling AI: https://bit.ly/46bGeYv
  #tokipona #conlang #language 
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
  0:31 Guests
  1:15 What is Toki Pona?
  1:48 How many words?
  2:22 HOW??
  3:40 Opera browser
  4:52 Is Toki Pona' 'vague'?
  8:52 Toki Pona music
  11:20 Word origins
  12:27 Alphabet
  13:22 Tokiponized names
  15:44 sitelen pona writing
  17:45 Numbers
  18:51 Who speaks it?
---
English has somewhere between 250 thousand and a million words, depending how you count them. That’s loads. We know that languages can manage with fewer. Spanish has something like 150 thousand. But can a language really function with just 120 words?

Let’s find out. toki a! mi jan Waputo. Hello, it’s another RobWords, and I’ve been exploring Toki Pona: what is often called the world’s smallest language. And by the way, I’ve found no reason to doubt that claim.

To explain how it works, why it works, who speaks it and why it means so much to those who do, I need to introduce you to a couple of people. [jan Usawi] jan Usawi is my Toki Pona name - Usawi being the name part of that - and I make music in Toki Pona. [music] toki mi la mi jo ala e nimi pi pilin nasa ni sama ni: mi wile e kili lawa… [Rob] jan Usawi is a ridiculously talented writer, singer and producer, and also the first person I’ve ever interviewed with antlers. And I also want you to meet jan Lakuse who moderates the Toki Pona Discord server. [jan Lakuse] I think, honestly, too many words is just overrated.

[Rob]Together they’re going to help us understand Toki Pona. But you’re wondering about the names, right? Well, all will be explained. But first off, what is Toki Pona? Well, it’s a conlang - a constructed language - invented back in 2001 by a woman called Sonja Lang - who by the way was really helpful when i contacted her about this video.

She describes Toki Pona aas her “philosophical attempt to understand the meaning of life in 120 words.” Toki Pona means “good language” or indeed “simple language” in Toki Pona itself, and the multiple interpretations of the name gives you an idea of how it comes to have so few words. How many, precisely? Well actually, not 120 anymore. Words have been added as users have invented them and they’ve been adopted by other speakers.

The Toki Pona dictionary published in 2021 contains 181 words, although some of them are only used by just a very small number of people. Others are actually typos over other Toki Pona terms. So the book says that there are 137 essential words in Toki Pona. But other people will tell you differently. Some people use fewer than 120.

120, 137, 181, whatever. It’s a tiny number compared with other languages. So how does it do it? Well for a start, Toki Pona comes without a lot of the hangups of other languages. For example, there are no articles - there’s no “the” or “a” in Toki Pona.

That only saves three words compared with English, but it saves a heck of a lot more compared with, say, German. There are no grammatical cases - a word doesn’t change if it’s the subject or object, direct or indirect. In fact, there are no tenses, either. There are no different versions of words depending on whether you’re describing the past, present or future. And there are no grammatical genders, so you don’t need different masculine, feminine or neuter versions of words.

What’s more, there are only three pronouns. Where English has I and we, Toki Pona just has mi. It doesn’t distinguish between the single and plural. Ditto for you. While some languages have a different word for you when it's just one person or you when it’s multiple, Toki Pona just has sina.

And where we have he, she, it and they, Toki Pona just has ona. And these words also work for me, my, our, your, his, her, their, its, etc. We’ll talk about the most amazing way in which Toki Pona saves on words in a second, but first I want to quickly tell you about something that has saved me a heck of a lot of time while researching this video. I’ve just started using the Opera browser and it has dramatically improved how I surf the web. I’ve been genuinely really impressed.

One incredible feature is the Ai service that it has built in. It’s called Aria and you can ask it anything you like - like what is a conlang? for example - or you can get it to translate or summarise the text in a webpage you’re on. Another feature that has made a really big difference to me is the ability to group tabs in tab islands. I’m often researching multiple videos at once, so normally I’d have loads of browser windows open. But tab islands meant

I could keep all my newsletter tabs together, all my Toki Pona tabs together and, I mean just look how neat it looks. There are so many more great features: integrated messaging and music apps, file sharing, a built-in ad blocker and VPN to make browsing the web secure and distraction-free, and more. I strongly recommend giving it a go. Use my link in the description to download the Opera browser for free for a faster, safer and smarter internet experience. So the biggest way in which Toki Pona saves on vocab is what’s really remarkable about it.

Toki Pona has very few words - but each one of them can be translated into a multitude of things. They are broad concepts. It’s like how our word fruit covers loads of different varieties of fruit and can be used to refer to any one of them. A banana is a banana, yeah, but you can also refer to it using the broader term of “fruit”. Say “pass me the fruit” when there’s just a banana on the table, and you’re still going to get the banana.

So the Toki Pona word kiwen means hard object, but you can use it where we would say “stone” or “metal” or “brick”. The word kasi is vegetation, but you can also use it for “plant” or even “herb”. [jan Lakuse] You don't need so many different words for, like, room, a building, a skyscraper, an underground bunker. You just need tomo. [Rob] Just a general word for a building or room.

[jan Lakuse] Or just some sort of an enclosed space that a human occupies. [Rob] But what happens when you need to be more specific? When jan Lakuse and I were trying to work out how to explain this, we settled on the story of the three little pigs. So the first foolish piggie builds his house of straw, which in Toki Pona can be kasi pan - grain-like vegetation. But if you wanted to differentiate between the building materials of the two other swines’ abodes you could describe one as kiwen kasi - solid object made from plant - and the other as kiwen wawa, which means solid object that’s strong.

That’s another thing: all content words can serve as objects, verbs and modifiers - like adjectives - depending where they are in a sentence. And you can just line up the modifiers to gradually refine the idea. Actually, Sonja Lang talks about it in this book: “The Language of Good”, which is a little outdated now, but has been a bible for learners of Toki Pona over the past decade. She says, “Modern languages are cluttered with complex ways to express the simplest things. What is a geologist but a ‘person of earth knowledge’?”

[ja Lakuse] It's just a matter of shifting your perspective from English's hyper focus, or most world languages, if we're being honest, hyper focus on very specific things into a different schema. It's just a different schema. You're always talking with someone. And so the ability to ask clarifying questions, to constantly be checking in with your interlocutor, is super important to understanding what they mean. [Rob] A lot of people describe Toki Pona as “ambiguous”, but it’s a description that I’ve noticed speakers tend to resist and I kind of see their point.

The words themselves aren’t ambiguous, they mean what they mean. But what they are, I suppose, is vague. It’s like when we say “animal” we mean animal. It’s not ambiguous. But if there are multiple animals in the field, it is… vague.

So how easy is it to actually express yourself in Toki Pona? Well that’s a question I put to jan Usawi, whose music I love. I was listening to it the whole time while I was trying to research this. Just have a listen: [singing in Toki Pona] It’s good, right? So how does she get by with so few words to choose from?

[jan Usawi] I knew from the beginning this was going to be an interesting songwriting challenge to take on. There's only so many words to use, there's only so many rhyme schemes and only so many words to rhyme within them that often ends up being like, the bigger challenge is I find one line that I like, and I'm like, I'm very constrained in how I end up rhyming this. But it’s not just the small number of words that is a challenge, right? Because of the huge variety of interpretations that a word can have, a single sentence can have a variety of meanings. That’s why context is hugely important to understanding Toki Pona.

Without it, lyrics can be, well… yeah, ambiguous. [jan Usawi] I think at times I've given the impression, like, this is only going to make sense once you talk to her in English and they explain it afterwards. And I understand where that comes from, but my intention is always like, yeah, I'm not going to explain the concept fully, but then if you derive something from it that's totally different from what expected, that's now a new meaning of the song as well. [jan Lakuse] Usawi is a great lyricist. We've had little sort of, like, just among me and my friends, just little things where we compare. Like, we write different translations

of her songs. We compare like, oh, what does yours say? What does mine say? [jan Usawi] I really enjoy writing in Toki Pona for that flexibility in meaning. A great example of this and of this artist fan interaction that I've come to really love is with one of my earlier songs, monsuta.

There's like a frequent recurring line, mi wile alasa: [song] mi wile alasa [jan Usawi] Where mi means, wile means to want to or want or need, and then alasa is a word for hunt but it's often used metaphorically to mean to try to do something. So I, in the song where it's meant to be kind of aggressive and monstrous, had the thought of, like, I want to hunt as being closer to the original intended meeting. But someone came in and said, this whole song takes on a very different light if you read it as meaning I want to try. [Rob] That’s how it is with art, right? Differing interpretations add to it, they don’t take away.

So we’ve talked about how many words there are, and what some of those mean, but we haven’t talked about the words themselves. Where did they come from? Have these arrangements of vowels and consonants just been plucked out of thin air? Well, no. For the most part they’re inspired by words from languages from all over the world: from Georgia, from Finnish, from Japanese, from Tongan, from another constructed language, Esperanto, and from English.

You see this? This is yellow. One of my favourites is the word for damaged: pakala. It’s taken from the English based creole, Tok Pisin, where the word is bagarap. That in turn is a rendering of the English phrase “buggered up”.

But you can see that with bagarap and jelo that the words aren’t exactly the same as their Tok Pisin and English equivalents. They’ve been changed to fit in with a set of rules guiding the construction of Toki Pona words and also the Toki Pona alphabet. A process called tokiponization. The Toki Pona alphabet has just 14 letters. 9 consonants, which are pronounced like they are in English, except for j, which is pronounced /y/.

Which is normal. English is weird for pronouncing it the way it does. And then there are the five vowels that we’re used to, but they are always pronounced the same - they’re pronounced like they are in Spanish or Japanese. Loosely: aah, eh, ee, oh and oo. I mentioned Toki Pona’s rules for building words… well just quickly: A word can start with a vowel or a consonant, but after the first syllable, every syllable has to consist of a consonant followed by a vowel.

The only consonant that can end a syllable is an “n”, but that isn’t always there. The result is that you never get consecutive vowels within a word. There are also a few banned letter combinations, that you can’t use. Mostly because they sound like other syllables. When someone joins the Toki Pona community, they’re encouraged to come up with a tokiponized version of their name so they can properly introduce themselves.

You should totally try to work out what yours would be. I did! Say helloooo to jan Waputo. [man off camera] Hi mate. [Rob] Hallo!

[man] You’re the language guy. [Rob] Yeah, that’s me, yeah. I’m just working on another one. I’ll explain the jan bit later: but how did I get from RobWords, which is what I wanted to go with, to Waputo? Well initially, I didn’t. I followed the rules.

So there’s no R in Toki Pona so I turned that into an W… [Rob off camera] sigh, okay, this takes a while. Let’s just speed it up a little. [Rob on screen] I had to turn the B into a P. The start of “words” has this W, then a sound that sounds most like a U to me. But WU is banned...

[Rob off camera] A little bit more. [Rob on screen] …so let’s reduce the RD to just D. And that D has to be turned into a T. You can’t end on a consonant that isn’t an N, so I need to pop a vowel on the end. [Rob off camera] There we go.

[Rob on screen] So name I initially came up with was Oputa. But then I realised that that sounded like swearing in at least two languages I can think of. [Omar Sy] “Oh, putain” [Rob] So I got some help. [jan Usawi] Rob, I think, would be closer to the toki pona “a” than to “o”, so jan Wa could work as a name for sure. I like the sound of jan Waputo.

[Rob] That's it. It's decided. I'm jan Waputo. Like I say, you should come up with your own. Let me bring up the rules again. Hit pause,

screenshot them, take a photo or whatever. I’ll give you a sec. And on we go. Now two things here: in Toki Pona, you always stress the first syllable of a word. That’s why it’s WAputo not waPUto.

And let me finally explain what that “jan” at the start of everyone’s name is all about. So in Toki Pona, a name is not a proper noun, like it is in English. It is a modifier. And to use it, you need something for it to modify. So in the case of a person’s name, usually this is the Toki Pona word for person: jan.

For a country’s name, you would put the Toki Pona name for land or place in front instead. The UK is ma Juke. The United States is the utterly adorable ma Mewika. These proper adjectives, I suppose, are the only times when Toki Pona uses a capital letter and I mean, the only time. Toki Pona sentences always start in lower case.

Actually, this is the point where I should mention something massive that we haven’t talked about yet. Because this is not the only way to write in Toki Pona. You can also write it like this. This is Sitelen Pona, the good text, and each of these symbols represents a Toki Pona word. The shapes aren’t arbitrary, there’s a logic to each of them.

This is the character for toki, which means communication. And it’s the symbol for object, ijo, with these three lines called emitters, as if the object is communicating something. Side note: I originally interpreted this as like a top-down view of a person speaking. But jan Lakuse ran a poll of toki poni speakers on my behalf and found that pretty much none of them agreed with me. Anyway, toki doesn’t just mean language, it can mean any form of communication.

When it’s used as the standard greeting - “toki” - what you’re basically doing is announcing the start of a communication. It’s like announcing “communication is starting”. The glyph for pona - meaning good, well, simple - is like a smiling mouth. And when you put the symbols for toki and pona together, you get this: the happy little logo for toki pona. Which are my favourite symbols? Well, seeing as you asked, this one,

which is for jaki, which means yucky or untidy, or indeed “messy scribble”. And this little cutie, which represents mu and means… moo. This is the word that describes the noise that every animal makes. In Toki Pona, even a cat says mu. [cat] Moo.

In fact, even inanimate objects can mu. [jan Lakuse] A microwave can mu. That's fine. [Rob] Oh, really? [jan Lakuse] Some people think that if the thing makes a sound by itself, that's that’s a mu. But I go by the axiom that any sound is a mu.

So right now, I am mu-ing to you. [Rob] Love it. Toki Pona can be very quirky. Another way in which it very much is, is in the way it handles numbers. We waste so many words on numbers in English.

We have one, two, three, four etc. And eleven, twelve, thirteen. Then twenty, thirty, forty, a hundred, a thousand, blah blah. But not Toki Pona. It has a couple of counting systems but the most precise is this one, where wan mean one, tu means two, luka - the word for hand - means five, mute - the word for many or amount - means 20 and ale - the word for everything - means 100.

To count, you just add these together. So counting to ten is wan, tu, tu wan, tu tu, luka, luka wan, luka tu, luka tu wan, luka tu tu, luka luka. Simple [jan Lakuse] So if I want to say 299, it would be ale ale mute mute mute mute luka luka luka tu tu. [Rob] You know, it reminds me of? It's like verbal roman numerals.

[jan Lakuse] Kind of, yeah. [Rob] I had a lot fun talking to jan Lakuse. She actually runs an annual Toki Pona writing competition. And people take it really seriously. [jan Lakuse] So, for example, last year there was one person who released this 20,000 word because there is no upper limit. It's like a 20,000 word light novel in Toki

Pona. And that was incredible to see. And I think they got second place. I actually can't even remember if they went or not, they certainly won in my heart. There’s no doubt that Toki Pona means a huge amount to many of its users. You only have to look

at the Discord server, which is really the centre of the Toki Pona universe these days to see that. [Rob] People are really committed to it. And I wonder… It's always going to sound like a mean question, but I wonder why people are so committed to it. There's obviously a philosophy behind Toki Pona that I've just been reading about. I've been reading The Language of Good, and it's all set out at the start about perhaps simplifying language can help you simplify your thoughts.

Do you think there's a philosophical reason that people get so into it, or is it a linguistic toy? [jan Lakuse] I think you're closer with the linguistic toy aspect, but also there's different motivations across the group. There's people who get in because it's just like, it's such a novel idea. There's actually a lot of people who get in because they've never mastered a language before. And the idea of like 125 words or something, it's masterable. You can finish. There’s an end in sight.

[jan Usawi] A lot of the people there are younger. You know, like around high school or college age. I’m in my fourth year of college, for reference. I mean, I think being into Toki Pona in part qualifies you as a nerd, but we're all kind of like self identified nerds in other directions as well. [Rob] Whoever and wherever they are, they’ve been nothing but welcoming to me while I’ve been exploring this whole Toki Pona world.

[jan Usawi] In my opinion at least, Toki Pona hits a really nice sweet spot between enough minimalism that it hits that easy memorizability and gets you to stretch how you think about conveying things, but not so few words that you have to stretch your mind too much to say a basic sentence. [jan Lakuse] For me, it is the best language, But not in like a colonial way. Just like, for me, that is the language that I would like to speak on my deathbed. [Rob] I like one description I heard, which was “the language with the most speakers per word.” [jan Lakuse] That is amazing. Yes.

Yes. Thanks so much to jan Lakuse, who was unbelievably helpful. There’s a link to the Discord server and other resources below. Thanks also, of course, to jan Usawi. I’ll link to her truly marvellous music below as well.

If you’ve enjoyed this, there’s loads more from me in my free newsletter and on my Patreon. Watch this video next, perhaps, and I’ll see you over there. mi tawa. Take care.