---
video_title: "Is English just badly pronounced French?"
video_id: TUL29y0vJ8Q
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TUL29y0vJ8Q
video_date: 2024-03-30
video_description: |
  Enjoy this exploration of the French-ness of English. And join the Lingoda Language Sprint to let your language skills bloom this spring. Click my link and use my code ROBWORDS20 for 20€ off! https://try.lingoda.com/RobWords20
  
  In this video I respond to the claim that English does not exist, but is instead merely badly pronounced French. I explain just how much the French have influenced our language, but why it is still a distinct, Germanic language.
  
  📕PROF. CERQUIGLINI'S BOOK (not an affiliate link): https://www.amazon.com/langue-anglaise-nexiste-pas-fran%C3%A7ais/dp/207305661X
  ⭐️MY PATREON COMMUNITY: patreon.com/robwords
  📝MY FREE NEWSLETTER: http://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  http://robwords.com
  http://x.com/robwordsYT
  http://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  #english #french #etymology 
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Does English exist?
  0:26 Where English comes from
  1:14 England’s French kings
  2:12 French words in English
  4:46 Lingoda
  6:01 More French words
  6:49 Different dialects
  8:41 After the French kings
  10:42 English words in French
  12:27 French grammar
  13:52 H dropping
  15:19 Poetry
  17:12 Conclusion
---
The English language doesn’t exist. It’s just badly pronounced French. Those aren’t my words. They’re supposedly the words of this 20th century French statesman. And they’re the name of a book by this French linguistics professor.

who thinks the English-speaking world should be grateful to France. [Bernard Cerquiglini in French]: It’s thanks to French that English is International. [Rob] Is he right? How French is English, after all? Let’s find out in another RobWords.

So English is a Germanic language. Some people will try to tell you it isn’t, for reasons that’ll become clear, but it is. Old English was brought to the British Isles by Germanic tribes. It was closely related to the languages that became German and Dutch, and in fact it’s not totally ridiculous to claim that a modern day German would have a better chance of understanding Old English than a modern-day Brit. Old English is really nothing like the English that we speak today. It had grammatical gender,

you had to put words in a different order, and it had all these complicated variable endings for nouns, adjectives and verbs. But a millennium and a series of historical events have changed our language completely. And perhaps the single biggest event was this. In 1066, the French arrived - specifically the Normans - and English would never be the same again. As professor Cerquiglini puts it in his book: “Without the Normans, English would today be a second Dutch.”

Would that be so bad? And the thing is, he’s sort of right. When the Norman King William the Conqueror seizes the throne of England, he initiates a period of enormous linguistic change. He kicks out all the English nobles and replaces them with his pals. He sacks all the English bishops - bar one - and puts Normans in their place.

And suddenly, anyone with any power in England is speaking French. And that remains the case for a few centuries. You know, one of England’s most celebrated kings - particularly by English nationalists - Richard the Lionheart spoke barely a word of English. That’s if he spoke any at all. So French was the language of the elite. It became the language of government, chivalry

and art - all French words, by the way. As a result, French words from these fields start to stream into the English language. You needed to know them to get anything done. And to this day, many of our words for power, justice and culture are from French. Words like parliament, council, court, judge, prince, battle, painting, music… I could go on.

And I will. Tax, bill, jury, prison, baron, duke, culture, theatre, mayor, minister. I could still go on… And I will: words like attorney, rule, economy, faith, war, peace, I think you’ve got the picture. And what also happens is the names for trades and artisans start to change too. They take on more prestigious French names.

The Old English flesh-monger is replaced by the Old French “butcher”. The treewright becomes the carpenter. The chapman becomes the merchant. And we end up with barbers, drapers, grocers, masons and tailors. All words from French.

And the power dynamic between the lowly English and the Norman nobility is apparent even in our language today. We’ve ended up with two words for a lot of animals - an Old English-derived one for when they are alive, and a French one for when they’re served up for dinner. We have cow and beef, sheep and mutton, deer and venison. Because the English would encounter them on the farm, and the Normans would encounter them on the plate. You’ve perhaps heard all of that before. I’m by no means the first to point it out.

In fact Walter Scott tackled it way back in 1820 in Ivanhoe, his tale of an Anglo-Saxon noble family surrounded by Normans. In it, the jester Wamba says “old Alderman Ox continues to hold his Saxon epithet, while he is under the charge of serfs and bondsmen such as thou, but becomes Beef, a fiery French gallant, when he arrives before the worshipful jaws that are destined to consume him. Mynheer Calf, too, becomes Monsieur de Veau in the like manner; he is Saxon when he requires tendance, and takes a Norman name when he becomes matter of enjoyment." Many more of our words for a fancy banquet come from French too. A servant may bring you your dinner, or serve you a bottle with supper.

Loads more of these coming up, But if all this talk of French has got you thinking, man I really should get round to learning another language… allow me to help you with that because viewers of this video can get a special discount at Lingoda. Lingoda is a great place to learn a language because its approach is all about getting you speaking to real people as soon as possible. This is essential, the way I see it, because from my own experience learning languages, the real learning starts when you actually begin to communicate. And Lingoda makes that so simple. You can easily find a group or private lesson that suits your skill level and your schedule.

And each lesson comes with lots of great material and the teachers are just great. I had a fabulous time. [in French} I’m Rob, I’m here to do a little French lesson. Lingoda is right now running a Language Sprint challenge - it’s an intensive 60-day course aimed at getting you in a daily language learning habit and staying motivated. If you complete it you can get 50% cashback.

And that combination of the live lessons, the intensity and the promise of a reward are all designed to keep your learning on track. Plus if you go to my link below and use the core RobWords20, you can get a 20 Euro - or 25 US dollar - discount off the Lingoda Sprint Challenge. So check it out. Okay, back to the many French words in English, And like with the meats, our names for family members show the former prestige of the French language. Our closest family have Anglo-Saxon names - mother, daughter, father and son - these words have been with us since Old English.

But niece, nephew, aunt, uncle, cousin: they’re all French words. You need to be able to describe non-nuclear family members when it comes to matters of hierarchy and succession, but not necessarily if you’re only ever handing the family farm down to the next generation. During this period, which we call the Middle English period, the appetite for taking French words is pretty much insatiable. In fact in some cases, we even took on the same French words twice, but in slightly different forms. William the Conqueror and his lot brought over a specific dialect of Old French, Norman French.

It was spoken in northern France, and was a version of Old French influenced by Germanic pronunciations. The Normans were essentially Vikings who had settled in northern France and learned the lingo. It’s what the word Norman means. But a bit less than a century after William first claimed England for himself, the crown passed down to the Plantagenets, a dynasty that spoke a different dialect to William. One that came from central France.

So check this out: where Norman French used a “w” sound at the start of a word, the Central French dialect tended to use a ‘“g”. The Normans made a “k” sound where their counterparts to the south made a “ch”. And they made a “ch” sound where central French had a “s”. Now, during the Middle English period, English took on versions of the same word from both dialects, many of which remain with us today. We took both warden and guardian, warranty and guarantee, wage and gauge, catch and chase.

Now, these words meant the same as each other, but when we took them on, we charged each with its own nuance. And that tactic of borrowing a word but giving it a slightly narrower meaning is a tactic that has helped make English the gloriously rich that language it is. Because, instead of French words replacing Anglo-Saxon words, a lot of the time they sat alongside them. For example, we can still “ask” for something, but we can also “demand” it. We can “answer” and we can “respond”.

We can “wish” and “desire”, “begin” and “commence”. We have the Anglo-Saxon versions and the French-derived versions. So English takes on vast amounts of French words during this Middle English period. But it also never really gets out of the habit, even after French stops being the language of the ruling class. A process that begins when the English crown losing Normandy in 1204 and ends arguably with the Hundred Years War between England and France, when speaking French in England was no longer de rigeur, but something of a faux pas.

Over the centuries since then, we’ve continued to take on French words, mainly because French has always been a bit prestigious. It’s… It’s fancy! We’ve given various Anglo-Saxon nouns florid French adjectives. Things concerning the brain are “mental”. Things in our house are “domestic”. And

our towns are “urban”. A lot of that’s just the result of a fashion in the 15th century. And as the professor points out, in the 18th century a mania for all things French saw us borrow ballet, connoisseur, coquette, coterie, intrigue and soubrette. I actually had to look up “soubrette”. Apparently it's “A maid-servant or lady's maid as a character in a play or opera, usually one of a pert, coquettish, or intriguing character.”

“Pert”? The upshot of all that is that it’s now thought just shy of 30% of the words in modern day English come from French. That’s huge. And if you take into account the Latin-derived words in English too, you see that the minority of English words are actually Germanic. On the face of it, that seems like a win for those who say English is more of a Romance language than a Germanic one.

But not so fast. Because what’s important here is precisely which words come from where. Because yes, there are lots of French words in English, in terms of raw numbers. But the vast majority of the words we actually use day to day are Germanic. Our core vocabulary is overwhelmingly from Old English.

On this list of the 100 most frequently used words in English, only one of them is from French. And that’s the word “people” - a word that we’ve recently handed back to the French and they’re using it to describe their celebrities. Actually, it’s funny how French has started reborrowing words that it gave to English in the first place. It’s one of the big themes of Professor Cerquiglini’s book. [Cerquiglini in French] Many of the anglicisms that we’re borrowing at the moment are actually old French words.

We know this for “tennis”, which is “tenez” in real tennis, when sending the ball over. [Rob] His point is that French-speakers should actually take heart in the fact that French has permeated the English language so deeply that English is now redistributing it to the rest of the world. [Cerquiglini in French] Organization of the United Nations: three French words. International English is French. Be proud!

[Rob] Yeah, also “United States”. That’s two words from French. States is an interesting one actually. I dedicated a large chunk of a previous video to this next bit but a surprising number of “st” words in English have a Modern French equivalent with É T. In the case of state, it’s État.

But also “stage” has “etage”, “stranger” has “etranger”. That’s because the Old French versions of these words started with an E S T. English dropped the E, and French dropped the S. So we may have put our own spin on them, but French words really are everywhere in our language and undoubtedly, vocabulary is the most profound way in which French has influenced English. But it’s not the only way.

The grammar of English has changed significantly since Old English, and a large amount of that change happened as the Normans arrived and Old English became Middle English. Now, it’s hard to know how much of this change is attributable to French influence. English, for example, has just come into a great deal of contact with the language of the Vikings, Old Norse, too. But there are at least a couple of changes for which French has to be the prime suspect. One of them is that we developed a second way to indicate that something belongs to someone or somewhere and we still have both now.

So nowadays we can say “The king’s sword” or “The sword of the king”. The first of those reflects the Old English construction, and the second is applying the same formula as French does. It uses a word to suggest possession - in French “de”, in English “of” - instead of just adding letters to the end of whatever is doing the possessing like Old English did. In Middle English, it also becomes possible to put an adjective after a noun, although it’s not something we do that often these days. But we can say, for example, “move to pastures new” instead of “new pastures”.

And we can speak of “time immemorial”. This is a French construction that we also see in a lot of job titles like Attorney-General, Procurator-Fiscal, Notary Public or when we speak of an heir apparent. And could it even be that the French changed the way we pronounce the words we already had? Almost certainly yes. Because during the Middle English period, H’s start to drop like flies to an ‘orrible extent.

Especially at the start of words. In Old English, Lord and Lady both begin with an H. We also see H-dropping that is more familiar to us now, i.e. Hs being dropped before a vowel.

But far from it being something that was seen as a sign of a lack of education back then as it occasionally is now, it was probably seen as the opposite. Because who is terrible at Hs? [Inspector Clouseau:] I would like to buy a ‘amburger [Rob] To drop your Hs was to sound more French and therefore more prestigious. This might even explain why H-dropping is - even now - more prevalent in areas that were historically of administrative and commercial significance, like London and the southeast of Englan. because in areas that would have had much less French influence people are less likely to drop their Hs. Think about how some people in Scotland will say “hwat” or “hwear”.

They’re emphasising the Hs if anything. And a remnant of this idea that dropping your Hs like a French-speaker is prestigious is the fact some people still insist on saying “an hotel” or “an historic”, effectively treating the H like it isn’t there. I think perhaps some people think “an historic” is more poetic which brings me onto another profound change that the French are very likely responsible for. Let me show you something. This is Caedmon’s Hymn. Written sometime in the 7th century, it’s one of the earliest,

if not the earliest attested example of an Old English poem. The key characteristic of this, and indeed all Germanic poetry from the time, is that it contains amazing amounts of alliteration. It repeats the sounds at the start of words over and over. Let’s have a listen to this marvellous reading by Kara Shallenberg. Note the alliteration, but also just see if you spot something else too.

[Kara Schallenberg] Nū sculon herigean heofonrīces Weard, Meotedes meahte ond his mōdgeþanc, weorc Wuldorfæder, swā he wundra gihwæs, ēce Drihten, ōr onstealde. So hopefully you heard the alliteration in there, but did you also notice something else? It didn’t rhyme. Now, I know poetry doesn’t have to rhyme, but in Old English it never did, it was all about the alliteration. Poetry in English only starts to rhyme after the French turn up.

French poetry was known for its rhymes at the end of lines and that becomes the fashion in England too. Without doubt the best known writer of the Middle English period is Geoffrey Chaucer, and look at this. He ends every line, with a lovely little rhyme. And Chaucer was well versed, so to speak, in French. [Cerquiglini in French] Chaucer, working in customs in London, is working in French.

[Rob] Yeah, and in The Canterbury Tales he’s using a rhyming technique taken from across the English Channel. So our poetry, our grammar, our vocabulary and the way we speak. The people of France can indeed claim a part in shaping English into the language it’s become. [Cerquiglini in French] It’s thanks to French that English is international. [Rob] Well, maybe.

Colonialism, Hollywood and the internet might also have played their part though, right? Nevertheless, it seems to me that the sheer number of borrowed words in our language means we 1.5 billion English speakers around the world are at least some of the time just speaking badly pronounced French. If you’ve enjoyed this video, I think you should watch this one next. And if you can read French, check out the professor’s book. It’s actually really

great. I’ve got a totally free newsletter about word facts and language fun - in English. You should sign up to that and I’ll see you in the next thing. A la prochaine. Cheerio.