---
video_title: "SPECIAL: Let's just do a nice crossword together."
video_id: ybudcAutAa0
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ybudcAutAa0
video_date: 2025-04-19
video_description: |
  Let's just do a nice relaxing cryptic crossword together. I've chosen the Observer's Everyman crossword from a few weeks ago. Don't worry if you don't normally do cryptics; I'll explain it all as we go along.
  
  Here's the crossword if you want to play along: https://www.theguardian.com/crosswords/everyman/4093
  
  Alan Connor: https://bsky.app/profile/alanconnor.bsky.social
  John Halpern: https://www.johnhalpern.co.uk/
  
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  🎤PODCAST: https://podfollow.com/words-unravelled-with-robwords-and-jess-zafarris OR @WordsUnravelled 
  
  Check me out on the web:
  https://robwords.com
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
---
We're going to do something a bit special. You and I are going to do a crossword together. No script, no fancy editing, just you, me, and this black and white little beauty. Should we get cracking? So which crossword are we going to do?

Well, this one, it's called the Everyman. It appears every Sunday in the Observer newspaper, which is like the Guardian's Sister newspaper. There's no Guardian on a Sunday, so they've published the Observer. And it's called the Everyman because it's supposed to be, as cryptic crosswords go, quite an easy one. Now, we're talking about cryptic crosswords.

And the thing with cryptic crosswords is, if you've never done one before, the clues are not just straight quiz-style clues where the answer goes in the grid. The clues are little riddles. They can be a bit daunting if you've never done one before, but they are enormously satisfying once you get into them, because every time you get an answer, you've achieved something significant. You have managed to decipher something. And that is why I really enjoy doing them.

And that is why I think you will, too. I find them enormously relaxing. I don't know about you. Things have been a little bit stressy lately around the world, don't you think? So we're going to have just a nice relaxing time.

Now, I am going to rifle through these because I don't know how long this is going to take. I don't even know if we're going to complete this thing. I hope we are. I have had a glance through the clues, full disclosure, and I know we're going to get at least some of them. Are we going to get them all?

Well, there's your bit of jeopardy. Let's get started, though. And I'm going to start with as one might expect, one across. "It's eternal, they say, in vitro meat." Okay, so what's going on here?

That as a sentence doesn't make an awful lot of sense. And that's because, if you've never done a cryptic crossword before, I need to tell you something. And that is that most cryptic crossword clues are actually two clues in one. They're made up of a riddle or wordplay and just a straight clue to what the answer is. And that's what we've got in the case of this clue here.

"It's eternal, they say, in vitro meat." I've worked out the answer to this, by the way, which is why I'm speaking with such confidence. It just leapt out at me, this one. And let me tell you that the straight clue here, the clue that's just going to tell you what the answer means, is "it's eternal, they say". And the riddle is in vitro "In vitro meat".

Now, let me just write something down for you here. So these are where I'm putting my notes, right? In vitro meet. So we're looking for something that is eternal that appears 'In vitro meat'. Can you spot anything eternal, quite literally in the words 'In vitro meat?

Are you ready for this? I love this thing. Sorry. Okay, I'm going to show you where it is. It's here, Rome.

Is Rome something that's eternal? Well, they say that Rome is the eternal city, don't they? So I reckon we've already got our very first answer, which is Rome. Yeah, we're off the mark. Good.

Let's move on to, as one might expect. Actually, not as one might expect. So this is funny. Whenever I do a cryptic crossword, I do this thing where I go through all of the acrosses first just to see if I can get any of the clues without having any help from the downs. But I was told by a guy called John Halpern, who is one of Britain's leading crossword setters, that this is a bit odd and that most people, for example, in this instance, would immediately go to one down or three down because I've already got a letter.

But that is not how I work. That's John Halpern. By the way, we need to give a shout out to the creator of this very crossword, this guy called Alan Connor, a very talented man, multi-talented, because not only does he set this crossword, but also he's a successful screenwriters, he's a successful author as well. You can see it all here. This is his Blue Sky profile.

And you can see he's written for Have I Got News For You, which is a satirical quiz show in Britain. He's written for Charlie Booker. He's also written Questions for House of Games, which is a popular TV quiz here in Britain. And of course, he writes The Everyman, which is the crossword that we're doing right now. He's also written on Borat, too.

Alan was He's kind enough to give me his blessing to do his crossword in this video, and I really appreciate it. And he's a bit of a hero of mine because I have been doing this crossword for, like I say, over a decade. He's not been doing it the entirety of that time, but it's continued to be brilliant in his care. Anyway, back to crosswords because we really do need to rifle through these. 'It shows axes, part of plotters' designs?'

So plotter's designs, What are plotters' designs? So plotters' designs could either be the plans of plotters, like the gunpowder plot, the plot to blow up Parliament, or plotters' designs could also be designs for a building plot, couldn't they? I don't know which we're looking for here. I don't know the answers to this one immediately. So what I'm going to say is that we actually moved straight on to the next one because we really need to jump through these.

And we're going to nine across four letters. 'Refer to model in Channel Islands on ecstasy.' Now, let me tell you something about the Channel Islands. Not just that they're beautiful, the only part of Britain to be invaded by the Nazis. Why I said that? Sorry.

But that channel Islands has a common abbreviation, particularly in crosswords. It's always abbreviated to two letters, which are C-I, which is no great surprise. And another word in that clue also has a very common abbreviation. And that's the word 'ecstasy', right? What's the abbreviation?

By those who use it and those of us who don't. I don't use it, I swear. It's 'e', right? 'Ecstasy' is 'E'. So I reckon, of the four letters that we're looking for here, three of those letters are going to be C, I, and E.

So we're just looking for one more letter in here to give us our answer, I reckon. So where do we find that in this clue? 'Refer to model in Channel Islands on ecstasy.' Well, I said earlier how the clues tend to be made up of a straight clue and a cryptic one. And we've already decided that the cryptic bit is the end bit, 'Channel Islands on ecstasy'.

So the straight clue must be 'refer to' or 'refer to model'. But we need to find where we're getting that extra letter from. And if we've got three of the four letters already from Channel Islands on ecstasy, 'model' is probably what's going to provide us with the extra letter we need. And refer to is probably going to be the straight clue. I'm saying probably here, I've actually worked it out.

I know what this is. It's not probably at all. So the model we're looking for is the Model T. Have you heard of it? The car that you could have in any colour as long as it was black.

Was it Henry Ford? Was his name Henry Ford? Mr. Ford. Yeah, he said that. So right, we've got the word 'cite' there.

What does 'cite' mean? What it means 'refer to', doesn't it? So I'm pretty confident that our answer here is 'cite'. Let's put it in. I'm going to bring up this version.

Oh, look how smart that is. Okay, we're writing in 'cite'. Okay, onwards and upwards onto 10 across. What do we got here? 'Ultimately furious, into craw sticks one that's extremely inferior'.

Okay, so normally when you see the word 'ultimately', it's telling you that you need to take the final letter, the ultimate letter of the word that came after it. So in that case, this would be 's'. But I don't know what's going on with the rest of that, Clare. And seeing as I'm trying to rush through this a little bit, I'm going to move on and just hope that the downs later give us a bit more help with that one. So let's get cracking on to 11 across.

'Trembling mankind kind, holy, welcoming Earth's biblical promise.' 4, 3, 5. Okay. So my immediate thought with this one is that the word 'trembling' is telling us that we're looking for an anagram. I know that sounds a bit strange, but in cryptic crosswords, whenever you see a word like 'trembling', 'shaken', or a word that suggests 'disorder' or 'confusion', these are all hints that there's an anagram in the clue.

So in this case, we're looking for an answer that is 4, 3, 5, which adds up to 12 letters. So we need to find somewhere in this clue, 12 letters that we can rearrange. I mean, assuming I'm right about 'trembling', which I might not be, to make What I assume would be a biblical promise. Okay, so where could those letters be coming from? Well, I think 'mankind holy' is probably part of the anagram.

What What do those add up to? We've got seven letters in mankind, four in holy. So that adds up to 11. So we need to find another letter from somewhere. I'm going to assume that that other letter is the E at the start of Earth, because you've seen Earth abbreviated to E, right?

On my diagrams of the solar system or whatever. Mars would be M. Or would it? Or would Mercury be M? Or whatever. You get my point.

V would be Venus, and E would be Earth. So what I reckon we're looking for here is an anagram of mankind Holy E that equals a biblical... What on Earth are those numbers?

What was that? Okay. I have no idea what those numbers are. Okay, it's going to equal to biblical promise. I was a bit mad, wasn't it?

Biblical promise that's made of a 4, 3, 5. Mankind, Holy E. K is an unusual letter, isn't it? K doesn't appear in a lot of things. What could it be?

It's not going to be kind because kind is already there. No. Okay. Biblical promise. Someone is going to be screaming this at me.

They'll be screaming at their screens knowing this one. It doesn't immediately come to me. Let's move on from our mankind holy E, our biblical promise, and just get cracking on with the next clue, which is going to be 15 across. 'What posh homes have, (AKA station wagons)' All right, I've got this one straight away because station wagons, what are called station wagons in the US, have a different name. They are also known as something else in Britain.

Station wagons in Britain are known as estate cars or estates. And what do posh homes have? They have estates. So I am really very confident that the answer here is...

Not there. Wrong direction. Here. Estates. Estates.

All right. We'll see. On to 16 across, which is 'Primarily pecuniarily...'

I genuinely don't know what that means. Oh, gosh. '...pecuniarily relayed or reimbursed according to amplitude.'

Now, I don't think it matters that I don't know what that word means, because I think the word primarily at the start there, primarily in the clue. But I think the word primarily there is telling us we need to take the first letter from 'pecuniarily', the primary letter, right? It might even mean that we need to take all of the first letters from the words that come after it as well, because we're looking for a seven-letter answer, and there are seven words that follow primarily here. So what are the first letters of 'pecuniarily related made or reimbursed according to amplitude' work out as if we type them out? Because I've already worked out what the answer is here.

I'm just going to type them straight into the grid. They come out as P-R-O-R-A-T-A. 'Pro rata'. Is there something in the clue that tells us that the answer might be pro rata? Well, I reckon there is because we have according to amplitude in there, which is what pro rata basically means.

So I'm pretty confident that the answer there is pro rata. Okay, moving on, moving on, moving on. This is taking a while. Sorry. Okay, I'm enjoying it.

I hope you're enjoying it. Every clue just gives you this little buzz. If you're sad, like me, we're not sad. Okay, 17, Okay. 'Stuff what you can do to the WWW, you say.'

Something weird going on there, isn't there? 'Stuff what you can do to the WWW.' If you take stuff as meaning things, then that's awful grammar, isn't it? Stuff what you can do. Or if you're telling someone to stuff it like a verb, stuff what you can do to the WWW, you say.

That's what we're saying it. Www is the net, maybe. You say, which means it might be a saying or it might be something that sounds similar to something else. I don't know. I don't immediately know what the answer to this one is, but I think we're going to get it.

Let's keep going, anyway, onto the next clue, which is 19 across. 'Not half pretentious: opposed to Italian wine.' Okay, so I can only think of one Italian wine, and it fits. It's chianti, seven letters, right? And I think it's probably the answer, because if you're opposed to something, you are anti it, and chianti is at the end of that.

So we're looking for some way of getting to the rest of the word chianti, which is C-H-I, right? From 'not half pretentious'.

If it says something like that, not half, it might be saying that you get rid of half of a word, right? So is Is there a word for pretentious where CHI is half of it?

Someone's going to be yelling this one at me. It could be the first three letters. It could be the last three letters. I'm pretty confident the answer here is chianti, but I'm not going to write it in because I do need to know where the CHI is coming from. Or if we get enough of the downs, it's going to be obvious that that's what it is.

Let's keep on going. 'Origamist's income? (7,5)' I like this one. So it's just a two-word clue. So you think, well, how can this have both a straight clue and a cryptic one?

There's only two words there. And the fact is that it's just a little bit cleverer than your average clue. I would say Alan Connor has done a lovely job with this one. Origamist's income is 'folding money'. That's the answer.

I know it is. It just is, right? Because it's money for folding. And folding money is a thing, isn't it? That's what you refer to paper money as, folding money.

7, 5? Yeah, I'm really sure that the answer we're looking for here is folding money.

There's It's a bit of an unusual one there. Just a two-word clue. There it is. Just a two-word clue, but I'm really confident that is our answer. All right, let's move on to 23, across.

We're working right from our way through it here. 'Small drink, adjacent to finger?' When you see the word small in a cryptic crossword clue, it's very often pointing you to the letter S. Because if you buy clothes in size small, I do not, it has to be said. I'm a large, really, but I like to kid myself that I'm a medium.

But if you buy them, you're going to find an S on the label, which is why small, usually, is telling us to write the letter S. 'Small drink, adjacent to a finger.' I don't know that that's what this is asking us to do, but I'm pretty confident it is. I don't know what the rest of the clue is asking us to do, so I'm going to move on and hope that we get a bit more help from the downs on that one. 'Quiet tune, mate.'

Okay, so the word quiet also has a very common abbreviation in music and in cryptic crosswords. And that abbreviation is P for piano, which is the Italian for quiet, and the term used in music to tell someone to play their instrument quietly. The instrument, the piano, is...

Well, actually, it's short for pianoforte, which means quiet loud, because the innovation that came with the piano is that you could play it both loudly and quietly, which you could not with its predecessor keyboard instruments. So we're looking at a four-letter word here, beginning with P. Let's note this one down. P. So we got gap, gap, gap.

What does the rest of the clue say? It says tune, mate. So we are looking for, I think, a word meaning mate. So it begins with P, it's a four-letter one. And the final three letters are a tune.

What's a three-letter word for a tune? Well, I think the answer is this. I think it's pair because I think a tune is an air. Can a mate be a pair? I guess it can, can't it?

I'm pretty confident that that's going to be pair. Am we going to put it in? And what else could a tune be? An ode, 'pode'? No, it's not a thing, is it?

Let's go for pair. I'm writing it in. Can you just see it behind my head there? There it is. Pair.

All right, onto the next one, moving as fast as we can onto 25 across. 'Bad neighbour accounting cryptically for taste?' Okay, nothing's leapt out of me on that one. The reference to cryptically in the clue there probably means we're re-arranging some words, but I don't know which ones just yet. Okay, we're going to move straight on to 26 across.

All right, here we go. 'Say, this culture regularly disappears.' So you know when you see the word regularly in a clue? It's maybe telling you that you need to take every second letters and regularly remove or regularly take letters. Four-letter word here. 'Say, this culture regularly disappears.'

So the word is going to be referring to as culture in here. I think what we need to do is take the word culture and remove every second letter. Let's try it. Okay, we solved pair, didn't we? Let's get rid of that.

Culture is what I'm writing out. So what happens if we delete every second letter here? C-L-U... Clue. Oh, my goodness.

Okay, this is great. I love this. Say this. Culture regularly disappears. So say is a way of saying, for example.

So this is saying, for example, this. The answer is clue. See, this is every man, Alan Connor, having a nice little play with us because the answer here is clue. I do enjoy it when you get a meta self-referential clue like that one. Excellent. Hey, we've done all of the acrosses.

I mean, we haven't solved them, but we've at least read them all. So let's crack on and get on with the downs, all right? So we're going on with one down. And looky here, we've already got some letters. We've got the R, C, and an E, all right?

So, 'Presence of mind initially disturbed – making amends'. 'Presence of mind initiallydisturbed – making amends'. 'Presence of mind initiallydisturbed – making amends'. So is there a word for making amends that fits in there? Because I think that's what it's going to be.

Recompense? Recompense. Recompense. Recompense. Okay, that does fit.

Presence of mind, initially disturbed. So I think we're looking for a word that means presence of mind, but has maybe had the first letter taken off it. But is there a word meaning presence of mind that has...

When you remove the first letter means 'recompense'. Maybe it's not recompense, but I think I'm close with that one. Let's just move on. We'll have a look at It's two down. 'Stimulator provoked vandals.'

'Stimulator provoked Vandals.' Okay, so we're looking for a 10-letter word here. How many letters are there in stimulator? There are 10. Because I think the word provoked here.

Provoked is a bit of an obscure one, but I think it's telling us to rearrange the letters. Like, provoke the word stimulator into being our answer. So is there a word for vandals that is an anagram of stimulator? Let's write it out. Come on.

We like doing it like this. We solved Clue. That's good. Okay, stimulator. A vandal.

Mutilator? Mutilator? Mutilator? Mutilator. What I didn't look at is we've got a load of letters here.

Look, mutilator totally fits, doesn't it? Mutilator's not mutilator because it's stimulator, not stimulator. I'm pretty confident the answer here is going to be mutilators, because mutilator's are vandals, right? And that is what the clue was asking us for, 'Stimulator provoked vandals'. Great. We got our first down.

Awesome.

Awesome. Four. Let's go for 'Shrinks showing barmy decrees'. Okay, I was talking about terms that could possibly mean re-arranging something. I was talking about a word like confused might tell you that you've got an anagram, you need to rearrange a word. Barmy, which...

Is it British slang, Barmy? I don't know, maybe, but it means mad, right? It means crazy. And words that mean crazy are also often with cryptic crosswords an indicator that you need to rearrange the letters. We're looking for a seven-letter word with this clue, and a seven-letter word in there is 'decrees'.

And that's next to the word 'barmy', which makes me think that maybe we're looking for a word that means 'shrinks', that is an anagram of 'decrees'. I hope you can see how I've got to that logic. Is there a A word that means 'shrinks', that is an anagram of 'decrees'? Other than 'decrease', which would mean 'shrink', have we got any letters here? Well, actually, we have got a letter.

We've got the 's' at the end. So we know that we're looking for a word that ends with an S.

Recedes? Recedes. That's an anagram. It ends with an S. And it means shrinks.

Come on. Yes, baby. I'm pretty sure we've got it. That's re-cedes. All right, look at this.

This is soon filling up. It's a lot easier, isn't it? Once you've actually got some of the letters already on the acrosses. This is why I do all of the acrosses. I give myself a nice easy time a little bit later on.

It's like eating your vegetables first or something like that. All right, let's get on to our Our next clue, which is five down. Okay, 'Spooners'. This is an interesting one. Have you ever heard of a Spoonerism?

A Spoonerism is where you swap the first letters, usually of two consecutive words, and you come up with something funny. I'm trying to think of one-off the top of my head, and the only one that's left to mind is rude. It's a Spoonerism of fuzzy duck. Don't do it if you don't like swear words. But imagine swapping around the first The first letters of those two words.

So when you need a clue, you see the word 'spooners'. It's usually telling you that there's a 'spoonerism' in here and that the words that come after it are describing the 'spoonerised' term. So we're looking for something that means 'espy duck', like to spot a duck or something like that. But when you swap the first letters or the first sounds around, you get something that means 'in fog'. Oh, it's not duck. Sorry.

It's deck. Oh, I'm such a fool. Sorry. Espy deck. Okay, so spot.

To spy is to see. See a deck. Deck is a floor or a pack of cards. Pee sack? No.

Pee sack? Sorry, do you know why I said that? That would be see pack, right? Because a pack of cards is a deck. But a pee sack...

I can't believe we just said pee sack in one of my videos. I don't think the answer is pee sack, but I think I'm getting close to it because I think see... I think pee is correct.

Have you ever heard of a pea soup? A pea-souper. It's a slang term for a foggy day. So if you spoonerise pea soup, you get sea poop. And is poop a Is that a check?

Yes, it is. So I'm pretty sure that the answer here is pea soup.

E. No, it's A, isn't it? P soup. You don't want a pee soup. Not with two E's.

It's bad enough with E, A anyway. Actually, quite partial to a pea soup. They're very popular here in Germany, and they've rather won me over with them. All right, we're on to the next clue anyway, which is, go to God, devil, I, I'm not sure, it's chaos. Chaos, again, is another signifier that you might be dealing with an anagram.

If you chaotically approach the words before it, then you rearrange them and you get the answer. What are we looking at here? 'Goaty god? Devil? I ... I'm not sure ... It's chaos'.

Eleven letters. I don't know how many Letters devil, I, I'm not sure, adds up to. Let's have a look. Five for devil, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11. So 'devil? I ... I'm not'.

'Sure, it's chaos.' Okay, what's a goaty God? What's a goaty god? What's a goaty god? Like a fawn?

Could it be a fawn? Or maybe.

Pan. Pan.

Okay, there's a word for chaos that begins with pan, isn't there? It's pandemonium. Now, that fits. Look at where that O and that M are. Pandemonium.

I think the answer is going to be pandemonium. How do we get it from that clue? Oh, check this out. Okay, so goatie God is pan. Devil is demon, right?

So if Can we write in pan, oh, come on, p-a-n, demon.

And then where are we getting ium from for the end of pandemonium from there? I'm not sure. Okay, so to be unsure of something is to 'um', right? So the 'I' is just from the word 'I' that we've got there. And then 'I'm not sure' is 'um'.

So that is how we get the 'em' at the end of pandemonium. That's a beaut. I like that one a lot. All right, onto the next clue. Quickly, quickly, quickly.

Seven. 'Like a piper or a clown?' A piper or a clown?

Four letters. The only four-letter word I associate with a piper is pied. You know the pied piper? Can a clown be pied? Yes, yes, yes.

A clown can be pied, can't it? A clown can be mustard pied. When they throw a pie in face. Okay, again, I'm pretty confident that we've got the answer here. I think like a piper or a clown, the answer is pied.

If it was a pied piper or a clown, it can be pied. All right, so we're going to look at... We're really rifling through here.

8 down, 'She's dreadfully hurt'. Okay, dreadfully is another word here that is probably telling us we've got an anagram on our hands. And in this clue, you've got one four-letter word. And we're looking for a four-letter answer, remember. And the one four-letter word is hurt.

Although actually she's is also four letters, isn't it? But I'm pretty confident, well, in fact, I know that we're rewriting the word hurt because the answer is Ruth. The she in this is a lady called Ruth. I'm pretty sure. I'm going to put it in. I'm confident enough.

All right. On we go, on we go, on we go. I love this. Twelve. Is that going to fit in there?

No, it's not there. There we go. Down at the bottom of that one. ''Due'? Both late! For renewal PDQ'.

''Due'? Both late! For renewal', Okay. ''Due'? Both late! For renewal'. Renewal could mean to rearrange something, couldn't it?

You could renew it by...

Yeah, resorting it, re-arranging the word. We're looking for two, three, six on this one. You see that? Two, three, six. So that's 11 letters.

''Due'? Both late!', how many does that add up to? It adds up to 11 letters. 'Due both late', renewed, 'PDQ'.

Okay, PDQ.

Right, we're going to get that one next time around. I'm pretty confident we'll have that one. Thirteen. 'Cleric at formal event embracing Pole: that's smashing.' Now look, we've got loads of letters here.

We did well on the acrosses on this one. So we've got an A, an N, something A, something L. All right. I think down here, Because we're talking about formal event in the clue. Can you see that?

It says, Cleric at formal event. And you can see how ball fits at the bottom of there. 'Cleric at formal event embracing Pole: that's smashing.'

Smashing. Is there a type of ball that's smashing? Well, there's a wrecking ball or a cannon ball, a cannon ball. Does cannon ball fit? Can it fit, cannon ball?

Could the answer be cannon ball there. A cannon is a type of cleric, right? Cleric at formularia, a cannon ball. But what's the embracing pole doing? That's smashing.

Okay, I need something to justify why the answer to that is cannon ball. Let's just wait and see if we can get 19 across, which is what we need to just give us all the possible letters for that, and then we'll have a better idea if we're on the right lines with cannon ball. Maybe, maybe not. I don't like to put something in unless I'm sure, you see. 14 down.

'It may resemble an elder, includes many'. 'It may resemble an elder includes many'. Well, what's an elder? An elder is an old person, an older person, a parent. An elder is also...

Is it a tree. 'It may resemble an elder, includes many'. Oh, we've got a load of letters here as well, I should say, because it's six and 4. May resemble an elder includes many.

All right, again, nothing's leapt out at me there, even though when we've got so many letters, it probably should, but I'm sure we'll get there. I'm just going to keep going for the easy picking. So we're going to move on to 18. 'Everyman on diet, after time eating seconds, becoming most large.' Now, do you remember the name of this crossword?

It is the Everyman, and the word Everyman is in the clue. So every man is also, by the way, the name, the pseudonym, the pen name under which the setter of this crossword goes. Alan Connor. He calls himself, when he's writing this, 'Everyman'. It says it's by 'Everyman'.

So that means when you see Everyman in a clue, you're often looking for 'I' or 'me'. That's what it represents, as if the crossword is speaking to you itself. So 'Everyman on diet', so that would be 'I' or 'me' on a word meaning diet or next to a word meaning 'diet'. We're working on 'down', aren't we? So it would be 'on'.

So 'I' or 'me' on diet after time eating seconds becoming most large. Right. So here's the thing. When something is most something, a superlative like that, Then usually the word ends with E-S-T, doesn't it? Like greatest, fattest, bravest, goriest, whatever.

Is this one going to end with E-S-T? Well, we've got time eating seconds.

I'll tell you now that time is usually abbreviated to T, and seconds is usually abbreviated to S. We've got S and T for the est at the end. So most large would be...

Okay, so we've got a letter here, by the way, I should say. We've got a D. The third letter is D. So is there a word meaning 'most large' or 'largest' that begins with either an 'I' or 'ME' and then a D. Med, meh, Okay, I haven't got this one yet, but I'm pretty sure we're on the right track.

Let's keep going, right? We're rushing through. How long has this been going for now? This is not a short video, is it? But I hope you're enjoying it.

Anyway, I hope it's flying by. It's flying by for me. All right, 19. 'As maestro will do to ensure behaviour...'

Okay, I'm pretty sure that the answer here is going to be conduct, because what does a maestro do? They conduct. Also, the third letter is N, plus the clue ends with the word behaviour. And what is behaviour, if not conduct? So without even paying too much attention to the rest of the clue, I'm going to carelessly, almost in a punk crossword fashion, I'm just going to write in conduct.

I bet you that's what it is. I mean, it's too much of a coincidence that we've got a word meaning behaviour, and we're talking about a maestro. Yeah, come on. It's going to be conduct. Next clue, please.

21. 'Making comeback, damn celebrity'. Okay. So making come It's telling you to turn a word around, reverse a word. Reverse a word.

So I've already got this one. What's What's the word for a celebrity? It's a star, right? And what happens if we write the word star like that? Backwards, we get rats.

And what can rats Rats mean as well as rodents? It can mean, as the clue indicates, damn. So making a comeback, the word star, meaning celebrity, gives us a word meaning damn. Although, now, I think I've made a mistake here in that I think I was supposed to reverse the word rats to get the word star instead. Because usually, the The straight clue is at the start or the end of a clue, right?

And the word celebrity is what's at the end of this one, not the word down. Making come back down, celebrity. I think the answer is star rather than rats, actually. So we got there anyway, despite going about it the wrong way, if you know what I mean. We saw the word celebrity, and we were just like, Oh, yeah, it's going to be star. I'm in the way of it.

There you go. It's gone in. Locked in. Okay. I reserve the right to, later on, reverse that to rats if nothing fits around it.

Okay. And then let's get on to 22 down, the final clue that we haven't looked at so far. Then we're going to go back and we're going to sweep up all of the ones that we weren't sure about before and see if we can fill in the rest of this grid. Because look, it looks only about half done, but there were quite a lot of them, weren't there? Where we said, I think we'll get that later.

All right. 22 down. 'Dopy grin that's been in proposal'. Now, okay, dopey here. I see the word dopey, and I think I need to rearrange something here.

And I think the word is grin. And what does one see in a proposal when someone gets down on one knee? We see a ring. What's 'ring' an anagram of? Grin.

Yeah. So I'm pretty sure the answer here is 'grin'. Let me just remind you of how I did that one. Dopey grin. So dopey is telling us to rearrange the word 'grin'.

And then it's telling us that the answer is something that is seen in proposal. And 'ring' is both an anagram of 'grin' and something that you see in a proposal. All right. Cool. We've done all the clues now.

You could stop watching now if you like, but it's not really satisfying, is it, to do it at this stage? Let's keep going and fill in those gaps. And we'll start at the top left corner and work our way through. Oh, no. So we should go back to...

We should focus on the acrosses, shouldn't we? Because we just did the downs. Because now we've got a load of extra letters for our acrosses. So let's go with three across now. Helpfully, it goes grey.

Can you see how it goes grey when you've filled one in? So we'll be able to easily spot the ones we haven't got. 'It shows axes, part of plotters' designs'. So have a look here. Now, I would bet any money that this is paper, right?

Because we're talking about designs. 'It shows axes, part of plotters' designs'. What fits there? Crepe paper?

Could it be crepe paper? 'It shows axes, part of plotters' designs'. It's got to be paper, hasn't it? It's got to be paper. 'It shows axes, part of plotters' designs'.

I'm finding it really hard to see past crepe paper here. I'm going to just let this one stew over. Again, I bet you're shouting the answer at me. I bet you are. There's a lot of letters there.

Rob, this is embarrassing. All right, anyway, let's move on to the next across. It's 10 across. All right, what have we got here? 'Ultimately furious, into craw sticks one that's extremely inferior'.

All right, okay. Let's have a look at what letters we've got here. We've got a lot of them. Something C, something A, something M, something E, something T. Could it be something that ends with no, not meant.

Or maybe. Maybe. Ultimately furious, into craw sticks one that's extremely inferior. So if something's extremely anything, it's a bit like we were saying something's most something. It ends with est.

So I think we might be looking for another word that ends with est here. I mean, that would fit. Oh, my goodness. I just worked out what this one is. Oh, is my face going to be red?

It's probably red right now. That's why I always keep a fan nearby. Anyone who knows the podcast, Words Unravelled that I do with Jess Zafarris will know why I keep my fan nearby. Because I blush a lot, don't I? Okay, I've made a spelling mistake here, haven't I?

This fool has spelt pandemonium with an M instead of an N. I bet you've been screaming at me over that ever since I typed it in. Sorry. The reason I've worked out, the reason my attention was drawn to that is that I'm so confident that the answer to this is scrawniest. Why? Well, let's have a look at the clue.

We've got the word craw there. 'Ultimately furious, into craw sticks one that's extremely inferior'. So hold on, let's type in scrawniest and just have a look at what that word looks like. Scrawniest. So we've got the word craw in there, right?

Can you see that? S, which was ultimately 'furious', as in the end of the word 'furious'. So S 'craw sticks one that's' sticks. Oh, 'sticks' is maybe a 'nest', is it? Because We've got nest there.

And if you stick '1' in nest, one being an I, because one and I basically look the same, don't they? So that's how you get to 'scrawniest'. Yeah. Okay, I don't feel like I explained that one brilliantly, but the answer is scrawniest. And I can only apologise for the misspelling of pandemonium earlier.

I mean, I explained that it was pan, so it's not as though I didn't know how that word was spelled. I just typed it wrong with my fat fingers, didn't I? All right, next. Eleven across. We got, 'Trembling mankind, holy, welcoming Earth's biblical promise'.

Okay, we made a note of this one, didn't we? Up here, mankind, holy, E, biblical promise. But what we now have as well is a load of letters. We've got, Gap, Gap, L, gap. That's not an L. L, gap.

Then a space for a word, and then gap, gap, D. Then a space, and then a space, and O, a space. God, this must be fascinating to watch. Okay, all right. Is there a biblical promise that is an anagram of 'mankind holy E' that fits in there?

There surely is. And, something and. Yes, I've got it. Okay, I've got it. Sorry.

This one took me longer than it should have done. So it's not necessarily like a biblical promise, but more the biblical promised land, I guess. The land of... Da da-da da da da daaa

If I could write it quickly enough: milk and honey. There's your anagram of 'mankind holy E'. It's milk and bloomin' honey. That's our answer. Let's stick it in.

And... Honey. By the way, I should say, don't worry if you aren't keeping up with all of this.

It takes practise. These things take a lot of practise. That's half the fun of them. It took me, actually, embarrassingly, a few years to be able to solve these crosswords in their entirety. Don't worry.

Just have fun. Find some more. Practise. It's okay if you're not getting all of this first time. The point here is I'm just flooding you with them just to give you an idea of the vibe.

The vibe of a cryptic crossword. Next, we've got 17 across. Let's see what the deal is with 17 across. 'Stuff what you can do to the WWW, you say', which is net, right? What do you do with the WWW The net, you surf it, right?

Could the answer be surfing? 'Stuff what you can do to the WWW, you say.' 'What you can do to the WWW'. I'm just saying it over and over. I'm somehow going to get inspiration.

Although that is how it works, to be fair. What you can do to the WWW, surfing. I just think it's surfing. But you say it should sound like something else. Yeah.

Sorry, We're going to move on from this one again. I can't tell you what, if you're still here, you are one of the elite, I would say. Well done on being here. We're going on to 19 across, and we have See something I already to help us out here. Now, do you remember what I said way back when?

I said that the answer to this was going to be chianti, 'Not half pretentious: opposed to Italian wine'. I knew why it was anti at the end, but I didn't know where the C-H-I was coming from. It's half of a word meaning pretentious. Not that much. What's pretentious?

But I just look, it's going to be C-H-I. We've got the C in the I. I'm I'm confidently going to write in Chianti here. And if you work out how 'chi' is half of a word meaning pretentious, before I do pop it in the comments, I'm going to keep thinking about chi. Words meaning pretentious. What's pretentious?

Not childish. Could it be the end?

Chilly? Pretentious isn't chilly, is it? Chippy. No, that's not. Chinny.

Whatever. I'm just going to take it as a win. The answer's Chianti. All right. Now, by the looks of it, 23 across is our next port of call.

'Small drink, adjacent to a finger?' Okay, so I was under the impression this was going to begin with an S, but I don't think it does. Adjacent to a finger. Small drink. It's like a tot or something, isn't it?

Oh, gosh. I just realised I made another mistake here, didn't I? I wrote in grin when I should have written in ring. That's why that doesn't make sense. All right.

Yeah, because I think I know what What's the answer to this one actually is. Because a small drink is sometimes called a thimbleful, which is a thimble is something you would have adjacent to your finger, isn't it? And thimbleful fits here. So I'm pretty sure we've got thimbleful. I can't believe I did two typos.

I can only apologise to you, that grin thing. Do forgive me. I mean, this thing is quite hard. I've I've got this thing here, right? I'll show you.

With a load of buttons on it that I'm using to try and switch between the different shots. I'm doing all of this live. So okay, I typed in the wrong letters a few times. I can only apologise. I really can.

But look what progress we're making. We're on to 25 cross. Here it is. What's the clue? 'Bad neighbour accounting cryptically for taste'.

'Bad neighbour'. And we've got quite a lot of letters here. We've got R something G, and then we've got a T towards the end. Cryptically for taste. I said that I thought the word cryptically probably meant there was an anagram in there.

And I now realise that I'm right because I know what the answer to this one actually is. It is rogue state. Yeah, rogue state. Why is it rogue state? Well, I mean, a rogue state is definitely a bad neighbour, isn't it?

I would say.

Accounting cryptically for taste. Rogue state. Oh, right. Yeah. And the word state is literally taste rogishly.

I might not have got to that in the right way, but I'm pretty confident that I got there. All right, brilliant. We're going to go and clear up some downs.

'Presence of mind initially disturbed – making amends'. And we've got a lot of letters here. I will say that recompense still fits. 'Presence of mind initially disturbed'. I still can't work out why recompense fits into the idea of presence of mind making amends.

Is there another word for making amends that's similar to recompense? I'm not so sure. Okay, I'm going to do another down and see if that helps. We'll go for 12 down.

and it was going to mean PDQ. And 'at the double', fits both of those. It is an anagram that fits, and it means PDQ. All right, at the double. Next.

Thirteen down. All right, let's have a look. 'Cleric at formal event embracing Pole: that's smashing'. Look, I said it It's going to be cannonball, and I still think it's cannonball. I'm going to put it in.

Because I just don't see how it can be anything else. That is smashing. I'm not entirely sure how we got there, though. If you do know how we got there, can you tell me in the comments, please. I would appreciate it greatly.

Fourteen down, as my watch tells me that it's on the hour. That means we've been going for more than... Oh, gosh, we've been going for a long time.

But aren't you enjoying it? I'm enjoying it. 14 down. By the way, I do them faster than this in my head, I have to say. It's much slower when I'm fiddling around with all my equipment.

14. 'It may resemble an elder, includes many.' Okay, so I said it could be a parent or something, right? Or it could be a tree because an elder is a tree. And I was right on both counts with that one because the answer is 'family tree'.

Family tree. Have a look. 'It may resemble an elder', yeah. A family tree does look like a tree in shape. 'Includes many'.

Includes many elders. Indeed, it does. Your family tree includes many elders. It also just includes many people, but I think it's saying it includes many elders. That's a nice one.

Nice work, Alan. Very good. All right, how's the grid looking? Oh, man, we're really nearly there, aren't we? Eighteen down.

'Everyman on diet'. Let me show you. 'Every man on diet, after time eating seconds, becoming most large'. Okay. So I'm still pretty confident we were ending with an E, S, T there.

'Everyman on diet after time'. 'Most large' 'on diet'. Oh, okay. All right. Okay, okay, okay.

Do you know what's going on here? Let me get my notes up here. So we solved rats, and we solved those. Let's delete them. Isn't that going to be satisfying? Oh, nice and clear.

Okay, so the clue here is 'Everyman on diet ,after time eating seconds, becoming most large'. So we are looking for something that means most large on this one. And every man on diet after time eating seconds. So I already said every man, probably meant I or me. On diet. So we're going to write diet in there.

The next part of the clue is after time. So we've got 'Everyman on diet', 'I diet' after time. And as I said before, T is the abbreviation of time. And it's saying it's after that. So that means we put what we had before after T.

And then the clue also says is 'eating seconds'. So I already took seconds as meaning literally like, numerical seconds, not going up for seconds as food. Because when you see the word seconds in a cryptic crossword, it's usually telling you, you want the letter S. 'Eating seconds'. So if we take what we've already got, which is over here, and make it eat seconds, that means we put S in here somewhere.

And to make it fit where we want, it fits there. And look, we've got a word. Got the word 'tidiest'.

So does tidiest mean most large?

I'm not quite sure. Most large, tidiest. Oh, you know when it does? If you make a tidy profit, that means it's a large profit, right? So yeah, I'm satisfied that tidiest is what goes in there.

Gosh, how many we got left? We only got three left. This is good. This is good. Okay, let's go back to across.

The one that I was sure was 'crepe paper', but I still can't work out how. It shows... Oh, my goodness.

I've just got it. Again, you'll have been shouting at me here. I've been reading the word 'axes' there, as in choppy things. It's not axes, is it? It's axes, the plural of axis.

It 'What shows axis, part of plotters' designs'. What does a plotter draw on? So we've already worked out that paper as the end of there. This isn't crepe paper. It is graph paper.

A graph paper. It shows axes, not axes. Oh, that's a relief. I thought I wasn't going to get that one. Because when you've got all of the possible help from the other letters and you still can't get it, it's graph paper.

It just is. Brilliant. All right, one down now. Back to one down, which is over here. Presence of mind, initially disturbed, making amends.

Oh, okay. So the issue we've got here Here, it's still that recompense fits, but I can't work out why. What happens if we assume that that is correct and that here there should be an S? I'm I'm just putting that in. I don't imagine it's really there.

I'm just putting that as a thing. What happens then when we look at 17 across, which is down here. 'Stuff that you can do to the...'

Oh, okay. Right. Okay. Sorry, I went silent there because I had a brainwave. 'Stuff what you can do to the WWW, you say'.

I know what the answer is here. I was right to say surfing was part of the answer, but the answer is actually 'surf it'. It's what you can do to the WWW, you can surf it. But surf it doesn't fit here, does it? S-u-r-f.

And then we got an E there. What's going on? Well, if we do put surf it in there, we get the word 'surfeit', this other word with that E in it. And does that fit with our clue? Stuff, what you can do to the W, W, W.

Can stuff mean surfeit? I think it can. I think that's our answer. I think it's stuff. So I just think that this has to be recompense.

Recompense. Oh, yeah. No, it's okay. It's just me typing it wrong. Recompense.

What do we reckon? Recompense? I don't know why it is that. Maybe it isn't. Let me know in the comments why that is recompense or if it is not recompense, tell me why.

And if you don't know, make sure you check the comments underneath this video. I have really enjoyed doing this. We did it. We filled in the grid. Although I don't know if one of those is wrong.

I'm pretty sure we got it. Thank you so much for sticking this out. I really enjoyed myself. Thank you so much to Alan Connor. And also, I need to give a shout-out to a guy called John Halpern, who I have recently done an interview with.

He is genuinely one of the leading cryptic crossword setters in Britain. He's one of the few people who makes their living by setting cryptic crosswords. And he was kind enough to let me interview him about what he does and get some tips on how to do these crosswords. I'm going to make one of my fancy videos featuring that interview. I don't know when I'll have it ready for you in the coming weeks, and you can hear more about John Halpern and cryptic crosswords.

Hey, thank you so much for spending this time with me. This will be the longest video I ever make, I am sure of it, and I hope it hasn't been totally tedious. I assume not if you're still here. Watch this video next, and I'll see you in whatever choose to take a look at next. Take care.