---
video_title: "Is English really a Germanic language?"
video_id: PCE4C9GvqI0
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PCE4C9GvqI0
video_date: 2025-03-08
video_description: |
  Let's put this question to bed. And remember to go to https://ground.news/robwords to see how language shapes our perspectives. Save 40% for unlimited access to the Vantage Plan through my link.
  
  English sprung out of the languages of the Germanic tribes that invaded Britain after the Romans left. Its origins are undoubtedly Germanic. 
  
  But have a millennium and a half of encounters with speakers of other languages turned it into something else? Let's explore whether English is still a Germanic language.
  
  *CORRECTION* I made a copy and paste mistake with the words for "eleven". Apologies.
  
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  📖BEOWULF READING: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6lImDxPlMSw&t=42s
  🇫🇷HOW FRENCH IS ENGLISH? https://youtu.be/TUL29y0vJ8Q?si=8W60uPFO-FMQrwWv
  ⚔️VIKING WORDS IN ENGLISH https://youtu.be/XimUGRX81V8?si=045yu7-9lrU1BX__
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://x.com/robwordsYT
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
---
This is the Germanic language family tree and look: There’s English. English has germanic blood pulsing through its veins and yet, most of the words in our language are not Germanic. What’s going on there then? How Germanic is English really? Let’s find out in another RobWords.

So the first thing we need to do is establish what we mean by a Germanic language and to answer that we need to go back in time because the vast majority of the languages of Europe - and some Asian languages too - can be traced back to a single ancestral language. A language spoken by a group of people probably living somewhere around the Black Sea Absolutely ages ago. Like, five thousand years ago or more. We call that language Proto-Indo-European, which means earliest or original Indo-European, because its speakers would go on to spread across two continents taking there way of speaking with them. However, as they dispersed over hundreds of years, the way that each disparate group spoke changed and in differing ways, therefore creating the language families that we have today.

For example, in Southern Europe we have the Romance languages, descended from Latin, which in turn is descended from Proto-Indo-European. In Eastern Europe we have the Slavic languages which share a common ancestor that’s descended from Proto-Indo-European and in northern Europe we have the Germanic languages, all of which share a common ancestor we call Proto-Germanic, which is descended from Proto-Indo-European. And in this family is English, as well as Icelandic, Swedish, Dutch and of course German. Now, I say “of course German” because it has to be here, doesn't it? They're the German-ic languages aren't they? But we do need to be a bit careful here.

It’d be easy to presume, I think, that German is somehow more Germanic than the other Germanic languages or even the original Germanic language from which the others - including English - are descended. But it’s not. You see, we’ve got ourselves in a bit of a bind in English because we’ve decided to call this country that I’m standing in right now “Germany” and the language most commonly spoken here “German”, using a word we got from the Romans. But we also call the shared culture across northern Europe “Germanic”, making the words “german” and “germanic” very easily confused. Now, for example, in German no such confusion exists, because though they also call that shared culture “Germanic” - or “Germanisch” - they refer to their own language, not as “German”, but as “Deutsch”.

Ideally, we’d take their lead on this and stop calling Germany “Germany”, but call it an anglicized version of what the Germans call it. So… “Dutchland”, I suppose. But that would make the language therefore “Dutch” and then what are we going to call Dutch? Are we going to call it “Netherlandic”? I don’t know.

It starts to get a bit messy, doesn’t it? Anyway, I’m getting into all that just to say that because a language is Germanic does not mean it is descended from German. English is not descended from German. Certainly not High German, which is the proper name for the dialect of German that we commonly call just “German”. However, English is more closely related to German than many of the other Germanic languages because it hangs off the same branch of the Germanic language family tree alongside Dutch and Frisian, and some others too.

They’re called the West Germanic languages and we have this family relationship with them because of where English sprung from. You see, before English was in England, it was in continental Europe in the form of a variety of now long-dead West Germanic dialects and these were spoken in the same little bit of Europe from which languages like Dutch and German would also spring. These dialects were then brought over to Britain by the Angles, the Saxons, the Jutes, the Frisians where they combined to create a language sometimes called Anglo-Saxon, but more often these days called Old English. This is Old English, and to the modern eye - and ear - it’s basically gibberish. [Voice reading Beowulf] “...hú ðá æþelingas ellen fremedon.”

But over 1500 years or so this is what developed into the English we speak today and it is irrefutably Germanic. No stray French words in here, the occasional Latin word, sure, because the Romans had not long left the area. But really, Old English is perhaps easier for a modern German speaker to understand than even a modern English speaker. It shares the three grammatical genders that remain in German and speakers of modern Dutch and even-more-so modern Frisian would also have a better chance of comprehending some Old English vocab than someone who only speaks modern English. Old English is a fully signed up, card-carrying member of the West Germanic language family.

It’s as Germanic as this German forest that I’m standing in. It was written with runes, for goodness sake. “For the wynn” But if our language has changed beyond all recognition since then to the point where we simply can’t understand Old English anymore, is it possible that it is no longer so… Germanic? Well, it’s not an unreasonable question. Here is a pie chart showing the origins of all the words in the English language today and look.

The majority of words are not of Germanic origin. Combined, Romance words from Latin and French make up the majority. However, we cannot change English’s ancestry any more than you or I can change who our biological grandparents are. I can swan around in a stripy jumper and Roman helmet, but it doesn’t give me Romance DNA. English has Germanic DNA.

What’s more, despite its French clothing, English still shares a great deal with the other Germanic languages and more than it does with any other languages, anywhere. Sticking with vocab: let’s look at the words I’m saying right now. The ones of Germanic origin are in red and the ones from French, Latin and elsewhere are in blue and you can see that the vast majority of the words we actually use are Germanic, despite them being overall in the minority. Why? Because the nuts and bolts of English are Germanic.

It’s a bit LOL that Germanic itself isn’t Germanic. And if we look at basic words we see how well English fits in with all the other Germanic languages. A is for “apple” and that word would be easily recognisable to a speaker of Icelandic, Swedish, Dutch or any of the others. And then there are the fundamental verbs we use all the time, like “to come”. Look how similar they all are, although we’re the odd ones out because we’re the only ones who come with a C.

And across English’s vocabulary there is another big signifier that it belongs with the Germanic languages: it bears all the hallmarks of something known as Grimm’s Law. Named after Jacob Grimm - as in the brothers Grimm of fairytale fame, yes, he was a linguist as well - Grimm’s Law says that all the Germanic languages, via their common ancestor, went through a series of consonant shifts that made them different from other Indo-European languages and in consistent ways. “P” sounds became “f” sounds, “t” sounds became “th” sounds, “k”s became “h”s, “b”s became “p”s, etc. And English shows clear signs of having been through this. For example, the “p” to “f” shift and “t” to “th” shift are the reasons why our “father” is the equivalent to Latin “pater”.

The “k” to “h” and “d” to “t” shifts are why our “heart” is equivalent to Greek “kardia”. Latin and Greek didn’t go through these uniquely Germanic shifts. However, English did. There are other things about English that make it thoroughly Germanic: fascinating things that I’m going to get onto in a sec, but did you see how President Trump just signed an order designating English as the official language of the United States? A patriotic move or an attack on multiculturalism, what do you reckon?

Well your view may well have been influenced by wherever you heard the news, but with Ground News - who’ve sponsored this video - you get the whole picture. On that story alone, it’s brought together over 200 articles in a single place to allow us to compare the coverage. What I love about Ground News is it will tell you how different ends of the political spectrum are treating the same story by comparing the language and perspectives. For this story it shows left-leaning outlets stressing the move does nothing to erase the fact that America has tens of millions of Spanish speakers, whereas right-leaning outlets point out that Trump has succeeded where other attempts to establish an official language have failed. It has never been more important to understand the political biases and reliability of your news sources and the Ground News website and app give you all the tools you need.

What’s more their Blindspot feature makes sure you don’t miss stories that only one side of the argument is covering. So if you want to see how language shapes the news and stay fully informed, go to ground.news/robwords or use my special QR code to get 40% off unlimited access to Ground News, like I have. Okay, let’s look at some more of those characteristics of English that make it thoroughly Germanic. One of them is that we don’t have a future tense.

Have you ever noticed that? We make the future tense using the present tense of other verbs. And guess what: all the Germanic languages do the same. None of them has a future tense, unlike all of the romance languages like French. Here’s another thing: have you ever noticed something weird about our numbers?

If you count to 20, the teens only begin at thirteen. Why not oneteen and twoteen? Well, this reflects an old system of counting that centred around counting to 12 rather than to 10. 12 is much easier to divide up than 10, plus our ancestors may well have been doing that thing where, you know, you count with your thumb in the gaps between… Ach, my hands are too cold to show you, hold on. You use your thumb to count the gaps between the joints in your fingers.

Can you see that? One, two, three… and there are twelve of them. Anyway, the use of that system is why we have words for eleven and twelve that are distinct from 13 upwards. It isn’t “base 12” so to speak, because from 20 onwards normal decimal business is resumed, but it is unlike other European counting systems and it is… Germanic. So those are a couple of ways in which English shows off its Germanic roots today, but it also often betrays that it is specifically West Germanic, as opposed to North Germanic - aka, Scandinavian - particularly when we use verbs like “to speak”.

You see how German and Dutch have similar words but the Scandinavian languages do not. They use words that are actually related to our word “tell”. Except for Norwegian, that is, which uses a word related to our word “snack”. Seriously. I guess it’s all about opening and closing your mouth, isn’t it?

We do something similar when we sleep too. “Sleep” is very similar to the other West Germanic words for the same thing, but rather different to the North Germanic words. However, let me show you one more example that rather messes with my point here, because it’s going to lead us onto something really interesting. Let’s take our verb “take” and compare it to its equivalents across the other Germanic languages. Do you notice something?

All of a sudden, English aligns better with the North Germanic languages - the Scandinavian languages - than it does with its siblings, the West Germanic languages. So what’s going on here? Well now I get to talk about the next big historical event for English after the creation of Old English in England: the arrival in England of the Vikings. In 793, the Anglo-Saxons are just minding their own business when suddenly, some nasty Norsemen turn up and ransack a monastery on the northeast coast. The Viking assault on Lindisfarne kicks off a series of sporadic attacks, which are followed by out-and-out land-grabs and the eventual colonisation of a huge chunk of England by Scandinavian settlers.

And these Danes - as they were often called by the Anglo-Saxons - brought with them their own language. The thoroughly North Germanic, Old Norse. In the area settled by the Norsemen, the so-called Danelaw, Old Norse speakers and Old English speakers were rubbing up against one another, often, in fact, marrying one another it seems. And so the two languages were sometimes being spoken in the same household and they started to influence one another, resulting in a whole load of Viking words entering into the English language. There are a lot of Old Norse-derived words in Modern English.

In fact, I made a whole video about it a while back, but, you know, glorious examples are words like “sky” and “skill”, and “egg” and “husband”. The Viking “wind eye” became our “window” and to our English “shirt” we added the Scandinavian “skirt”. But the change also runs much deeper than just the names for things. Old Norse fundamentally changed some of our most essential verbs. It’s influenced how we say who we are because “are” is a borrowing from the Vikings and - to finally get back to my point here - the word “take” is also a borrowing from the invading Danes.

So what did it replace? Well, the Old English “niman”, which fits in much more neatly with our West Germanic siblings. The vikings are also responsible for all our “th-” pronouns: they, them and their, which displaced Old English alternatives, meaning a sentence like “They are taking their eggs” is all Viking, baby. Oh, and that thing we do after we’ve finished saying everything we have to say… when we “die”. Well, we borrowed that word from the Scandinavians too.

In fact if we were still using our original West Germanic word for popping our clogs, we’d be describing all dying as “starving”. ‘Tis true! Look at the German and Dutch words for “to die”. So the upshot of all of this is that English, while being a West Germanic language, also has a load of North Germanic vocabulary and, so far as I know, that makes it unique. No other Germanic language spans the subfamilies in this way, even if you take into account that a lot of North Germanic languages have borrowed words from the West Germanic language that is English.

So, a big point of this video is kind of to say that it isn’t really possible for one language to be “more Germanic” than another. However, the fact that it represents both existing branches of the Germanic language tree - there was a third by the way, East Germanic, which included Gothic, but that’s extinct now - I feel like that has to bolster English’s Germanic credentials. But any argument that English is more Germanic than the other Germanic languages falls down very quickly, when you bring up words like these. These are the Germanic languages’ names for what we call autumn or fall, and notice how none of the other ones call it anything similar. They all use words, actually, that are related to our word “harvest”, which is what we once called that time of the year.

English, though, is the odd-one-out. “Autumn” is obviously not Germanic, it’s a French word. But “fall” is a Germanic word. However, we’re the only ones using it like that. Then there’s another thing that separates English from the Germanic crowd: the fact that we don’t have grammatical gender.

We only have one word for “the” because we don’t have masculine, feminine or neuter nouns, but all the other Germanic languages have at least two grammatical genders. Except Afrikaans, which has been living outside of the neighbourhood for so long that it’s lost them. Not having grammatical gender is not very Germanic. Although, to be fair, it’s not very Romance either. Indeed it’s not very Indo-European.

It really is very weird. And yet… we manage. However, it may well be that the very thing that about a minute ago I used to claim that English could be seen as extra Germanic is the reason why it is so un-Germanic when it comes to grammatical gender. One of the best theories we have for why English lost the masculine, feminine and neuter of Old English is that the clash of the Old English gender system with Old Norse’s gender system led speakers of the new hybrid language to just call the whole thing off. If that’s the case, I’m very glad they did.

Whether or not it is, though: we know that grammatical gender definitely didn’t survive the next big major event for the English language: the arrival of the Normans. When William of Normandy crosses over from France and seizes the crown of England, becoming WIlliam the Conqueror in the process, that is generally taken as around the time when Old English becomes Middle English because a massive change happens in English, brought about by the language of the leadership of the land suddenly becoming French. A whole tranche, and huge cache, of French words get absorbed into English over the few centuries where the French-speakers are in charge, accounting for the majority of that. The French language influences English in lots of other ways too, however that’s for a video called “How French is English”, which I just so happen to have already made. But any suggestion that Modern English is somehow no longer Germanic centres around what happens in the centuries after the Normans arrive and the way English is transformed by French.

However, I just want to point out something that perhaps doesn’t get said often enough. And that is that the French that gets brought over to England is not French like we know today. And I don’t just mean that it is Old French, I mean that it is a specific dialect of Old French, the one spoken by the Normans. But do you know who the Normans actually were? Why they were called the Normans?

It’s because to their neighbours on the continent a Norman was a “North-man” because they had come from the North. And where in the North? Scandinavia. The original Norman was a fella called - not Norman - but Rollo, one of the most famous Vikings of all time. And all the Norman kings, including William the Conqueror, are his descendents.

So the Normans were essentially Vikings who moved to France and learned the local lingo. And what’s more, that lingo had also previously been influenced by the West Germanic language of the Franks. So therefore you can say Norman French was a French with Germanic characteristics. That’s part of the reason why some of the French words in English are noticeably different from their Modern French equivalents, modern French being primarily descended from a dialect from Paris. The best example I can think of is our word “war”, which is related to the Modern French word for war, “guerre”.

In fact, “war” and “guerre” are the same word. Just, one of them has a Germanic “w” sound from the Normans and the other has a distinctly Gallic “gu”. That “w”/”gu” thing is also why William is called William, not the typical French equivalent Guillaume. Actually, interestingly, in a few more instances we’ve ended up taking forms from both Frenches at different stages, giving us similar words but with “w” and “gu” versions. “Warden” and “guardian” is one example.

“Warranty” and “guarantee” is another. Anyway, my ultimate, big point here is that even the French that ends up doing so much to make English seem less Germanic, is a bit Germanic itself. Some of these are Germanic-tinged French words. So I hope that I’ve persuaded you already that English is very Germanic - in so far as any language can be “very” Germanic. But I also want to point out that English continues to develop in a typically Germanic way.

For example, when we invent new words, we generally use a Germanic formula to do so. When we encounter a new concept, rather than innovate a completely new name for it, we’ll often smash together words we already have to make longer compound words. It's something that German is notorious for, but we do to a less extreme extent as well. Think about words like “crowdfund”, “clickbait” or “facepalm”, and the order in which we place the words we’re smooshing together follows a Germanic blueprint as well, with modifiers coming before nouns. For example, “manbun” or “smartphone”.

Don’t take that order for granted. If English had somehow over the centuries become a Romance language as some people - quite wrongly - claim, a skyscraper wouldn’t be a skyscraper. It’d probably be something like a scrape-sky, like it is French, Italian and Spanish. Here’s one more Germanic compound for you: “newsletter”. I have got a completely free one that you should sign up to.

It’s just wordy nerdy fun once a week in your email inbox. You should check it out and I’ll see you in whatever you choose to watch next. Maybe this. Take care.