---
video_title: "Is there a better alphabet for English?"
video_id: UAI3g6zVyAI
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UAI3g6zVyAI
video_date: 2025-02-15
video_description: |
  Enjoy these failed attempts to reinvent English. And go to https://ground.news/robwords to see how language shapes our perspectives. Save 40% for unlimited access to the Vantage Plan through my link.
  
  Did you know Benjamin Franklin invented his own alphabet? As did the Mormons. Many people have tried and failed to end the fiasco that is English spelling. In this video I explore five such attempts.
  
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://x.com/robwordsYT
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
  1:01 The Mormon alphabet: Deseret
  6:04 Benjamin Franklin's alphabet
  12:10 The Global Alphabet
  16:12 Unifon
  20:39
---
DId you know that the Mormons once invented their own alphabet? For English. Or that this fella invented one too? Benjamin Franklin. Well they did and they’re not the only ones.

So let’s explore and rate some of the many failed attempts to come up with a new English alphabet. Welcome to another RobWords. On this channel, I’ve talked about alternative writing systems for English before. I have advocated a return to the runes that were used a thousand years ago for Old English and I’ve even attempted to tweak our existing alphabet myself. Our current alphabet, borrowed from the Romans, is not fit for purpose.

That’s one of the big reasons why English spelling is such a disaster: we don’t have the right letters to describe the sounds of our language. And because of that there have been a multitude of attempts to come up with a new alphabet for the English language and attempts by some surprising people. With that in mind, let’s begin in 1850 in what would one day become the state of Utah, but at this point is the fledgling new home of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. AKA: the Mormons. The leader of the Church is a man named Brigham Young, who took over from the Church’s founder, Joseph Smith - he of golden plates Book of Mormon fame - following Smith’s death at the hands of an angry mob.

After arriving in the Salt Lake Valley, the Mormons established the University of Deseret - Deseret being what they were calling their new home, believing it to be an ancient word for the industrious “honeybee”. And Brigham Young had a specific task in mind for the new Deseret University. He wrote “I have asked the Board of Regents to cast out from their system of education, the present orthography and written form of our language”. He is asking them to come up with a new alphabet. He explains: “...as it is now, the child is perplexed that the

sign A should have one sound in mate, a second sound in father, a third sound in fall, a fourth sound in man, and a fifth sound in many. He’s got a point. Young also claimed that - as well as making learning to read quicker for the kiddies - a new alphabet would also help non-English-speaking converts get to grips with the language and integrate better into Mormon society. So the Board of Regents did as they were told. It took them a few years, but eventually this is what they came up with.

What became known as the Deseret Alphabet. Blimey. I actually think it looks kind of cool. It’s based around each letter having one single sound. You could call it phonetic, but it might be more accurate to call it phonemic.

A phoneme is one of the little sound units that makes up a word. It’s a bit like a syllable, but not quite. For example the word “the” has two phonetic sounds, “th” and “uh”, but “the” only has one “phoneme”: the sound, or syllable “the”. And so in Deseret the word “the” - the most common word in our language, by the way - is represented by a single character. How’s that for efficiency?

In fact here it is on the cover of The… Book of Mormon. Yes, the Mormons’ sacred text, inspired by Joseph Smith’s gold tablets, was rewritten in the new alphabet making it look to my eyes all the more mystical. The Deseret Alphabet had 38 characters that do very cleverly describe the sounds of the English language. It is a good way to write out English. But credit for that can’t really go to the Mormons themselves.

You see, they borrowed the repertoire of sounds that the letters represent from an existing alternative writing system: this, developed a few years earlier by British linguist Sir Isaac Pitman. This is his Phonotypic Alphabet, but he was also the inventor of Pitman shorthand. And you should remember that name because he’s going to come up again later. But one of the men working on the Deseret Alphabet was a fellow Brit, George D Watt, the first person in Britain to be baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and a man well aware of Pitman’s work back home. So the Mormons essentially took Isaac Pitman’s alphabet and swapped out all of his symbols for their own, resulting in this.

Now, I think a graphic designer might complain of a lack of stylistic uniformity in this. The letters don’t necessarily look like they all belong together. There are curly whirly ones, and jaggedy waggedy ones. It’s also unclear where these symbols came from. Some of them are just the Latin letters reversed or turned upside down Or just left pretty much as they are.

And others are completely novel. Maybe Phoenecian inspired? We don’t know But that’s what they came up with and sincere efforts were made to make the Deseret Alphabet catch on. However, ultimately it didn’t. Learning it proved too much hard work even for the most well-meaning convert.

But traces of it can still be found, including on this one headstone. So let’s look at the pros and cons of the Deseret Alphabet and see what we think of it. Pros: it describes the English language really well. Plus it’s creative and we like creativity, don’t we? Cons: It’s too complicated. 38 letters?

And the mix of shapes… It’s just a bit messy for me. Am I really going to give this an arbitrary rating out of ten? Yes, I am. I’m going to give the Deseret alphabet five out of ten. It looks good but, ultimately, it failed. Nice try.

Now, the Mormons weren’t first Americans to attempt to revolutionise English writing. For our next alternative alphabet we need to go back another seven decades or so to the invention of this: Benjamin Franklin’s alphabet. That’s right, this guy. The American founding father, inventor, scientist and all-round brain-box. He was an impressive fella.

But one of his less successful schemes, I think it's fair to say, was his effort to “give the alphabet a more natural order”, as he put it. The result was this, an alphabet that doesn’t look too dissimilar to what we’re using now, but with some fundamental changes. For a start, check out these guys. Benny took it upon himself to invent six - I think rather elegant looking - new letters, to represent sounds neglected by the Latin alphabet, because the Romans didn’t use them. Crucially they include the most common sound in the English language, but one we don’t have a letter for.

The “uh” sound we make “all of the time”. He also, brilliantly gives us a letter to put at the start of “the” too. So he’s got “the” down to just two letters. Later the Mormons will get it down to one, of course, but two is an improvement on three. Franklin has also come up with another letter for the slightly different T H sound, the “th” at the start of words like “three” or “thanks”.

The difference between those two T H sounds, by the way, is whether or not you use your vocal chords. You do for “the”, but not for “three”. Try it. The. Three.

Regular viewers of this channel will know that we used to have letters for these two sounds in our regular alphabet. The beautiful eth and thorn, which I have regularly advocated that we bring back. I remain “hardcore thorn”. But failing that, I like what Benny’s done here, hinting at the T and H that we currently use for those sounds with his new letters. He’s done the same with a “sh” sound, too.

Ooh, and here’s a cool thiNG. He’s given us a letter for the “ng” we’re always usiNG. But not content with just adding some new letters, Benjamin Franklin took a few away with his new alphabet too, Meaning it still had only 26 letters like we do now. Gone are C, J, Q, W, X and Y, all of which he felt were just doubling up on the work of other letters. Now, I’m with him on most of that, but no J? Really?

The result of all these changes is an English language that looks like this. This is actually a letter that he wrote to a woman who doubted the practicality of his new system. Note how it includes using double letters to make long vowel sounds, like we do in words like “weed”, except that he’d write “wiid” like that. So let’s read a bit of it. See if you can follow along, because I think that even without any practice you can kind of make it out.

He writes, “Dear madam, the objection you make to rectifying our alphabet “That it will be attended with inconveniences and difficulties” is a natural one, for it always occurs when any reformation is proposed.”” Did you get it all? Franklin’s alphabet is a phonetic one, meaning that we can actually infer his own accent from how he’s spelt out the words here. He clearly pronounces “one” as “wun” and he pronounces the H in words like “when”. This is kind of a cool insight into the man, but it’s actually a real drawback of his alphabet, because it fails to account for differences in accent between the writer and the reader.

It also means that words can be spelt differently just depending on who is writing them. For that reason and maybe others, Dr. Franklin lost interest in his own alphabet. However, his efforts did inspire a friend of his. Someone who would probably do more to simplify spelling than anyone else in the history of the English language.

American dictionary writer Noah Webster, whose stripped back ways of writing words are now standard American English spelling. But what do we make of Benjamin Franklin’s efforts? Well, pros: it’s mostly made up of letters we’re already using. Plus it’s short, so both of those things make it easier to learn. Cons: It ignores differences in accents and I just think getting rid of J is a mistake.

But I like it. He hasn’t reinvented the wheel, just improved on what we have. I’m giving it an alphabetical excellence rating of seven out of 10. I wonder what Benjamin Franklin and his fellow founding fathers would make of developments in modern-day America. Well, it might well depend on the news sources that they choose to read.

For example, how about President Trump’s apparent desire to make Canada the 51st American state? He just reiterated the idea during a Super Bowl interview. Well, Ground News has pulled together over 100 articles on that story from around the world. And that's what I really love about Ground News and why I've been working with them for over a year now. I can get deeper insight from a story by comparing the language of different perspectives all in one place.

See how left leaning outlets use words like “annex” and “invade” to stress the aggressiveness of Trump’s approach. Whereas right wing outlets focus more on Trump’s financial justifications for the idea. It has never been more important to understand the political biases and reliability of your news sources and Ground News, who’ve sponsored this video, lay it all out for you. What’s more they have this excellent Blindspot feature that shows you stories that you might have missed, because only one side of the argument is covering them. So if you want to see how language shapes the news and also stay fully informed, go to ground.news/robwords or use my special QR code

to get 40% off unlimited access to Ground News, like I have. Onto our next audacious attempt to revolutionise English writing. Allow me to introduce you to The Global Alphabet. Like Benjamin Franklin’s alphabet, the Global Alphabet was the work of one man: this guy, Robert Latham Owen. He is a fascinating fella. He was one of the first senators for the state of Oklahoma,

he was Cherokee on his mother’s side, and he was also instrumental in setting up the US Federal Reserve. But after his retirement from politics he shifted his focus to spelling reform. And why not? In 1944, in a little book subtitled “A method of teaching English to the world”, he revealed his Global Alphabet. An alphabet that he promised would do no less than open “the door to all human knowledge”.

So let’s check it out then. Here’s how he lays it out in his book, with these very simple characters of just one or two strokes. Your pen never leaving the page in writing each one. And there are 18 vowel letters in the Global Alphabet, which rather dwarfs our 5. Slash 6.

Slash 7 if you like writing out Welsh words. 18 vowels, 18 consonants and 6 compound consonants. So that is 42 characters altogether. Ouch. But it’s not actually all that bad, because the shapes are all related to one another, and there are common themes.

Similar sounds look similar to one another, just with slight variations. And those variations are regular. And this large bank of letters describes the sounds of English very well. Here it is on the page and you can see how a word like daughter, which is a spelling disaster at the moment, goes from eight letters to four in the Global Alphabet. Mother sheds a letter too.

So it is good for writing out English and Senator Owen therefore thinks it will be the key to helping more people around the world to learn our language. However, at no point does he explain why you need a whole new alphabet to do this, rather than just reforming English spelling and saving millions of non-English speakers the bother of having to learn a whole new alphabet. But there’s a reason for that. It’s because he hopes that every language in the world will start to use the same alphabet. His alphabet.

Senator Owen includes in his book testimonials from linguists from around the world who think the Global Alphabet is a marvellous idea. One Japanese expert says “with very few alterations or additions, the system contains the possibility of practical world-wide application.” America is of course at war with Japan at the time this is printed. And what’s more, Robert Owen also gives Germany’s leader a somewhat supportive shoutout when praising recent spelling reforms in Turkey. He says, “Turkey has become sufficiently powerful to command the respect even of Adolf Hitler.”

Good for them. Owen’s biggest inspiration, however, is Joseph Stalin’s Soviet Union, where he says that illiteracy has been abolished. He spends a whole page praising the USSR, who are technically America’s allies at this point. But the Cold War is mere historical moments away. So what do we make of the Global Alphabet then?

Well, you know, I think it’s rather clever. Pros: Simple, easy to write letters. Owen actually reckoned they could be learned in a day. It also covers the sounds of English really well. Cons: Some of these letters are maybe too similar to one another.

You know, you have the shakes one day then “when” and “quick” are going to look the same, aren’t they? Also, I’m not sure how legible this really is, And it is a bit inspired by Stalin. So, a rating? Well I think for ease of learning it beats Deseret, but falls short of Franklin’s simple tweaking of the Latin alphabet. Let’s give it six out of 10.

Let’s check out another potential new alphabet. This one: Unifon. Unifon was invented in Chicago in the 1950s by a man named John R. Malone and the reason he did is a surprising one. He was commissioned to develop it by the aviation industry.

You see, following several air crashes and near misses due to international mis-communications between pilots and air traffic controllers, it was decided that a standardised way of communicating by airlines around the world was required and a universal alphabet was briefly thought to be the answer. That was until the airlines all decided to just use English. And so Malone’s contract was cancelled. But he was convinced he was onto something good. Something that would be great for teaching kids English.

So he continued his work and produced Unifon. The name means “one sound” because each letter produces only one sound. It looks a lot like our existing alphabet, doesn’t it? But with some letters lost and some letters gained. C is gone, leaving S and K to do its job.

But we have this new C with a line through it that makes our “ch” sound. Similarly an S with a line through it makes our “sh” sound. I like that. We have new letters for our two T H sounds as well and the letter U has a new job marking that most common sound in our language, the schwa. The “uh”.

Malone’s belief was that Unifon could serve as “training wheels for reading”. He wanted children to be taught it first, then transitioned to the “old people’s alphabet” - as he called it - a bit later. And for hundreds of kids, that is precisely what happened, as it was trialed in cities around the United States. But Unifon was used for another purpose that I think is kind of amazing. It was used to help native American groups to write down their own languages as well as to learn English.

John M. Culkin, who carried on John Malone’s work, claimed enormous success in this, saying, “the Yurok, Tolowa and Karuk tribes have been using Unifon both as the official alphabet for their own languages and as their initiation into the reading and writing of their own traditional literature and English.” Pretty impressive. Unifon and its 40 characters does do a similarly good job of covering the sounds of English to the Global Alphabet. However, it is much easier to pick up.

Actually, if you go to unifon.org, which hasn’t been updated in 20 years but is still there, there is an imagined set of headlines from 2045, which is kind of funny because this would have been written in like 2001. See if you can parse this along with me. And apologies in advance, because it does rather force me into a pseudo-American accent. Here we go: “ozone created by electric cars now killing millions in the third largest country in the world, California.”

Could you keep up? If not, perhaps a song might help you remember the letters, because guess what? There is a Unifon alphabet song. It was created only a couple of years ago by a guy called Liam Butler and I think it kicks arse.

Eh ay ah buh chuh duh eh ee uh fuh guh huh ih eye juh kuh luh muh nuh oh uh oh, uh ow oy huh ruh suh Sshuh tuh thuh thhuh uh yoo ooh vuh wuh zhuh yuh zuhhhh. It goes on a bit compared with our existing alphabet song, but nice job Liam. [Video interrupts] “Now it’s your turn!” So what do we make of the Unifon alphabet overall? Well, pros: It uses shapes we already know, making it easier to learn.

It covers the sounds of English well, as I’ve said. And it has had some real-life successes. Cons: Spelling depends on your accent, which isn’t great as we’ve discussed. And the fact all the letters are the same height I think makes it a bit difficult to read. But I think the use of Unifon is a more realistic prospect than others we have learned.

And therefore, I’m going to give it a pretty decent eight out of ten. Now, our next alphabet is probably the most controversial of the alphabets we’ve talked about because this one was actually put into practice and a lot people made to learn it have said it did them more harm than good. This is the Initial Teaching Alphabet. It was invented by a man named James Pitman. Now do you remember that surname?

James Pitman is the grandson of Isaac Pitman, the inventor of Pitman shorthand and the inspiration for the Deseret Alphabet. As its name suggests, much like Unifon, the intention for the Initial Teaching Alphabet, or ITA, was that it would be taught to children first. They’d then go on to learn the usual English alphabet afterwards. And as such, the ITA is designed to look a lot like the Latin alphabet. It has a whopping 44 letters, however they are all decipherable if you can read our regular alphabet.

They are pairs of letters smashed together like the long vowels, or sh, ch, th and the, and wh. There is also an “ng” character which looks like an N and a G. And the characters for the double Os in book and spoon look kind of like double Os. The idea is that ITA is a gateway to regular reading, free of the obstacles placed in your way by odd English spellings. So does it work?

Well, we have a really good idea of that, because in 1961 it was introduced into some British schools. Some progressive schools in the States and in Australia took it up to. And the results were… Uhhh let’s just say mixed. I have had people who were taught ITA get in touch with me when I’ve talked about other alphabets in the past and almost universally they’ve said they hated it. They said, though it was easy to learn, there was no plan to transition them to the normal alphabet afterwards.

One called it “a ridiculous thought bubble from people in charge of teaching small children”. This BBC article from a few years back also tells some horror stories. However, I’ve also heard from some people who felt it got them off to a good start. One told me they were able to begin reading “without the constant need to bother my parents with “what is this word? “ And that is precisely what it was designed to do.

ITA is still with us. It’s still in use. And its proponents claim big successes in getting people reading. Particularly people with reading difficulties. They point to studies suggesting it helps a lot with the remediation of dyslexia, for example.

And if that is the case, how can I criticise? But let’s park the politics and take a cold look at it. How does the Initial Teaching Alphabet compare with our other alphabets? Well, pros: it looks so much like our existing alphabet that switching to it would be easy - even though that is not the point of it. It also covers all the sounds in English really well, so far as I can tell.

Cons: 44 letters is a lot. Plus I think it misses a few tricks. You have both C and K making a “kuh” sound in ITA, the reasoning presumably being that it makes the switch to normal spelling easier. But still… they got rid of Q. So I’m going to give ITA just a four out of ten, because it isn’t an improvement for anyone who already reads the Latin alphabet. It just isn’t.

But ultimately, it was never meant to be. Now James Pitman was involved in the creation of another new alphabet that I am rather more of a fan of: the Shavian alphabet, funded by the brilliant playwright George Bernard Shaw. I think it is so good thet I made an entire video about it. I recommend that you watch that one next.

I’ll see you in whatever you choose to watch next. In the meantime, take care.