---
video_title: "Why do some words just feel gross?"
video_id: hh5yEKPNEtM
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hh5yEKPNEtM
video_date: 2025-05-17
video_description: |
  Is "moist" really that bad? Remember to go to https://ground.news/robwords to see how language shapes our perspectives. Save 40% for unlimited access to the Vantage Plan through my link.
  
  Which are the most beautiful and ugliest words in the English language? I put those questions to my subscribers and thousands of them voted. I reveal the result in this video.
  
  I also explore why so many people despise the word "moist", consider the formula for the perfect word, and explore the curious case of the "cellar door".
  
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  🌐SOURCES & LINKS🔗
  David Crystal - https://www.davidcrystal.com/Files/BooksAndArticles/-4009.pdf 
  Mark Liberman – https://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/?p=4368 and https://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/?p=4389 
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://x.com/robwordsYT
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  CHAPTERS
  0:00 Intro
  0:24 Ugly & beautiful words
  6:40 MOIST
  9:40 Crystal's criteria matrix
  12:20 Rating words
  15:03 Does meaning matter?
  16:13 CELLAR DOOR
---
Moist. Moist. Moist. Why do so many people have a problem with that word? It commonly features right at the top of lists of the ugliest words in our language.

But surely there’s worse… isn’t there? Let’s find out in another RobWords. Now, if you’re paying the right amount of attention to my channel, you’ll have seen me asking one or two questions over the last couple of weeks. First of all, I asked my subscribers, of which you are hopefully already one – If not, you could fix that now – for their opinions on “the ugliest and prettiest words in the English language”. And folk were very generous in replying. Thank you if you were among those who did.

The idea was that I would gather your favourite and least favourite words together and tally up the most popular-slash-I-suppose-unpopular suggestions. But when I woke up the next morning a breakfast-time wave of regret washed over me as I realised I had hundreds of replies with thousands of suggestions, each of which I was going to have to read and count up. So I did what anyone in my position would do and I started a spreadsheet – a lovely spreadsheet – and I got to work. Going through your ideas for the most beautiful words ever to trip off our tongues was uplifting really. My mood was brightened by such euphonic joys as “nuance”, “discombobulate” and “betrothed”.

But going through your suggestions for the other words – the ugly ones – was frankly one of the low points of my career. Thank you for filling my sleep deprived brain with such cacophonous abominations as “sputum”, “smegma” – don’t look it up if you don’t already know what it means – “crotch”, “splurge” and “sphincter”. Here are a couple of word clouds of your suggestions. Firstly, the beautiful. We’ve got “kerfuffle”, “soliloquy”, “susurration” and “susurrus”, which describe a whispering sound.

There are a lot of quite obviously pleasant concepts in there – I’m deliberately not talking about the big here words yet, by the way, we’ll get to them – But we also have “daffodil”, “aurora”, “gorgeous”. Then there are words representing frankly horrible ideas that for some reason people think are pretty. “Defenestration”. What, throwing someone out of a window? Really?

“Chlamydia” and “diarrhoea” are both in there, which people describe as sounding like dainty ladies’ names. And some perverts even suggested “moist”. Among the uglies we’ve got – oh god – “fetid”, “squelch”, “puke”, lots of negative-sounding words like that. We’ve also got benign words like “squirrel” – what’s squirrel doing there? “Sixths”, which is difficult to say, isn’t it? A lot of people say “sikth” instead of “sixth”.

Anyway, “gargle” is on there, “globule”... some people don’t even like the mouthfeel of “mouthfeel”. And one of the suggestions I’ve actually decided is my least favourite word.

It is “veggies” to mean vegetables. It’s okay if you’re speaking to a child but from one adult to another saying veggies is frankly tragic and science backs me up on that, as we’ll see later. But anyway, back to our word cloud, and I of course need to mention the moist, phlegmy elephant in the room. These four big words, which were suggested far more often than any others: “rural”, “phlegm”, “pulchritudinous” and old mother “moist”. The surprise quantity there is “rural”, isn’t it? But I gather some folk find it hard to say.

It appears to be more of an American problem than a British one. In Britain we just say roo-rul, but some American accents try to make it into a one-syllable word. So it comes out as “rurrrl” [Jenna] “It’s for my movie. The Rurrl Jurr has a limited release next week.” I also think it’s difficult for English learners too. That “r” sound is actually quite rare in other languages.

Pulchritudinous is perhaps there partly because of the disconnect between its meaning and sound. It literally means “beautiful” but reads like it should mean “oozing with pus”. Anyway, we have these four outliers, and whaddyaknow, YouTube just so happens to allow you to run a poll with a maximum of four options. So I put the question to the masses. Which of these four is truly the ugliest word in our language?

And over with our beautiful words, again we have a top four: “mellifluous”, “ethereal”, “serenity” and “luminescence”. They all have a similar vibe to them don’t they? Mellifluous just means “sounds nice” doesn’t it, so I’m not really surprised that that’s there. I’m very sad that soliloquy missed out on the top four, by the way, but here we are. So let’s put those four to the public too.

Which is the most beautiful word in the English language? Well, I can tell you I already put those eight words to my subscribers and they voted in their thousands. Perhaps you were among them. And we do have a winner – slash, loser, I suppose – for the most beautiful and the ugliest words in the English language. And they are… [sad trumpet] …Well obviously I’m not going to tell you that now, you’re going to have to wait until the end of the video because that’s how the internet works.

First we need to understand what makes us think a word is either beautiful or ugly. We’ll get onto that in a sec. But, in all of our discussion of pretty words, there’s one word that hasn’t come up so far: tariff. That’s despite the current President of the United States calling it “The most beautiful word in the dictionary”. Whether or not you agree with him on that may depend on where you get your news, but with this video's sponsor, Ground News, you get the whole picture.

One of the latest developments in the tariffs tale is the US trade deal with the UK, that’ll reduce tariffs on British cars, steel and aluminium. On that story alone, Ground News brings together over 500 sources from either side of the Atlantic, so we can compare the language and perspectives. Right-leaning outlets generally celebrate the deal, using words like “triumphant”, whereas left-wing news sites are more skeptical, flagging up fears it could be a “con on American workers”. I’ve been working with Ground News for a while now because I think it has never been more important to understand the biases and reliability of where you get your news and Ground News gives you all the tools to do that. Plus its handy Blindspot feature makes sure you don’t miss stories that only one side of the argument is covering.

If you want to see how language shapes the news and stay fully informed, go to ground.news/robwords or use my special QR code to get 40% off unlimited access to the Vantage Plan, like I have. That only comes out to $5 a month. Give it a go. Now earlier, I mentioned that moist – MOIST – found its way onto both the ugly and beautiful word lists.

So which is it? Well the overwhelming view seems to be that it is a disgusting word. Check out this article from the HuffPost’s food and drink department a few years back. Their writers were so sickened by the word “moist” that they came up with five inventive ways to avoid using it. None of them successfully replace moist, in my opinion.

“Not dry”, “hydrated”, “good crumb” – I don’t even know what that means – “Spongy”? no. “Divine”? Come on. But you can see that they’re really going out of their way to keep moist out of their mouths.

Around the same time The New Yorker magazine invited readers to select a word to eliminate from the English language forever and they chose “moist”, although the New Yorker overruled them saying, “without “moist,” how would bakers, meteorologists, and amateur pornographers describe slight wetness?” *retching*. In the end they got rid of the word “slacks”, although, I believe they’re still available. The brilliant linguist Mark Liberman – a friend of this channel having come on to tell us all about eggcorns: a word he helped to invent – he wrote about “moist” as an example for the phenomenon of “word aversion”. He said “some people react in this way to words whose offense seems to be entirely phonetic: cornucopia, hardscrabble, pugilist, wedge, whimsy…” None of these words made our list, by the way.

“In other cases, it’s plausible that some meaning-related associations play a role: creamy, panties…” for goodness sake, Mark. “...ointment, tweak”. He goes on: “Overall, the commonest object of word aversion in English,

judging from many discussions in web forums and comments sections, is moist.” So he investigated further. How far back does this “moist” aversion go? Well, he carried out some rough research using a big database of all the words used in the works of 50 famous authors from centuries past. And the research suggested a lot of them were avoiding “moist” too.

Jane Austen, for example, never used the word once. Not once. It seems that generally the authors were more comfortable using the word “dry” than “moist”, as this violin plot shows. I don’t like the look of this graph, but I don’t want to say why. I think pink was a bad choice of colour.

Anyway, it turns out “moist” probably gave Mark Twain the creeps too. He used it only once, which was disproportionately low compared with his uses of “wet” and “damp”. However, as our cheeky little survey shows, some people at least claim to like “moist”. So which is it: gorgeous or gross? Is there a way we can judge objectively, ideally stripping away all soggy associations, and just by looking at the sound of the word itself?

Well yes, there is, because another of the great linguistics communicators of our time alongside Mark Liberman, David Crystal, did the hard work for us back in 1995. He collected together lots and lots of words that had been at one time or another described as “beautiful” by other linguists, by poets and by the general public and he analysed them for patterns. Were there common characteristics among these so-called beautiful words? Well, he concluded that yes there were. He found, for example, that the letters L and M - or the sounds /l/ and /m/ - appeared most frequently, and in a greater proportion of the beautiful words than in everyday conversation.

He also found that the sounds /s/ /n/ /r/ /k/ /t/ and /d/ were often present too. Those are the consonants. As for vowels, he brilliantly noticed that beautiful words had a tendency towards vowel sounds made at the front of the mouth. Sounds like “ee”, “ih”, “eh”, “ah”. And in words with multiple vowels, they often started at the front of the mouth and moved backwards in the mouth during the course of the word.

Funnily enough – and I do think it’s just a coincidence – David’s surname Crystal is on his list of beautiful words, and that’s because a lot of people do think the word “crystal” is beautiful. And that starts with a front vowel “ih”, and ends with a mid one, “uh”. “Ih” “uh” “Crys” “tul”. See? He also found vowel sounds tended to move upwards in the mouth too.

What’s more, generally short vowel sounds are favoured over long vowels and diphthongs. Those are the ones where you start by making one vowel sound and finish making another, like “oi”. And here’s a really interesting thing: we generally find long words more attractive. David Crystal concluded that to be beautiful, a word should ideally have three syllables or more, and also that the emphasis – or stress – should fall on the first of those syllables. So from his research he was able to create a kind of checklist of criteria, against which you could assess a word’s objective beauty.

And he turned it into this matrix. Up top he put “tremulous” which scores a 10 out of 10. He also came up with two more notionally “perfect” words: ramelon and drematol, which both sound like prescription medication, but also score 10 out of 10. We’ll see how the beautiful words from our survey fit in later, but the interesting thing here is that not only does David Crystal’s matrix give us a formula for pretty words, it can arguably tell us if a word is objectively ugly too. The fewer criteria it meets, the worse the word is, right?

Based on this, David Crystal says the word “zoo” is about as bad as it gets, scoring zero out of 10. So what about “moist”? That’s why we’re here, isn’t it? Well, let’s see. So, it’s only one syllable long, no points there.

But it does have that “m” sound, which is good. And it has other “beautiful” consonant in there as well, the /s/ and /t/. It has none of the “ugly” consonants from David Crystal’s list and it has three different manners of articulation for /m/, /s/ and /t/. It doesn’t score any points for vowels because of the diphthong, but look at that: it gets four out of 10, which is only just below average, isn’t it? It’s not particularly ugly. It’s not sexy, but it’s not particularly ugly.

Moist is largely made up of attractive consonants and actually the rest of it is “oi”, which is a word and a word that, believe it or not, featured in the top 70 English words as voted for by non-native speakers. So moist has more going for it than you might think. Now let’s look at how all four of our ugly words perform based on David Crystal’s criteria, and they’re all basically bang average. The four for phlegm is remarkably high, in my opinion, but it’s because it’s got that /l/ sound and it’s got that /m/ sound and it’s got a short vowel in the middle. In fact, Mr Crystal ran the numbers on phlegmatic himself, and found it got a positively pulchritudinous seven out of 10.

Pulchritudinous itself benefits from just being long, really. And I’ve treated rural as a two-syllable word to give it 5, because it then has the emphasis on the first syllable, ROO-ral but if you do pronounce it as one syllable – ‘The Rurrl Jurrr” – then it loses a point and becomes four out of 10. So how about our four beautiful words? Well, check these out. We have another couple of fives, actually. “Ethereal” and “serenity”

lose a valuable point for having their stresses on the second syllable. However “mellifluous” and “luminescence” score seven out of ten apiece. Glorious. Those Ls and Ms really pay off for them. Plus the S sounds in there and also the flow of the vowels, all benefiting mellifluous and luminescence.

Let’s test out some more of our ugly suggestions. Someone said “hashtag”: 5 out of 10. “Squelch”: 4 out of 10. “Crotch”: Oof, 3 out of 10. Oh, and let’s just put diarrhoea in and see what comes splashing out: 5 out of 10, so it really could go either way.

This is all a bit gross isn’t it, but just before we finish: one more. You see! I told you it was gross. “Veg” gets the same, but check out “vegetables” Yeah. So can we just call them vegetables, please?

Okay, moving on: what David Crystal’s criteria do not take into account is the meaning of a word and that was very deliberate on his part. But, I think we can pretty obviously see when we look at the lists we’ve generated that there are thematic patterns. I mentioned our top four beauties all had a similar vibe, and they do, don’t they? On the word cloud in general, words associated with light are over-represented - words like “aurora”, “celestial”, and of course “luminescence”: people love a good “escence” word. There are also a lot of words associated with joy and calm: “euphoria”, “tranquility”, l”ullaby”.

Whereas on the other side of the argument, words related to certain bodily functions take up more than their fair share of the ugly spots: “fecal”, “sputum”, “ulcer”. As do words for sounds like “squelch”, “gargle”, “gurgle” and “grunt”. By the way, there is a pretty clear bias against G words as well. But it seems like when asked to come up with beautiful or ugly words, people either naturally factor in the meaning as part of their interpretation of the question, or unconsciously struggle to decouple the words from the concepts that they represent. And it is at this point that I have to make a confession.

I have to tell you that this word cloud is not quite as it should be. Because if I actually put in every single suggestion I received, what it should have looked like, was this. Now, what do you notice? Do you see that two new big words have appeared? We now have the words “cellar” and “door”, but that is not because people found either of those words particularly attractive.

It’s because a whole host of people said that they liked the sound of these two words together. That’s right, a lot of people think - or at least say they think - that the phrase “cellar door” is the most beautiful sounding term in the English language. How can that possibly be? Well, it’s a long story and it’s one that starts in 1903 with the publication of a book called Gee-Boy, in which, during a discussion about words divorced from their meaning, the narrator describes how “an Italian savant maintained that the most beautiful combination of English sounds was “cellar door”.” This idea has then been kicked around by other authors ever since.

The likes of J.R.R. Tolkein and C.S. Lewis have

both extolled the mellifluous virtues of the “cellar door”. A little more recently – although, still a quarter of a century ago, my god – it was mentioned in the film Donnie Darko too. “...cellar door is the most beautiful.”

And did you know that the production company originally behind Who Wants to be a Millionaire was called Celador in a deliberate nod to the cosmic beauty of the phrase “cellar door”. Now, I hope you can see why I had to leave “cellar door” out of the final word cloud and the final ballot. Why? Because it isn’t a flipping word, is it? It’s two.

But it definitely deserves an honorable mention. So here it is, getting one. Okay, I’ve kept you waiting long enough. It is time to find out, firstly, which of our veritable verbal hotties you and thousands of others have voted the most beautiful word in the English language. Here are the results.

Wow. So, more than a quarter of people went with “luminescence”, but it is “ethereal” that has won the day, by, you know, a pretty clear margin. “Serenity” is in third and “mellifluous” in fourth. Not quite mellifluous enough, it seems. Thank you so much if you voted on that one.

Well done to ethereal. But next – and this is the big one isn’t it, really? – which word did the best part of 20,000 people decide was the ugliest word in the English language? Has “moist” lived up to the soggy, cacophonous hype? Well, I can tell you… No.

Because here are the results, and it is “phlegm” that has won with a landslide. More than half of voters said it was the grossest word of all. The discordant “pulchritudinous” came second with just over a quarter of the vote. “Moist” has to settle for third, and “rural” is where it ought to be, really, in fourth. So there we have it. Phlegm has retched and heaved its way to the top of the disgusting word tree.

I hope you’ve enjoyed this exploration of the best and worst words the English language has to offer. I am indebted to so many people for the research they’ve done into this in the past, so I will include links to their work below. I’ll see you in whatever you choose to watch next. In the meantime, take care. Phlegm *retch* Phleeeeegm Phlegm.