---
video_title: "Time words don't mean what you think"
video_id: TK-8gfqmFNo
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TK-8gfqmFNo
video_date: 2025-11-08T14:00:51+00:00
video_description: |
  It's high TIME you bagged my exclusive NordVPN deal + 4 months extra here → https://nordvpn.com/robwordsvpn It’s risk-free with Nord’s 30-day money-back guarantee! ✌️
  
  What is a second the "second" of? What time should noon actually be? And how can "hour" and "year" mean the same thing (because they do!)? 
  
  Join me as I investigate the hidden meanings of our words for time.
  
  Did you know we used to have a word for the day after tomorrow? It was "overmorrow". We also had a word for the day before yesterday, which was "ereyesterday". What's more, we used to call a week a "sennight".
  
  Enjoy many more facts about chronological terms in this edition of RobWords.
  
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  ⌚︎ Thanks to Askania watches for letting me film in their shop: https://askania.berlin/en/stores/
  
  #etymology #english #wordorigins 
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://x.com/robwordsYT
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Intro
  0:35 Watch
  1:34 Clock
  2:05 O'clock
  2:27 Second
  4:40 Minute
  6:50 Secondment
  7:48 NordVPN
  9:27 Medieval timekeeping
  10:21 Hour
  13:11 Noon
  14:22 Times of the day
  15:30 Day
  16:01 Days of the week
  16:20 Week
  17:40 Overmorrow and ereyesterday
  19:13 Month
  20:45 Year
---
Time. You’re experiencing it right now. But have you ever taken a second to stop and ask, Why is a second spelt the same as second? Why is a minute spelt the same as “minute”? Was an hour ever actually a H-our?

And what exactly do we watch when we watch a watch? Well, I've been exploring all of these questions and the answers are all surprising and fascinating. Join me as we take a timely trip through temporal terms. It's high time for another RobWords. [angelic chorus] I’m in what I think is a frankly beautiful watch shop here in Berlin, which just happens to be where I live.

However, and I hope they won’t mind, I’ve actually brought my own. This one. This one was made in 1890 by my great grandfather. My ancestors were watchmakers. But you know that a watch isn’t called a watch because you “watch” it to see the time?

A watch is called a watch because it wakes you up. The words “watch” and “wake” are, historically speaking, the same. They come from the same Old English term meaning to remain vigilant. The first references to a clock as a watch referred to alarm clocks. In fact the word “alarm” comes from the French “a l’arme” meaning “to arms!” “to your weapons, the enemy is coming!”

A shout that is sure to get anyone out of bed. The word “clock” itself is a fascinating one. The word “clock” has nothing to do with the face, or the numbers, or the hands. It’s not because you can “clock it” to see the time. A clock is so called… because it has a bell.

Clock is related to the German Glocke and French cloche, both of which mean “bell”. In the medieval period the way people knew the time was from the toll of the bell, not what the dial said which, if it was there, was secondary. To this day, when we say “three o’clock” we’re saying “three chimes of the bell”. O’clock is “of the clock” or essentially “of the bell”. This is from a 15th century last will and testament, where dear old John Baret of Bury St Edmunds says he wants his funeral mass to be held “at seven of the clock”.

So watches are wakers and clocks are bells but now let’s talk about time periods. First: second. By which I mean we’re going to talk about “second” first. We’ll do “minute” second in a minute, but just this second, let’s look at “second” first. On the face of it - ah-ha! clock pun - it is odd that we use the same word for

a brief period of time as we use for the position between first and third. Just think about it: second and second. But it stops being odd when you realise that the time period the second is the second of something. Here we have a creative representation of an hour. Now, we divide an hour into sixty little pieces, which we call “minutes”, and then we divide those minutes into sixty little pieces too, which we call seconds.

Now, the reason a second is called a “second” is that it’s the result of this second division of an hour. Bear with me… So, it comes from the Latin secunda minuta meaning “second minute”, our minute being a prima minuta, or “first minute”. While trawling through old uses of the word “seconds”, which is the sort of thing that I do, I found this wonderful one that shows the logic taken even further. It’s from an introduction to algorisme from 1539 and describes how the year has 365 days, the day 24 hours, the hour has 60 minutes, every minute 60 seconds, every second 60 thirds, every third 60 quarts - so fourths - every quart 60 fifths, every fifth 60 sixths and so forth infinitely. The third, fourth, fifth, sixth etc. each represent a new division by 60.

And all of these time periods would have been truly tiny. By this logic, a sixth would be one 777-million-600-thousandth of a minute or one 46-billion-656-millionth of an hour. And I’m not sure 16th century clocks were that accurate. We’re dealing with time periods that even now we would struggle to measure, they are so… minute. Ah. What’s this? Is that minute or is it minute?

Well, do you know what? It kind of could be either because those two words come from the same source. Both minute and minute derive ultimately from the Latin minuere, meaning “to make small”. In the case of the time period, it becomes the noun form minuta, i.e. something that’s been “made small”, a small thing,

and appears in prima minuta - the first small thing. Meanwhile the word minute is an adjective form of the same Latin verb. The two English words should probably be pronounced the same given their identical spellings. However, the weird pronunciation of the first syllable of MI-nute is thought likely to have been influenced by other tiny words like minor and minus. It goes way back, too. Here it is in a pronunciation dictionary from 1764.

Fun fact, though: The first recorded usage of the word “minute” in English is not to refer to a period of time but to a coin. One described as being “of trifling value”. And to this day, as well as representing one sixtieth of an hour, a minute can also represent one 60th of a degree. Indeed a second can also refer to one sixtieth of one sixtieth of a degree. Here’s Geoffrey Chaucer, no less, using it with just such a meaning: “Understand well that these degrees of signs…” - he’s talking about constellations, star signs, which rotate in the heavens - “...are each of them considered of 60 minutes and every minute of 60 seconds,

and so forth into small fractions infinite.” He wrote that some time around the 1390s. Amazing. Apologies if all this talk of degrees of rotation is making your head spin. We will move on in a tick.

But before we do, I need to take a second to mention another second just ticking along in the English language. The word “second”, as in “secondment”. Despite the pronunciation, this is the same as our other two seconds. Secondment involves someone being literally “second-ed”. It’s from a practice the British military copied from the French, in which as this 1805 military dictionary helpfully describes “Capitaine en Second” and “Lieutenant en Second” referred to “officers whose companies have been reduced, but who do duty in others, “and are destined to fill up the first vacancies.

“We have borrowed the expression and say, To be seconded.” A second-in-command in the military is still sometimes called a “second” but the differing pronunciation of second is simply a result of trying to replicate how the French say the word: suh-GOND. We’re going to tackle the etymology of hour in, ooh, around about a moment, but first, let’s see how time references I can cram into this next bit. Now, when I’m not time travelling, I like to travel the world from my own home, using this video’s sponsor, NordVPN. NordVPN is SECOND to none.

Its VPN allows you to change your online location, meaning you can surf the net like you’re in another country or TIMEZONE. That allows you to CLOCK internet content that isn’t available where you are. And when it comes to staying safe on the net, HOURGLASS runneth over because NordVPN will disguise your IP, protecting your device on unsecured public wifi. For your overall internet security, on NordVPN you can dePEND. YOU LUMp in its Threat Protection Pro feature, and you’ve got the whole package.

It’s TICKING all the boxes, scanning any downloads for malware, steering you away from dangerous websites, and blocking trackers and ads. What’s more, you can keep your whole family protected, GRANDFATHER included, by having NordVPN on up to 10 devices. So to secure all these BIG BENefits, go to nordvpn.com/robwordsvpn or follow the link in the description to get an exclusive deal with an extra four MONTHS – that’s one’s cheating a bit – on top. And you can essentially try it for freE ON account of NordVPN’s 30-day money-back guarantee.

So give it a go. Get protected. PERIOD. [Clock bongs] The clock agrees. Now, did you know there was a period in around the 14th century when an hour was being broken up, not into minutes and seconds, but points, moments, ounces and atoms.

You can see it in this quote, which I showed in a recent video about metric and imperial units because how crazy is it to see “ounces” as a period of time? It’s because “ounce” and indeed “inch” both literally mean “twelfth”. There were four points to the hour, and a point was ten moments. So, if you’ve ever wondered, a moment is – by my maths, which isn’t always perfect – yeh, it’s a fortieth of an hour, or 90 seconds, which is rather longer than I was expecting. The smallest unit here is the atom.

Why? Because the word “atom” comes from the Greek for “indivisible”. You can’t get any smaller. Of course it turns out that physical atoms are divisible with a bit of effort. But what of the word “hour” itself?

Well, that too traces back to Ancient Greek, to ora, which as well as just meaning “hour” could also mean season. So hours are effectively seasons of the day. But to the Ancient Greeks, like many other ancient civilisations, an hour was not 60 minutes long. They used what we call “temporal hours” or “seasonal hours” that varied in length throughout the year. Daytime and nighttime were broken up each into 12 hours that would lengthen and shorten as sunrise and sunset changed.

A daylight hour could be our equivalent of 45 minutes in the depths of winter, but 75 minutes at the height of summer. But that word ora passes from Greek into Latin, from Latin into French, and from French into English and while researching the journey this word took into English I came across this, in my opinion, midblowing note. It says the “h” in hour “became mute in Romanic” That’s the late Latin that would morph into French, Spanish, Italian and others. And says “and though since written in French, Spanish, and English has never been pronounced.” Did you get that?

In English, the H in “hour” has never been pronounced. It was never a ‘H-our’. Not only that, it was never pronounced in French either. So when we borrowed the word hour from French, the H was already silent. We were borrowing silent letters.

I think that’s really something. Something quite annoying, but it’s something. “Hour” is one of many thousands of French words that entered English after William of Normandy, AKA William the Conqueror, conquered England in 1066, seizing power from the Anglo-Saxons. So that raises the question, what was the English word for “hour” before the French brought over the word hour? Well it’s at the end of this very same note.

It was “tíd”, or as we now pronounce it “tide”. It’s the same word we use to describe the moon-led cycles of the sea or in words like “yuletide”. “Tide” meant a “period”. The Anglo-Saxons also had the word “stund” or “stound” to describe a short amount of time, which was used to mean an hour as well, and is almost identical to the modern German word for an hour: Stunde. Honestly, I could go on for hours about how Germans tell the time.

Did you know that in German the time “half two” – “halb zwei” – doesn’t refer to 2.30, but 1.30. They think of it as being half way to two o’clock, rather than half way past two o’clock. It actually makes a lot of sense when you think about it, but must have made for an awful lot of missed appointments with English speakers.

All my German friends always say “one-thirty”, “two-thirty” to me to avoid exactly this mix-up. Another concept that gets lost in translation is the English term “midday”, which many of my German friends will interpret as being vaguely some time around the middle of the day, which makes sense. But in fact, it means a precise time, doesn’t it? Noon. However, allow me to really mess with your head now by telling you that noon… isn’t 12 o’clock.

Not if we’re taking the word literally. The word “noon” can be traced back to classical Latin where it was “nōna” and meant “the ninth hour of the day”. It’s the same non we see in words like nonagon, a 9-sided shape, and indeed it’s ultimately related to our word “nine”. So which is the ninth hour of the day? Is it 9am? No.

It’s nine hours after sunrise according to the Roman method, which was at 6am. So noon should actually be 3pm. And look at this text from the 1400s. You can see how noon was seen as the mid-point between midday and dusk: “If they eat at midday, she shall eat at noon; if they eat at noon, she shall eat at even” – evening. Let me just run you through some more times of day, because they’re totally worth a look.

Starting with “dawn”. This is a word coined by Shakespeare. Before Willy came along it was known as “the dawning”. “Morning” on the other hand has made the opposite journey. “Morn” was sunrise and the period around it was “the morning”.

Afternoon, as we’ve already discussed, should probably begin at 3pm, but has historically meant the period between your midday meal and your evening meal. I’d call them lunch and dinner but I know that others wouldn’t. Let’s not get into it. Twilight is the “between light”. The “twi” is related to “‘twixt”, “‘tween” and “twain”, and indeed “two”.

It’s the light between afternoon and evening. Dusk is a reference to how “dusky” and dark that time of day is, however the word was originally “ducs” rather than “dusc”. I mean it. And “night” means, well, night. Its origins run way back to the ancient ancestral language shared by languages all over Europe and beyond.

That’s why so many words for night across Europe are similar to night. They all mean “that dark bit that isn’t the day”. Which leads us neatly onto our next unit of time: The day. 24 little hours. Day is an excellent, earthy Germanic word.

Look across English’s Germanic sister languages and they all use something that isn’t a million miles away from the word “day”. Especially if you look at how the word day used to be spelt in English. But the relatives of the word reach far and wide. It’s believed to have stemmed from an ancient root that meant something like “to burn” which makes sense, right? Every day begins with the rising of a burning ball in the sky.

Several of our names for days of the week also testify to English’s shared Germanic history, mentioning deities worshipped by the Anglo-Saxons before they went Christian. Our days of the week are named as follows. Space rock, Germanic God, Germanic God, Germanic God, Germanic God, Roman God, Burning ball in the sky. Together they form a “week”, a word that has its own mysterious origins. All the experts are certain of is that it goes way, way back.

But what they reckon is that it may have started out as a word meaning “a change of duty”. A reference to the gods that each do their duty overseeing the days. There are a couple of words in other languages that back this idea up too. Firstly, Latin has vicis meaning “turn” or “change”. And secondly, Old Icelandic had a word, vika, which meant a distance travelled at sea, which seems quite far away, doesn’t it?

However, that distance is thought to have been calculated based upon how far you can get before you have a “change of duty”, i.e. a change of the team of rowers. Could be related, right? So that’s a week, but in the past English had another name for a period of seven days.

Did you know that? It was a “sennight”. More literally a “seven-night”. In Old English it was a seofeniht. Sennight may have fallen out of usage, but its supersized cousin the fortnight has not.

Not in the UK, anyway, I use it all the time. And that is just a “fourteen night” a féowertýne niht. We just lost a few syllables through a millennium of compound laziness. You can understand why sennight fell by the wayside. It wasn’t doing anything that week couldn’t do instead.

But there are a couple of timely terms that have died out that I would gladly resurrect. For example, we used to have a word for “the day after tomorrow”, a concept that currently requires four words to get across. The defunct designation “overmorrow” was far superior. Look at this quotation from 1535 in the Coverdale Bible: “Let us make our prayer unto God today, tomorrow, and overmorrow.” Beautiful.

Here in Germany they’ve kept their equivalent, übermorgen, and their language is richer for it. You can even say überübermorgen for the day after the day after tomorrow. So that would be over-overmorrow. But I would settle for just bringing back overmorrow. And then, they day after we’ve brought back the word for the day after tomorrow, we’re going to bring back the word for the day before yesterday, which by that point will be today, won’t it?

Anyway, the word we lost was ereyesterday. Or as it appears in that same old 16th century bible, yeryesterdaye. By the way, precisely what the “yester” in “yesterday” means is a bit of a quandary. Especially given that the Gothic version of the word… Say it with confidence, Rob… gistradagis, meant tomorrow, not yesterday. The to- in tomorrow and indeed today is thought to come from an Old English construction.

In the case of “today” it meant “to this day”. And by extension, “tomorrow” means “until the coming morning”. Now, the moon has come up a couple of times in this video already as the driver of tides and the eponymous hero of the first day of the working week. However, Earth’s celestial companion also exerts its influence over our calendars, because the word “month” means nothing more complex than a “moon-th”. In terms of their historical development, “moon” and “month” are essentially the same word, meaning the phrase “lunar month” – though necessary to differentiate from a calendar month – is a tautology. It says the same thing twice.

It’s says “moony moon”. A period of three months is called a trimester from the Latin for three months and a period of six months is called a semester from the Latin for six months. I only mention these because I used to be under the impression a trimester referred to a third. A nine month pregnancy has three trimesters, after all. And a semester represented half of something, like “semi”.

That’s why an academic year has two of them. But no. The -mester bit is from Latin mensis, meaning “month”. A semester is six months. [Musical toll of church bells] Ten o’clock.

Now, where was I? So two semesters, four trimesters, 12 months, or 13 moony months each make a year. The final stop of this time travelling trip through temporal terms. And it is a doozy. Why?

Because the clever folk who’ve looked into these things believe that the word “year”, which has been in the English language since before it was even in England, can be traced back to this Greek word here. Now does that word ring any bells? Well it should be chiming louder than Big Ben, because that is precisely the same Greek word that earlier gave us “hour”. We said it could mean “a season”: a gloriously ambiguous timeframe that means English now has two words descended from it. One denoting 60 minutes, and the other meaning 365 days.

Or 366 in a leap year. A year is technically an hour and an hour is technically a year. How’s that for a chronological bombshell? And with that, we’ll end. Thank you so much to the nice folk at Askania watches for letting me film in their lovely shop.

Thanks to NordVPN for sponsoring this video, and mostly: thanks to you for watching it. Sign up to my free newsletter if you really like this sort of geeky word stuff and I’ll see you in whatever you choose to watch next. Until next time, goodbye.