---
video_title: "The curious origins of imperial and metric units"
video_id: pM3c328VifA
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pM3c328VifA
video_date: 2025-08-02
video_description: |
  Enjoy learning about the origins of words like "inch" and "furlong". 🌏 Then get an exclusive NordVPN deal + 4 months extra here → https://nordvpn.com/robwordsvpn It’s risk-free with Nord’s 30-day money-back guarantee! ✌️
  
  Why is a foot 12 inches long? Why is a pound abbreviated to "lb"? What did the original metre measure?
  
  In this video, let's explore the historical and linguistic origins of the metric and imperial systems. From ancient Roman feet to French revolutionary timekeeping, we look at the surprising stories behind the units we still use today — including the inch, yard, mile, pint, and tonne.
  
  👣 Whose feet inspired the original foot?
  🌽 What does a barleycorn have to do with your shoe size?
  🐂 How did cows invent the furlong?
  ⚖️ Why are there so many types of ton?
  
  Whether you’re wondering how tall you are in fathoms or what exactly a “quart” is a quarter of, this video has the answer.
  
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://x.com/robwordsYT
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Decimal time
  1:19 Feet and inches
  3:09 Ounces
  4:50 Whose foot?
  5:19 Barleycorns
  6:15 Hands
  6:33 Yards
  6:55 Rods, poles, perches
  7:40 Fathoms
  8:16 Furlongs and acres
  9:14 Spot the units!
  11:00 Miles
  12:09 Leagues
  12:40 Pints, quarts, gallons
  13:20 Pounds
  14:18 Tons and tonnes
  14:53 Metres
  16:20 Spelling of metre/meter
  16:41 Litres and grams
  17:03 Metric prefixes
  18:34 Metric dominance
  18:45 US & UK imperial use
---
Welcome to France where the time 91 minutes past three. That is, if you are using decimal time. And this is the only country in the world that ever has. France introduced a decimal day, made up of 10 hours divided into 100 minutes, each made up of 100 seconds. It did so in the wake of the French Revolution along with a similarly doomed decimal calendar based around a 10-day week, unhelpfully called a “décade”.

The decimal clock and calendar lasted barely longer than a decade – one of our decades – itself, but the revolutionary spirit that brought it about is responsible for the metric system of metres, litres and grams used now by most of the world. However, there are still some stubborn imperial holdouts, using an idiosyncratic system of inches, miles, pints and pounds. So let’s talk about that. In particular, let’s talk about those terms. Whose foot is a foot?

What does a metre actually meter? Let’s weigh up the differences and get the measure of the word origins in another RobWords. Excuse me taking shelter in the shade. I don’t know what the temperature is in Celsius or Fahrenheit, but it’s above Englishman melting point. So let’s begin with the imperial – or if you’re in the States, US customary – units.

Why start with those? Well, because they’re older than metric. Way older. Much older than the British Empire that gives the imperial system its name. Older even than the Roman empire.

The idea behind all of these is that they represent physical measurements in the real world. Usually the sizes of parts of the body. And the earliest body bits that they are related to belonged to the Ancient Egyptians, who pioneered a system of judging the size of something by: “digits” – the width of a finger; “palms” – the width of a hand; and “cubits” – the distance from elbow to the tip of the middle finger, perhaps even of the pharaoh’s own regal arm. “Digit” is from Latin digitus, meaning finger. And “cubit” is from Latin cubitum, which means “elbow”.

Of course, the Egyptians didn’t call them that, they had their own names for them. But it is notable that we’re using the Roman words for them, because this system ultimately passes through Ancient Greece, onto the Romans and eventually onto us. The Greek pous – literally “foot” – is descended from half an Egyptian cubit, and the Roman pes again, literally “foot” is based on the Greek one. But where the Greeks divided their foot, confusingly, into “fingers” – daktyloi – the Romans divided theirs into 12 parts that they called unciae – or “twelfths”. And the singular uncia is the origin of our word inch – of which there are still twelve to the foot.

But that’s not all! We also have another word directly descended from the Latin uncia: our unit of weight, the ounce. Of which there are of course 12 to the pound. Except there aren’t, are there? There was... but thanks to the 14th century

introduction in England of the French system of avoirdupois, which doesn’t mean “have some peas”, it’s a corruption of the Middle French for “goods by weight” we now have 16 ounces to the pound. That’s right, 16 twelfths to the pound. Well done everybody. By the way, the abbreviation for ounce oz is based on a really old Italian word for ounce, onza. And another by the way – at one point an ounce was a unit of time, too.

Check out this description of a medieval alternative to splitting up the hour into minutes and seconds: An hour contains four points, & a point ten moments. & a moment twelve ounces – spelt “uncis” here – and an ounce 47 atoms. So if you’ve ever wondered how long a moment actually is… it’s 12 ounces. Or 90 seconds, if you prefer your time that way. Anyway, I’ve digressed far enough.

So an inch means a twelfth and we got it from the Romans. And we got it directly from them, too. A lot of Latin words in English were borrowed after the fact. We’ve deliberately reached back in time for a word from ancient Rome. But words like “inch” and “mile” – which we’ll get onto – enter the Germanic languages that become English when the Romans are still knocking about.

They’re among the earliest Latin entrants into English, which I think is kind of cool. And we’re talking about getting the words for the measurements from the Romans, here not necessarily the measurements themselves. What I mean is, what we call an inch or a foot is not exactly the same size as a Roman inch or Roman foot. It’s often said that our modern foot is based on the foot of England’s King Henry I. But I think that’s more legend than fact.

Since antiquity the foot has been a notional foot, not based on any individual person’s body parts. For a long time there were various feet sizes doing the rounds – that is, until about 1300, when a different King of England, Edward I, appears to have had enough. He decided to create a single official foot based upon a single official inch. And that inch was to be based upon a physical object. Or rather a handful of them.

And lo, it was decreed that henceforth “three grains of barley, dry and round, make an inch.” Of course. What could be more consistent than a grain of barley. The statute did specify that it should be plucked from the middle of the ear, but is that really the best that they could do? Anyway, our modern inch is basically still the same size and the barleycorn is still a measure that we use today, although most normal people don’t know it.

Check this out: in both British and American shoe sizes, the difference between one size and the next is precisely one barleycorn. A third of an inch. Oh, and look, we’re back at feet. A third of a foot is called a hand, by the way, which is obviously silly. That’s the same hand they use to measure the height of horses.

If you need metric: a hand is just a smidge over 10 centimetres and a foot is a slightly bigger smidge over 30 centimetres. Three feet, in turn, make a yard - so 90 centimetres. The word yard coming from a really old Germanic word for a rod or a stick. One of a fixed length that you would use to measure something. It’s not actually related to your backyard, believe it or not, which comes from a different Old English word meaning an enclosure.

Historically, for occasions when your yardstick – which is a tautology now I think of it – was not long enough, there was an even bigger measure literally called a pole, a rod, or a perch. You can take your pick which one, because they were all equal to 5 and a half yards. “Five and a half yards”? Yeah, it’s weird isn’t it? Yes. Well that is actually for a really interesting reason.

Five-and-a-half yards is equal to 15 Saxon feet, a measure in use prior to the reforms of the 1300s. It was really handy to have a unit based on the Saxon foot because the Saxons created a lot of the land boundaries. It made converting their measurements to the modern way a bit easier. A little bit easier to… fathom. Eh? There’s another imperial measurement: the fathom.

I am approximately a fathom tall. Actually, just a tiny bit more. A fathom is two yards or six feet. Fathom comes from an Old English word meaning “two arms outstretched”, you see. Which is interesting, right, because for most of us that is basically our height.

But we mainly use the fathom for depths now, because it was a handy unit for spacers on the lines that mariners would drop to the sea floor to work out how much water was beneath them. And hey, look: we’re back to measurements based on bits of people. But our next one – I’m trying to work upwards in length now – is not based on a human measurement, but an animal measurement. 220 yards of 40 poles make a furlong, a word that means “furrow-long” and is usually said to be the distance a pair of oxen can plough before they need a little rest. Naw.

…and the plough gets turned around. The entire area that the oxen could plough in a day became the acre, from a really old Germanic word meaning “cultivated field”. Later on, we also get the measurement the chain, which is a tenth of a furlong, and made up of 100 links, which is sounding suspiciously decimal isn’t it? Anyway, it’s based on a physical chain belonging to a clever seventeenth-century fella called Edmund Gunter, of whom I could not find a picture, and who devised a way of surveying land with… a chain. How are you liking all these quirky imperial measures?

Let’s see how many we can squeeze into this next bit. Whenever I visit France, I find myself missing TV from back home. But not FURLONG because I use this video’s sponsor, NordVPN. Whether on a SPANish island, a city break in POLE-land or basking in PALM beach, NordVPN allows you to, for example, access streaming content from anywhere else in the world, by changing your online location. And there are a TON of other benefits too.

For a start, disguising your IP address means you can use unsecured wifi networks knowing that THOU art protected. But in terms of broader online protection, NordVPN is in a LEAGUE of its own. Thanks to its Threat Protection Pro feature, you don’t need to INCH around the internet fearful of online fraudsters, with zero SCRUPLES. That actually is a measure. It’ll stop malware-infected downloads, flag websites known for scamming people, and block trackers, even without having the VPN switched on.

Meaning you can surf the net without an OUNCE of fear. I have NordVPN switched on all the time, because I often work in cafes where the wifi isn’t necessarily secure. Plus I can protect my whole family by having it on up to a thoroughly decimal 10 devices. Let NordVPN lend you a HAND too. Use my special LINK in the description, or go to nordvpn.com/robwordsvpn and get an exclusive deal plus four extra months on top.

There’s a 30-day money-back guarantee, so there is not a GRAIN of risk. Give it a go. It’s FIRKIN great. Let’s talk about miles. It’s another of those words we got ages ago from the Romans.

It’s from the Latin mille passus, meaning “a thousand paces”, because to the Romans, that’s how long one was. It’s reckoned to have equated to around 1,618 yards or just shy of five thousand feet. But there have been all kinds of miles down the years. Our modern mile was fixed by old Queen Bess, Elizabeth I, who put a stop to all of the nonsense. She decided it should be eight furlongs – or 5,280 feet.

A number that doesn’t look like an improvement on the nice, round 5,000 feet of the old London mile, but that kind of is. Because it’s divisible by 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 12, 16, 32 and more. But it’s still a number I just really struggle to keep in my head. Even worse, actually, is the nautical mile, which these days is 6,076.1 feet.

It’s a marginally more sensible number in metres, which just feels wrong. Three miles make a league and three nautical miles make a nautical league. My fascinating word fact to go with this one is that this league and this league are not related. The league meaning the distance comes from this Latin word and the league meaning a collective is from this Latin word. But over time their English spellings have morphed to become the same.

Now, we’ve already covered a lot of distance with all these imperial measures, but a few other units are worth honorable mentions. The pint most likely gets its name from a Latin word meaning simply “liquid measure”. A word that is weirly also related to our word picture. How can that be? Well, perhaps because the original “picta” vessels used to measure the liquid had markings drawn on them, perhaps a bit like a measuring jug does.

A pint is half of a quart, which comes from the Latin quarta, meaning… a quarter. What’s it a quarter of? Well, a gallon, which comes from a vulgar Latin word that meant a bucket or a measure of wine. Don’t try running your car on a gallon of wine. I don’t think it’ll work.

I don’t have a car so I can’t be sure. What else do we have? Oh, well, what kind of an Englishman would I be if I didn’t mention the pound? Pound traces back to the classical Latin pondō, which meant “by weight”. When we use it to refer to the unit of weight we are abbreviating the Latin phrase libra pondo, which translates to “pound by weight”.

Confusingly, it is the word “libra” here that translates to “pound”, because as discussed, the pondo bit means “by weight”. The Roman equivalent of the pound was called the libra. And that is why the abbreviation for pound is lb, the “libra”. What’s more, it is also why the British currency the pound is represented by this symbol, which is in fact just an ornate L representing libra. The original pound was a pound weight – a libra pondo – of silver.

While we’re on weights, we need to address the fact we have a ton of tons. A British ton - or long ton - of 2240 pounds, an American ton – or short ton – of 2000 pounds and a metric ton of 2,204.62 pounds, or a thousand kilograms. The metric ton is sometimes spelt like the French word tonne from which all of these tons are derived. It means a “barrel” and is also the root of our word “tun” meaning barrel, which in turn is a measure of volume itself.

So that means there are four units called a “tun”. Have you been keeping up? Because it is confusing, isn’t it? That is precisely why the metric system exists. During the French revolution, the revolutionaries didn’t just want to get rid of the monarchy, they wanted to renew society altogether.

An act that they felt would be helped by eradicating the hundreds of different units of measurement in use across France. They decided the best way to do that was to create a new regime of measures, based not on subjective and inconsistent measures, but on a precise, immutable unit. Instead of basing measurements of distance on human features like feet and strides, they would be based on one unchanging value: the size of planet Earth. Named after the Greek word metros, meaning simply “measure”, the metre was to be fixed at one 10 millionth of the shortest distance from the north pole to the equator, passing through Paris. Naturellement.

Calculating that measure in the 1790s was no mean feat. It took some clever mathematics by a couple of enterprising Frenchmen, tracing the meridian from Barcelona to Dunkirk, to come up with a final figure. A figure that wasn’t quite correct. Travel 10 million metres south from the north pole, and you’ll actually end up just over a couple of kilometers short of the equator. But not bad. And so the metre was born.

A quick note on spelling, here. Metre, as a unit, is spelt like this, based on the French spelling, all over the English-speaking world, except in the United States. Thank Noah Webster and his American dictionary for the change. This word does exist in other Englishes but it means to measure something, from the verb “to mete”. The unit of capacity in the metric system, the rhyming litre, is also based on the metre.

It’s the volume of a cube that’s a tenth of a metre by a tenth of a metre by a tenth of a metre. Put another way, it’s a decimetre cubed. Meanwhile a gram was originally defined as the weight of a centimetre cubed of distilled water. Which brings us to the nice, simple way that the metric system divides up and multiplies its metre: using prefixes. Latin prefixes for divisions of a metre and Greek prefixes for multiples of a metre.

Had you ever noticed that Latin-Greek thing before? There are exceptions: micro- and nano- are from Greek. But a metre divided by a thousand is prefixed with the Latin for a thousand, milli. A metre multiplied by a thousand is prefixed by the Greek for a thousand, kilo. The same goes for litres and grams too.

Milli, centi, deci: Latin. Kilo, heka, deka: Greek. Not that we use deka and heka all that much these days. Although heka is hiding in the word hectare, which represents 100 ares. Once you get beyond the kilo- prefix, they start to get a bit more colourful.

Mega- is from the Greek for “really big”. Giga- from the Greek for “giant”. And tera- from the Greek for “monster”. From then onwards, the prefix tells you how many bunches of three zeros there are in the quantity based loosely on the Greek and Latin words for numbers. Peta is based on the Greek for five, for example, penta.

Hence five lots of three zeros. These are of course all huge figures. The only time you’re ever actually likely to come across them is if, for whatever reason, you need to store a monumental amount of data. The metric system is by far the globally dominant system for measurements. That French revolutionary metre really caught on, unlike their weird clocks and even weirder calendars.

Now all of these countries are on metric. Look at all that blue. Even the United States and the UK are officially signed up to the metric, or SI, system. However, if you spend any time in either country, you’ll know that that may be the theory, but it isn’t the practice. America is a major imperial holdout with its US customary units.

And I’ve noticed there’s a common misconception outside of Britain that we’re fully committed to metric. Nah-ah. Our road system is still in miles and yards, we give our height in feet and inches, and we order our warm beer by the pint! I even remember having to convert celsius temperatures into fahrenheit for my gran. I used to double it and add 29.

Gets you close enough. In fact the US has decimalised ahead of the UK in at least one instance that I can think of. The American currency has always been decimal, with 10 cents to the dime and ten dimes to the dollar. Whereas we Brits had to wait until the 1970s to get decimal money. Before there were a hundred pence to the pound, there were 2 farthings to the ha’penny, 2 ha’pennies to the penny, 12 pennies to the shilling, and 20 shillings to the pound.

So a pound was 240 pence. That seems silly now, but I’m glad there are still some parts of the world using the imperial system. Purely from a word nerd perspective, it’d be a shame to see so many of these quirky terms fall out of use. Wasn’t the imperial bit of this video so much richer than the etymology of the metric bit? There is of course a beauty to both systems.

One relates the size of everything to the measurements of everyday life, and the other equates even the tiniest unit to a division of our beautiful blue planet. Vive la difference, I say. If you’ve enjoyed this video, do hit “subscribe” and “like”. It sounds weird when you say it that way round. And maybe watch this video next and I’ll see you over there.

In the meantime, take care.