---
video_title: "Where did our numbers come from?"
video_id: uYhOFQ7eruE
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uYhOFQ7eruE
video_date: 2025-04-26
video_description: |
  Try Opera browser FOR FREE here: https://opr.as/04-Opera-browser-robwords . And enjoy this nerdy video about the history of numbers.
  
  Why do our numbers look the way they look? Why do we count the way we count? These questions answered and many more in this video looking at where English got its numbering system.
  
  Our Arabic numerals are actually Hind-Arabic numeral, and were borrowed from India by mathematicians in the Arab world. Through trade with Europe, they eventually overtook Roman numerals as the continent's dominant numerical system.
  
  In this video we also look at the counting systems used by the ancient Egyptians, the Babylonians, the Maya and the Inca.
  
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://x.com/robwordsYT
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
  0:38 Counting on hands
  3:08 Opera
  4:42 History of English numbers
  5:56 Hindu-Arabic numerals
  10:08 Egyptian numerals
  11:55 Babylonian numerals
  14:30 Mayan numerals
  16:05 Incan quipu
  19:10 Roman numerals
---
How did we end up with these shapes for our numbers? Is there a better system out there? And what does how you count say about where you’re from? Find out now in another RobWords. On this channel we’ve talk a lot about letters. You know – the alphabet.

We’ve talked about punctuation too, but we have never discussed the other little symbols we use all the time when we write. These. So let's do that because they have a fascinating and surprising history that’s very different to that of our alphabet. Completely different, in fact. Like languages, numbers are part of our cultural identity.

Just do me a favour, right: count to ten on your hands. If you’re in a place where that’s going to make you look like a weirdo just imagine yourself doing it. Go on. count to ten. Now, how did you do it?

Did you start this like this–with your index finger–then count up from there? If you did, there’s a good chance you’re watching from North America. That’s how it tends to be done in Canada and the United States. The way I’d do it is like this, starting with my thumb. One, two, three, four, five.

And that is the more typical way of doing it in Europe. In the UK, and it’s sometimes called the French or the German method. You’ve perhaps seen that scene in Inglorious Basterds where the fella gives himself away as not German by showing the number three using three fingers instead of two fingers and a thumb. Actually, in Britain we’re a bit weird. We’d generally show three like that too, even though we count up from the thumb.

Whatever. But these are by no means the only options. In the Middle East and other places like the Philippines, I think, they’ll start with the little finger and count up like that. In Japan, the whole thing seems to me to be completely backwards. That is zero, and you bring down fingers to count up to five.

And I think you open your hand up again to count the rest of the way to ten. A system I think is really cool is used in part of India, where you count up to five on your left hand – one, two, three, four, five – and then keep track of how many times you’ve done it on the right. So that’s one. One, two, three, four, five. Two.

One, two, three, four, five. Three. You see, I’ve counted up to 15 there, so I’ve counted beyond ten. And in China they count to five like Americans – one, two, three, four, five – but for each of the numbers six to ten they have a specific gesture using the same hand. Hold on, I’ve been practising these.

So you’ve got, uh… Six, which is the phone. Seven, which is the pinch. Eight is the gun. Nine is the hook. And ten is the cross.

They’re supposed to, I think, kind of resemble the Chinese symbols for those numbers. If you’ve got a different way of doing it where you are, do let me know in the comments because I’d be fascinated to know. But you might be wondering why I’m going on about this. Well, it is to make the point that the way we handle numbers does depend on our culture. As it is for counting on our hands, so it is for writing numbers down.

Now, do you that know I’ve got a free newsletter? Every week I send out a dose of word facts and language fun that I have researched and written myself and every week I make it using Opera Browser. It has so many useful functions, like tab islands which allow me to keep all my regular newsletter tabs grouped together and collapse them all when I’m not using them, and doing something else. Plus these handy tab traces let me see which sites I’ve recently used. The darker the line, the more recently I looked at it.

It also has a brilliant split-screen feature which means I can easily have my source material open on one side of the window and be typing away on the other. I simply drag a tab down and that’s it. No need for multiple browser windows. Another thing I love about Opera Browser is the embedded floating music player, which means I can listen to my own – admittedly, terrible – music while I’m working and without interrupting browsing. I can even use it outside of the browser window.

They’ve just added some cool themes so you can make the browser suit your mood, like with the ethereal Midsommar. Last but not least, there's Aria – a built-in Ai feature which can answer your questions. Need to know something fast? Just hit CTRL + / or CMD + / to open Aria’s command line without ever leaving the page. Plus, with image generation, Aria can bring your ideas to life.

Just type in a prompt and watch it generate an image from scratch. Plus it can give you more information about an image using image recognition. You can download Opera Browser absolutely for free. I’ll put the link you should use in the description of this video. It’s my own special link.

Give it a go. You know something that I struggle to get my head around? It’s the fact that we had words for numbers way, way, way before we had symbols for them. We were saying the words “one, two, three” or ancient equivalents of them for thousands of years before we could write “1, 2, 3”. And the English language was particularly slow in getting the message that it’d be handy to have figures to represent our numbers.

When English sprung into existence in the form of Old English, the language of the Anglo-Saxons, some 1500 years ago, it was – like other Germanic languages – being written out in runes, not the Latin alphabet that we use today. And there were no runes for numbers. If you wanted to write a number in runes you just had to spell the word out, like we sometimes still do today. It wasn’t until Christian monks started writing out Old English using the Latin alphabet – the system left over by the Romans – that English gained a shorthand way of writing numbers: Roman numerals. But you know full well that we don’t use these Roman numerals anymore, except for some special occasions like on fancy clocks, for numbering the Super Bowl and for some reason at the end of TV programmes.

Or is that just a British thing? No: we use these numbers instead. So where did they come from? Well, you might have heard these referred to as “Arabic numerals”, which is a big – if slightly misleading – clue. A more accurate name for them is “hindu-arabic numerals” because these did not originate in the Arab world, but in India.

Allow me to explain. These are the numbers one to nine. Or at least they were in the Brahmi writing system being used from around 300 BC in part of India. I actually rather like them - look at the numbers one to three. Could they be more intuitive?

Chinese does something similar with one to three now. But more importantly look at the numbers for six and seven. Look familiar? Now have a look at these numerals being used around a thousand years later, also in India. Notice the shapes for one, two, three.

Again: familiar, right? Do you see where I’m going with this? Plus, there’s an extremely important addition to these, because they’re not just 1 to 9, they include an extra one, don’t they? Wonder what that is. It’s around this time that Arabic mathematicians took a shine to these Indian numerals and started to use them themselves.

And in Western Arabic regions they morphed into these. Check these out. They’re basically our numbers, aren’t they? So how did we end up with them? Well the short answer is “trade”.

Arab merchants traded with southern Europeans and so Europeans became acquainted with these shapes. But how did they come to replace the Roman numerals that were for the best part of two millennia the dominant means of writing numbers in Europe? Well, to explain that, I need to introduce you to this guy: the ninth century mathematician called Al-Khwarizmi. Though he was Persian, Al-Khwarizmi did his best work in the Arab world. In Baghdad to be precise.

And his influence on modern mathematics can’t be overstated. For example, he pioneered a mathematical discipline that he called “restoration” or in Arabic al-Jabr. A term that we still use today: algebra. What’s more, the Latin rendering of his name became our word algorithm: originally used to describe doing arithmetic with numbers rather than an abacus. But his biggest contribution - at least for the sake of this video - is spreading awareness among European mathematicians that these numbers were vastly superior to the Roman system that they were currently using.

This isn’t an active thing that al-Khwarizmi did. It actually happened a few hundred years after his death, when Europeans started to pay closer attention to his works. Works that revealed the virtues of the Arabs’ system: a so-called “place value” system, where any number you could think of could be expressed by using the same set of 10 digits arranged by order of factors of 10 from left to right. If you wanted to express one thousand three hundred and forty six, you could write 1 in the thousand position, 3 in the hundred position, 4 in the tens position, and 6 in the units position. Lovely. Efficient.

And what’s more, this system had a handy placeholder for when there was no value in one of the positions. Want to write two thousand and twenty-one? Well, use the numeral sifr to show that there aren’t any hundreds. That word sifr in European mouths morphed into the word zero. And also the word cipher.

These Hindu-Arabic numerals were clearly miles better than Roman numerals. For starters, the Romans didn’t have a zero, the losers. Plus look at how messy a number like 3,884 is: MMMDCCCLXXXIV compared with the lovely snappy Arabic version. In the Arabic system, generally, the longer the number, the bigger. Definitely not the case with the Romans.

There are many other technical reasons why Hindu-Arabic numerals are an improvement on the Roman ones, but they’re more than my tiny non-mathematical brain can make sense of. The point is the improvement was significant enough that they replaced Roman numerals across Europe and we’re still using them today. So have we ended up with the best possible system? Well, the fact Hindu-Arabic numerals have been taken up across much of the world suggests we might well have. But can we be sure?

Well, let’s look at how other civilisations have tackled the task of expressing numbers throughout history and see if our system might have missed something. Let’s start way back with the Ancient Egyptians. We know they had these funky pictures, hieroglyphics, to write out words, but what about numbers? Because the Egyptians were no fools when it came to mathematics. You can’t build a successful pyramid without doing some sums first.

Well the Ancient Egyptians had glyphs for numbers too and you would repeat them to increase the size of the number. One to nine were just lines then when you got to 10 you’d use a new glyph. A hundred had another glyph. And a thousand, another. Note that the Egyptians, like the Romans, didn’t have a symbol for zero.

Their counting system didn’t need it, and for the sake of counting: if you have none of something… what is there to count? If you think about it, we actually don’t have a hand gesture for zero, do we? I mean, I suppose you could do that, but I don’t think I’ve ever actually done that. Also note that to the Ancient Egyptians, 10 was particularly important. You get to ten of something and the pattern resets and the glyphs are all factors of 10.

This is base 10 counting, which is what we do. The best theory for why we and the Egyptians and others use base 10 counting is that we’re used to counting on our fingers and thumbs, of which we have 10. That’s why base 10 exists. Other cultures have base 20 counting, which also makes sense if you factor in counting on your toes. But the reason for the next civilisation we’re going to look at’s system is an even greater mystery.

Let’s have a look at the Babylonians. The Babylonians used a style of writing called cuneiform. They didn’t write by applying a dye to a flat surface like the Egyptians and their papyrus, but by pressing their characters into soft clay using something like a trimmed reed as a stylus. This meant the shapes you could make were really limited, meaning all cuneiform writing looks sort of like that. And these are the Babylonians’ cuneiform numbers.

These are the numbers one to 60 and they’re pretty straight-forward, really. The lines that look like they’re pointing down represent single digits, and the ones that look like they’re pointing to the left represent the tens. Easy. And it is easy, unless you want to count any higher than that. You see Babylonian counting was not base 10.

It wasn’t even base 20. It was base 60. And that makes counting above 60 – to our eyes at least – really complicated. So for our system, another way you can write out the number, say, 1234 is 1x1000 + 2x100 + 3x10 + 4x1. This can also be expressed like this with the power of 10 decreasing as you work your way along the number.

Now imagine that instead of each of these being 10 to the power of something, they are actually 60 to the power of something. Because that is how Babylonian numbers worked. So in the Babylonian system you would write out the digits 1, 2, 3, 4 like that, but it would not equal 1,234. Because each place expresses a power of 60, not ten, that number would actually equal 1x60^3 + 2x60^2 + 3x60^1 + 4x60^0 or… Or 223,384. Yikes.

Confused? That’s fine, because that’s sort of my point. It is confusing to us because we’re used to base 10. But to the Babylonians who, for goodness knows what reason, chose base 60 – nobody has 60 fingers and toes – to them it made perfect sense. The Babylonians are another civilisation that managed without a zero.

But let’s take a look at a people who were ahead of their time when it came to notating nothingness. Let’s cross to the Americas and meet the Maya. This is the Maya counting system and it is amazing. The Maya found a way to be able to write every number they could ever need using a total of just three symbols. A dot, a line and this one, that often gets described as a shell.

The dots were units, you would use them to count up to four, and when you hit five, convert them into a line. You could have up to three lines and four dots, taking you up to 19, and making this a base 20 system. And as for the shell? Well that was the Mayan zero. The Maya had a place value system, like ours, but it worked vertically rather than horizontally.

So the taller a number was, the bigger it was. And also like our system, their zero figure, the shell, could be used as a placeholder value. For example, here’s how the Maya wrote 101. In the 20s row – because remember, this is base 20 rather than base 10 – the line represents 5. 5 times 20 is a hundred.

Then in the row below we put the one. But what if we’d wanted to write just one hundred? Well, instead of that one in the bottom row, we’d put the Mayan shell to say that there’s nothing there. Nada, zero. And that is groundbreaking.

Now, all the systems we’ve looked at so far have something in common. They are written systems of representing numbers. But for some highly successful civilisations that was never an option, because they had no written language. Civilisations like the Inca. The Inca of course had language. They had spoken language.

But they did not write anything down, hence they did not have a written numerical system. Instead they had something else. This: the quipu. When the Inca wanted to express a number in a form other than just by saying it out loud, they would “say it with string” by tying the number onto a chord a bit like this, I guess. And by tying the right kinds of knots in the right places they could express any number they wanted.

So let’s, for example, try to tie the number four. I’ve been having a bit of a practise. Let’s see how it goes. So you firstly make a loop like that. You see that?

Then you take this bit and you go round four times with it. One, two, three, four. Pull that tight. Tad dada da da da daaa. And voilà!

One, two, three, four. Pretty cool. Not bad. Sorry, a bit close there. [chuckle] Now despite the pretty obvious difference from our own numerical system, the Inca counted in a way that is surprisingly similar to how we do it.

They counted in base 10 and with a place value system based around increasing factors of 10 each time, but instead of working along the number like we do it, working your way up the string. So if you want to turn our four into 24 you move above the four, create another loop, and then tie a two. Once around, twice around, pull it tight… And there we have it. Two above a four: 24. And if we wanted to turn that 24 into 204, for example, we’d get rid of the knot here and tie it higher up in the hundreds position, leaving a gap in the tens position.

Making two, zero, four. 204 The Incan equivalent of zero is a blank bit of string. To further demonstrate that, have a look at one that I prepared earlier. Let’s see if we can work out what this is. I actually put bigger gaps this time because I’m not very good at controlling the gap sizes, but… In the thousand position we have one knot.

In the hundreds position we have no knot. In the tens position we have one knot. And in the units position we have… Well this is a nine. What number have we created? 1019.

Pretty cool. And weirdly easy, right? I honestly think that the Incan Quipu, despite looking the least like our Hindu-Arabic system, might be the closest to it in spirit. It just makes sense. However, we should also take a close look at the only other numerical system that the English language has ever used: Roman numerals.

How do they compare with all these others? Well In my view, not terribly well. I mean, they’re a bit baffling. After all, they’re just Roman letters that have been repurposed and with no obvious logic. I obviously get the use of I for 1 and for 2 and for 3, like tally marks and it seems like the C must be short for centum, the Latin for one hundred and M must be short for mille, the Latin for a thousand.

But then, what are the V, D and the L short for? Nobody knows. Maybe they’re short for nothing. The great innovation that the Romans came up with for their numbers was to introduce subtraction as well as addition. A character placed before another character of higher value is taken away from it, meaning four is written by a one before a five and six is a one after five.

This means that numbers can be shorter. So rather than writing 94 as LXXXXIIII. 50 plus 10 plus 10 plus 10 plus 10 plus one plus one plus one plus one, you can write it simply as XCIV. 10 before a hundred plus one before 5. But neither of course is as good as just writing a nine and a four.

So I for one am relieved that Arab traders delivered us their system of writing numbers. The system that they in turn borrowed from India. So what do you reckon? Do you prefer any of the other systems I’ve mentioned? What about other modern systems?

Are there any that you think are superior to the one that we’re using? Let me know in the comments. We didn’t have time to get into the weird ways in which different cultures say numbers. That is for another wordy nerdy video. Thanks for watching one.

Thanks to Opera Browser for sponsoring it and I’ll see you in whatever you choose to watch next. Take care.