---
video_title: "The English words nobody can explain"
video_id: lHiMg-DLick
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lHiMg-DLick
video_date: 2025-12-06T14:01:25+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's explore some English mysteries. And go to https://ground.news/robwords to see how language shapes our perspectives. Save 40% for unlimited access to the Vantage Plan through my link.
  
  Some of the most ordinary words in English have origins that no one can explain. Among them: "dog", "big", "bird", "donkey", "boy", "girl" and "puzzle". 
  
  In this episode, let's trace their earliest appearances, explore the theories behind them, and unravel why these everyday words became some of our language’s greatest mysteries.
  
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://x.com/robwordsYT
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
---
“The bird boy’s big dog puzzled the girl’s donkey.” That is perhaps the most mysterious sentence ever uttered in the English language. Why? Because each of these words has an origin that nobody can explain. How can we still be in the dark about words as simple as “big” and “boy”?

Let’s find out in another RobWords. Okay, let’s get straight into it. Our first mystery word is “dog”. Say hello. This isn’t actually my dog.

There you go. Off you go. Go online and look up where the word dog came from and you’ll find this: “Of unknown origin.” That’s because dog seems to spring like a spaniel into English just out of nowhere. The story with most English words is that we can either trace them back to another language from which we borrowed them, or it has related words in some of English’s sister languages and therefore it comes from some ancient ancestor of English.

But not with dog. English is part of the Germanic language family. Those are languages that formed in northern Europe from a common ancestral language known as Proto-Germanic. Other members of the household include German, Dutch, and the Scandinavian languages. But look at all of their words for “dog”.

They’re all relatives of our word “hound”. Meanwhile, the other usual suspects for words borrowed into English, Latin and its descendent French, use these C words, canis and chien, to refer to man’s best friend. English is the only language using the word “dog” or anything that looks like it. Oh, it’s a doggy-woggy. Hello.

Did you hear me say the word dog? Hello. While Outdoor Rob just deals with that adorable interruption, I just want to mention something, and that is that there was actually one language that did have a word very similar to dog that meant “dog”. It was the sadly now extinct Australian Aboriginal language of Mbabaram. Its word was so similar to “dog” that the first Western linguists to encounter it thought there’d been a miscommunication.

But no, it was true. This sometimes just happens. Two cultures, in this case either side of the planet, just happen upon the same sound to represent the same thing. In this case, the dog. It was purely coincidence.

It’s not coincidence that there are, by the way, in some modern languages, words very similar to dog, usually to describe specific breeds of dog, but that’s because they’ve borrowed the English word. The English word “dog” is still unique, as I’ve described. Anyway, am I done? A couple of “hunds”! Yep. Bye.

Where were we? So how did we get the word “dog”? Well that is where the mystery kicks in. You see, at the end of the Old English period when the Anglo-Saxons were around, around a thousand years ago, the generic word for all doggie-woggies was hund, the precursor to our modern word hound. So it was in line with all the other Germanic languages.

However, then William the Conqueror invades England in 1066 and the English language goes to ground, with Willy’s Norman French now the most powerful language in the land. For the next two or three hundred years, England is ruled in French. But then, when that’s over, the English that re-emerges from the darkness, which we call Middle English, has a new word for our four-legged friends. They’re now called “dogs”. Look at this, written in 1340: “He is likened to the fell dog, that bite and beberketh all those that he may.”

All those p-slash-b letters, by the way, are an old letter called “thorn” that did the job “th” does now. It is a letter I have regularly advocated that we bring back. In fact… “Hardcore thorn” t-shirt. Available in the RobWords shop. Get on board!

Yes, I’m wearing two t-shirts, because it’s really cold. ‘kay? So anyway, the word “dog” has come from nowhere to become “top dog”, replacing “hound” as the main word for a canine. But what the heck has happened since Old English? Well nobody knows, but what we do know is that it was not an isolated incident.

Because the same curious tale can also be told about the words “frog”, “hog”, “pig” and “stag”, each of which appear to spontaneously leap into our language at around this time. Amazing, right? And just baffling. However, there is something going on with all of these words, isn’t there? They seem like they belong together, don’t they?

And that might well be the key to how they came about. These words all have two things in common: 1: they’re names for animals, aren’t they? Obviously. And 2: they all end with a G. Well on that second point, just have a look at their Middle English forms.

The pattern there becomes even more stark. And actually, there’s also a third characteristic that these words share and that’s that they each came to replace, in some or all circumstances, an existing word for those animals from Old English. Dog displaced hund, as we’ve discussed. Hog and especially pig displaced the Old English equivalent of swine, swin. Stag became an alternative to the Old English heort – an early form of “hart”.

And “frog”: well that completely replaced the Old English word for the ribbity amphibian, which was frosc. Now, that last example is potentially the most significant when we consider what might have happened with all of these words. What experts believe may have occurred is that all of these words started out as cute alternative names for the species that they now represent. “Pet names” if you like. Perhaps the Anglo-Saxons, who spoke old English, were in the habit of coming up with slangy little words for their animals, like we do with “bunny’ and “doggy” and “birdie”.

Except their cutesy names ended with this “guh” sound. Hence frosc became frogge, and these other “guh” words developed too. What backs this up is what I mentioned earlier: the fact that these words don’t appear in Old English. Not in the written record, anyway. But they are in written Middle English.

If these were just nicknames, they wouldn’t have been considered proper in written Old English, which was mainly the preserve of religious scribes, so they’d have been left out. Whereas Middle English just better reflects the way that people were actually speaking. What’s more, evidence that they were in use in everyday talk before they start appearing in written Middle English texts lies in the fact these terms crop up in the names of people and places. Documents from the 12th and 13th centuries include fellas called Wilfric Pig Willelmo Hog, Roger le Doge and William le Frogge. I’m not kidding.

And as for places, you also had Doggeworth, now Dogsworthy in Devon. It’s still there. And Pyggeuorde, which is now called Pickeforde, in Sussex. Those are all from before we see these words written down in Middle English texts. So that suggests that, you know, they are in use.

Because they’re not just inventing these names for placenames. But unlike frog, the earlier forms that spawned hog, pig, stag and dog died with the people who used them, who were presumably illiterate anyway. So we are never likely to know what those forms were. That is why “dog”, alongside all these others, is one of the most mysterious words in our language. By the way, I don’t know if you saw that scientists just announced they’d got a step closer to solving another dog mystery.

Namely, when they started to take on their distinctive shapes and become distinct from wolves. Scientists analysed over 600 canine craniums from the past 50 millennia and concluded that dogs started to take on their own shape around 11,000 years ago. Wow. And thanks to Ground News, who’ve sponsored this video, I can get the full amazing story. Ground News is a website and app that provides you with all the information you need to understand the news, such as information on where an outlet’s biases lie, to how reliable they are.

On this story it brings together over 30 articles from around the world allowing us to compare the coverage. It’ll tell you if a source is known to have a political bias and most importantly, how reliable it is. For example, the publication Science is marked as Very High Factuality, meaning I know I can go to that article and rely on what it has to say. I’ve been working with, and using, Ground News for a while because I like what they do. I think it’s never been more important to understand who your news sources are, and whether they can be trusted. Ground news gives you all the tools to do that.

If you want to get access to it, go to ground.news/robwords or use my special QR code to get 40% off the Vantage Plan, which is what I have, and it works out at around $5 a month, or whatever your local currency is. I say, give it a go. Let’s get back to exploring some of the great mysteries of the English language. The next word whose origins have baffled etymologists is big.

I mean, it’s “big”. It’s the word “big”. Like with dog, look at the words for big from around Europe and you don’t find anything else like it. Neighbouring languages are using words related to “grand”, “great” or “gross”. Nowhere near the English oddity that is the word “big”.

And again like dog, the word appears out of nowhere in Middle English. Its meaning was slightly different from today. It could mean “having great strength” as well as “having great size”. Here’s our old pal Geoffrey Chaucer using it in the 14th century in the prologue to his Canterbury Tales: “Full big he was of brawn, and also of bones.” The “eek” there means also.

It also appears in this amazing manuscript of The Death of King Arthur by Sir Thomas Malory from around 1470. It says “within three or foure dates sir Launcelot wexed bygge and lyght.” “Wexed” means “grew”. Lancelot “grew big”. The folk at Oxford say the word was mostly found in sources from the north of England, suggesting it was a dialect word that eventually caught on everywhere.

But how the northerners came to start using it is unknown. Norwegian has a word, bugge, which I’ve definitely mispronounced. It can’t be pronounced like that, surely. Anyway… and it means “a mighty man”. So it’s a noun, not an adjective, but it seems like should be related to that word “big”, which can mean “mighty”.

But whether we borrowed that word from the Scandinavian languages and it became “big”, or whether that word developed from the same source is unclear. Anyway, eventually “big” would itself expand to become our main word for something of substantial scale, our go-to counterpart for “little” or “small”. So now, I invite you to wonder: “What word did it replace?” Well, it’s a word that we still use now, but only in a niched-down way. Old English had the word micel or, depending on your dialect, mucel: the ancestor of our word “much”.

And that was the word for big. But anyway, we’ve just discovered that Clifford the Big Red Dog is a big red beacon of English’s eccentricities. But there is another towering figure from popular culture who also stands testament to our language’s greatest mysteries. “Hi everybody, it’s me Big Bird!” That’s right my oversized avian friend, because after dog and big, we need to talk about “bird” third.

The first thing to point out about the word bird is we’re getting it wrong. It should be “brid”. Look at all these early versions of the word. It’s “brid”. And now I mention it, we’re making the same mistake with “third”.

It always used to be “thrid”, which makes a lot more sense doesn’t it, given that it’s derived from the word “three” not from “theer”. Both “bird” and “third” have gone through the same process called “metathesis”. A fancy word for when letters swap places. But the most interesting thing about the word “brid” is not how was spelt. It’s what it meant.

The word has no corresponding form in any other Germanic languages and appears spontaneously during the Old English period. However, it doesn’t just mean any feathered thingy with wings, like it does today. It meant specifically a “baby bird”. Check out this quotation from over a thousand years ago, so it’s in Old English. “Oft seo brodige henn..tospræt hyre fyðera and þa briddas gewyrmð.”

In Modern English it says “Often the brooding hen spreads her feathers and warms the birds” – “þa briddas”. But it’s not just referring to just any old birds. It’s referring to the hen’s chicks. “Briddas” are little birds. Some reckon another word in that quotation may hold the key to where the word “bird” came from: “brodige” or brooding.

Perhaps bird comes from the same source as our words “brood” and “breed”. It would certainly explain the spelling with the R first, wouldn’t it? To my mind, that theory is also backed up by the fact that the word bird was also sometimes also used to refer to the young of other species. Check out this quotation from as recently as 1500: “A serpent had made his nest..And broȝt forth his briddis þere.”

So in this example, “briddies” or birds are snake babies. Note that those also come out of eggs, though, don’t they? But there is no certainty behind the idea that “birds” were originally “broods” with etymologists saying that the difference in vowel sounds there prevents it from being, you know, a slam dunk. All we know is that the word “bird” took flight and soared to such heights that it replaced our old generic word for a bird, which was “fugol”. A word closely related to the modern German and Dutch words for bird and which remains in the English language as the more specific term “fowl”.

Right, boys and girls, we’re going to get into the mind-bending mysteries behind the words boy and girl in a sec. But first we’re not done with animals because are the etymological dead ends limited to birds, dogs, pigs and hogs? You bet your “ass” they aren’t. The word “donkey” is another surprising entry on the list of words of unknown origins. It first turns up in a dictionary of words gleaned from the streets and dockyards of 18th century London, the notorious – and quite brilliant – Classical Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue by Francis Grose.

In there was the first appearance in print of the word “donkey”. Defined as “Donkey or donkey dick…” Dick is short for Richard. “...A he, or jack ass.”

Grose then explains that the word perhaps comes from the animal’s “don-like gravity”, but modern etymologists aren’t convinced. Their best guess is that the word started out as a cute form of the name Duncan and was “Dunky” And that Grose only spelt it the way he spelt it to reflect the spelling of “monkey”. Now, that theory makes sense because you have a rich history of naming these helpful companions after fellas. You not only have the jack ass and the donkey dick – “stop it” – but they’ve also been known as “Neddies” in the past as well, which comes from the name Edward. But like I say, that’s just a best guess as to its origins.

It’s amazing that we don’t know, given that it is now the main word for what we for over a millennium just called an “ass”. Posterior postscript: The words “ass” meaning donkey and “ass” meaning bottom are not related. In Old English, the cute little equid was known as an assa whereas your butt-cheeks were your ers. That word would become “arse” and through a much, much later regional variation in pronunciation, “ass”. So we Brits aren’t just being fancy when we say “arse”.

“Arse” pre-dates your “ass” by about a thousand years. Now oh boy are you going to like our next etymological mystery. It’s the word “boy”. When “boy” first appears in the written record it means “a servant”. It first crops up in around 1300, so again the Middle English period after William the Conqueror and his pals have had their way with the English language.

Here’s a slightly later usage from a letter written in 1480. But it shows that older meaning still being used. “It is so that I do send Harry my boy to wait upon my brother this Christmas.” The “boye” in question is his servant, not his son. By about the mid 1400s the word has also started to crop up meaning a male child, like it does to us today.

Here it is in the Coverdale Bible being juxtaposed with “damselles”. And of course, that is the meaning that has endured. But none of this answers the question as to where the word “boy” came from. Because again, “boy” sticks out like a saw thumb among the other European words for a young fella. I’ve come to a French fort to explain this next bit, because there are two Old French words that might have given us the word “boy”.

The first one is a verb, “embuier”, which meant “to chain up”, to “put in fetters”, which fits well with that earlier meaning of boy, doesn’t it, of servant. It’s possible that in French-speaking England there was a variant of that which was “emboier”, and that over time the “em-” got dropped and you just got “boier”. So someone who had been put in fetters would be “boié”, and in turn, in English mouths, that becomes “boy”. That’s theory number one. Theory number two surrounds this other Old French word, which was “boiasse”, which meant “a female servant”.

Now, that’s significant because the word boy traditionally always meant a male servant, even when it meant a servant. So how could that word “boiasse”, meaning a female servant, get to the word boy, meaning a male servant? Well, the theory is that English speakers thought the “-asse” at the end of “boiasse” was a feminine suffix, like the “-esse” at the end of a lot of other French words, and so they manufactured a male version of that word. So you get from “boiasse” to the male version “boie”. And that becomes boy.

Two possible explanations, but no written evidence of either. Annoying. Hence “boy” is on our list of words of origins unknown. But before you accuse the lads of letting the side down, let’s take a look at the equally indefinable origin of the word “girl”. When “girl” first crops up, at around the same time as “boy”, it just means a child, irrespective of gender.

This is the first known usage of the word, from a poem written in around 1300: “The admiral’s daughter was in the street there-out, And a very great crowd of girls and men came her all-about:” Girls here doesn’t mean young ladies, it just means children. The admiral’s daughter is being mobbed by kiddies and fellas alike. Around this time, if you wanted to refer to a female child you would say “gay girl” and a boy would be a “knave girl”. The word “girl” niched down to the meaning it has now, perhaps even in tandem with the settling of “boy” as its counterpart. But where did “girl” come from?

Well, you know the deal by now: Nobody knows. One theory is that it’s related to the Low German göre, which can mean boy or girl, but the Oxford English Dictionary says that theory “encounters chronological difficulties”, so it discards it. A perhaps more promising theory is that it developed from the Old English word gyrela. However, that didn’t mean anything like “young lady” or “child”. It meant “dress” or “apparel”.

However, a Yale historian and Old English buff called Fred C. Robinson once pointed out that it is common across European languages for people to take on the names of their clothing. He pointed out that the Spanish, Danish and English words for “skirt” have all come to mean “woman” to lesser and greater extent. I personally wouldn’t use the English version unless I wanted to get a slap. The word “brat” for example is thought to have started out as a Celtic word for a pinafore.

The sort that might be worn by a child, hence children became known as “brats”. So perhaps that same logic led children to be named after another garment, the Old English gyrela. I like that theory. The problem is, however, that there’s no evidence of the word making that leap in meaning. If it happened, it probably happened during English’s wilderness years under the French-speaking monarchy.

Right, we’re almost done but I want to leave you with one last word origin puzzle, and that’s the origin of the word “puzzle”. DId you know that the idea of “puzzling” someone came before the idea of a thing called a “puzzle”? The verb pre-dates the noun. But how the verb came about, no one can be sure. There are two main theories: One is that it’s from the Old English verb puslian, meaning “to pick out”.

It has relatives in other Germanic languages meaning “to fiddle” or “to busy oneself”. So maybe to be puzzled originally meant something like “unsure what to do with yourself”. Or there’s theory number 2, which is that it’s a derivative of the word “pose”, as in to pose a question. It does seem like a bit of a leap to go from pose to puzzle, doesn’t it? But when you bear in mind that exactly the same leap has happened with the words “nose” and “nuzzle”...

Yes, they’re related. …it suddenly doesn’t seem so far-fetched. So there you go: “The bird boy’s big dog puzzled the girl’s donkey.” Impress your friends or annoy an etymologist with that riddle riddled with mysterious words. If you’ve enjoyed this video, you’ll also enjoy my wordy nerdy newsletter, which you can sign up to at robwords.com/newsletter

or, as of this week, you can just go to Substack and find it there. I’ll see you in whatever you choose to watch next. Maybe this. And in the meantime, take care.