---
video_title: "A history of mad attempts to fix English spelling"
video_id: Orz_TEK7O7k
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Orz_TEK7O7k
video_date: 2025-05-31
video_description: |
  Let's explore the failed attempts to fix English.  🌏 Get Exclusive NordVPN deal + 4 months extra here → https://nordvpn.com/robwordsvpn It’s risk-free with Nord’s 30-day money-back guarantee! ✌️
  
  English spelling is broken. Often the letters we write down on the page bear little resemblance to the words we say out loud. Many attempts have been made to fix this, by medieval monks and American presidents. So let's investigate some of these attempts and find out why they failed.
  
  Can English spelling be fixed, or is it doomed to remain nightmare for learners? Let's find out.
  
  📙 GABE'S BOOK: Enough is Enuf https://www.harpercollins.com/products/enough-is-enuf-gabe-henry?variant=43016542715938
  🎥 MY ALTERNATIVE ALPHABETS VID: https://youtu.be/UAI3g6zVyAI?si=QyrvuqdTObZv0fFV
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://robwords.bsky.social
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  #spelling #english #linguistics
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
  0:22 The problem with English
  1:26 Orrmin the monnk
  5:24 N4mbers for vowels
  10:13 N8mbers for everything
  12:35 Noah Webster
  14:29 Benjamin Franklin
  15:11 President Theodore Roosevelt
  17:00 Why change failed
  14:48 Is spelling changing?
  19:55 Should it change?
---
Would English be better if it was written like this? Or perhaps like this? Or even like this? These were all genuine attempts to improve English spelling. From monks to American presidents, many people have tried.

So why have they all failed? Let’s find out in another RobWords. I’ve said it before and I will say it again: English spelling is a nightmare. Our letters make different sounds depending where you put them and the same sound can be made in a multitude of ways. Having nine ways to pronounce that is utterly unacceptable, and let’s not even get started on silent letters.

Ask any learner of English and they’ll tell you its spelling is especially nonsensical. Ever since we drafted in the Latin alphabet to write our distinctly non-Latin language, we’ve been fighting an uphill battle. Numerous brave individuals have sought to make our literary lives just a little bit easier. Did you know President Theodore Roosevelt nearly destroyed his reputation in the pursuit of better spelling. So let’s explore some of these attempts and ask why they failed, if simplifying English spelling can ever be achieved, and whether or not it might even be happening right now.

Let’s go. So would English be better if it looked like this? Because if the first known proper attempt to fix English spelling had caught on, this is what it would look like now. This is the medieval brainchild of a fella called Orrm or Orrmin – whose name means “dragon” if you’re being charitable, or “worm” if you’re not. And Orminn was quite the character.

[Gabe Henry] So, Ormin was a monk living in England in the 12th century. At the time, the only literate people were monks and scribes. That is Gabe Henry. He’s going to be our expert guide as we meet the men – for some reason they are all men – who tried to fix English spelling. Gabe has spent a decade researching failed attempts at spelling reform and actually just published this book, Enough is Enuf, on that very subject.

This book basically inspired this video, so let’s hear more from Gabe about our medieval monk, Ormin. His beef with the English language was that there was no consistent way of denoting a short vowel versus a long vowel in our spelling. Today we have the silent E. You put the silent E at the end of a word after a consonant, and it often elongates the vowel that comes before it. So fire versus fir, F-I-R.

Orrmin didn't have this convenience at the time. So his solution to distinguish short long vowels was whenever there's a short vowel, the consonant that follows it gets doubled. So your name, Rob, would be spelled R-O-B-B. Right! So today we have something called the name sound because “name” is a good example of it: the E at the end of ‘name’ tells us it is “naym” with a long vowel sound, not “nam” with a short one.

But this convention didn’t exist in Orrmin’s time. Name would have been written something like that and you’d have to guess how to pronounce the a. So as Gabe says, Orrmin decides the solution is to double every consonant that comes after a short vowel. It’s something English already did, and we continue to do sometimes. Look at bite: long vowel.

Now bitten: short vowel. And the double T tells us it’s bitten not bite-n. But we don’t do it a “lot” - for example, we don’t double the T in “lot” despite the short vowel. However, Orrmin reckoned we should do it every single time. He produced a massive book of Christian homilies in his new-look English.

And he named the book after himself. He called it “The Ormulum”, which I think is absolutely hilarious. And so, by the way, is the text. It includes a dedication to his brother, Walter, and just look at it. Double letters everywhere.

Words like “Walter” – or Wallterr – and “after”: they get two double letters. Elsewhere in the book, terms like allderrmann get three. Orrmin gives a stern warning at one point to anyone planning to reproduce his work, too. He warns them to keep all of his repeated letters in tact lest they fail to “in English write right the word”. Bizarrely though, it seems no one ever did choose to distribute Orrmin’s work.

Only one copy of The Ormulum exists and it's the one by his own hand. So why didn’t his system catch on? The problem is, once you start getting words that are multi-syllabic, that word just stretches on and on. It's like every word becomes the word Mississippi. So. I don't think scribes were happy about this.

Scribes already spent morning to night copying biblical texts by candlelight, by sunlight, and they were paid by how many works they could produce. And I think this just tacked on so much time. So nice try little dragon man. In some sense you were ahead of his time, because we did go on to tackle precisely the problem that Orrmin flagged up. We just took a different approach to him.

Now, if you thought Ormin’s English looked ridiculous, wait until you see our next failed attempt to fix our language. This is an effort to improve English from the outside. The Frenchman Auguste Thibaudin – or “August Tibbodin” to his friends in Victorian England – proposed that English should stop looking like this and start looking like this. His simplified spelling proposal was to replace all vowels with numbers. So he drew up this three by three grid, numbered one through nine to each number he gave a corresponding vowel sound.

So the number one would correspond to the letter “U”, as in the word view. So if you were to write the word view, you'd spell it V1. And so on for all these nuanced vowel sounds. Seriously, this system is baffling. He produced this illustrated version of the grid which is supposed to help.

The hare in the eight position tells you that the 8 represents the “air” sound in “hare”. The fella shooting the hare tells you that nine is the “ar” in “fire arms” – obviously. In the five square, these blobs are frogs for “oh”, but they’re not to be confused with the blobs in four, which are toads for “oh”. Confused? To demonstrate his proposal, he wrote up a translation of the Lord's Prayer.

It has to be seen to be believed. It really looks insane. See it and believe it. “Our father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name.” Our current spelling of “which” is a mess, but I do not reckon that Auguste’s is any better.

Plus look at the word “temptation” from later on. Also, can you see how he’s flipped the three to make it look more like an E? Which seems to me like an admission of defeat. He’s also brought in these angles for nasal sounds like “an” and “on” and also apostrophes for dropp’d vowels. I obviously haven’t given you enough time to learn this system, but shall we see if you can work out what something says anyway?

See if you can read this. I’ll give you a few seconds. It’s “English is a silly language”. Unfortunately, this system does rather force you into Auguste’s own French accent. Part of the genius of this numbers-for-vowels system, in Thibaudin’s view anyway, was that the same numbers could be deployed in any language.

He gives examples in French and German. But French, for example, has some vowel sounds that we don’t, meaning some numbers go unused in English. Anyway, as if that’s the biggest problem with it. What if you just want to just write a number? Is that 26 or the word “we”?

Auguste’s aim was a noble one. English does have a massive problem with its vowels. We have many more vowel sounds than vowel letters, so drafting in numbers as reinforcements makes its own kind of sense. And would learning this grid actually be any more effort than having to learn the inconsistent arrangements of vowels in every word in the English language, as we currently have to do. No, I don’t think it would be more effort.

But look at it: Roman letters mixed with Arabic numerals – it just looks wrong. Désolé, Auguste. It’s not for me. Now, Auguste wasn’t the only outsider who tried to make English a bit more numerical, as we’ll find out shortly. But you could argue that his 19th century proposal was ahead of its time.

For a mere 150 years later, we would enter the digital age, where everything can be expressed through numbers. And you can have confidence as you navigate this digital world thanks to this video’s sponsor NordVPN. NordVPN does all the usual things that a VPN hoes – like help you surf the net like you’re abroad and watch TV shows from around the world – but it also does so much more. Its Threat Protection Pro feature helps keep you safe wherever you go online, whether or not you’ve got the VPN switched on. For example, if you ever get lured into a fake shop by an offer that seems too good to be true – and is – Threat Protection Pro will tell you it’s fake before the scammers nab your money.

It’ll also steer you away from phishing sites and help you dodge malware. I have NordVPN switched on all the time because I sometimes work in cafés and it protects me on their unsecured wifi. Plus I can also protect my entire family by having it on up to 10 devices. So use my special link nordvpn.com/robwordsvpn to get an exclusive deal with four extra months for free.

There is a 30-days money-back guarantee so it really is risk-free too. Go to nordvpn.com/robwordsvpn and give it a go. Back to our bizarre attempts to fix English. Now, if you thought Auguste Thibaudin’s system replacing vowels with numbers was silly, wait until you hear this.

This Lithuanian man living in England, his name was Major Bartłomiej Beniowski. He came up with a system that didn't just replace vowels with numbers, but replaced all letters with numbers. And the way it would work is first you would take a word and you would reduce it to its dominant consonants, like the word “paper”, you would reduce that to PPR, which sounds logical enough. I think we could probably read that on a sheet of paper. But then you would take PPR and you would bring that over to another grid numbered one through nine, and you would find these corresponding numbers.

So the word paper would be translated to 994. This made a lot of sense to the guy. And this is supposed to be helpful. This is him fixing the English language. It's supposed to be helpful.

This is kind of similar to how businesses used to come up with quirky phone numbers based around words. Do you remember that? Actually people still do that, don’t they? It’s easy to convert the letters into numbers in that way, but Bartłomiej wants us to do it the other way round – which is very different. Because, yes, 994 can be “paper”, but it can also be “piper” and “beeper”.

Na-ah. That strikes me as a non-starter, and Major Beniowski seems to have feared it might be too, because he also proposed an alternative system. This one used flipped letters to give us more characters to play with. Here’s his take on The Lord’s Prayer. For some reason, it always seems to be The Lord’s Prayer that gets translated first.

It is readable, isn’t it? But it offers nothing in the way of simplification. It’s just extra letters to learn. So two attempts from the Major, and two major failures. Both iterations fell under what he called “the anti-absurd alphabet”.

His book about anti-absurdity is one of the most absurd things I've ever seen. I know. He referred to all his followers, of which there were probably none, but he referred to them as anti-absurdists and he urged all people to spell “anti” absurdly. Now, we’ve so far looked at some of the truly terrible efforts to improve English spelling. But there were many more attempts in centuries past, none of which got off the ground.

But not every effort ever embarked upon has failed in its entirety. There have been some successes. If you’re watching this from the United States, you probably have an ever so slightly easier time of spelling than we do in a lot of other parts of the English-speaking world. For example, you don’t have to contend with our odd arrangement of -er in theatre and centre. Your “plow” is only four letters long versus our six.

Your “diarrhea” at least has one fewer superfluous letter. And your “or” words are always shorter than our “our” words. And for all of these advantages, you have one man to thank. American dictionary writer and spelling reformer, Noah Webster. If there was any success out of the simplified spelling movement, it was Noah Webster.

So, 1789, he publishes dissertations on the English language, and it concludes with a chapter called An Essay on a Reformed Mode of Spelling. And in it, he proposes removing most silent letters from words, phoneticizing other words, spelling tough as T-U-F, laugh as L-A-F. And this proposal was so radical that it met nothing but resistance and a lot of mockery as well. And because of that, Webster pulled it back. He didn't come back to it for a while.

But 20 years later, he's putting together Webster's Dictionary, and he's able to selectively incorporate some of these older, more moderate, simplified spellings. And he didn't invent these spellings. These were bouncing around England and America for a little while, but he was the one who standardised them as Americanized spellings. And they've come to shape what we know of as American English today. And it is in America that the movement to reform English spelling has always been at its strongest.

That almost certainly speaks to modern America’s roots in rebellion against the old ways back in Europe. Benjamin Franklin was another major figure in the movement to simplify spelling. He went so far as to invent his own set of new letters to help push through his idea of what English should look like. I went much deeper into that, actually, in a recent video about alternative alphabets, but the ever-inventive Ben proposed getting rid of c, j, q, w, x, and y – each of which he felt you could spell with other letters easily enough – and introduced two new vowels and fresh letters for the “ng” “th” “th” and “sh” sounds. I really like his approach, but it can take some getting used to.

He also thought we should double a load of vowels too. But it would be another major American figure who would come the closest to revolutionising the way English was written. President Theodore Roosevelt. In a mostly-forgotten spasm of spelling-reform fervour in his late presidency, he went further than anyone before or since towards imposing a new spelling regime for English. In 1906, he orders everyone to start using the simplified spellings that were being pushed by The Simplified Spelling Board, based in New York City.

And the board had come up with these 300 spellings, and Roosevelt ordered all federal employees to use this list. He himself used it in letters and correspondence. He ordered his own printer to use it. That lasted about three months before Congress overturned this. And Roosevelt never really spoke about this three-month stint publicly again.

I think he was just too embarrassed. And you can see why. The political cartoons from the time are brutal, showing him literally murdering the English language, or wasting time correcting pointless documents when he should have been running the country. And that’s something that spelling reformers have faced at every turn: ridicule. If you want to resist simplified spellers, it's so easy to mock because simplified spelling, aesthetically, visually, it looks like child writing.

It looks like if you ask a five-year-old to sound out, you know, “Hey, Billy, sound out the word enough”. He'll probably say E-N-U-F. So it has this childlike juvenile characteristic to it. So to mock it, it's just easy. All you have to do is come up with exaggerated, phonetic, over-the-top simplified spellings.

The near constant mockery is one of the reasons why spelling reform basically always fails. Another, though, is the impracticality of it. I mean, a new spelling regime means everyone has to learn a new way to write. And what are we going to do with all the things that were written the old way? Have we got to rewrite them, all those books?

Who has the time, money or inclination? However, there are cultures that have managed to adopt entire new alphabets. So change is possible. But why doesn’t it seem to be with English? You’ve spent ten years researching spelling reform. What have you

concluded about whether or not it's even possible? I mean, I think that over and over again, I see that language is so deeply rooted in tradition and identity that people will resist changes, especially if those changes are coming from some top-down authority who is trying to implement vast reform over a huge mass of people. It's just too much of an imposition in people's lives. We have too many things going on already to just flip our language upside down and start doing it differently tomorrow. So I don't think that a large scale reform for a language like English, which is obviously very complex, very irregular.

I don't think a large scale reform from the top down, from an authority, really is practical. I think smaller reforms here and there could be practical. Other languages, because most other languages are much more regular, and many other languages have language authorities, language academies that can mandate changes. They can implement some minor changes, but I don't think it's quite practical in English. So attempts to impose spelling changes on us seem doomed to fail.

But left to our own devices, is it possible that we might be simplifying spelling anyway? For hundreds of years, these reformers were trying to push their simplifications upon the public to basically no success. But when left alone, our language now seems to be naturally simplifying to meet the needs of our fast-paced, interconnected society. And words like though, spelled T-H-O, or through, spelled T-H-R-U, are more common now than Noah Webster ever could have predicted when he proposed those changes in the 1700s. Right? And this was obviously a bigger deal 20 years ago, but text speek:

Wot R U doing 2day? What was that if not a form of spelling reform? But that was driven by technology, and by necessity – the necessity to fit your words into a single text message. It was not driven by some language authority. So I think spelling simplification is already happening. It’s organic,

and it’s slow. But it’s happening. But something I suppose we should ask is do we actually want it to? Embedded in our existing spellings are all kinds of clues to the origins of words and therefore their histories and literal meanings. Wouldn’t it be a shame to lose that?

And are bizarre spellings what give English some of its character? Aren’t they a feature not a flaw? What does Gabe reckon? It takes It's twice as long, generally for kids to learn or master English spelling compared to more phonetic languages like Spanish or German. And we also have twice the rate of diagnosed dyslexia.

And I don't think we need to be holding on to those two issues as though it's our badge of national honour that we have complicated spelling, and we have national spelling bees, and this is just who we are. I think it's great, and it's beautiful in its own way, but practical? I don't know if we need that. I’d love to know what you think: does English spelling need fixing, and if so, how do we do it? Let me know in the comments.

I cannot recommend Gabe’s book enough. I feel like he could have written it just for me. If you like this channel, you’ll love this. I’ll leave a link to buy it below. While you’re at it, check out that NordVPN deal too, and I’m also going to stick my entire chat with Gabe on my Patreon, so sign up if you want to see that.

In the meantime, I’ll see you in whatever you choose to watch next. Take care.