---
video_title: "What does the $ actually stand for?"
video_id: 5Bf4ll1vuWw
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Bf4ll1vuWw
video_date: 2026-04-18T13:00:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's explore $£€! And remember that learning a language is easier when you practice real conversations. Preply connects you with 1-on-1 tutors who help you speak more confidently and naturally. Get 50% off your first lesson here: https://preply.sjv.io/vDy3JN with code: ROB50
  
  Why is the $ sign an S? What does 'dollar' even mean? In this video, I answer both of those questions, while also explaining what the British pound is a pound of, and what the Euro was originally called. Watch, and I promise you will get your money's worth.
  
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  
  Editing: Martyn Williams
  Camera: Manuel Vering
  Everything else: Rob Watts
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://x.com/robwordsYT
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
  0:30 The origin of the dollar
  5:20 What the $ stands for
  13:42 The British pound and £
  17:02 The Euro and €
---
What does the S in the dollar sign actually stand for? So… I’ve been doing some deep research and I’ve got an answer for you. And it’s not what you think. I’m also going to tell you why the dollar is called the dollar, what the British pound is a pound of, and what the Euro was very nearly called. Time to put your money where my mouth is [muffled] in another RobWords.

Why did I do that? Have a look down there. Right down there. Because that is the first recorded use of the dollar sign in a handwritten letter sent by Oliver Pollock of New Orleans in 1778. This humble little document holds the key to what the S in the dollar sign stands for.

It’s sometimes said the symbol started as the U and S of “United States” written on top of one another, but that letter was written only two years after the signing of the declaration of independence and the United States coming into being and it already clearly isn’t that. No, there’s another, better explanation. But to get to it, we first need to understand where the dollar came from in the first place and its story begins, not in North America, but in Europe and with this coin: the Spanish real. This humble hunk of silver was the currency of 14th century Spain. A country with big ideas.

Among those big ideas was producing a bigger version of this coin. This one, to be exact, which was worth eight times the value of the other one. This eight Reales coin, the real de a ocho in Spanish, was known in English as the “piece of eight” [parrot:] Pieces of eight. [Rob] Yes, that one. Another of Spain’s big ideas was colonialism and In the 15th and 16th centuries, the pieces of eight found their way to the Americas.

Then the discovery of huge, gleaming reserves of silver in Central and South America meant that they could also be made there too. At the local mints they took on a new name as well, based on the fixed weights of silver they were made from. They became known as the “peso”, meaning “unit of weight”. These pesos/pieces of eight entered circulation across the Americas and not just the Spanish-speaking parts, either. British colonies in the Caribbean and North America were also using them because they were such a reliable unit.

You could even divide them up into eight smaller units. So a quarter of one would be “two bits”. Does that sound familiar? Meanwhile, in Europe another coin of a similar value had been gaining a foothold. It had first been struck at around the time that the Spanish first arrived in the Americas, but in a Bohemian valley known by the German name Joachimsthal.

In case you changed your mind, I got some fries. In precisely the same way that a round slab of beef from Hamburg became known as a hamburger, this round slab of silver from Joachimsthal became known as a Joachimsthaler. And in exactly the same way that a hamburger is sometimes just called a “burger”, a Joachimsthaler was sometimes just called a “thaler”. Now, can you see where this is going? Linguistic variations meant this thaler become known as a daalder in the Netherlands, a daler in parts of Scandinavia, and in the English-speaking world: a dollar.

Before we continue, can I just point out the extraordinary coincidence that this burger shop is on Joachimsthaler street? What are the chances of that? By 1700 the thaler had been adapted to have almost exactly the same silver content as another coin that was competing for usage in Europe: the “piece of eight” or peso. And so, to help differentiate between the two similarly-valued coins, people started referring to the peso as “the Spanish dollar”. This Spanish dollar was the de facto currency of the Americas right up until the American Revolution.

Though the English-speaking Americans were doing their accounting in British pounds, they were often holding in their hands Spanish coins. That’s why one of the first great acts on the independent United States was to ditch the British currency and “coin” – lol – their own. It would be based on the weight of an average Spanish dollar and would also be known as the Dollar. That’s right: the US dollar is named after the Spanish dollar. Not only that, though, its value is based on the Spanish dollar too as you can see from 1797 table equating the Spanish and Federal US Dollars.

And what is the Spanish dollar known as in Spanish? As we’ve said: the Peso. Now we’re ready to tackle what that S in the dollar sign stands for. You see, a written abbreviation of the peso was this. Can you make out what that is? It is a P with a diddy little S above it,

written in such a way that your pen need never leave the page. If you want to see it in use, here it is scrawled rather lazily here, here, here and here. But hold on a second. Haven’t we seen this document before? Yes, we have. It’s the one with the first known dollar sign on it

and if you do the maths on this paper, you’ll also realise that this symbol and this symbol are referring to the same thing. They represent the same currency. What that “dollar” sign in fact is, is a variation on that PS-for-peso sign. It is a P and an S combined. It’s a lot clearer on this example from the same year.

This is from a rather grim document about the sale of slaves in “Porto Rico”, as they used to call it. Down here we have two symbols side by side. They’re the two we’ve just been talking about. On the left is the PS peso sign and on the right is the dollar sign. But do you see how it appears as though the S in the first sign has been, sort of, pulled down over the top of the P to give the second?

Now you might be thinking, “Well, if they’re the same thing, why put two together?” Well, because this is historically a common way of abbreviating a plural, by writing the abbreviation twice. Have you ever noticed that the shorthand for pages is sometimes still pp.? And that’s what happens here. The first symbol makes clear we’re

talking in pesos and the second one saves time on repeating it. These documents, unearthed a hundred years ago by the Swiss-American mathematician Florian Cajori, make, I think, by far the most compelling case for where the US dollar sign came from. I think it’s a P and an S for peso. And what’s more, I told you that was the answer right at the start of this video. “What does the S in the dollar sign actually stand for?”

“So.” [slowed down] “So” Now, I think that’s case closed. But let’s at least touch on some of the other theories and also answer the million dollar question: one line or two. We’ll do that in a sec, but first, if all this talk of Pesos, Thalers and Spanish dollars has got you thinking about your own language-learning goals, let me tell you what I’ve been up to. I’ve been having 1-to-1 Swedish lessons thanks to this video’s sponsor, Preply.

After answering a few questions, they introduced me to over 100 tutors whose teaching style matched my learning style, because I need someone who is supportive, motivational, and patient. Which is precisely what I found in my tutor Andrea. We had a huge amount of fun just going through the basics. “Oo, aa, uhhh” [laughter] [Andrea] Good work. [Rob] Learning with Preply is as easy as 1, 2, 3.

One: Pick a tutor, They have over 100,000 of them teaching 90 languages Two: Learn consistently and make progress. And three: Be able to speak confidently. I’m just at the start of stage 2, but I know I’ll make progress, because I’ve been here before with French and German. You develop language skills quickly by actually speaking that language to other human beings, and that’s what Preply gives you: 1-to-1 lessons with real tutors. Try it out to find that special tutor who is finally going to get you speaking that second language.

And be sure to use my special link in the description of this video, which will give you a juicy 50% discount off your first lesson with Preply. Now, did you notice anything about those first written examples of the dollar sign? They were all with a single line down the middle. However, the first printed example of the dollar sign appears in this beautiful book, Chauncey Lee’s American Accomptant from 1797. It’s the same book that had the table equating the Spanish and US dollars that I showed you earlier.

It’s a book about arithmetic and inside it abbreviates dollar like this. Look. Two bars. So, by the close of the 18th century, the one-bar and two-bar dollar symbols are both in use, and they have been ever since. The one-bar dollar is the one you’ll find on your keyboards nowadays, but anyone who grew up in the 20th century, will remember that the double-dashed dollar used to be a lot more common.

Or at least, it felt like it was. And the existence of the two-line dollar is responsible for many of the alternative theories about the origins of the symbol in the first place. Not least the U superimposed onto an S hypothesis. Although I ask you, why would the U turn into two lines? It’s actually quicker to write it as a single stroke.

There’s also the theory that the dollar sign is based upon the pillars of Hercules. What the Spanish call the two jutting out bits of land that form the entrance to the Mediterranean. They appear either side of the coat of arms on the Spanish flag, but also, more importantly, they appear on the old Spanish dollars. I like that idea. It’s elegant and relevant, and does a good job of explaining the two lines but not a very good job of explaining the S.

However: if we just zoom in on one of those pillars, the one on the right, isn’t that ribbon doing something interesting? Isn’t it wrapped around that pillar in such a way that it actually looks a bit like an S? An S with a massive line through it. Okay, I’m actually starting to lean in the direction of that theory. If the early uses didn’t point to the P and the S hypothesis, I’d be going for the pillars idea.

But Dr Cajori says in his book “No commercial account books or letters have been found which give even the slightest support to this view of the origin of our dollar mark.” I’m guessing he would have also disapproved of the theory it’s based on the motif on this coin. It’s called the Pesttaler or “Plague dollar”, minted from silver from Joachimsthal to commemorate the end of the plague that ravaged Europe in the 1600s. Does the snake on the cross look a bit like an S with a line through it to you? I mean, it sort of does.

But why would a limited-edition coin produced thousands of miles away have inspired the symbol of a currency in the Americas? It probably wouldn’t have. The peso hypothesis, to my mind, trumps all the others. The two-line variation might just simply be because the P was written with a down, and then an up stroke. As for which version is more correct – one bar or two – maybe we should look to the American currency itself for answers.

How is it written on the dollar bill? Oh. Hold on. It’s not on there. How about on the two?

No. On the five? The 10? The 20? Any of them?

It turns out, no. The dollar sign does not feature on any US banknotes. How’s that for a revelation. Dollar is always written out as a full word. And an even greater revelation is that it doesn’t appear on any American coins either.

Nor does it appear on any Canadian banknotes or coins. Nor on Australian banknotes, nor on Singaporean dollars, nor on Hong Kong dollars. What’s that all about? It is nevertheless clear from the websites of the respective mints for those countries that the single-line dollar is winning the war. Okay, I think we’ve dived deeply enough into the dollar.

Now let’s look at a currency with a similar double-or-single dilemma: the British Pound. It is not a coincidence that there is a measurement called a pound and a currency called a pound. The British pound takes its name form the Latin phrase libra pondo – yes, libra as in the star sign with the scales, because libra pondo means “pound weight”. We’ve already seen it’s not unusual for a coin to be named after the fact it represents a fixed measurement. Remember the Peso?

Well, Shekel also means simply “weight”. Meanwhile the old Greek currency the Drachma meant “a handful”. Ditto the Dirham, used in the UAE and Morocco, which comes from the same sources as Drachma. As does the Armenian Dram, which is related to the whisky measurement, the dram. That also originally meant a handful.

Anyway, I’ve digressed from the pound. It comes from libra pondo hence the pound sign is actually nothing more than a fancy L with a line – or sometimes two – running through it. Britain’s Royal mint says the line-or-lines “indicate an abbreviation”. So basically it differentiates the pound symbol from just any old letter L. And it goes back a long way. This cheque from the Bank of England

Museum was written in 1660 and look. There’s the pound sign bold as brass. Or should that be “bold as silver”? No, because it sounds terrible, but also “yes”, because that’s what a pound was originally a pound weight of: sterling silver. Now, sterling is actually the word you use if you want to differentiate the British currency from any other sort of pound and that’s been the case for the best part of a millennium.

It’s first used to describe a penny minted in Norman England in the 11th century in the Latin form sterilensis. That word is used specifically to refer to the coins minted in England at that time. But nobody really knows why. There are various fun theories about where the word sterling came from. Some say it's a reference to the birds that appeared on some of the coins: the starlings, if you will.

Others claim it refers to the stars that appeared on some other Norman coins. It’s also been suggested Sterling comes from an old Germanic word meaning “strong”. A reference to the Norman penny’s reliable weight. And still others say it’s short for “Easterlings”. A term used to describe the eastern, Hanseatic traders with whom the English dealt.

If that were the case it’d be really weird to drop the stressed first syllable. I mean, who does that? Nobody knows where “Sterling” came from, and it’s quite likely we will never know. On that chirpy note, let’s move on because I just mentioned the Hanseatic League, the northern European trading block that has sometimes been described as “the first European Union”. Or at least in this one article.

With a question mark. Shut up, I’m trying to do a segue. And what is perhaps one of the most significant developments of the modern European Union? The creation of the Euro. The Euro is considerably newer than the other currencies we’ve talked about so far.

It was introduced on the first of January 1999, although just in electronic form. The notes and coins entered circulation in 2002, replacing a colourful mix of historical currencies like the French Franc, the German Mark, the Spanish Peseta and the Italian Lira. Euro seems like an obvious name for Europe’s single currency. Perhaps the only thing that unites all of the countries that adopted it is that they’re in Europe. But the Euro was nearly called something else.

In fact there were several contenders. Its working title was the ECU, an acronym for European Currency Unit that just happened to coincide with the name of an old French coin, the écu. Needless to say the French government pushed pretty hard to keep that name. When presented with the name euro, French President Jacques Chirac said “C’est maladroit”. “It’s maladroit” or “it’s awkward”.

He thought it was too technocratic and should be more “political”. Others felt the Euro was just a bit sterile and wanted something with a bit of history. The Brits argued it should be called the crown, the shilling, or the florin. All names that just happen to have applied to British coins in the past, but also common names among other currencies too. The names of all the Scandinavian currencies, for example, mean “crown”.

If they had gone for crown, though, the next question would have been “Crown in which language?” Would it have been called “crown” everywhere or, for example, “la couronne” in France? It sounds a bit messy, doesn’t it? The Germans had a typically pragmatic solution: to use “euro”, but also allow countries to have it as a prefix to the name of their existing currency. Germany could have the euro-mark. Spain the euro-peseta.

The second part of that plan failed to get off the ground, but in December 1995, the issue was settled. The new coin would be called the Euro, no matter where it was being spent. Credit for coming up with the name “euro” is sometimes given to an Esperantist named Germain Pirlot. Here’s a letter from the European Commission thanking him for the suggestion. But surely that name was always going to be in the mix given that “euro” appears in, so far as I know, the name for Europe in all the EU languages.

The announcement of the winning name was generally met with disappointment. The Times – the London one – described Euro as “a name nobody really liked and whose main virtue is that it is not “too French” for the Germans.” As for the euro symbol, well I really like it. I think it’s simple and elegant. It looks like a stylised E while also being the Greek letter epsilon, albeit with an extra line through it.

I reckon that second line is there to stop the Greeks getting confused between the letter and the currency, but the European Central Bank – that’s the Euro’s equivalent of the US Federal Reserve – says the two parallel lines “symbolise the stability of the currency”. Are you sure it’s not just to make it look a bit more currency-ey? I think it is. And with that, I think you’ve had your money’s worth. If you’ve enjoyed this video, I think you’d like this one too.

I also think you’d like my free newsletter, which you can sign up to at robwords.com/newsletter. I’ll see you in whatever you choose to watch next. Until next time, take care.