---
video_title: "Britain had its own Scandinavian language"
video_id: ji1XP9r7v80
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ji1XP9r7v80
video_date: 2026-08-29
video_description: |
  Let's explore the mysterious Norn language. Learn a language using the content you love with Migaku. Claim 50% OFF Migaku Lifetime or an extra free month here: https://migaku.com/robwords?uc=1
  
  As recently as the 1800s, part of Britain was speaking a language descended from that of the Vikings. On the islands of Orkney and Shetland, Norn was spoken for almost a thousand years – so why did it disappear?
  
  In this video, let's explore Orkney and the remaining fragments of its lost Scandinavian language.
  
  Thanks to Time Team for inviting me over. You can support their brilliant archaeological work via their Patreon here: https://www.patreon.com/cw/TimeTeamOfficial
  
  Here's Barry Nisbet's performance of the Hildina ballad: https://youtu.be/8FrKS5R1_WU?si=sXnAqe8TQKyIDx53
  
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://x.com/robwordsYT
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
---
Britain once had its own Scandinavian language. Veya thine mota vara gort O yorn sinna gort i chimrie. Spoken here on these windy islands steeped in mystery. Oooh, I have no idea what this means. I will carve a rude word in it.

How could an extraordinary language develop then just disappear? Let’s find out in another RobWords. These are the Scandinavian languages. But there’s one missing. It’s the one spoken here, in part of Britain.

I’m in Orkney, a collection of islands at the UK’s northern-most limits. And here, along with Shetland even further up and at the top-most tip of Scotland was once the home of the language of Norn. A language brought to these islands from across the sea by the Vikings of Norway. The biggest clue to Orkney’s Scandinavian roots is its name. It’s from the name given to the archipelago by Norse adventurers, who called these the “seal islands”: Orkneyjar.

This island specifically that I’m standing on, is known to Orcadians – That’s what the people here call themselves – as simply the mainland, but to the Vikings it was Hrossey, “horse island”. In fact, most of the placenames here appear to be of Scandinavian origin, the result of 600 years of rule by Norway. And it was during that period that Orkney and Shetland developed their own descendant of the Viking language, Old Norse: Norn. And this is what it looks like. This is the Lord’s prayer in specifically the Norn spoken here in Orkney.

The one from Shetland looks slightly different. And I’m showing you this Lord’s Prayer from Orkney because, so far as Orkney Norn goes, we have very little else. What we’re left with is just a few fragments, really. That’s Dr Ragnhild Ljosland from the archaeology institute of the University of the Highlands and Islands here in Orkney. She’s originally from Norway and, though I have no idea how to read this out loud, she does.

[Rob] I really want to hear it. Please. Okay, I’ll try. Favor i ir i chimrie, Helleur ir i nam thite, gilla cosdum thite cumma, veya thine mota vara gort o yurn sinna gort i chimrie, ga vus da on da dalight brow vora; Firgive vus sinna vora sin vee Firgive sindara mutha vus, lyv vus ye i tumtation, min delivera vus fro olt ilt, On sa meteth vera. [Rob] What’s really noticeable there is that there are words that we can recognise as English speakers.

Like temptation. Temptation. You said something very close to forgive a couple of times. Firgive, yeah. That’s a bit of a clue as to why Norn ultimately disappeared.

But as for the rest of it, well I asked my subscribers if any Scandinavian language speakers among them could understand it. I would have expected that maybe Icelandic speakers or Faroese speakers would have had the best chance, given that it’s most closely related to those languages. Maybe Norwegian speakers… But no. Consensus was, it sort of looks like Gibberish. The Shetland version seems a bit more familiar, perhaps, but really, Norn was a distinct Scandinavian language in its own right.

So where did it go? Well, part of the answer to that question comes from the language spoken here on the Scottish mainland. Specifically, I’m in Edinburgh where I’ve been doing my Edinburgh Fringe show. It went well, thanks for asking. But eventually the language of Scotland would supplant Norn.

We’ll get into that later. But it’s worth mentioning that both English and Scots are also highly influenced by the Scandinavian languages. The Danish and Norwegian settlements of England and Scotland resulted in a flood of Viking vocab being borrowed. Real fundamentals too: our pronouns “they” “their” and “them” are borrowings from Old Norse. Our verb “to die” is taken from the Vikings, which tells you a bit about their methods.

As does our verb “to take”. Plus a whole host of other words. Here in Scotland they use extra Old Norse words too, like bairn for child or kirk for church. But Norn is something else: an entire Scandinavian language spoken exclusively on the islands around Britain. English and Scots are more closely related to German than the languages of Scandinavia And, actually, I’ve been brushing up on my German using Migaku.

Migaku is an immersion tool that allows you to learn a language using media that you already love. For example, looks what happens when I try to watch a video on the German YouTube channel Kurzgesagt. It gives me interactive subtitles that I can click on when I don’t understand a word, and it’ll tell me more about it. It will also remember the words I struggled with so I can review them later using flashcards. But you know I can be a bit of a linguistic tourist, so I’ve also been using it to dabble in other languages, and it is great for Japanese.

If you tell it you’re a beginner, like me, it’ll give you a full structured learning path to follow, guiding you through the basics of language, including its far-too-many writing systems. Migaku will also personalise your learning experience by recommending shows that fit your level, meaning you spend less time searching for interesting TV and movies, and more time listening to the native language. What’s more, it has a really handy integrated live translator, meaning you can quickly find out what a website in your target language is actually trying to tell you. Migaku has lots of language options, including Mandarin, if learning Chinese is your thing, so why not give it a try? Migaku is offering RobWords viewers a 50% discount on the lifetime subscription, including all languages.

So, use my special link in the description. I’m in Orkney to find out more about Norn, but also for another exciting reason. I was invited over by the makers of Time Team, an archaeology TV show that I grew up watching, and that is still being made, making amazing discoveries year in year out. They wanted to show me their latest find on these extraordinary islands. A stony structure they’re pretty certain is some 5000 years old.

Time Team is still presented by the man who’s hosted it for three decades. National treasure – and Blackadder’s Baldrick – Sir Tony Robinson. [Sir Tony] This is the first day I’ve been here and I’m hoping that by the end of today we’ll be able to get a strong idea of what it is. [Rob] These islands just keep throwing up surprises, don’t they? I’ve heard it described as one of the unsung heroes of European history, Orkney.

I think that’s true. It was so busy, it was so important, it was so fundamental to the north of the Northern Hemisphere, so, for thousands of years, and it’s weird and kind of creepy that that’s been completely forgotten, isn’t it? Nowadays, for a huge amount of the UK population, it seems like really isolated and yet this would have been like the Oxford Circus of the islands, wouldn’t it, at one time. [Rob] ‘Tis true. These peaceful, weirdly treeless, islands of Orkney and Shetland were a vital and influential part of the Viking world.

Essential stepping stones leading westwards to Britain, the Faroe Islands, Iceland, Greenland and beyond, even to North America. Though we have these incredible neolithic sites, 5,000-year-old activity, we also have this extra showbiz history with the Vikings coming here, and also, them discovering these sites and carving their runes into them. Yes, them discovering these ancient sites, as people always do, and going “Ooh, I’ve got no idea what this means. I will carve a rude word on it and I will have it as my own and bury my mother-in-law in it.” Every civilisation does it, don’t they?

[Rob] I need to explain what Sir Tony is on about here. He’s referring to the incredible historical site of Maeshowe here on Orkney. It’s what’s called a chambered cairn, basically a burial mound, from the late stone age. It is a historical wonder in its own right, but it also contains something else extraordinary: some carvings. [Ragnhild Ljosland] In the 1150s a bunch of rune carvers broke in there.

They made a hole in the roof, climbed in, hoping to find treasure, hoping, I think, to fight the ghost of the grave mound, and carved 33 inscriptions on the wall. So these are all together in one place and they’re talking to each other. So when I’m inside Maeshowe, I always feel like I hear the voices from the 1100s talking to me, and talking to each other, because they reply to each other. [Rob] Among those inscriptions are tales of great treasure, references to the heroes of the sagas, including Ragnar Lothbrok, but also, they include – as Sir Tony put it – some “rude words”. [Dr Ljosland] What’s the audience of your YouTube channel?

[Rob] They’re old enough. [Dr Ljosland] The rudest of them all is in one of the side chambers, and it says simply “Thorny sarth, Helgi carved.” Thorny is a woman and Helgi is a man. So Helgi just carved, whereas Thorny, she was doing something called “sarth”, and “sarth” translates best as f***** and it’s always, usually applied to a man. So having a woman do “sarth” is really unusual and very rude.

[Rob] I must admit, I wasn’t expecting you to know them all verbatim, like that. All the rudest ones, word for word. [Dr Ljosland] They tend to stick in the mind. [Rob] Yeah, yeah. Sure.

What these inscriptions amount to, profanity and all, are the largest collection of runic writings outside of Scandinavia. And runes can be found all over these islands. On standing stones like that one over there. This place was so damn Viking, and yet its Norse language was lost. What happened?

It survived here until certainly the 19th century, I would suspect it was slightly longer in some of the more remote areas. That’s Sigurd Towrie, an Orkney native and mainstay of the archaeological scene here. In 1468, the Norwegians handed Orkney over to Scotland, supposedly as part of a wedding dowry. They basically pawned it. And as Sigurd points out, that was the beginning of the end for Norn.

It kind of switched from Scandinavian to Scots as time went on, and that gradually eroded and eroded and eroded. But even after the switch, it survived. And it survived in different pockets. It survived in bits in places But again, it’s kind of like dialect today. Like, the way I’m speaking to you now isn’t the way I would speak at home, because you feel like you have to be understood.

And when I was growing up – and I’ve no doubt that this went back for centuries – If you spoke with your accent, your dialect, you were considered ignorant. So Orcadians always… we call it “chant”. You chant so that you’re understood, and you try to hide the accident. Primarily what we’ve got is a Norse-influenced dialect of Scots. To find out more about what Norn was actually like, I’ve sought some more local help from the Orkney Archives.

There are actually very few books on the subject Norn, but all the ones that there are, are here. This is one that I was really after. It’s Marwick’s “The Orkney Norn”, a book all about the Norn spoken specifically in Orkney, because the Shetlantic one is slightly different. It’s just a dictionary of Norn terms, and you can open it on any page and you’ll find some charismatic-looking piece of local dialect, like, here’s a nice word: “muggry” “Misty; drizzly. An adjective.”

And, um, yeah. Judging by the weather conditions since we got here, I’d say muggry is an appropriate local word. So what remnants of Norn do remain in the way Orcadians speak? Ragnhild points out it’s not just about the words people say here, but also the way they say them. Folk from Scotland can very easily hear if somebody’s from Orkney and that’s because of the Norn input.

They can hear it from the intonation, the speech melody. [Rob] The speech melody? Yeah So there’s a lilt here on Orkney that’s got a Scandinavian quality to it? Yeah, I’m from Norway myself, so what you’re hearing now is Norwegian accented. But the Orcadian accent is not too different from Norwegian.

[Rob] But it’s not just the accent, there’s something interesting going on with the grammar here too. Like, one grammatical feature that I noticed was that things that would be referred to as “it” in English can be “him” or “her”, or “he” or “she”. If it’s weather, or the tide… Or winds are often “he”. So, you can say things like “He’s bad the day” or “He’s high noo”, referring to the tide, and that’s just like what we’d do in coastal Norway as well. Orkney Norn may have gone the way of the VIkings themselves, and become the stuff of history, but Britain is full of tales of local languages revived and reasserted.

So what of the future of Norn? I think people are excited about Norn. Even if we can’t speak Norn, I think there’s interest in it as part of our cultural heritage. And when musicians like Barry Nisbet and others are finding inspiration in Norn, I think that’s great.

Back at the dig, It’s been amazing watching the archaeologists and Time Team at work. Orkney just keeps on turning up surprises. I can’t wait to see Time Team’s final programme, once we know what this prehistoric find really is. Whether it’s stone age or Viking age, Orkney has a thousand stories to tell about the wider history of life in Europe. Stories brought there from across the sea.

Thank you so much for watching, and thank you so much to the people of Orkney for being so welcoming. Extra special thanks to Sir Tony Robinson and the folk at Time Team who were just such a joy to be around and who do such brilliant work that you can actually support, if you want to, by signing up to their Patreon. That is money very well spent. If you’ve enjoyed this video, check out this one next and I’ll see you over there. Until next time: take care.