---
video_title: "How to solve cryptic crosswords"
video_id: 5OsrPo6DSAs
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5OsrPo6DSAs
video_date: 2026-08-11T16:09:26+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's relax and do a crossword. Also...🌏 Upgrade your online protection with an all-in-one security app! Get an exclusive NordVPN deal + 4 months extra here ➼ https://nordvpn.com/robwordsvpn. It’s risk free with NordVPN’s 30-day money-back guarantee!
  
  In a break from the usual pace of my videos, let's just gently do a crossword together. In this video, I'm joined by Britain's leading cryptic crossword setter, John Halpern, as we work our way through every clue of this Times Quick Cryptic.
  
  Want to play along? Here's the crossword: https://www.thetimes.com/puzzles/crossword/times-quick-cryptic-no-3364-kfwbdw5vn
  
  📝 John Halpern's website: https://johnhalpern.co.uk
  🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿 Tickets to Rob's Edinburgh show: https://www.edfringe.com/tickets/whats-on/robwords-live
  
  
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://x.com/robwordsYT
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
---
Do you know what I love? A good cryptic crossword. One where every clue is a riddle of its own. Emo, eight letters. It's comeback, of course. If you've

never had the pleasure of completing one, you are in the right place because we're going to do one from start to finish. [music] I'll explain how to do it as we go along with a bit of help, too. It's one of those famous people's names that you know is an anagram of something like Costume, you know, is Tom Cruz. That's John Halpen, Britain's leading crossword setter. He creates puzzles for all the UK's national papers and he's the perfect person to tell us how to solve them. So get comfortable,

[music] relax as we solve this times quick cryptic together [music] from this fake library that I'm not really sitting in. So where do we start? with one across of course. Let's get [music] cracking. One across created autograph in legal document.

Okay, so cryptic crossword clues very often, not always, but most often have two parts. They have a sort of riddle bit and they have a straightforward clue as to what the answer is. Both the riddle and the straightforward clue get you to the same word. In this case, I think the straightforward clue is the word created. So, we're looking for a word that means created. And the rest of

this clue is telling us how to get there. Why is that? Well, it's because autograph, it only really means one thing, doesn't it? It can mean signature or if you take it as a verb to autograph, it can mean to sign. And a legal document can be a deed.

What we want here is autograph in legal document. So what happens if we put the word sign in the middle of deed? Well, let's type it in and see what we get. D E. So the first two letters of deed, then sign, then E D. Do we then get a word that

means created? Yes, we do. We get the word designed, and that is our answer. We're off the mark. Now, I approach crosswords in what some would describe as a slightly strange way, and that is I try to do all of the across first. and

then do all of the downs. And I asked our expert John Halpen whether that was a bit odd. Is that normal? [laughter] I hear I hear lots of people do that and people do it um a different way and it's completely fine however you want to do it. Yeah, lots of people do do it that way. Systematically

work their way through. My mom used to say she's she's I'll I'll start at the end because they always run out of ideas at the end and they're easier. I don't know whe [laughter] that's that's true or not, but um however you do it, it's completely fine. >> So, how do you do it? >> I glance through and I look for an indicator or something like that. And

also sometimes shorter clues. Hopefully, there's just one little trick in there or two or three tricks and I can I can get there. Nevertheless, let's crack on with five across which is Mark's second automobile. Mark's second automobile. So Mark's looks like it's something belonging to Mark. But you can actually use

apostrophe s as an abbreviation for is, can't you? When you say it, you use apostrophe s for is. So what I think this might actually be better read as is mark is second automobile. Why do I think that? Because I think I already know what the answer is. And I

think it is a synonym for the word mark. We're looking for a a fourlet word that can be created using second automobile in a sort of clever cryptic way. And often if you do enough of these cryptic crosswords, you learn certain shortorthands. And one of those shorthands is that the word second often means they just want the letter S. Why? Because an abbreviation for second

is just S. So I think this word begins with an S. What we have to do then is put a word for an automobile after that to give us a word that means mark. to tell me what you think about this

scar. Does that mean Mark? Yes, it does. I think we've already got our second answer. I will, by the way, skip over the ones where I don't know the answer.

But some of these just jump out at you, particularly if you're used to doing cryptic crosswords, like the abbreviation of seconds to S. That's sort of I I would say uh the ABC of crosswords, but obviously it's not AB or C, it's S. On to eight across dance and drink brown ale initially. So in cryptic crossword shortorthand the word initially often means that it wants you to take the initials of the letters that either precede or come after the word initially. Could that be the case here?

Dance and drink brown ale. So it could be just ale initially which would be a it could be brown ale in initially which would be ba or it could be drink brown ale which would be dba but I can't think of many words that have d a. So I think the word dance is our straightforward clue. We're looking for a dance and then this drink brown ale initially is our clue to getting to it. So, I think I know the answer [laughter] because I think we're looking for the initials of brown and ale because there are dancers that end with BA, aren't there?

And what we're also looking for is therefore a threeletter word that means drink to go before the BA. Why three letters? Because we need five letters all together, don't we, for our answer. Is there a drink that is three letters long that goes before the letters B A to give us a dance? Yes, I think there is.

Rumba. Rum being the drink. B A initially is brown ale. We've got eight eight across. We're doing really well. Let's keep

cracking. At some point, I'm going to bring in John Halpen when we get to one of the types of clues that he's been explaining to me. I had this conversation with him a while back, so I I know which ones he's explained to me. Um, I will point out also, we had this conversation so long ago that you'll notice in clips of him that he's got a little Santa on his mantle piece. That is not because he keeps it up all year round and has now got it at the height of summer here in Europe. No. Um, that's

because we recorded this around Christmas. Anyway, let's keep going with our clues. Nine across. Reprimand aristocrat suppressing expression of disgust. Reprimand aristocrat suppressing expression of disgust.

Four and three. So the straightforward bit of the clue might be expression of disgust. We might be looking for an expression of disgust that's made up of a four-letter word followed by a threeletter word. Or we might be looking for a reprimand that is four then three. You'll notice that in these cryptic clues, the straightforward clue is usually at the start or the end.

In fact, almost always if it's if it's there at all. Um, aristocrat. What's another word for an aristocrat? A to. I think of toph because I can think of expressions that mean either reprimand or disgust. They end with off, like

ticked off, put off. But neither of those fit. I think our word for aristocrat is going to end up being tough. But I'm not ready to solve that one yet. I told you we will skip over them when I don't know. All right, we're on to 11

across. Spooners sentry arrived for poker say. So, do you know what a spoonerism is? A spoonerism is when you swap the first letters of two words that are next to each other. I'm trying to think of one that isn't rude. The one that

immediately jumps to mind is cooking fat, which is um how a regular in a pub I used to live in used to refer to the pub cat when he wanted to swear about it. Don't overthink it if you're below the age of 18 cuz it's rude. Uh what other ones are there? They're named after a guy called Reverend Spooner who was apt to muddle his words up. So anyway, in a cryptic crossword clue, when you see spooners, a reference to spooner, it usually means that they want you to swap the first letters of two words to give another term. And I think that's what's

happening here. Spooner's sentry arrived for poker say. Now say is also cryptic crossword for for example. A lot of the time it could mean when said out loud. So we're looking for something that sounds like something. But I think in

this case it's saying that poker is an example of this thing. Why do I think that? Because I know the answer. Poker is a card game. What happens if you spoonerize card game? So you swap

the first letters of the two words card and game. You get guard came. Is that synonymous with sentry arrived? Is a sentry a guard? Yes. Does arrived

mean came? Yes, it does. So, [laughter] I think the answer is card game. I'm doing it. I'm putting it in.

C-r. You see why these are fun? Because you've got word play within word play. This is why I love cryptic crosswords. This is the way I relax. By the way, I'm

using this one to relax ahead of flying to Edinburgh tomorrow for the Edinburgh Fringe Festival where I'm doing 11 performances of my Wordy Nerdy Show. If you're there between the 6th and the 16th of August, assuming that I haven't published this after then, do come and see me. I'm on at 8:10 every night at the Assembly George Square Gardens Studios, Studio 3. I'd love to have you along. I don't know if anyone's going to turn up, which is why I need to sort of have a nice relaxing crossword to settle the nerves.

>> Actually, Rob, they did turn up. Future Rob here with a brief interlude from Edinburgh, where I have already done my first performances. Thank you so much to the dozens and dozens of people who came along to see them. I was so chuffed to see so many faces. This is a truly wonderful city, even if it does feel like no matter what direction you go in, it's uphill. the unique topography of

the place combined with the fact that there are so many people here right now means that getting a phone signal can be kind of tricky, but they have this solution where they've got a Wi-Fi network that covers a lot of the venues. And I've been using that Wi-Fi with confidence thanks to this video sponsor, NordVPN. NordVPN does everything you expect from a top level VPN. So, just protecting you when you use public Wi-Fi, whether you're out and about or just in your hotel room like I am now. But NordVPN does so much more than that with its built-in next generation antivirus. [music] I particularly

appreciate the numerous times it has stopped me accidentally going onto a scam website because the scammers got very good at faking these things. NordVPN will also scan any files you download for malware and block ads and pop-ups. What's more, its dark web monitor will immediately alert you if your leaked data appears on dark web marketplaces, giving you time to change the locks on your digital home, so to speak. With 24/7 support and a 30-day money back guarantee, there really is zero risk in trying it out. So, go to nordvpn.com/rowordsvpn

to get an exclusive NordVPN deal, plus four months extra on top. That is nordvpn.com/rowordsvpn. Now back to me from a few days ago with some top puzzling. On to our next clue which is 12 across. Three letters. We

should be able to get this one. Layer of earth came down at last. Okay. Right. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So,

you know how I said initially often indicated you need to take the initials of the words that came before it or or a word that came before it, the first initial. Well, at last very often in crosswords, and this is a a quick cryptic, so it's quite blatantly using some typical tropes. It's supposed to be quite an easy cryptic crossword, which is why I can you can usually assume that the trick that you think is being played is being played. And I think at last here is telling us to take the last letters from the words that come before it or a word that comes before it. So what happens if we take the last Okay, so it's a threeletter word. What

happens if we just take the last letter, the last letters of earth, came and down? So that's H, E, and N, which is hen. Does that mean a layer? [laughter] It does mean a layer, doesn't it? as in a thing that lays eggs. Layer hen. I'm

having that one. So, this is a really typical thing that they do in cryptic crosswords. Uh, another good example of it is you think you've seen the word flower, but what they're actually looking for is the name of a river, not the name of a flower. Because the word is not flower, it's flow. something that flows. Very, very cheeky

one. But we're doing well. We're on to 14 across. Oh, I didn't I didn't show you that in the grid. Sorry. There you

go. I've got a little sort of dial thing here that I have to press the buttons to show you the things and I'm doing it live. So, apologies if I a bit slow to it, but there you go. Hen. All right.

Next. Returned an awful pink servette. Okay. um returned an awful pink Soviet six letters. So the word returned could literally mean that we just return as in reverse the word that comes next would be and which would make it nah and then awful.

Oh, okay. I've just got the answer. This is what's called an anagram clue. I'm not going to tell you how these work. Here's John Halpen.

>> There are certain words or indicators in a clue that might suggest this is an anagram clue. They might be words like changing or strange or mixed. Anything that suggests there's been movement and maybe movement of the letters or that there's something wrong. It might say this is wrong or has been broken. Something like that might suggest you are to break or change or mix up the letters next to what we call the indicator, the word or phrase saying mix up or something like that.

>> Can you talk us through an easy anagram clue so we can get an idea of how they work? >> Sure. I slightly hesitate to say say they're easy because frankly anything when we start the first time we do something it's it's going to be difficult. [laughter] >> Yeah. To be fair, I've put words in your mouth there. You've actually ranked

these [clears throat] as easier, medium, and harder. >> Yeah. But um the first clue, changing of diapers, applauded. And you might look at it and at first glance that's just nonsense really. But we've already mentioned that a word like changing might suggest that you are to find an anagram. And also there's another clue.

You know, it's seven letters. So, oh, changing of diapers. Diapers is seven letters. Maybe I need to change the word diapers. And also there are two parts to a cryptic clue. There's what we call the

word play and a definition. So in a standard crossword you will just get a definition. So it will say fish five letters and you find a fish that's five letters long. And there is a definition in a cryptic clue always. But also there's another way to get the answer.

So if you have changing of diapers, you want to change around the letters of diapers. And then the rest of the clue is the definition. So you're looking for a word which means applauded. >> Okay. So we're looking for an anagram of diapers that means applauded. I think

the answer here is praised. >> Brilliant. That's it. Yeah. How did that feel to solve the clue?

>> Yeah. Now I get to feel smug. [laughter] >> And you're away. >> Indeed we are. So, how are we doing with 14 across returned and awful pink servette? So, we reckon it begins with N

a because we're returning nah. Can we see an indicator in here like the ones that John mentioned for an anagram? Yes, it's the word awful. If something's awful, it's in the wrong way, in the wrong order. It's in disarray. And we're

looking for therefore awful pink as in pink rearranged. Can we Okay, let me get the full grid up for you. Let's stick that NA in. Can we put an arrangement of the letters of the word pink on the end of there to give us a word that means servette? You must be shouting it at me by now. Of course we

can. We can put in this arrangement of the word pink to give us napkin. What is a napkin? It's a servette. Excellent. We've solved another clue. On

we go to 16 across. Bloke reportedly in hot spring. Bloke reportedly in hot spring. So reportedly again is often cryptic crossword shortorthand for a specific process. Um reportedly what does reportedly mean? It means

um how you've heard it, right? As far as I've heard it. Reportedly, I'm stretching it a bit, but reportedly it means as if reported. And by reported here, it means as if spoken. I'm not explaining this very well, but the point I'm making is it's telling us that this word sounds when said out loud like another word. So, we're looking for a

word that means bloke that sounds the same as a word for a hot spring. [snorts] This is a Brit. I said Brit by accident there, but actually not a bad shout because it is a bit of British slang for a bloke. Bloke itself being British slang, right? So, what British slang for a man sounds like a hot spring?

The answer is geyser. Yeah. Oh, in America you call it a geyser, right? We call it a geyser in Britain. And this is the Times of London, so that's why they sound the same. We don't call a bloke a geyser,

but we do call him a geyser. The answer is Gizer. Uh, so wait, uh, is the answer that goes in our grid, is that going to be the spelling of the word for the bloke or the spelling of the word for the hot spring? Bloke reportedly. No. So the

cryptic bit is bloke reportedly. Right. So we want to just put in the the word gizer meaning the hot spring. Is that spelled like is that spelled like that? You know it's named after a specific geyser in Iceland.

Gazier or Jia. It's spelled differently to that. But I think that might be how you spell it. Okay, I'm going to reserve the right to change the spelling of that later on. Let's crack on though with 18 across. Bird found in lands. [snorts]

Okay, we're looking for a threeletter word. This should be quite a simple one, and I think it is. I think this is a clue known as a hidden clue. These are quite simple, provided you can spot them. But how do you do that? Here's

John Halen to explain. >> Hidden clues will have indicators too to show you they are a hidden clue and that you were to look for the answers hidden somewhere within the clue. Actually reading along the letters. The indicator can be something like in or some of or part of something like that. So I'm saying part of the rest of the clue is the solution something like that. So the

first clue here is capital found in Czechoslovakia. You are looking to find something in the word Czechoslovakia. A capital in there. And actually at first glance if you was to take this literally you in another clue this would be Prague because that's the capital. However, you're looking at for four letters here.

Again the letter count really really helps as well because you can just look for four consecutive letters hidden in the word to find the solution. Maybe you've seen it already. I don't know. >> I have in this one. I don't know how many fourletter capital cities there are in the world, but one of them is Oslo and it's in the middle of Czechoslovakia. The word

anyway. >> That's it. There you go. You've just solved a hidden clue. It's It's actually found in the word Czechoslovakia.

>> Yeah. So, with that one, the difficulty is in spotting that it's that type of clue. >> Solving is all about the indicator. It's all about spotting what sort of clue it is. >> Can you give us another of these? Okay.

So, the next one, some assassin in Japan. Are you looking for a fiveletter answer? What are your thoughts, Rob? [sighs] Some assassin in Japan. So, we're looking for an assassin in the word Japan. That

seems No, because Japan's only five letters long. So it can't be hidden in a fiveletter word if it is a fiveletter word itself. Some assassin in Japan. Oh, okay. So, okay. So, I see what the

answer is, I think. But I I was con confused by the fact that the entire clue is the definition because the answer comes from the end of the word assassin through the word in and the first two letters of Japan and you get ninja >> which is some assassin in Japan. You've nailed it. That's exactly how it is. >> So bird found in lands. Well, it's that

found in that is our indicator that this is a hidden clue. We are looking for a threelet bird that is found in the word lands. Can you see it? It is of course an owl. There you go. We've solved our first

hidden clue with a bit of help from John Halpen. Thank you very much. On to 19 across. We have distribute a large find. Distribute a large find.

So the straight bit of the clue might be distribute. So we might be looking for a word that means distribute. We might be looking for a word that means find or a large find. and then distribute is the cryptic bit or all large find is the cryptic bit. Now I tell you what I immediately think it's that distribute is our straightforward clue.

That's the definition of the word we're looking for because I think it's more likely that a large find is the cryptic part of the clue. Why do I think that? Because ah usually means just put the word ah [clears throat] in. Not usually, often. Large. So if you're wearing largesized

clothing, what have you got on your tag? It's just an L. So often the word large in a cryptic clue is telling you to just put in the letter L. So I think we're probably looking for a word that means distribute that begins with a L. Going to bring up the full grid here. A L.

like that. And then the rest of the clue is going to come from a word that means find. What word means find that could go after a l and give us a word meaning distribute? It's a good question. How about this?

Locate at the end of a l gives us allocate. Does that mean distribute? I think it does. We've solved another clue. On we go. 22 across. Uh, friend

holding revolutionary knife. Okay, so this is I don't know the answer to this one straight away. Um, because revolutionary is a bit of a tricky word in cryptic crosswords. It can sometimes mean that you flip a word around as in you revolutionize it or you revolve it. Revolve it. Can you revolve something?

Point is it sometimes means you got to do the word backwards. But also weirdly in cryptic crosswords again this is the only thing you know if you do a lot of them. The word revolutionary sometimes refers to a specific revolutionary. Uh, I it could be some like Fidel as in a reference to Fidel Castro who is a revolutionary but more often than not it refers to Chavara Ch. Why am I saying it like that? Chavara, she che.

So either we're looking at putting a word for a revolutionary uh inside of a word for friend. Why do I think that? Because it says friend holding revolutionary. And holding is one of those words that often indicates that you need to put something inside something else. As if like the first word is literally holding on to the other word. Or we're looking for

Yeah. So, so the definition is not likely to be friend holding and then it equates to a word for knife that's been reversed, does it? Cuz friend holding doesn't mean anything. So, I think it's probably a friend, a word for a friend with a word for revolutionary in it. It's not going to be fidel, is it? Cuz

it's five letters. We've only got seven letters to play with. And are there any words for friend that are only two letters long? per more likely that it's I think it's gonna be chevara. I know it's chevara. Of course it is.

Right. So, [laughter] okay, this is a really satisfying one. I like this one a lot. So, um, mate. Mate is our word for friend. All right, let's get the grid

up. So, we can't just put in the word mate like that. We need to put in ch somewhere. to make it a word for a a knife. So what happens if we move that te from here, stick it at the end and we stick ch in the middle so that we have our word for friend holding the revolutionary chig.

Is that a word for a knife? Machete. Yes, I think it is. We solved another clue. This is really good. This is a

really good Quick Cryptic, by the way. This is the Monday edition of the Quick Cryptic in the Times, the Times of London. I think they get harder as the week goes on, or at least it feels like that, but maybe that's just me getting fatigued by the process. But check that out. Friend holding revolutionary knife.

Machete. Am I pronouncing that weirdly? Machete. Machete. All right. Next. again. Still

doing all of the acrosses first. John Halvin says it's a bit weird, but I do it anyway. Here we go. 23 across. Love judge to give speech.

So, there's a really good clue in here in the words to give because that may as well be like makes in so far as it's saying do this and that will make this or that will give this i.e. Complete this bit of riddle and that will give you a word meaning this. What do I mean? Well, I think if we can riddle love judge, we will get a word that means speech. Now, here's my question for you.

What does love mean? That's a pretty deep question, isn't it? What is love anyway? Uh specifically, what does love mean in tennis? Means zero, doesn't it? And zero is one

of those numbers that crossword setters like pretend like to pretend is a letter. They like to pretend that it is the letter O. Let me get up the full grid here. So I think this begins with an O. Then we need a word meaning judge that when put after that O will give us speech. Can you see what I mean here?

Love judge. So O judge to give word meaning speech.

I believe the word we are looking for that means judge is rate. Why? Because if you put that after the O, you get a rate. Does a rate mean speech? Yes, I think it does. We've solved another

clue. I'm enjoying this. Sort of cozy, isn't it? Uh 24 across. Hang about. Let

me get that up for you. Ceremony correct by the sound of it. Ceremony correct by the sound of it. We had one of these earlier, didn't we? Which one was it? Uh, where it was

telling us about something sound. Yeah. Bloke reportedly. So, I think by the sounds of it, I said by the sound of it, didn't I? by the sounds of it is doing a similar job to reportedly and that it's telling us that it's according to how it sounds it means the same as this other thing.

So I think what we're looking for is a word that means ceremony that sounds like a word that means correct. And I mean, I don't have to think about this one because this is one of those words that just just immediately pops to mind because there are only so many short words for a ceremony. One of them is this. Right. Does right sound like a word that means correct? Yes, it does,

doesn't it? It sounds like right. R I G HT. So, there you go. Look at that.

Another one solved. We're on to our last across. And actually we've managed all of them so far except nine across which is good going. Let's have a look at what 25 across is. The setter can ultimately curse guys fashion.

The setter can ultimately curse guys fashion. So the setter you know what somebody who makes crosswords is called. They're called a setter, a cross word setter. So sometimes the word setter is used um you're supposed to replace it with the word me or I as if you're reading this from the point of view of the setter themselves. So this could be that our solution starts with me m or starts with I and then the can ultimately curse.

So ultimately again might be doing what at last did earlier and it might be saying that we take the last letter of something the setter can ultimately curse guy's fashion. Are we looking for a term that means guys fashion?

Okay, I've worked this one out. This is great. So, I'm right about it beginning with me. Let me get the full business up here. It begins with me.

Okay. The setter can ultimately curse guys fashion. can ultimately. So I'm right about it being the last letter of a word here. It's the last letter of can. Stick N in

there. And then what's another word for curse? It's this. Does that give us a word meaning guys fashion? Yes, I think it does. Men's

wear. That's guys fashion. [laughter] >> [gasps] >> Uh, I'm really I don't normally get this many first time around. I will say I should I mean I'll come clean. I I did glance through these clues uh before just to check that this wasn't going to be way too hard and a waste of all of our time. So So you know if it seems

like I'm coming up with answers a bit too quick. It's because I have read them beforehand. Um because otherwise this would take absolutely ages, particularly with the explanation that comes with it. But this is great. I think we're ready to go on to the downs. Oh, I'm sorry.

That's not very elegant looking. Can I Can I get it so the down? There we go. That's a bit better. There we go. Sorry.

[laughter] That was very anally retentive. Uh, right. Okay. Our first down naturally. Hold on. Sorry. Okay. Our first down

should of course be one down. Top of dragon boat is black. Top of dragon boat is black. Top of dragon. Ah, okay. So, at last was

take the last letter, wasn't it earlier? Just like ultimately was um top of dragon. What's the top of the word dragon? It's the letter D, right? [laughter] Uh so I I think the first letter of our answer is D. In fact, what am I saying?

We know it is. It's already in the grid. So, we know that we're right with that. And we know it's D something R something to give a word meaning black. So, after the D, we need a word that means boat. A threeletter word for boat

that goes after D to give us a word for black. This one, not rocket science, I don't think. Noah and his ark give us dark. How about that? We've got Oh, because we did so well the first time round. I

hadn't even thought that. I mean, this is this is why I do all of the across so that the downs are really easy if you get a load of them. So, let's go straight on to two down. Here she is. Nation has a moat.

Partially has a moat. Ah. Oh, okay. John taught us about hidden clues. This is one of them. Hidden within there

is a word for a nation. Specifically, hidden within has a moat. It's easy to spot because we have the letters there. We know where to start and where to end. Nation has a moat partially. The answer

is sam. Samoa. Samoa. S more. We've done ourselves a massive favor by getting all of those across already. Okay, we're on to three

down. And we better check it out in the grid, haven't we? To see what letters we've already got, which is a lot of them. Finland rage about impressive conclusion. Okay, so can pretty confidently say that this is an anagram clue. Why? Because the word

about is our identifier. It's telling us that if you take the letters of some of the words and turn them about, yeah, as in like rearrange them, you're going to get a word for an impressive conclusion. Uh, in this case, that is. Why do I know it's impressive conclusion? Because if you rearrange the letters of impressive conclusion, you're going to get something that's far longer than five and six. Whereas

Finland plus rage, a sevenletter word plus a four-letter word gives us 11 letters altogether. And we are looking for an 11let word. We're looking for five, six. Okay. So, can we rearrange Finland rage to give us an impressive conclusion? Let's bear in mind that

we've got a load of letters there. And this one just jumps out at me. The answer is grand finale. Grand finale. So there's a nice little fact for you. Finland rage is an anagram

of grand finale. How about that? Okay, four down. How's that looking in the grid already? We've got an E at the start already. And we've got our second

to last letter is an A. All right, the clue is catch parent dancing. Catch parent dancing. [gasps] Ah, okay. So, dancing is another word that tells you to re rearrange something. It's another sign of an

anagram clue. It's saying imagine the letters dancing around and settling down in a different order. So, we're looking for a word that means catch that is an anagram of parent that fits into our grid there. Can you think of one?

I can. [laughter] It's this. It's ent trap. Entra is an anagram of parent. Parent dancing gives us a word meaning catch. Therefore,

catch parent dancing. Six letters. The answer. Ent trap. Love it. Okay. Six

across. Garments from lock set out. Garments from lock. Oh, sorry. Garments from lock set out. So out is

another word that can mean to rearrange things, you know, as in you like put them out. Um, so could we be looking for a word for garments? Oh, it's garments. It's plural. That is an anagram of lock set.

Let's just have a look here. Oh yeah. So we've got ch ands all of which do appear in lock set. So I think we are looking for an anagram of lock set that means garments. And I think we know what our answer is.

It's that it's clothes. All right. I thought this was all going to take ages, but it's not because we've got so many of those across. It's actually getting faster, isn't it? Let's move on to seven down.

Greek regularly put on regularly put on glad rags for factory. Now, hold on. Let's have a look at that grid again. So, we've got quite a lot of letters. Hold on. Let's look at the grid

with the clue alongside it. It's a bit easier, isn't it? Greek regularly put on glad rags for factory. So here's the thing. The word regularly regularly. Why why are you finding that

so hard? The word regularly can sometimes mean that you take every second letter in whatever word before or or after. Um because you're you're like taking the letters regularly. Do you understand what I mean? So in this case it could be uh taking the letters of Greek regularly or put on regularly. What would it be if

it was Greek? It would either be G E K or R E depending on whether we start on the first letter or start on the second letter. Got any clues in there? Ah okay. So the word starts with an R.

That's pretty promising. Uh, so it can't be taking put on regularly because there's no R in there. So I think we've got a word that starts with re put on glad rags for factory. Well, because we know that the cryptic clue is the bit at the start of this one, we know that the straight definition is at the end. So, we're looking for a word that means factory that begins with r e and is followed by letters that somehow signify glad rags.

Is glad rags is that British slang? It might be British slang. Glad rags is your clothes, right? But particularly, it's like your nicest clothes. What might you call your nicest clothes?

Might you call them your finery? I think you might. Does that give us a word meaning factory as per the clue? Yes, it does. Greek regularly put on glad rags for factory gives us refinery.

A type of factory. That's a nice one that I like that one a lot. There's a lot going on with it, you know. Uh, which is going to be the next clue? Is it going to be 13 down? No, it's not.

No. Stop getting ahead of myself. It is 10 down. Beginning to carry bar shoes for smart Alec. Beginning to carry. So you take that at

its most simple. Beginning to carry would be the letter C, right? The beginning of the word carry. Uh is there any evidence that this begins with a C? No. Now, we've got a lot of letters,

though, haven't we? Might be able to work this one out. And it's one of those ones where you might be able to just look at it without knowing the clue and get it. It's six and five. So, you have to draw a line in your head after the first six squares. And so, the second

word begins with a C. Um, but so does the first for a smart alec. Okay, I have just worked out what this one is because there's just a a fairly obvious term for a smart ali smart ale. Again, I'm sorry. I think this might be British slang.

Actually, if you've ever watched Peppa Pig, I've been watching a lot of Peppa Pig. My little daughter, she likes the colors. Um, and there's a character in there that is always referred to in this way. It's a little elephant uh who says, well, likes to show off that he's quite bright. And they always say that he is, and I'll just write this one in, a clever clogs. It does sound very British

to me, although I suppose it also sound a little bit Dutch because they're the ones who like to wear clogs. Why am I so confident that it's that? Well, let's have a look at the clue alongside it, shall we? Beginning to carry. So, we've got our C at the start. Bar shoes for smart Alec.

So our bar here is lever. Can you see that? So we've got C lever gives us clever and shoes. Shoes are clogs. So that's our answer. Clever

clogs. I feel like a bit of a clever clogs. Forgetting it. [laughter] Uh right. Uh right. Okay. Next one. Next

one. Next one. And we're going to get some more advice from John Halpen at some point. I realized I I seem like I might have neglected him. Don't worry, he'll be back. He'll be

back. So, let's check out our next one now, which is 13 down. What have we got here? Whistleblower. Playing well. I'm

not sure. So, playing is sometimes an indicator of an anagram as in like you're playing with the letters of the word to give another word. Is it that in this case? whistleblower. So, I mean, I think ah, so we're either looking for a word that means whistleblower or a word that means I'm not sure.

Playing well. Oh, let's see what letters we've got. Have we got any? Ah, we have. Aha. Aha. Okay, we've got

quite a lot of letters there. Let's compare it with the clue. Whistleblower playing well. I'm not sure. eight letters.

Well, so the fact that it ends with an R makes me think that it probably ends with eer and it is a word for a a whistleblower, if you understand what I mean. Is there another word for a whistleblower that that fits this description? What was it again? Whistleblower playing well. I'm not sure.

Ah, so I'm not sure. To be unsure about something is to isn't it? Which is enforcing reinforcing my idea that this ends with eer as in fact let me just put it in. We can always remove it. No one's going to tell us off if we do. Uh so we've got m at

the end of there. What's the rest of this clue? Whistleblower playing well. I'm not sure. So, is there a term meaning playing well that can go before to give us a whistleblower?

Let's bring it all up together. That fits in there. A whistleblower. What's an a whistleblower? Like someone who someone who goes to the police about something. who

I know what this is. So to be playing well one could describe as being in form. What happens if we add that in fra [snorts] spelling it like a child? We get in form is inform a word for a whistleblower. I think you'll find it ready well is that's our answer. Beautiful. On to 15

down. Now we've got a lot of letters there already. P something L something C something T. Our clue is Weasley individual shredded lace top. Let's have a look at that all together again.

So P, L, C, and T all appear in the phrase lace top, don't they? And shredded could well be an indicator that we need to rearrange those letters. It just just sounds like it. You know, if you shred something, you again pull it to pieces. If you're looking for any word that that indicates ruining something, you can if you see a word like that, you can think, oh, this is maybe asking us to to rearrange this word. And I think that is precisely

what's going on here. We're looking for an anagram of lace top. You know, it's further reinforced by the fact that we're looking for a sevenletter word, aren't we? A lace top added together give us seven letters. So, have we got a word that is an anagram of lace top?

That means a weasly individual. Oh, okay. So, I thought it was going to be like a slimy individual, you know, like a a weasly human, but it doesn't have to be a human. It could be a weasly animal because the answer is polecat. Pcat is it a pole cat is a weasel or a weasel is a pole cat. I don't know which

way you're at. It is. I think a weasel is actually a small pole cat, isn't it? Yeah. Weasley individual shredded lace top pole cat. Okay, we're really

rocketing along now. We're almost there, aren't we? What's next? 17. Ripoff woolly garment.

Now, the way I read that with the pause in the middle is because this one leaps out to me as a certain sort of clue. What is known as a double definition. John, help us understand. >> Right. Double definition clues are usually fairly short. And with a double

definition clue, there are, as you might have guessed already, two definitions. So, um, part of the clue defines the answer and the other part of the clue also defines the answer. So, you get two bites of the cherry of solving it really. So, the first one mentioned here is very little time, six letters. You might well be looking here for something which means very little and something that means time as well.

>> Ah, any ideas? I have got an idea on this one because there are two words that are pronounced differently but are spelled exactly the same and would look the same in the crossword anyway. And those two words are minute, meaning very little, and minute, which is a unit of time. >> That's it. You got it. Yeah.

>> And the indicator here is potentially a lack of an indicator. Basically, >> there isn't one. Yeah, you got there. >> Should we try what you've called a medium difficulty one? >> Shall we? This is just two words, so

surely it's got to be a double definition. No indicator at all. So, yellow bird. And you're looking and say, well, my my thought might be, well, canary. Canary yellow. That's a shade of

yellow as well. However, canary is six letters and this is seven. So, what's going on there? >> Um, what are your thoughts, Rob? >> I know. I would have put all of my eggs

in the canary's basket there. Yeah, it seemed like obviously it's so it's word that means yellow and a word that means bird. Well, it's got to be canary. >> And then, I mean, I'm not that good at counting clearly because I' i'd started writing that in before I realized, uhoh, this isn't going to fill the full seven slots, is it? Are we looking for a shade of yellow here? actually.

>> Well, I mean the it's a really good question. Um, no, [laughter] >> right. >> I mean, the art is, as I say, to try and take try and not to read things literally and ask yourself what what else does the word yellow mean. >> Well, it can mean sort of yellowbellied. It can mean sort of cowardly, can't it?

>> Yeah. Yeah. So, absolutely. So if you have a word that means cowardly that's also a bird then you're away. Any ideas? I think it's

>> I mean it sounds like that should be really easy. >> Should I just give you a first letter and then see if you can get it? >> Yes. [laughter] >> Hesitation. Um so it begins with C.

>> Now I know people are going to be screaming at their screens that I'm not getting this one. I haven't got it. Okay. So, if you're yellow, if you're cowardly, you are chicken. There you go. So, that's the answer.

That's embarrassing. [laughter] >> I think that was quite hard, though. I think that was quite hard. Um, >> I don't know. I don't think it's hard. I

think I just I think I just screwed that one up. >> There [laughter] you go. >> Yeah, I didn't do so well there. So, let's see if we can do better with this one. Ripoff woolly garment. And we've

already got a few letters here. So, we're looking for a term that means ripoff and means woolly garment because this is a double definition clue. I just know that it is. Um, why? Because a word that means to rip off and also a woolly garment is this one, which fits in nicely. It is fleece.

Fleece, both to rip someone off. You know, ripping someone off is to calm them. to fleece them. Again, that's that's slang. Uh maybe British slang.

I'm not sure. It might have made it around the world, that one. Uh and obviously a fleece is a a woolly garment, isn't it? Is fleece made of wool? Well, according to the crossword, it is. That's good enough. It's good

enough for me. Uh onto our next one. 20. Track down tiny amount. Wow. Double

definitions clues. You can wait half an hour for one and then two come along at once. We've got another one here. Uh, how do I know? Because look, we've already got quite a few letters there. T

something, A, something E. We're looking for a word that means to track down, but also means a tiny amount. And that fits into that gap. I can tell you that the answer is trace. Trace means to track down, and it means a tiny amount. You have a trace

amount of something. Barely any of it there. And obviously to trace something is is to track it essentially. Good. And we've got just one clue left.

Tolerate Paddington, for example. Ooh, now we've just had two double definition clues. I think this is basically a double definition clue as well, but with a little bit of extra verbiage on the end to try and throw us off. [gasps] So, for example means whatever came before it is an example of the thing. So, Paddington is an example of something.

What What is Paddington an example of? I won't say just yet cuz it's going to ruin the surprise. But what it is fits into this grid here. Uh Paddington an example of something. But we're looking for a word that means tolerate. Is there

a word that means tolerate that is the same as a word that could be used to describe what Paddington is an example of. Sorry that was convoluted, but you know where we're going. The answer is bear. Bear. Paddington's a bear. And to

tolerate something is to bear it. You can grin and bear it. And there you go. So, here's the thing. We've only got one clue left.

Do you know what I think would be more fun than me solving it? Let's go back to it. Uh, no. It was an across clue, wasn't it? Let me find it. The one we

haven't solved. Reprimand aristocrat. Suppressing expression of disgust. Get the whole thing up at the same time. >> [snorts] >> We've got a lot of letters there. T

something C something O something F. I earlier said that I thought toss might be involved and I think I'm right. But other than that, I'm not going to solve it. I'm going to let you do it. Solve that one for yourself. Stick it in the comments down

below. uh in which case don't go down there until you've either solved it for yourself or you've decided that you don't care and then together we will have truly completed this crossword as a team. Fantastic. So there's another type of clue, probably the most fun type of clue that wasn't in this crossword, and that's because this is a quick cryptic. It's supposed to be quite simple, not too complicated, and therefore it doesn't have this other type of clue that John has taught me about. Why?

Because they're just a bit more complicated. But they're worth talking about because if you're into word play, they are just the most fun. John, tell us about them. The fourth type of clue you've brought, you just call quirky clues because they don't necessarily fit into any of these other categories you've talked about. Can you tell us what sort of thing we're looking at with a quirky clue?

>> They can look a little weird. Like this first one, G S E question mark. I mean, what's going on there? Just making no sense whatsoever. And you're being asked to just work out what I meant by G S E.

These are not mine. They've been around for years. But um but people really remember these these types of clues. They're quite memorable. Can you get the first one? I can because it is a a

classic of the genre, but you see it at first and you think, okay, there there's only four letters in the clue and the solution has got nine and four. So, how am I going to pull 13 letters out of a four-letter clue? Well, then when you realize that gs is a scrambling of the word eggs, therefore the solution is scrambled eggs. >> You go, "Ah, >> that's a be." >> There you go.

>> I like that one. >> There you go. The next one you brought is a little bit tougher, I think. >> Yeah, sometimes I I I find solving just saying them, it really helps. So, hang on. What's going on? H I J K L M N O.

What is that? Why are there specific letters and asking myself all these questions? I think it's quite quite tricky. What would be your thinking strategy? So the first time I looked at this one, I was thinking alphabet. I was thinking middle of

alphabet. Is there something in the middle of the word alphabet or something like that? Or is it how many letters is are there? There are eight letters there. Is it something to do with eight letters? But we've only got a fivelet

solution. So I Yeah, I really struggled with this one. Although I did eventually get it, but I'll let you do the reveal because [laughter] You you get that honor. >> There you go. Thank you. It's It's

simply H2O. H I J K L M N O is H through 2 O. So H2O. So what's H2O? Oh, it's water. It's a cheat, isn't it? It's not

really HO. [laughter] >> Yeah. And the thing is there the solution is once removed from what the logic of the clue tells you, right? >> Yeah. It gets you to H2O. It doesn't get

you to water. But then you go, "Okay, well, there's five characters. How am I going to get five characters out of H2O?" Voila. Say water.

>> Yeah. I I find those sorts of clues very hard to actually explain. And I just said, "Well, it is that's the answer." [laughter] >> Some top advice from Britain's top crossword setter there. And John and I spoke at length that Christmas when we spoke. He's been very patient waiting

for me to publish this. So have you. Actually, I promised it a while back. Anyway, he told me about how he got into setting cryptic crosswords. And it's both an inspiring but also sad story really because it began with tragedy with the loss of his brother and best friend Paul just as John was about to start university. But from those tough

times, he found a way to honor Paul while doing what he loved. I became a bit of a recluse and shut myself away rather than go to lectures and and started writing cryptic clues. And at some point I thought I really want to do this and I if I need a pseudonym because newspapers need pseudonyms, it'd be a great way to keep my lovely brother Paul's um name alive if I could have his name appear in the newspapers. So I I I took on using his name as a pseudonym and that inspired me to work really really hard hard. And I thought also at the time that um I'd read somewhere it takes 10,000 hours to get really really good at something. And I thought I'm not

that I'm not as bright as all that. I'll have to put 20,000 hours in. So I practiced writing clues for 20,000 hours sort of from the moment I got up in the morning until the moment I went to sleep. Didn't answer the door. didn't answer the phone until I got to the point where I'd written one really nice crossword that I sent off to my crossword hero at the Guardian, Arcaria.

And thankfully, he liked it and um and and I got into the Guardian and um and it's and it's really lovely these days to still 30 years on see my brother's name in print and and nowadays I I write the cryptic crosswords for all the British national newspapers. >> Thank you. Thank you so much to John for sharing his decades of cryptic crossword wisdom with us. If you want, you can actually have a one-to-one session with John. He'll teach you how to create your own cryptic crosswords if you go to johnhalpin.co.uk.

He also occasionally runs these little retreats where people get together and you know, I don't know, you go for a a stroll in the countryside, but you'll also in the evening learn to set some crosswords. They sound like fun. I want to do one. Check out his website if that's your kind of thing. I reckon you should watch this video next and maybe I'll see you over there. In the

meantime, take care.