---
video_title: "Google's ADK + MCP = The Future of AI Agents"
video_id: wIhkYnTpPs4
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wIhkYnTpPs4
video_date: 2026-04-10T21:23:19+00:00
video_description: |
  Join Hemanth HM (Senior Engineering Manager at PayPal, leading AI Labs) as he sits down with Smitha Kolan (Senior Developer Relations at Google Cloud) to dive deep into the world of AI agents, Google's Agent Development Kit (ADK), and the future of software development. 
  
  We cover: 
  - What is an AI Agent? — A clear, concise definition breaking down reasoning, tasks, and tools
  - Google's ADK (Agent Development Kit) — An open-source, model-agnostic, cloud-agnostic framework for building and deploying AI agents 
  - MCP (Model Context Protocol) — How agents communicate with external environments and why it's a game-changer 
  - Agent-First Development — The paradigm shift where agents participate in every stage of the software development lifecycle, from brainstorming to production  
  - Advice for the Next Generation — Why learning to code matters MORE now than ever before 
  - Are We Losing Our Intuition to AI? — A thoughtful take on human-AI collaboration 
  - Is AGI Already Here? — Why AGI is a "moving goalpost" and what that really means 
  - Is AI a Bubble? — An honest discussion on whether the AI boom is sustainable 
  - 2025 Predictions — Models and agents coalescing, MCP's growing impact, and what's coming next 
  
  Key Takeaways: ADK makes it easy to build, deploy, and evaluate AI agents with one-step deployment to Google Cloud Run Purpose-built agents (not multipurpose) are the way forward AI doesn't replace developers — it lets them focus on what they love Models are increasingly behaving like agents with prebuilt tools 
  
  Chapters: 
  0:00 - Introduction 
  0:23 - What is an AI Agent? 
  1:00 - What is ADK (Agent Development Kit)? 
  1:57 - Top challenges ADK is solving 
  2:55 - Is ADK tied to Google Cloud? 
  3:47 - Agent-First Development paradigm 
  5:48 - Advice for the younger generation 
  8:04 - Are we losing our intuition to AI? 
  9:17 - Is AGI coming soon? 
  10:26 - Is AI a bubble? 
  12:54 - Predictions for the future of AI 
  14:45 - Closing thoughts 
  
  Resources: 
  Learn more about ADK →https://goo.gle/4cC9OM3 
  List of all Google MCPs →https://goo.gle/4c5IANW 
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers
  
   #GoogleADK #AgentDevelopmentKit #MCP
---
[MUSIC PLAYING] HEMANTH HM: Hi, I'm Hemanth. I'm a senior engineering manager at PayPal, leading AI labs. And I am here at DevFest Silicon Valley. And with me is Smitha. SMITHA KOLAN: Hi, I'm Smitha, and I'm a senior developer relations here at Google Cloud.

HEMANTH HM: Great to have you here in the show, Smitha. We start off with this classic question-- what is your definition of an agent? SMITHA KOLAN: That's a great question. I feel like everyone has their own definition, but for me specifically, I would say that an AI agent is a system that uses a model to reason about any task that you give it in order to select the right tools to complete that task. HEMANTH HM: Nice, yeah.

I like the way you said "reason," and "task," and "tools." This summarizes a good definition of what an agent is. And you are also into the ADK world. Tell us more about what ADK is, and why is it useful for our audience? And we can get a bit deeper into it.

SMITHA KOLAN: Yeah, absolutely. ADK is an open-source Agent Development Kit. It's a framework for helping developers build agentic systems. It's amazing. It's also really easy and developer friendly in order to deploy.

It's great when you want to do stuff like evaluating agents. It also has a lot of great endpoints. So, for example, you can connect it with open-source tools like OpenAI, any sorts of open-source tools out there. It also comes with something called the MCP toolset, which I'm actually a huge fan of, which allows you to connect with MCP servers. And that's how models communicate with external environments.

HEMANTH HM: So you're saying it's kind of a complete package, which kind of helps you to have a set of tools which is probably defined within the local scope, or maybe talk to an MPP, remote or local, and do all the orchestration that's needed. SMITHA KOLAN: Yes, exactly. HEMANTH HM: So if you were to see one of the challenges that ADK is trying to solve today, what is it? What's the top in the list that needs to be solved? And can the industry as a whole on the free-- because it's free and open source, as you said-- can all of the contributors come into one room and discuss, and brainstorm, and try to change the direction at which it's heading?

SMITHA KOLAN: Yeah, absolutely. In my opinion, I think one of the biggest things which ADK is actually trying to solve is make it easier for developers to build agents. And that's the single biggest thing that it's trying to solve because-- think about it. This is a very nascent space. How many frameworks are there out there which you can actually build agents with in a super easy and deployable way?

And that's exactly the main thing that ADK is trying to solve. And also, the fact that you can code with it in multiple languages helps. It's really friendly for developers to use. HEMANTH HM: Does it also mean that there is some kind of a tight coupling with Google infra? Is that the case with ADK?

Or you say, hey, ADK is agnostic of whatever cloud layer that you have, it's easy to deploy and run? Is that where we are getting, or is there some kind of an coupling with Google's Cloud infrastructure? SMITHA KOLAN: So ADK is not only model agnostic. It's also cloud agnostic. You can think of it that way.

But if you really want to deploy to Google's amazing cloud services, you can easily do that. It's like a one-step command, especially for things like Cloud Run. Cloud Run is one of the best places that you can actually deploy AI agents with, especially if you've built them with ADK. It's a one-step command in order to do that. There's a multitude of ways that you can go about deploying your agents on Google Cloud, and ADK has all the compatibilities.

HEMANTH HM: Yeah, that's great. Switching gears a bit, let's talk about agent-first development. What I mean by agent-first development is an agent being kind of a companion throughout the software-development lifecycle, not just in terms of developing code, or deploying, and monitoring, or testing and such but also, before even you start a project, when you're sitting in a room and brainstorming with your product, and design, and all the engineering, and machine learning, and data scientists, everybody in a room, and we are discussing an idea, I would see an agent sitting there and helping us to nudge, ask questions, and participate to product and designers kind of doing a prototype and then the engineering taking it to production. So I kind of sense and see agents sitting everywhere here. So agent-first is more of a paradigm where two parts here-- one while you're developing.

You have agents who are helping. And second, you're also kind of building for agents. You're not just building for humans. You're also saying-- A2A is a classic example. You're building for agents, and you're thinking agent as the first-class citizen.

So what do you feel about this paradigm, and how do you also see ADK fitting in here, or what's been your experience in this patch? SMITHA KOLAN: I think it's exactly how you set it. You can use agents in every aspect of that software-development lifecycle. It's not just about, hey, I'm going to be white coding with my agent and building this app out. You can also brainstorm with your agent.

One of the most classic examples with ADK is actually building researcher agents, and that can help with prototyping an app before you actually start building it. Even writing design docs, so stuff like that are what agents are really great for. And I think one of the best things about building agents in this system, or in this new age, is actually building them purpose-built, so not multipurpose agents but actually for a very specific purpose, for example, writing design docs or doing testing of software. So yeah, there's a ton that you could do. HEMANTH HM: Great, yeah.

And you've also been an educator, right? SMITHA KOLAN: Yeah. HEMANTH HM: What do you think that the younger generation should start learning? Of course, they have to learn to solve problems and things to think, maybe meta thinking and such, but even that AI has kind of drastically changed on ways of learning. Where do you think the younger generation should focus on, and how should they learn?

SMITHA KOLAN: I was at a talk yesterday. It was actually here on the Google campus, and they were talking about how, when, initially, when web frameworks came out, people were talking about how, oh my god, we won't need developers anymore. And then now, when AI comes out, and you're able to code really easily, people think, oh, we might not need software developers anymore, and it's going to be extinct. But that's not the case. We've went through multiple cycles of this over the last three decades.

In fact, I feel like it's more important now to learn AI than ever before. It's also more important now to learn how to code than ever before. So, I think, for the younger generation, that's the biggest takeaway. And the things that we've heard in the past, it is to go deep. But also, I think it's really important to go broad and be kind of an expert in many things.

HEMANTH HM: Yeah, absolutely. We saw this over the three decades, as you said, maybe even when computers came in and all the typewriters were replaced. People said, oh, everyone's going to lose their job. And maybe even-- predating when calculators came in, same thing happened. So this keeps repeating over the years.

But I feel with AI, there's a bit of a greater tangent to how we were solving things. And if you're good at your art, it kind of accelerates the process. So I give this analogy saying that, hey, my handwriting is good or I take a good photograph. It doesn't mean it's just because of the pen or the camera. Yes, they matter a lot, but it's about the time that I have spent in specializing this art.

So I feel programming is also kind of an art in itself. SMITHA KOLAN: Exactly. And it's evolving day by day, month by month. So it's more important now than ever to learn how to code and also to learn how AI works. HEMANTH HM: Absolutely.

So this is one of my favorite question-- I keep asking this in multiple interviews-- is, as AI is kind of advancing, probably we might reach a state where you don't have to use your neural capacity to remember things. You have an assistant sitting with you. Or maybe it's embedded in your brain, and you're going to asynchronously passing tasks, and it's going to handle or probably-- I was joking the other day saying that you think and shop or you record your dreams and play back. We might reach there in the coming decades. But do you feel that we, as humans, being dependent on these tools for assistance, or maybe as a companion, are we losing our intuition?

SMITHA KOLAN: I don't think that's necessarily the case. And this is not a general statement, but I feel like AI actually helps you focus more and do things that you actually want to do. It helps you get rid of tasks which you don't want to do and focus on things that you actually doing. And that's what, I believe, AI is being used for across the space by developers. I know personally they use AI to offload tasks that they don't like doing so that they can focus more and do things that they actually doing.

HEMANTH HM: Yeah, absolutely. The things that we like to do, we should do that more, and maybe assistants can take that overhead. But sometimes, it comes back with a lot of confidence, even though it's hallucinating. And that's where we need the human in the loop to say, you know what, you're wrong. Or you probably nudged AI to go in the right direction.

So that's where we are as we stand. But do you think AGI is coming soon, and what is your definition of AGI? SMITHA KOLAN: I honestly feel like AGI is a moving goalpost. If you look 20 years ago, the models right now that we have-- and if you looked at them 20 years ago, you would think this is AGI. So it's a moving goalpost.

And I feel like, instead of focusing on when AGI is coming, we should look at what's capable right now, which is, we're at a really unique time in the space where purpose-built artificial intelligence is already here, for example, software-development agents, testing agents. So this is what, I think, is actually really exciting about this space. HEMANTH HM: Yeah, that's really interesting. As I said, if AGI is a moving goal post, that means we already have AGI, in a way. SMITHA KOLAN: If you look 20 years ago, yeah.

HEMANTH HM: So no one really thought that agents could help in developing code or monitoring deployments and stuff. SMITHA KOLAN: Exactly. HEMANTH HM: So it's a very interesting space. Switching gears again, we have here two school of thoughts. Some people think that AI is a bubble and probably compare it to the dotcom bubble and such.

And there's other set of school of thought. It says, hey, even if AI is a bubble, and even if it bursts, there is a lot of changes and impact, positive impact, that AI has made, which is going to change the direction of the industry in general. So what do you feel? Is it a bubble? SMITHA KOLAN: I feel like there's so many schools of thought on this, and it's really hard to say.

I don't necessarily feel like AI is a bubble. There's companies, or there's technology which is being built now which has transformed people's lives. AI has genuinely transformed people's lives. I don't think that that's inherently signs of it being a bubble. There's also so many companies and startups out there who are trying to do the same thing.

And maybe that's what people look at and think that, oh, this is a sign of a bubble. If someone's doing cancer research on a specific field and there's another researcher elsewhere in the world also doing that same research, is that a bad thing necessarily? I don't think so. So I don't really believe that we're in a bubble right now. It sometimes feels like it because everyone's talking about AI, but yeah, I don't think we're in a bubble.

HEMANTH HM: Yeah, that's a great analogy. If-- say, if Google is doing a research on identifying cancer using AI, and there is a tiny startup which is also trying to solve a similar problem, is the startup and whatever Google is doing, are they competing or together? Are they making science better? Collaboration is all we need, and probably, they're making science better. And there's some breakthrough that comes in which makes human lives better.

SMITHA KOLAN: That's true. And I feel like so many developers in this space are actually working towards maybe even achieving AGI, as what you mentioned, or making AI better, making models better so that making lives better at the end of the day. Yeah. HEMANTH HM: Yeah, so we are almost at the end of the discussion. This has been good.

We have touched base on multiple areas here. If you were to predict, what are some of the cool things that are going to happen next year or some of the spaces that you are paying attention to, saying that, hey, this is where AI is heading, these are my top five predictions for this year, what would those be? It may not be five or some areas that is of interest for you. SMITHA KOLAN: I have so many things that I looked into and so many things I'm super excited about. One of the things which stood out to me the most this last couple of months is how models and agents are almost coalescing.

So the models that you see being released now are actually acting like agents because they come prebuilt with tools. So the more and more you'll see models behaving like agents, and the term "model" and "agent" could be used interchangeably. That's one thing. And then we'll also see models getting better, I'm sure, for the next couple of months. Also, tools like MCP are really transforming how agents and models interact with the world.

And I see that. I think that's going to compound more and more. That's what I'm actually super excited about. HEMANTH HM: Yeah, absolutely. From Nano bananas to maybe mega oranges, we don't know what's next.

It will be absolutely amazing to see how the industry is evolving. And I really feel to be happy to be alive in this era, where we are seeing rapid development and some things which we can't predict and something out of the blue, it happens. So it is an absolutely amazing time to be here and look forward for the future, and I'll keep an eye on your predictions and see. SMITHA KOLAN: Yeah, of course. HEMANTH HM: Thank you for being here, Smitha.

It was a great conversation. SMITHA KOLAN: It was great talking with you. [MUSIC PLAYING]