---
video_title: "Run Gemma on the edge with the Coral Board"
video_id: o2rUT2GloV0
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o2rUT2GloV0
video_date: 2026-06-15T23:00:40+00:00
video_description: |
  This is the Coral Board, a small, low-power dev board with Google's Coral NPU machine learning accelerator inside, built for developers to experiment with on-device AI. It runs Gemma, and everything happens on the board. For I/O it ships as a kit with a screen, a camera, microphones, and LEDs, so you can see what's possible on the edge.
  
  What's covered: Live translation with speech in and translated speech out running entirely on the board, natural language controlling physical hardware, and vision and sound working together in a lightweight version of the pre-I/O show that generates music from an aquarium of jellyfish, all on a single board.
  
  The Coral Board is available this summer. Every demo in the video is open source and on GitHub to get you started. Follow the links below to learn more.
  
  What will you build on the edge with Gemma? Drop it in the comments.
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers  
  
  Speaker: Ian Ballantyne
  Products Mentioned:  Google AI, Gemini
---
SPEAKER: This is Coral Board built for on-device AI with Google's Coral MPU Machine Learning Accelerator inside. Small, low power, and built for developers to experiment with on embedded devices. And it runs Gemma. Everything happens on the board. So we packaged it into a kit for I/O, a screen, a camera, microphones, LED, everything you need to see what's possible on the edge.

So let's take a look at some demos. It can do translation, speech in, translated speech out, running entirely on the board. It can take action, natural language controlling physical hardware. It can be creative. [MUSIC PLAYING] Vision and sound working together.

This is a lightweight version of our pre-I/O show, generating music from an aquarium of jellyfish, all running on this one board. Gemma runs on everything. And Coral open hardware complements Gemma to bring the best of Google's full AI stack to edge devices. The Coral Board will be available this summer, so follow the links to find out more. All the demos you saw here are open source and available on GitHub for when you get started.

Coral Board, it's small enough to hold, open by design, and ready to begin. So what will you build with it?