---
video_title: "Gemma Playground: Robot Duck"
video_id: pLwB_63yUBY
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pLwB_63yUBY
video_date: 2026-06-09T04:00:33+00:00
video_description: |
  Xavier Plantaz, Partner Solutions Engineer at Google, brings two Open Duck Mini v2 robots, built by Antoine Pirrone, on-device with Gemma 4. One runs Gemma 4 E2B on LiteRT on a Raspberry Pi 5. The other runs Gemma 4 E2B on a Jetson Orin Nano. Microphones, cameras, speakers, and Gemma's multimodal inputs let each duck listen, look, and talk back in real time.
  What's covered: Running Gemma 4 E2B on Raspberry Pi 5 and Jetson Orin Nano, the on-device voice stack (Parakeet for speech-to-text, Gemma 4 for inference, Kokoro for text-to-speech), LED and antenna expressiveness, attention mode and live conversation, and where the project goes next as the ducks start to see and talk to each other.
  
  Explore the Open Duck Mini v2 project on GitHub and try running Gemma 4 on your own hardware.
  
  What are you building on-device with Gemma? Drop it in the comments.
  
  Resources: 
  Github → https://goo.gle/4v3JjW8 
  Gemma Docs → https://goo.gle/4eXKlhk 
  Gemma Cookbook → https://goo.gle/4w50oQf 
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers  
  
  Speaker: Xavier Plantaz
  Products Mentioned:  Google AI, Gemini, Gemma
---
AUTUMN: I am Autumn, a small bipedal robot duck. [MUSIC PLAYING] XAVIER PLANTAZ: Today, I'm very happy to bring you those two tiny ducks to showcase what Gemma 4 can do on device. They are Open Mini Ducks, Version 2, by Antoine Pirrone on GitHub. And the idea was to bring the power of Gemma 4 to do on-device inference and to make those ducks smarter. In terms of the technical stack, this duck runs Gemma 4 E2B on LiteRT on a Raspberry Pi 5.

And this duck runs Gemma 4 E2B on a Jetson Orin Nano. They both have a microphone, cameras, and speakers, and through multimodal inputs of Gemma 4, they're able to process and understand their environment like never before. Let's see what Duck Gemma, with the Raspberry Pi 5, can do. So, while we wait for the system to boot, I'm just going to describe some of the features that this project online built. They built antennas for expressiveness.

There are some LEDs just to show some expressions, and a speaker next to it. And then it enters Attention Mode, which is this loop that just shows some expressiveness and the fact that Gemma is now listening. And we're going to try that on the other duck, and it will send you some love, also, on the booting phase, if everything goes right. Hey, Gemma, explain me what a large language model is. We're using Parakeet to do speech-to-text.

Gemma 4 will do the inference, and we'll use Kokoro to do text-to-speech. GEMMA: A large language model is a complex AI designed to understand and generate human-like text. I am here to assist you with tasks and interactions. XAVIER PLANTAZ: Introduce yourself. Tell me more about you.

AUTUMN: I am Autumn, a small duck robot's brain. XAVIER PLANTAZ: Very snappy. "Autumn" is ODM, so Open Duck Mini. So that's why it call itself Autumn, which I think is pretty cool. So this is a great way to bring intelligence onto those ducks.

The next step is for them to start walking, to see each other, talk to each other, and maybe go autonomously explore the world on their own.