---
video_title: "Sameer Samat on Android 17 and the Future of Intelligent Computing"
video_id: YvVsdZL2ogY
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YvVsdZL2ogY
video_date: 2026-06-30T19:00:24+00:00
video_description: |
  Sameer Samat, President of Android at Google, joins host Logan Kilpatrick to discuss Android 17 and what it means to shift from operating systems to intelligence systems. Their conversation covers why Android didn't say the word AI once at the Android Show, the new Gemini Intelligence feature suite including Rambler, app automation, Superfill, and generative widgets, and what it looks like when Gemini can see the road with you in a live demo inside a Volvo EX60.
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers  
  
  Speaker: Logan Kilpatrick, Sameer Samat 
  Products Mentioned:  Google AI, Gemini
---
I just want to get rid of forms. Like, I never want to fill out a form again. I just booked a bunch of flights for vacation over the summer, and I now have my 15-year-old's passport number memorized, but I don't want that to be memorized, you know? - I don't have my own passport number. - Yeah, well, I entered it so many times, you know?

It's like, I'm losing my mind here. So Superfill is— obviously we've all become accustomed to autofill working on your name, your address, maybe your credit card information. Superfill is that, but extended to many other fields. That's awesome.

- Hey, everyone. How's it going? Welcome back to Release Notes. My name is Logan Kilpatrick on the Google DeepMind team. Today, I'm joined by Sameer, who leads the Android team.

We're talking about all of the new stuff coming to the Android ecosystem from the Android Show, from I/O, and now with Android 17. So Sameer, thanks for being here and sitting down. - Thanks for having me. - We were just chatting off camera, and the spark hit me, which was sort of this really difficult job that you and the Android team have of bringing all of this technology to literally billions and billions of different people. And you mentioned to me that as part of the Android show, you didn't say the word “AI” once, which I think is awesome.

As an ecosystem, it feels we’re so focused on the technology right now and not enough on actually what it does for real people who are using the devices. And I feel like you probably have a really great perspective on this. So I'd love to sort of start there and then we can talk about all the stuff that y'all launched? - Yeah. Well, so for The Android Show, it's all know your audience, right?

And our audience is a lot of people who are using devices and they're excited about technology. They're excited about the product that they're using. They want it to get better. But they're not necessarily the folks who are super deep on AI. Some are, but some are not because it's a much wider audience.

And I think that there's just something going on with the word, “AI.” I think there's a reaction to it. It's scary for some people. It means different things to different people. I think it's kind of become a little overloaded.

Obviously inside Google, and as technologists, we all know that this is a huge moment and it's a platform shift and it’s totally changing everything and we're all embracing it. But then when you talk about it from a consumer standpoint, I think it's really important, we've learned, to not talk about the tech as the lead-in, but rather to talk about the benefit, you know? And so I'll just give you one example, the way we learned this. We launched a feature a couple years ago on Android called Circle to Search. And it's a really simple concept, right?

You hold down the Home button on your Android phone, screen lights up. You can then circle any object on the screen. It could be the tie that someone's wearing that you're really interested in, or it could be the beautiful lake that's in this photo that you've got on some social media post. And then you can ask a question about it, like, where do I buy that? Or how do I get there?

Or what is that thing? And this was cool because it was really hard to describe these things to Google before. How do I describe that tie? What would I even say? Same with the lake.

It's like if I could describe it, I'd probably know already what it was. You know what I mean? So this is like a really simple capability, but that feature just took off. Like it took off. And there's so much AI behind that.

There's so much like machine vision behind it. There's so many things that make it go, but we actually didn't mention any of those things. We just talked about showing what you could do with it and people loved it, you know? And then we've done other features where we've led with the AI and people are kind of like, I don't know about your AI, I'm not feeling that as much. So we didn't say the word “AI” once in the show.

A lot of the features are definitely AI-powered. And I think the reception was better that way because people are like, okay, well, you're actually telling me why this is good and helpful in my life. - Yeah. One of the biggest points of tension, it feels like, for this balance of how much AI to lead with versus not is actually to the point that you made, which is like, we're in this platform shift. And I feel like people are like, who should I be betting on in this?

My perspective is it's very clear that Android is at the absolute frontier of trying to push this rock up the hill, from like a new, being at the forefront of that platform shift. But I'm actually curious, how has that manifested for Android? Maybe we can use sort of all the announcements that just landed as a version of the story. - I mean, we think it's really important technology to help build better experiences for the user, and I think that's like fundamentally what drives us. It's just wild what these models can do, you know, it's like really incredible.

And there are things that we've wanted to do for a long time. A lot of times I would see mockups of some new feature or concept from a product manager who hadn't really maybe been around a long time and be like, okay, that's not gonna work. You know, but now I'm like, bring all those back. - Yeah. - Because like I actually think the tech is ready for that.

I mean, one example that was pretty straightforward, Android is really very popular in a number of countries where the rate of scam and spam is really high, you know? So like you get a lot of phone calls, you get a lot of text messages that are trying to get you to part with information that you really shouldn't be. We built this model working with Google DeepMind, on-device model that actually, with your permission, can listen to a call from an unknown number. And we worked with a bunch of banks, for example, to make sure the model understood what a bank would never ask you for. You know, uh, a bank will never ask you for certain things, and they actually have like consortiums and associations where they work together to have these rules, you know, like we won't do this.

And so it's like if the model hears it, like someone's like, well, gimme this, you know, on the phone, it pops up and vibrates the phone. It’s like, this is a scam. - Wow. - You know, and you should hang up right now, right? And that's pretty useful, you know?

- Yeah. - And so that's something that we think impacts so many people in a positive way. And we feel that that's the promise of this technology is you can do so much more with it. So it's a really big part of our strategy, but I think the way we need to describe it to people is, here's what it does for you. - Yeah, I love that.

Demis, every time we're in one of these meetings talking about these big moments, he wants to land this point of technology that works for you. That's true, at the same time that we also as Google want to tell this, we're at the lead and at the frontier. And I feel like there's just, there's a lot of tension in those things. But something interesting about what you just described is the models actually running on device. We were chatting really quick before we were on camera and the thread of it was like, you know, the OpenClaw moment happened, Gemma 4 happened, and actually the AI Edge Gallery app, people were downloading this and playing around with that.

So many people all of a sudden started to grok that on-device models are really going to be powerful and capable and enable new experiences. And I'm curious, I feel like Android has this really interesting tension because you have billions of devices. Obviously you need high-end new devices in order to run the models because it just requires more performant hardware. And then there's this whole group of people who don't have the new high-end devices who would really benefit from AI. And sort of from a platform perspective, I'm curious how you're balancing and what the open model or on-device model strategy looks like from that perspective.

- Yeah, I think the on-device model strategy is, it's evolving right now because I do agree with you that the on-device models are getting to a point now where they're seriously impressive. - Yeah. - I think we are on the cusp of something pretty amazing there. From an Android perspective, our mission is to bring computing, the best of computing to everyone in the world. That's high-end devices.

That's the most basic device that you can buy. It's really important to us to bring the best of computing to everybody. That's really what gets us up in the morning. Obviously there's kind of two forms of innovation motion that we go through. One is at the high end, let's create the future.

And you do that at the high end with flagship devices because they have the more system resources. And so before you know how to optimize that, you are just using all the system resources you can, and you're trying to push the boundary of what's possible. And so we're definitely doing that. But one of the motions that we've also had over the years is how do you innovate-- it's a different kind of innovation where you take those capabilities and then you flow them down. And that flowing down typically requires a different approach.

You are now looking for how can we take the kernel of what we've got here, at the flagship level and the features that are most profound and most interesting, and then find ways of making those features run on devices which are less capable. Sometimes that involves using the server, you know, obviously, but sometimes that involves creating different specialized on-device models, and also working with silicon providers to make sure that those can actually run efficiently. Thermals, battery constraints, et cetera. But we've done that effectively over the years, and I'm excited about that. I think right now, it's a little bit sinusoidal.

Like right now we're focused on the flagship side of it because there's so much innovation that happens. And then as soon as we get the first set of features there on device, we already have a number of them, like I mentioned, the scam detection one that we think are really working for people. Now it's about how do you flow that down over time? - Yeah, and how much do you think that sort of symbiosis between the new models and the capabilities that are unlocked means at a macro perspective for Android? Is it like, the experience we see today, 5 years from now when the models are really good and work great on device for pretty much the hardware that everyone has, it'll be a totally different experience?

And is that sort of the high-end models correlating or the high-end devices correlating to an even more reimagined experience relative to the later generation devices? - It's a really good question. if I just take a half step back from that question just to put it in context, the way I think about what we are doing right now, what we have been doing in computing for like the last 40+ years is we have created systems that put the user in the role of the micromanager of the system. The best we can do right now is, first we have a command line interface, what would you like to do, you know? - And then it's like, now you have a GUI where you have menus and pointing devices and what have you, but it's still you as the user conceptualizing what is my goal, taking that goal and breaking it down into all the discrete actions you want to take.

And then you literally are clicking on sub-actions as you go. So that's like the micromanager model that we have for computing. It is still kind of intimidating to do things, you know, people take classes still to use all this software and what have you. I think that what we have an opportunity to go from is operating systems to intelligence systems, which is kind of how we talk about the evolution over the next n years of Android, where an intelligence system is one that you articulate your goals, and the system's job is, of course, managing resources, but also managing context and figuring out how to take your goals, the context that's around those, and produce the actions that you want. And of course we want to do that starting with a number of these flagship devices.

We'll get it right there. Over time, I do think the interface is going to change. I do think the interface will be more intent-to-action oriented as opposed to micromanagement. - Yeah, I have so many questions to follow up on this. Maybe to start, how do you think this changes maybe in the more short term?

We've seen voice take off as a new interface. How much do you think that manifests itself in some of these new experiences? - Yeah, I think a lot of people want to go directly to agents with-- when I talk about intent to action. And I think agents is super important and we should come back and talk about that. But I'm glad you brought up voice because one of the fundamental parts of an operating system is the input method.

Like how does the user communicate with the system what they want to have done? And a big part of that is the keyboard. You know, either it's on your phone or a physical keyboard hasn't changed that much in a long time, you know? The last thing we really added to the keyboard in a big way, I think that made a huge difference-- I mean, we keep making it better, right? But the last big thing was autocomplete.

- Yeah. And I'm fighting autocomplete on a daily basis still. - Yeah., I mean, autocomplete could be a lot better honestly, but autocomplete is like 2012. I'm not, if memory serves, 2013, 2014.

We added some, you know, swipe is another thing too, but fundamentally the keyboard hasn't changed a ton. Now, the keyboard for me is the perfect example of a micromanagement input system. You literally think about what you want to say, like what's the goal of what you're trying to say? You break it down into, okay, here are the words I want to use, and then you literally peck those letters of those words onto— I mean, it's what we're just used to, right? We don't even think about it.

We just do it. So one of the things we announced recently was this feature that we’re going to roll out this summer called Rambler. And Rambler is, fundamentally, it's different in that the microphone, when you tap the microphone, you just ramble like I've been doing, I guess, here. And instead of just faithfully transcribing exactly in a dictation form what you were verbally saying, it takes everything you've said and then distills it down to what you really wanted to say. Lets you look at that and you're like, yeah, that's right.

And then you go. There's a reason why, I think for a long time humans have figured out that like, hey, just give me a brain dump of your ideas, is like a productive thing to do, you know, because voice and you're kind of verbalizing it and all that. And it's like another person might be like, oh yeah, that's interesting, you know? This is kind of like the equivalent of that. Can I show it to you?

- Yeah, let's do it. - Okay, here we go. So here I am in Google Messages and let's say I want to text you here. So I've got the microphone, which is in Google Keyboard, which by the way is used like hundreds of millions of times a day to do like voice dictation, right? So, okay, so here's Rambler on the mic.

Hey there, if you're going to the store, Can you pick up some fruit? Maybe like some bananas, mangoes, strawberries, and oranges. Actually, never mind the bananas. We don't need any more of those. We have plenty of those.

- I love that UI too. - Okay, so what you can see there is none of the s and ahs are there, right? And then, you know, I went through this whole thing about bananas, right? And it's just like, okay, I get it. You don't want the, you don't want the bananas.

Can you make it into a list? Add some emoji. - Wow, that's fast. And is that all running on device I asse? - No, so right now this is actually talking to, talking to the server.

- Really? - Yeah, so we’ve made it super fast. And what's also nice about it is we didn't want it to make it feel like it was writing in kind of a style that people think is created by a chatbot, you know? - Yeah, yeah. - That's why it didn't make it list in the beginning.

- Yeah. - You know, we've really tuned it for like more conversational tone. So I had to tell it to make it a list. The emoji obviously is gratuitous, but I was like, let’s go for it. So that's Rambler and you can, you of course can use this just to send texts.

Here, I'm gonna send that to you. There. You of course can use this to send simple texts and stuff, but you could also use it to dictate a paper or something-- - Yeah. - that you have to write, you know? And it works equally well for those kinds of things.

So that's a different kind of keyboard. And this will be a mode that you can use the mic in. Of course, you can still type on the keyboard if you know, old school. But we just think this is a big upgrade for the keyboard and is a lot of what we mean by an intelligent system. Now the keyboard is actually really intelligent.

- Input is the first step of this story of the sort of transformation that's taking place. The second step is actually actions being taken on the device. And so I think one of the announcements that also came was Android is actually like going and clicking things in the phone so that I'm articulating in voice and then Android's actually doing the micromanaging for me to use your analogy. - Yeah, that's right. So we call this app Automation and it's basically exactly what it sounds like, which is you tell Gemini that you want to get something done.

- Actually, really quick. I think this is, this would have been the most like quintessential point to use AI and to say app automation and not say AI is like actually like it hits on the point, the commitment to not sell the AI bit of it, but sell the outcome, which is like automating apps on your phone. - That’s exactly the idea. A computing system going through and tapping on things and completing actions. When we show it to people, they're both wowed and also a little bit nervous at the same time. - Yeah.

And so, you know, we wanted to make it as approachable as possible. So a few things that we did, one is we built a virtual window system in Android. So what happens is that when you ask Gemini to do something like this, let me start by grounding it in an example. The example I love, because it has some complexity to it, is I have a list of people who are coming to my barbecue up on the screen, and each person next to it in this list has how many people are in their party and whether they're a vegetarian or not. And then if I long press on the power button, screen context comes up for Gemini and I, and so it can see the doc with me now, and I say, hey, can you go to Instacart and put what I'll need for, you know, the barbecue for all these people in my cart in Safeway, right?

What it then does is we have a virtual window system in Android. So once Gemini starts Automation, it will say, okay, I'm gonna start this in a virtual window, which means it's a containerized environment where the app that you've designated and Gemini can now exist in a window which you can minimize into your status bar. - Ah, interesting. - And so you can go back to that window anytime. The AI agent can't go outside of that container, meaning it can't use other apps.

You can watch it. Sometimes it's fun to watch. It's like, it just like takes the screen. When I was watching it with this, with this example, one of the things is it was navigating through Safeway and it figured out the thing that all of us already know, which is, for whatever reason, the hot dog buns package and the hot dogs are never the same number, right? - It's a big hot dog conspiracy.

- It's a big hot dog conspiracy, right. And so it's like, well, wait a minute. And it, it's thinking is at the bottom as it's doing this. It's like, wait a minute, the hot dog buns don't match with the— it's like, I think I'm gonna need more buns than I need hot dogs. Well, what's— should how I resolve this?

And it's like kind of fascinating to watch it do it. - Yeah yeah, yeah. - But it added all the stuff. It figured It out I needed veggie burgers. It did the thing, added the cart, and then it comes and gives you a notification and pings you.

It says, hey, your cart's ready, take a look at it. We've made it stop before it completes transactions because right now we feel like it's really important to build trust with the consumer and to have that safety around it. So it brings you back, you look at the cart, you're the one who pushes the commit button, but it saves you some time. And I think that's like what it's, the proposition's all about. - Yeah, that's so cool.

Did this concept of putting apps in a container and actually running them on your phone, did that exist before this? Because it's such an interesting concept of Android having that as, like, a feature available to it. - Yeah, I mean, Android has definitely an app container and an isolation layer per app, but this notion of something else driving the screen also being limited to that container and that virtual window that you can minimize, this is different. We haven't really had the need for it yet, you know, because these are single-user systems, you know? And you're kind of like, okay, I'm on this device and I'm doing my thing.

Why would I need a headless thing going on in the background, which is actually generating UI? You know, like I wouldn't necessarily need that, but the model does need that because it needs to look and see what's going on on your screen. The way I see this evolving over the long term is, you know, there's MCP integrations, there's Chrome, which can also do some form of auto browse and manage things, and get things done that way. And then there's also this approach. I see all of those kind of coming of together under the agent.

You sort of tell Gemini, hey, I want to get this done, and it figures out the best-- these all become tools for that. - Yeah. - And I think that's the way it'll evolve. - In this example, is it vision-based? Is it actually, so it's using Gemini and then choosing the pixel coordinates, if you will, to click?

-That’s right, it looks at the screen and it's using the app just like you. It's like, I think I should open up that menu. - Yeah. - It opens up that menu. You see it tap on the search bar and start searching for the hot dog buns, and we wanted that to be like handing your phone to a trusted assistant and saying, “Could you get, I gotta get this other thing done.

Can you get this done for me?” That's kind of the way I think about the user model around it. - No, I love that. Well, and part of that story, actually, to make this possible, as you were describing that use case is Gemini Intelligence at the beginning as sort of the way to, I think kick off actually this workflow. For folks who missed the Gemini Intelligence headline, do you want to talk through that as well?

- You know, we wanted a way to describe the best Gemini experience

And we call that Gemini Intelligence. We just announced that at the Android Show a couple weeks ago. And it's a set of capabilities that are really at the bleeding edge that help people with all these kinds of things. You know, we talked about Rambler, we talked about Automation. Another one that I'm really excited about is something we're calling Superfill.

I just want to get rid of forms. Like I never want to fill out a form again. I just booked a bunch of flights for vacation over the summer and I now have my 15-year-old's passport number memorized, but I don't want that to be memorized. - You know, like I don't have my own passport number. - Yeah, well, I entered it so many times, you know, it was like, I'm losing my mind here.

So Superfill is, obviously we’ve all become accustomed to autofill working on your name, your address, maybe your credit card information. Superfill is that, but extended to many other fields. - That's awesome. - Yeah, and the idea is that if you've given Gemini your permission, that's an important step, then if you've uploaded your passport to Google Photos, if you, for example, have an email with your confirmation code in it, if you have, you know, these are all things that exist in your Google account, if you will, it can pull those pieces of information and suggest them to you in real time when you're filling out that form. - That's great.

- So that's like another example of one of the capabilities that we've got here. And the final one that I think is really cool and kind of speaks to how UI may evolve in the future is generative widgets. And so the idea behind a generative widget is, you know, widgets are this like ultimate form of customization. A lot of people have them all over their home screen and in Android it's been a long-loved way to customize, you know, it's like, but someone has to build that widget for you. - Yeah.

- Our concept here is what if you could just say to Gemini, I want to see what the latest lap times are for this, for the F1 race that was yesterday. And I want you to keep that updated, you know, build me that widget, right? And no one's maybe built that one. And it'll go off and crank for a while and then basically give you a widget that's exactly that, pulling from publicly available sources of information. And I think it's the beginning of generative UI for your operating system, you know?

I think that evolves over time where more of the UI is built for you on the fly. - I love that. I feel like, we have this, I don't know, I don't even know who has this saying anymore, but Android is the platform for builders. All the things you've mentioned so far feel like they're delivering on this. That Superfill example, what's actually happening? Is the model sort of saying,

hey, there's an open form field, what might go here? And then it tries to retrieve a bunch of stuff? Or is it like there's a specific set of categories like passport or travel information is one of those and it just pulls that into your personal context or something like that? - Initially, for the sake of making sure that we get the precision and recall trade-off right, and that we also make sure that users become comfortable with this and feel like it's something they can rely on, is we've limited it to a set of different types of entities. - Got it. - Passport information, driver's licenses.

One of the ones I love is your car's license plate. If you have that DMV registration in your email where it gave you— - I search my pictures every time to try to find it. And so a good example of this is let's say you're parking somewhere. And the parking app that, you know, this, the QR code that you scan in the parking lot is like, enter your car's license plate and you're already walking out the parking lot. You're like, oh man, you know?

And so you're either opening up Photos or Gmail or whatever you're searching for it. Now, it's just like to text that, like it'll tell you to fill it. So all that's coming this summer. We have a system which has gone and retrieved those entities. It has them pre-ready, if you will, in a centralized repository.

When the system on the device detects that you're looking at a form which has the need for one of those entities, it will make a secure request to pull that information and then present it to you in the keyboard and say, hey, do you know, do you want to, do you want to autofill this in? And if you do, then it goes and grabs it and puts it in the field for you. - Yeah, I love that. I have a request, which is, not that I don't like the Rambler name, but I feel like Yap, something with Yap. Yap mode, I feel like the, you gotta sort of hit people with Yap.

People love to yap all the time. - I see. I think it's a good point. I'll have to check to make sure it's trademarkable. But yeah.

- I feel like “Yap Mode” would be cool. - Yeah, do it. The other thing actually back to Android being the platform for builders, we launched at I/O, actually in collaboration with your team, the ability to build Android apps natively in AI Studio. think I like it's 500,000 now. - So crazy. It’s so awesome. - So crazy. It’s so crazy.

I mean, it’s so cool to see a bunch of people who had never built an app before go and build an app, build their first app in the Android ecosystem. It's awesome. I preceded this prompt for you ahead of time so that we could talk about this. My new favorite question inside of Google to ask people is like, will Google in 5 years have 10,000 products or 3 products? 3 apps, 10,000 apps? You don't even need to answer the question,

but I think Android as sort of of an operating system where the predominant interface in a lot of ways is, I show up and I go through apps, I think it has like a bunch of interesting implications, not only for Google, but also the ecosystem writ large of like, people are building more apps than they've ever built, today. At the same time that it feels like everybody's trying to build super apps or whatever that means. So, I'm curious sort of how you're thinking about it from an Android perspective. - Yeah, it's a, it's a really interesting moment, right? Because to your point, there's all this talk of like, will there be no reason for apps?

And then at the same time, we have all these people who are becoming developers, - Yeah. - who are creating for the first time. And so it's a pretty interesting time. I don't think apps go away. I think that if I can relate it a little bit to the, you know, there's this SaaS-pocalypse thing that everyone kind of is talking about.

And that's where, you know, all the SaaS companies in the world got hit pretty hard. This notion that with agentic AI, there won't be as much need for these applications anymore and people will either make their own or their UIs will go away and they'll just become backends that are commoditized or what have you. And I think that's a very surface deep way of looking at - Yeah. - what's really going to happen. I don't think all SaaS is the same.

And if I apply that same kind of like, wait, this pretty surface level thing to, let's call it the “app-pocalypse,” okay? I think we need to get a little bit deeper to really get an answer to that. I think part of it is understanding the consumer behavior. So if we look at what consumers are really doing on their phone, right, they're spending 70, 80 plus percent of their time in apps, which I would call like experiential, you know, TikTok, YouTube, Instagram. They're chatting with friends, they're playing games.

That's the bulk of the time spent. If you think about apps that are transactional in nature, more transactional in nature, booking a ride, getting a meal, you know, these kinds of things, that's certainly some of the time, but it's less of the time than you'd think. Not less important, but less of the time. And then if you think that apps can exist kind of on the spectrum, if you have a 2x2 and, you know, one is like how experiential is it and the other is how transactional is it, because apps can have, you know, points that are in the middle. I think what you see is the time is kind of clustered around that, the experiential, less transactional side of that.

And so I think the grid of apps will evolve. You know, I do think that's, and I'll talk about Android's view on that in just a second, but I don't think that we want our agents to be watching the TikTok or YouTube for us. You know, I think users still want to kick back and do some of that. - Yeah. - And they want to engage with their friends on messaging, and they want to play their games, and so I do think the transactional apps are the ones that'll probably change the most, and I think those will probably have two modes, you know?

I think there's an experiential version of those apps where they're offering a much richer, engaging experience. And then there's a mode where they're almost agentic themselves and probably responding to agentic queries from others. One example of this is like Maps. I don't run the Maps team, so, sorry Maps team, if this isn't what you had in mind, but like Maps has like an Ask Maps feature inside it now, which is, I kind of feel like is their agentic mode of being. And if you were planning an event, you might ask your agent, it's the summertime, what are great venues around here where, you know, around Tahoe where I could have this event or whatever.

And it might tell you whatever. And then, but then you might be like, oh, well I want to know what the outdoor indoor flow of this venue is really gonna be like, you know? And then you might open Maps, go to satellite view and like zoom in and look around and, you know, that's an experiential view of-- - Yeah. - like that. So I don't think it's going to be like apps go away.

I think it's going to be much more nuanced on the transactional side. And then the experiential ones, frankly, I think we might all have more time for those, even more of those. The way Android's handling this is we've announced this new concept called Android Halo. And what Android Halo is, it's a place, a dedicated location in the status bar where your agent of choice, Gemini or another agent, can actually update you and get input from you on the task or tasks that you’re having it do. So these agents doing stuff in the background for you are gonna want to ask you a question, or give you an update, or show you the result, or what have you.

And so you can follow along there. And so we think that's like an interesting new spot for how computing may evolve and the operating system makes it more seamless for you to engage with these things that are running long-running tasks for you. - Yeah, there's so many interesting threads of this. I hadn't heard this representation of like experiential versus what was the other? - Transactional.

- Transactional. I actually really like that. The sort of parallel to this is like commerce and what's happened for retail malls. Like you actually have both ends of the spectrum. I bought my mom something at Williams-Sonoma and you go to Williams-Sonoma, they're like super kind and they greet you and they're like, you want a coffee?

And sort of come on, I'm like, I'm here to buy like a spatula or something like that. It was like a weird, I'm like, oh sure, I guess I'll take a coffee while I, go grab my spatula. It feels like they're there to make the experience. I remember that because I'm like, it's so different than a normal shopping experience. On the other end of the spectrum, you go to the website of any of these companies, you're like, I'm trying to find my thing.

I want it to be as fast as possible. I want to click the fewest buttons and I want to buy my thing and get out of there, because I'm in transaction mode. And so it's a—I love that framing of apps building more experiential things. We've seen that happen actually. People have like innovated and they've like changed the way that you go shop now because people are looking for something different because they actually can transact in a different way as well.

So I feel like it'll be a-- - It will probably expand the use of these for everyone. If it's that much easier for me to get something done, I'll probably do more of it. And so I think overall, retail and commerce has expanded, as you mentioned, right? You know, between— if you take offline and online, you add it all together, it's larger than it was before. And, you know, in every platform shift that we have, there's always this notion that the old completely goes away and maybe that's the case here.

I don't know that that's the case. In fact, I think we tend to build on these things, you know, that's the way it tends to go. Like when the web came, it didn't eliminate, you know, like you, as you said, going to physical locations for things. In fact, those physical experiences in some ways are becoming even more important nowadays. - Yeah.

- Then when mobile came, it didn't eliminate using the desktop, you know? I think the agentic move is huge and is profound. I don't want to prognosticate that it, you know, won't be that, but these things I think tend to build. And I think that's what we'll see here. - Yeah.

Not to overemphasize the sort of platform shift narrative, but we are going to make a platform shift and actually go into a car, and start talking about some of the new Android Auto stuff. I have one last question though, before we go do that. We were also talking and you were showing in the demo before, texting as this interface, and I'm curious sort of, your view of, from an Android ecosystem perspective, obviously voice is one of these native form factors that we're all used to communicating through. I think we already use text to communicate with people. How much do you think that's going to be a part of this future interfacing with AI systems and things like that?

- Well, I think voice is very natural for a lot of folks, especially in certain form factors. In the car, which I'm excited to show you, it is the way you need to interface, right? When you've got a pair of glasses or you're on a run with your watch, or what have you. So I think in certain form factors, it is really awesome that the machine can now understand you in natural language, because that was the only way you could really communicate. And before, you know, it was okay, but it was kind of awkward.

- Yeah. - We're seeing a shift. Younger consumers in particular, my kids, they hardly type at all on their phone. They are constantly using the mic to speak. They even send, I mean, it's very common, right?

People send voice recordings, right? Not the actual text, right? - And I think this speaks to like voice being a very important medium. You can typically speak 3 to 5 times faster than you can type. So it's also efficient.

What I think is just really important is that we embrace that. We have ways of doing that, that are simple and straightforward. And now, as we mentioned, the machine can understand you so much better. I think it unlocks all kinds of new use cases. - Yeah, that's going to be awesome.

Well, I'm excited to go jump in the car and places where you actually couldn't wield intelligence before and actually do productive work feels like it’s now becoming possible. Like you sort of couldn't do anything useful in a car because you had to focus on driving. And I feel like now that's sort of changing, and there's a bunch of other parallels like this. So it’s an interesting moment, actually multiple platform shifts in the context of cars and transportation. But yeah, it'll be interesting.

- I’m excited. - Yeah, can't wait to show it to you. - Let's do it. - Alright. - OK, so we are in the Volvo EX60.

Talk about unreleased hardware. This car actually hasn't shipped yet. - That’s crazy. - So we both get a treat today. We get to check it out.

- It’s beautiful. - And this car has Google built in, which means that Google and Gemini are running on the infotainment system powered by Android. So what that means is that the car has given Android and Gemini much deeper access to a lot of its systems. So as an example, I could say, hey Google, it's kind of stuffy in here, can you adjust the climate?

<i>- Of course, increasing the fan</i> <i>speed and turning off air recirculation.</i> - Great. - So you can see, usually I wouldn't have this menu up when I was driving, but you can see that it made those adjustments for us. Yeah, give it a thumbs up. And that's because it's fully connected to the onboard infotainment system and all the controls that are in the car.

So climate. And then another one, if I was driving, for example, and I didn't want to touch the controls, I could say, hey Google, can you turn on lane keeping assist?

<i>- OK, turning on the lane keeping aid.</i> - There you go. -That’s pretty fast. - Yeah, so it makes it really convenient. And I can of course just speak in natural language.

I don't have to say the exact thing in the exact way anymore, and that's the power of Gemini. One of the other really cool things that we have hooked up to this particular vehicle, which I wanted to show you, is Gemini hooked up to the front-facing cameras on this car. And a couple words about that. First, we wanted to see what would possible if Gemini, with your permission, could see the world as you were driving through it. - Yeah. - Now, from a privacy standpoint,

it's really important to note that Gemini is not watching what you’re seeing at all times. It's only when you invoke it and ask a question, then the cameras provide that feed to Gemini for a period of time. And then it answers your question, and then it goes back to not being able to see again. So one thing we could just say is, hey, Google. What do you see around us right now?

So right now the feed of the camera is actually being connected to Gemini and it's taking a look. - Yeah, I'm looking around too to see. We'll see if it gets it right. What, what's all around us? Couple of-- <i>- We're currently at</i> <i>the Googleplex in Mountain View,</i> <i>surrounded by lush greenery</i> <i>and modern office buildings.</i>

<i>To your left you can see</i> <i>Google Building 1020 Charleston Road,</i> <i>which features a brick-accented exterior</i> <i>and is part of the extensive Landings office complex.</i> - There you go. - I love it. - Not bad. - It’s awesome.

- And of course, it's more interesting when you're actually driving, so why don't we take it for a spin and we can check that out? - We need to go on a road trip or something. - We're gonna go on a road trip. There's this really cool sculpture situation that's up here I always kind of wondered about, and I don't really know how to describe it. - These are the ones that are at the us up here?

- Yeah, there's like a— there's like one right in front here. - I've never understood these either, so I'm very excited. - Hey Google, what's this white sculpture here that's in front of us to my right, and what's the building behind it?

<i>- The sculpture on your</i> <i>right is called the Orb.</i> <i>A 33-foot-tall public art installation</i> <i>made of over 6,400 aluminum panels that</i> <i>create unique light patterns.</i> <i>Behind it is the</i> <i>Gradient Canopy building,</i> <i>which features a signature dragon-scale</i> <i>solar roof that generates a significant</i> <i>portion of its own power.</i> - I had no idea it was a solar roof. - That's cool.

Yeah. - Does it, from when you activate, is it like just the moment going forward? - It keeps a local buffer. - Okay, okay. That’s helpful.

- And so yeah, it keeps— Hey Google. What is this white tent set of buildings on my left? What, what's up with those?

<i>- The white tent-like structures to</i> <i>your left are part of the Shoreline Amphitheater,</i> <i>a famous outdoor music venue known</i> <i>for its distinctive peaked roof design.</i> <i>It was built on a former landfill and</i> <i>now hosts major concerts and festivals</i> <i>in a scenic park-like setting.</i> - So what I'm really excited about with this, with this technology that we're still, you know, working through and figuring out how best to launch in vehicles is when Gemini can see along with you, how can it really make your life easier? - Yeah, I feel like there's so many interesting things like grounding with like Street View, and when you're trying to find the place to turn, and sort of, it looks weird or whatever and you don't exactly know. I feel like there's going to be so much.

- Or street signs that are in a different language. - Yeah, yeah. - To help me understand what that means. - Or just confusing. - Just confusing.

Just confusing. Exactly. So yeah, more from Gemini to come. - Yeah, this is awesome. Well, Sameer, this has been awesome.

Not only did I get a ride around, a ride around the neighborhood, but, just like getting to see and hear about the progress of everything that’s happening at Android has been awesome. So I very much appreciate it. It's incredible to see the progress happening and all the excitement in the ecosystem. And yeah, this was an awesome conversation. - Thanks a lot.

I enjoyed it. - Yeah. And thank you everyone for watching this episode, this very special episode of Release Notes. We'll see you in the next one.