---
video_title: "Gemma Playground: AI Edge Gallery"
video_id: XkwQwBZ_Q8w
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XkwQwBZ_Q8w
video_date: 2026-06-18T19:20:15+00:00
video_description: |
  Ian Ballantyne, Developer Relations Engineer at Google DeepMind, shows what Gemma can do on a Pixel 10 Pro using the Google AI Edge Gallery app. Image understanding, audio transcription, agent skills that route prompts to the right app on your phone, all running locally with no connectivity required.
  
  What's covered: Using Agent Skills to route a voice prompt to a mood tracker app, taking a photo and outputting structured JSON Schema from it, generating suggestions from an image of plants, recording voice notes for transcription and translation, and identifying objects offline with multimodal image understanding.
  
  Download the Google AI Edge Gallery app on Android or iOS and try Gemma on your own device.
  
  What are you running on-device with Gemma? Drop it in the comments.
  
  Resources: 
  Google Play → https://goo.gle/3SXkrSe 
  App Store →  https://goo.gle/44oSgy7 
  Github → https://goo.gle/4xLOgW2 
  Gemma Docs → https://goo.gle/4uQXVYs 
  Gemma Cookbook → https://goo.gle/4oLWJEC 
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers  
  
  Speaker: Ian Ballantyne
  Products Mentioned:  Google AI, Gemini
---
So most people have heard that Gemma models can run on a range of different devices laptops, desktops, et cetera. But not many people know that they also run on mobile phones. So I've got a Pixel 10 Pro here, and I'm running the Google AI Edge gallery app. And what I'm going to show you is how Gemma can be used to take photographs, understand the world, record audio, and to use and agent skills all running locally on this device. So let's see a couple of examples about what we can do.

So first I'm going to show you agent skills. Agent skills is where you can ask the model on the phone to be able to interact with different apps and applications. And the model will decide which of these is most suited for the purpose. In this case, I'm just going to ask the model a prompt, and then it's going to pick which application to use. So I will record a voice note add to my mood tracker.

I'm feeling about 8 out of 10 today. I'm feeling calm and excited to talk about Gemma. So I'll send that off. And then the model will then listen to that track because it understands how to do audio input, and then it will pick which application to use. So in this case, it's decided to load the mood tracker and it should record that entry into my mood tracking journal.

There you go. So another thing Gemma can do is it can read and understand images. So I'm going to take a photograph of these books right here. And I'm going to ask it to output the books as a JSON schema. Take these books and output as a JSON schema with the title for each entry.

And it will think about that prompt, decide what output it needs to generate and it will invent a schema that it thinks will fit. Or maybe I just want to have a new item on my desk for an arrangement, so I can take a photograph of these plants right here. And I can say something like, suggest three things for me to add to my arrangement. Give a sentence for each.

Another thing that Gemma can do on device is it's multimodal and understands audio input. So you can record snippets of voice or audio and have Gemma process it naturally, doing things like transcription and translation. So in this case, I'm going to record a clip. Make a note of things that I need to do today. I need to pick my kids up from school.

I need to go to the grocery shop and get some milk, and I need to buy some flowers for my wife.

And what's also important to remember is that this is running entirely on the device, so it'll work offline or in areas of low connectivity. So let's give you an example. Imagine I was offline and I wanted to know what this was. So let's take a quick photo.

What is this thing.

And Gemma will process the image, try and understand what's in it and give an answer directly or without connectivity. OK, so it thinks it's a small toy, which is correct. So I've shown you a couple of examples about what you can do with Gemma on a mobile device. So go to Google Image gallery app on Android and iOS and tell us what you think.