---
video_title: "Inside YC x Google DeepMind Startups Day"
video_id: sK7WSa3s0pQ
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sK7WSa3s0pQ
video_date: 2026-05-08T16:00:01+00:00
video_description: |
  At YC x Google DeepMind Startups Day, Paige Bailey from DeepMind connects with a handful of founders using Gemini and Gemma to build across space infrastructure, supply chain AI, gaming, emotional intelligence, quantum computing, and on-device AI.
  
  
  What's covered:
  StarCloud's space-based data centers, Lumari's AI supply chain platform, Gradient Bang's multi-agent voice game, on-device model distribution and quantization, quantum superintelligence, and how founders across the board are mixing Gemini Flash, Live, text-to-speech, and Gemma 4 to balance cost, latency, and capability.
  
  Get started:
  Grab your Gemini API key at Google AI Studio and explore Gemma models to start building.
  
  What are you building with Gemini and Gemma? Drop it in the comments.
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers  
  
  Speaker: Paige Bailey, 
  Products Mentioned:  Google AI, Gemini
---
Hi there. My name is Paige and I'm here today at Y Combinator, talking to some of the founders who are building the future. Star Cloud is building data centers in space. Lamar is AI platform for supply chain. It's a game called gradient bang and you can play it.

We figure out what the users actually feel like. We're building quantum superintelligence. We help distribute models, quantize them, and then we make them run on your laptop. Tell us a little bit about how you're using the Gemma and Gemini models. We're using the flashtext to speech and the live models for cost, latency and emotional elements.

We're using a lot of that to look through all of these drawings as a reasoning layer. And a visual layer. Deep reasoning on the Cloud using Gemini models. That's a fast model. So we use something like Gemini 2.5 Flash.

Gemini four has amazing major updates. Yeah, taking advantage of multimodal capabilities once Gemma that's working on a problem. Gemini observes. We are using a mix of Gemma and Gemini. We're using Gemini 3.1 Pro as well as Flash.

And we have a multimodal structures. We're choosing a bunch of different models based on what they're best at. We have over 200 million total downloads. A whole large chunk of it is just Gemma models. Everyone loves Gemma models because it's so powerful and useful.

It feels like the future is being built in real time at YC. So this is great. Great to have you here and can't wait to check out your product.