---
video_title: "Run Gemma on Reachy Mini, an open source robot"
video_id: KPx3nRwbldE
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KPx3nRwbldE
video_date: 2026-06-26T19:00:02+00:00
video_description: |
  Ian Ballantyne, Developer Relations Engineer at Google DeepMind, shows how Gemma runs on hardware like Raspberry Pi, Jetson, and Nano, letting a model see, hear, and act the way a robot would. The demo is Reachy Mini, the open source robot from Hugging Face and Pollen Robotics, a small robot that sees with cameras, reacts with emotion and head movement, and holds a conversation through its microphone and speaker.
  
  What's covered: A live conversation with Reachy Mini about why local on-device models matter for privacy and speed, the robot's ability to move its head, show emotion, and take pictures to understand its surroundings, controlling smart devices and APIs like lights, thermostats, calendars, and live data, and an early look at the robot reasoning about a chessboard and explaining how a knight moves.
  Explore the Reachy Mini project from Hugging Face and Pollen Robotics, and try running Gemma on your own hardware.
  
  What would you build with Gemma on a robot or IoT device? Drop it in the comments.
  
  Resources: 
  Reachy Mini → https://goo.gle/4xJNpVJ 
  Local Reachy Mini → https://goo.gle/4f1dOXC 
  Gemma Docs → https://goo.gle/4xMnVXS 
  Gemma Cookbook → https://goo.gle/4epYEuZ 
  
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers  
  
  Speaker: Ian Ballantyne
  Products Mentioned:  Google AI, Gemini
---
You pick now to do that, as always. So another use of Gemma, is on things like robotics or Internet of Things devices. So you can run the models on hardware like laptops, desktops, but also on Raspberry Pis or Jetson Orin Nanos. And the models can interact with the world the same way that a robot would, so they can see and they can hear, and then they can act on your behalf. So what we have here is a Reachy Mini by Hugging Face and Pollen Robotics.

And this little guy, he can see things with the cameras, he can react with emotions and move his head and he can talk. He has a speaker in, and he has a microphone. He can also listen. What I'm going to show you now is how you can use this model with Gemini Live to have a conversation. So let's give that a go. Hey Reachy,

- It's Reachy, not Richie, but I'll let that slide. How can I help you today? - Well, I was wondering what you knew about running local models on-device. - Running models locally can offer better privacy and speed since your data doesn't have to travel over the internet. It does depend on the device's hardware, but it's becoming quite common. Anything specific?

- Do you think it'd be good for things like robotics? - Definitely! Faster processing means quicker reactions, which is great for robots navigating the real world. Plus, you wouldn't wanna pause mid-movement just because the internet went on a break. - Yeah, that's true. What about taking actions?

Can you do interesting things as a robot?

- I certainly can. I can move my head, dance, show emotions, and even take pictures to understand my surroundings. - And you could control things, right? So if you had a local model, like a Gemma model running on a Reachy, you could control like lights or you could control a thermostat or you could send messages. What kind other kind of things do you think?

- Exactly! I could potentially interact with any smart devices or APIs I'm connected to. Think managing calendars, fetching live data, or even controlling physical systems for automation, possibilities are vast. - Here's an early look at what's possible. - It looks like a chess board set up on a table. What are we playing?

- I'm just learning about chess. Can you teach me how the knight moves? - That sounds like fun. I can certainly try to explain the knight's move. It jumps in an L shape to any of the eight surrounding squares.

So as Reachy said, there are lots of different reasons that you could use a model like Gemma on-device, for privacy reasons, for speed reasons. You could also use it for things like home automation or to control or to look at the environment. And imagine having a little assistant that runs on your desktop, that works entirely offline. So if you have ideas for what you could do with a Gemma model and robots, or even Internet of Things, devices, we'd love to see.