---
video_title: "Building an Android app in AI Studio"
video_id: KwJwYIqDMLY
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KwJwYIqDMLY
video_date: 2026-07-07T04:00:19+00:00
video_description: |
  This video demonstrates how to create and install a personalized Android application using AI Studio without requiring technical or Android-specific knowledge.
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers  
  
  Products Mentioned: Google AI, Android
---
Hi, everyone. In this tutorial, I'll show you how you can build Android apps and also install them to your phone. So in this example, we built our own personalized todo and fitness tracker app. You don't need any technical knowledge for this or any Android specific knowledge. You can simply prompt your way to the app.

So for this, go to a Studio and then go to the Build tab. And then here select the chip to build an Android app. And now you can describe what you want to build. So let me copy an example in here. Build me an Android todo and fitness tracker app with a minimalist design.

It should include a clean eye tab where I can ask questions about my tasks, workouts, and the upcoming day, so you can also easily include AI features in here, which are powered by the Gemini API, and then click on Build. This will now kick off the build process and this takes a few minutes, so feel free to grab a coffee in the meantime. And while we're waiting, we get a few design previews or design suggestions so we can take a look at them. And then if we one of those we can select it. This is optional.

So you can also skip this. But for example, the dark theme. So let's select this sign and then it will apply it. So yeah let's wait until this is finished and the app has finished building. So here, we get a simulator with a preview.

And we can test this in here. But let's actually install this to the device right away. For this click on Install up here and then follow these steps. First, we need to enable developer mode. So go to your phone settings, select about phone and then tap the build number seven times.

After that you need to enable USB debugging. So in the settings select system, then select developer options and enable USB debugging. And now we can plug-in our device via USB. So I'm doing this here and make sure this cable is suitable for data transfer. So not just a charging cable.

And now we can click on Install via USB. And now it is. If you're doing this for the first time, you might get a pop up here that you should select the specific device. I did this before so it knows that this is my device. And now it actually already successfully installed.

And we see it live on our phone. So now we can disable the cable and have our app running on our phone that we just created in a Studio. And then, of course, you can test this and add more features here via prompting. Or if you notice any errors then describe what's not working. And then again, you can click on Install.

And ship the update again to your phone. So yeah, this is how you can vibe code Android apps in AI Studio. And you don't need any specific knowledge for this. So I hope you have a lot of fun with this and happy building.