---
video_title: "Google I/O 2026 Recap with Logan Kilpatrick, Josh Woodward and Tulsee Doshi"
video_id: RsDSeMXaCak
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RsDSeMXaCak
video_date: 2026-05-22T23:00:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Josh Woodward from Google Labs, Gemini and AI Studio and Tulsee Doshi from Google DeepMind join host Logan Kilpatrick to break down the biggest launches from Google I/O 2026, from Gemini 3.5 Flash and Gemini Omni to the debut of Gemini Spark. Their conversation digs into everything from agent payments and voice to predictions for what comes next.
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers   
  
  Speaker: Logan Kilpatrick, Josh Woodward, Tulsee Doshi
  Products Mentioned:  Google AI, Gemini
---
Welcome back to Release Notes, My name is Logan Kilpatrick. I'm on the Google DeepMind team today. I'm joined by Josh and Tulsee, the dynamic duo. We are back. Maybe we're the dynamic trio.

I look back at Google I/O 2026. So many announcements yesterday, so many fun launches, models, products, everything in between. Maybe we can start talking about models and then we can talk about products. Sounds good, sounds good. Let's do it.

Tulsee, you want to kick us off. Yeah and actually, I think the cool thing is this year, really. You can't really talk about the models without the products. So I think there's going to be a really nice tie-in. And maybe that's the first thing is that I feel like this year, the phrase we're using to talk about Gemini 3.5,

which is one of our big releases, is intelligence with action. And I think that really speaks to what we're trying to bring through all of our launches this year with the models is that we're really trying to focus on how do we enter the agentic era even more seriously than we have in the past, with models that have amazing tool use capabilities that are really strong for coding, that can handle really complex long workflows, and then how do we bring that magic to life in the product. So Gemini 3.5 Flash is our big model release. Really excited about that model because I actually think it's a great combination of performance and speed.

And it does this really good job. I think of bringing a lot of that magic to life in a way that you can actually quickly iterate with. We also released Omni, our multimodal model. It really actually brings out like the Nano banana for video vibes. So really actually allows you to edit videos, build amazing experiences.

And the world knowledge from Gemini that you're bringing into the model makes it even stronger. It's super fun. We did that episode with the Omni team and they edited the preview at the beginning, so let's take a look at it. There's so many different kinds of edits that you can use OK, there's the parrot no, one of the best parts there are all the yellow birds. Yeah, yeah, but there's one where there's the sloth.

I still don't know why. Why am I holding a plant. What was the. This is the cat. I know there's nothing there.

That's just me. Yeah, yeah, it's just Logan. Straight up. Few hyenas wandering across the set. I think you could just have an endless possibilities here.

You can do anything in that video. I showed that to my girlfriend, and she was like, I get it now. I think there's something interesting about how we showcase, what it's capable of and it's like, yeah, there's some. So I really like that format of taking something existing that and people doing something normal and then changing it in a way that doesn't change the coherence of what they're saying, but then just makes it feel magical a little bit. Yeah like magic.

I was trying this yesterday with some dance videos of mine and was having it every time my arms move in a certain direction, like sparkles would come out or petals would fly or things like that. And again, like the coherence of the video doesn't change. The actual dance has not changed, but you're just adding something to it that makes it like memorable or remarkable in a way that you didn't think about. The other cool thing with Omni, I would say it's incredible at camera angles. So I showed on stage 360 degree view.

But you can do drone footage, you can take shots. One of the most amazing things I think we showed was Google flow took one shot, 16 different frames from 16 different angles, and it contains the same sort of scene consistency, character consistency. It's pretty fun. That's really cool. Yeah, that's really cool.

People are going to go wild with this in the Gemini app, in YouTube and in flow. They can make all those dynamic videos, which will be really exciting. One more thing is 3, 5 Flash is our most powerful model to date. It is the most capable model that we've shipped. And I feel like Flash, I think people see as this workhorse model and it's a little bit less intelligent.

And I feel like we keep doing this thing where Flash ends up actually being really, really capable. In a conversation yesterday with Oriol and Geoff, just continuing to hit home on the distillation capabilities we have are just so good. And Geoff was like, yeah, actually it's pretty. We're pretty much doing the same thing that we had in the original distillation paper. And like, it just keeps working.

So maybe there's something magic about how we keep landing the Pro intelligence into a Flash model. Yeah I think there's two things. So I mean, maybe to hit your point home harder. This model literally exceeds 3.1 Pro on most benchmarks.

And I actually think this is a cycle we've been seeing. So the previous Flash exceeds it I think there's two things there. One is I do think Flash is still a great workhorse model, but the kinds of work that you can do with it is now changing. So I think when we thought about workhorse model two years ago, this is a great tweet for you. I love this.

I'm just like Because I don't because I think you say that. And I'm like, I get it. That makes complete sense. Yeah I think it's just like the kinds of things you want to do in the Gemini app today versus what you could maybe do a year ago or two years ago are meaningfully different. And Flash is still the model powering it.

But you need a more powerful Flash to be able to actually do the kinds of things you can do in Gemini spark, for example, which you should talk about. But, I think that's pretty awesome. And then to your point, this model is really an amazing showcase of post-training excellence, because it takes Gemini 3 and actually builds on it. And so what we've done from a perspective of RL, what we've done from a perspective of taking the feedback actually, that we're seeing in jet ski and actually bringing the model and the harness closer together to actually train the model more effectively. I think that's a really great example of what that can do for model performance, especially when you think about just real world usage.

Yeah, yeah. Which is really awesome. Well, and I would say we're using it all over the place internally to build. I mean, Sundar talked a little bit about that on stage during our token count. Internally I was like, this is cool.

Yeah token counts up in the tease in the Harrison using all the tokens. That's what the problem is. I'm like half of the tokens is just Harrison on whatever side quest he's working on. That's right. Side quest encouraged.

No, but I do think it's unlocking all kinds of things we didn't think were possible. And so it does come through in features like Gemini spark. It comes through even in things you wouldn't expect. Just the depth, the quality of the answer. So much better.

Yeah, yeah. Gemini three feels like the era of product model harness symbiosis. And in this sort of flywheel, like you actually can't have one without the other to your point from earlier. And maybe spark is maybe the perfect example of that, I don't know. Yeah and so for folks who missed the news, maybe what is spark and.

Yeah Well sparks are 24/7 always on agent works in the background. I think the way to think about it is would when you use it. It almost feels like you're just throwing tasks over your shoulder and spark catches them and just runs with them. So you can say, just brain dump a bunch of stuff into it. It'll break it down into individual tasks.

It'll give you this great dashboard. You can see what it's doing, and then you come back to it. And a lot of stuff's just done. So it's this amazing step of how do we move Gemini app from something you're just chatting with to Tulsee said, something that's acting on your behalf. And so it's a big shift.

We're very excited about it. It'll be rolling out next week, starting in the US for Google AI Ultra subscribers. And the plan is to basically see how people use it. We have no idea also how many tokens it's going to consume. So we want to start of small and then scale it up very quickly.

We're very excited about it. A lot of us have been using it for yeah, it's a daily active thing. Once you get into the Swing of it, you realize there's so many tasks you can just hand off and come back to. And so I think that's one of the things we're really excited about. Yeah, yeah.

Josh, one of the things you mentioned is you throw things over the wall to it. And then some of the tasks are done for the ones that aren't. I think something you mentioned, if I remember from yesterday, is just it actually does, come back to you when it needs sort of a human in the loop in order to take some action. If there's something like, you're about to spend $1,000 of money, maybe you should check in with me before you go and order me a bunch of crazy stuff. Yeah which I think is a really interesting paradigm.

And I'm actually curious, if that's also one of the things that it's like, still a research frontier. How yeah, how good it is at knowing when it should come to you versus not. Yeah, absolutely. It is very deliberate sort of product design choices right now. We're erring on the side of being a bit more conservative, because one of the main pain points we've seen when people set up their claws or anything else is though sure, I'll YOLO this.

And then they realize like, no, no, I don't want that to happen. So we're going to start a little bit more conservative. We'll check in. It'll say it needs input. Usually you go in say yes or no and it keeps going.

And then we're going to gradually allow you to set like always remember this choice. So we want to make sure we build up that trust and that comfort and get it right. So today it might ask if you want to book a calendar meeting and then you can be like yes or no. And then you can remember that anything with payments, anything with accepting consents, these are all areas where we want to stop it, have it come back to you. But I'm very excited.

One of the other announcements Vidya did actually yesterday with some of the stuff we're doing with some of our agent payments protocol. This is very interesting. It's very Google in the sense that it hooks up to Google Wallet, and you'll be able to set budgets for your agents and even per merchant sort of constraints. So I'm OK to spend this much money with this merchant. And it's really interesting.

As we're testing this, it feels a lot like you're giving almost like a teenager their first debit card. So it's allowance. It's an allowance. Exactly so it's kind of constrained. But I think that's a whole other area by people using all the cards they already have in Google Wallet to be able to spin that way with their agents later this summer.

And into the fall. Yeah and I think actually, this is where we're going to start seeing how different users have different boundaries of comfort. Yeah, right. And I think we want to be able to provide everyone the flexibility. I think there's going to be users who are going to be a lot more comfortable saying, yeah, I scheduled this meeting.

Remember it, I'm good. And also based on the constraints of maybe their job or their personal life or who they're even setting up meetings with and then there's going to be others who maybe want to keep that level of feedback loop. And you should be able to have the flexibility to decide how you want to engage and what level of control you feel comfortable with, I think, yeah. And I think actually, for both of you on this, one of the things that we announced yesterday was that the Gemini app sort of past, I think, 900 million monthly active users, which is crazy. Josh, you're on the warpath to get what's the slide where we show the billion user products.

I'm like I showed I saw yesterday we put it up. It was like it was like 12 products or something crazy like that. So hopefully, hopefully Gemini app. Josh, is this a big party. Yeah that would be no, don't wait till I oh next year.

But we should definitely have a party when that happens. I feel this tension for both of you, as we try to make a model that works for everyone as we try to make a product that works for everyone. Obviously the I'm still showing up like the next 100 million users to come to the Gemini app. Maybe it is the first time they've ever used these product experiences. And then the other end of the spectrum, there's a person who's like, give me a 24/7 always on agent that I'm just throwing things over the wall too.

And I've got my payment set up and I can give it a different budget. And I'm curious, it feels like the frontier continues to push forward and yet we still have that capability overhang. We still have people who are just coming into these new products. And for both of you like the tension of trying to build in that world. I'm curious.

Thoughts or reactions. Yeah when I first joined Google, I worked on search and I worked on YouTube. And when I joined, those were already massive products that had really started to already build the muscle of. How do you build for a very diverse set of users. How do you think about running live experiments in ways that you can get insight from.

How various different users use the product. How do you really lean into user research with different segments of users. And I think it's awesome, actually, that now we're at the point where we're having this conversation about how do we do this with our Gemini models and our product. Yeah and so I think for us, actually, what started becoming even more important on the model side is actually this idea of feedback loops with every single product surface, and not just with the surface, but actually going deep like a level deeper to say, OK, what are the feedback loops with users who are using maybe the flashlight version of the app versus Flash versus Pro. How is that usage differing?

How does that usage differ in different regions. How does that differ for power users versus users who are coming in once a month and actually being able to run those live experiments, get that feedback and actually take that and say, OK, what are our priorities then for the model. We're seeing that even just actually as we are starting to use the models more and more for these kinds of always on tasks internally, it's been really helpful to get that feedback. But that does look different than what external feedback looks like. Even running a live experiment on our internal version of anti-gravity versus our external version of anti-gravity give us different results.

And so now it's really about how do we scale that feedback loop, which I think has been really cool. And it's kind of awesome actually. We're like now pulling in some of the best tools that we've been using across Google for years to actually even evaluate our results, because we have that infrastructure in place, and we have so many people who have done this for so long, how do we bring that into our model development process. Yeah well, and I think that on the modeling side, it's all of that. And on the product side, it's an incredible design challenge is how do you design an interface that can scale to someone like first time they've ever touched.

I which there's still billions of people in the world who haven't actually fully adopted or tried. The people doing the 24/7 seven agents setting up payment, doing very sophisticated. So I think we're trying on the Gemini side at least, to think about how do we design it in a way where it kind of scales with your level of comfort and skill. And so you'll see things even how we launch Gemini spark. First, it's for the paid users to start.

They tend to be a bit more sophisticated. They want to open up the hood, upload their own skills, set up heartbeat schedules, triggers so it allows for all of that. But then you also saw us do something like the daily brief, which is a very accessible daily morning digest that's personalized for you. It's all running the same 3.5 model under the hood, but how we package it and present it is different.

And I think maybe that's actually a really important point, which is like as the models get better. And as we tie it to your point about this whole symbiosis of model. Harness product. I think, actually a big need for the model is to be steerable, and then a big need for us between model and product is to actually start designing these things more hand in hand, so that we actually build in that notion of what is good for different types of users in how we're actually building this out. So, OK, if we want to be able to support that level of flexibility, what needs to be true about the model, and then how do we actually design that end to end.

What I hear, Tulsee, is that your job just becomes more difficult over time. It's like, no, don't just make a model, actually also work with every product. I mean, you're already doing this today, but work with more products or the amount of time we spent actually Josh and I were talking about this earlier. One thing that I think has gotten a lot better over time with Gemini is like how our teams work together to actually land the plane. Yeah, it's not like we build the model and then throw it over the fence and we're good luck, enjoy.

It's actually PMs from my team are sitting with folks from Josh's team. We're literally iterating on system instructions together for different features at the same time, then running a live experiment and being like, OK, system instruction maybe went a little too far. How do we actually kind of recalibrate. And that process, I think, has been working even better and better every launch, which has kind of been kind of fun. It's beautiful to see.

I'm curious from last year to this year, anything that's surprising as you look at the set of announcements and things that we've landed over the last couple of days. OK, I have one. Last night we got together with some of our power users from across a lot of our projects. Gemini and Google Labs, some AI Studio people too. And one of the questions in the audience was, do of all the things you announced at I/O this year, how many of them were on your one year roadmap.

And I thought for about, I don't a second 0 yeah. So I actually think that is probably the biggest shift is the things we were doing on stage at I/O this year. A lot of them weren't even in our minds yet. And I think it's a testament to how fast the capabilities are coming and how much we're trying to invent new things. And I eventually settled.

I thought about it to try to give a little bit more satisfying answer to the guy. I was like, actually, maybe we have a 90 to 120 day roadmap that maybe all we have. And then I thought about it and I was maybe for the last five years, that's kind of been how we've been operating ever since it all got started. I think to give you guys more credit, though, I do think it's like, I feel like directionally you want to do an always on assistant who's roughly we want to be like direction, but it's like don't know how to make it happen. And then the capability lens and then it's all of a sudden you have how maybe.

But I think you're right, which is the actual product implementation. It's not like we were working on Spark. We were loosely working on Spark, maybe for the last year, but not in the way that people would think about. Yeah, I mean, we had something in Gemini agent mode last year, and they were kind of early glimpses of it. But then one day you wake up, wake up, and it's like, it's here, it works.

So I think it's a really important thing for people building out there. And how we try to think about is want to be right in that almost possible zone, because then it'll tip one fine day and then it's like, here we go. Hopefully with 3.5 Flash. Hopefully that's right.

That's right. Well I will say a lot of things tip for us. And I mean we haven't talked a lot yet, but there's a lot of labs projects that suddenly with 3.5 Flash have just become possible. What are some examples.

Well, I mean, what we showed on stage yesterday, we talked about Google flow a little bit. A whole big part of Flow is the Omni model. But another part is this assistant director, you can now talk to flow, almost like you're talking on a set like this. And you'll be able to be change this, change that, change that and just does it. So that's incredible.

Everything with flow music is also leveraging this same 3.5 sort of goodness that showed up. There's some very exciting NotebookLM stuff we have coming soon, so watch out for that. But I think it kind of completely rewrites kind of things we thought were impossible are now possible. And so oh, you always want to be on the lookout.

So now we're like having to reset our expectations of what's going to be almost possible for the next rev. It's very fun. Yeah this is my advice to everyone about just like you have to be. I framed it before as you have to be reset your ambition because I feel like the models humble you so much to be they're like, nope, that will literally just not work. And so you're like, OK, I'm going to try something else, try a different version of this, and then you set your bar for ambition.

And then every time the model crank turns, you have to reset it and go in with a fresh mind, which is so as a human building with the technology, it's so hard to do, but it is, I think it is where the alpha is when you're building this stuff. It also is like there's something really amazing about people who can play with the models and actually find the magic in them too. Yeah, because I think some of it also is like yes intentional about the capabilities we want to build into the models, but they also continue to surprise us. Yeah, right. And it's not really until you start playing with the model and trying something trying to build an assistant director that do you realize, hey, the model is falling over in places we didn't even realize it was falling over, or B there's something magical that you can eke out of the model that you didn't realize.

And then once you find that, then it goes really quickly from there. And then you also see that kind of industry wide, because then you're able to someone builds on your idea, you build on someone else's idea, and there's actually this kind of cross industry development magic that's happening right now, too, that I think is kind of cool and very unique because everybody is sort of learning from each other, whether you're in the same organization and building the same product or actually building kind of cross products. Yeah well, can we talk about one other, please. Please voice. Yeah I think voice is having this is right on the cusp.

It's a moment. It's a moment. I mean, look, we can talk a little bit. I know you all teased like AI Studio the mobile pre-registration. I showed some stuff with the Gemini Mac App using voice.

There's all kinds of stuff in Gemini Live. I think anti-gravity is going to have voice. There's just so much that's going to be possible there. So I'm really proud of the Wear the audio models are getting to I think there's two parts to the voice part that we're talking about here. One is this whole idea of just being able to throw out your ideas, like being able to almost ramble your way out of dock or at actually can already do this in anti-gravity.

You can just talk and see what comes out of the other side. And it's actually so good. That's actually been my number one workflow change right now is I'm just talking at my laptop. What you do best so I can do my best. I just ramble, ramble away.

It's great. It's awesome. It was actually though it's kind of worked. And then also the dialogue models are getting really good. And so actually for those who haven't been building with them yet, even you can already build with them in AI Studio you can already build with them in the API.

The naturalness of the voice really does make a huge difference in the experience. It's good, the expressiveness, the dialects we showed. Yeah, pretty fun. So it's going to be I think voice is going to be a really interesting next few months. It also it's selfishly for all of us, it makes doing a lot of these demos way easier because I feel like you historically have to this is my least favorite thing is trying to talk while I type things.

And I know you cannot multitask. So this is perfect for you because you just talk. You just talk right into it actually tells what you need to answer the question. Something surprising from this Oh. So I think to the point about what we didn't predict.

I think one thing that's interesting is last year we talked about how through line of IO was really Gemini and Gemini coming into all of our products. I think this year 1 through line is actually anti-gravity and the harness and I think it was interesting as we started putting the package for I/O together, really realizing how much that actual the harness consistency across our products was starting to come through. So behind Gemini spark, behind things we were showing in AI Mode, obviously behind anti-gravity, the product itself, AI Studio. We're really starting to see that actually not just having a consistent model, but actually building on a consistent harness speeds up our productivity. It makes the products more consistent.

It allows us to push the model AI capabilities as well. I think that also was something that I didn't expect to see be as consistently through. Yeah, that's a great one. Predictions I oh 2027, which I was saying to someone yesterday sounds like a made up year. Sounds like 2027.

I'm like, I mean, Josh just said that we didn't know what was coming this year from last year. I don't know how we predict. We did this last year that we tried to make predictions last year. And actually, maybe I'll get you both on record with my new favorite question, which is in five years will Google have three products or 10,000 products. And Josh, I preceded this to you.

So you hopefully had time to well, I mean, we've been thinking about this a little bit in the context of Google Labs. Actually, that was what we were talking in the hallway. I think about this one. I could see it being a lot more. Yeah, right now we have something 20 or so products that we're working on.

At the same time, I'm sure I'm probably it's 100, it's a few dozen. But I mean, we are very interested in what would it take to really just add some zeros to that. So we'll see. I don't. Some people talk about it's like software factory, other things like that I'm more interested in are there I think where a lot of this is going to shift is like a real good eye for problems worth solving.

Yeah and could Google Labs be a place where there's just like I don't maybe a few hundred. I don't know if it's thousands. We'll see. But there's a lot of problems in the world and it's interesting to think about how you could go after lots of them, but we'll see. Maybe like, I guess one of my I'm curious, I'm curious your take on this.

I do think we're going to scale up the number of problems we're solving and the number of product experiences we build for those. Yeah but I also think especially to your point about voice and also to our point about the kind of agents being able to do things for you, that the number of interfaces by which you try to access these products might go down in the sense that you might as a user, be able to do a lot more by just saying, I'm going to talk to the Gemini app and I'm going to say, hey, this is what I'm interested in, this is what I need. And then the Gemini app also has the ability to connect you to the right product experience for the thing that you're trying to do. So maybe the cognitive overload overhead, overhead of oh, I need to go use product A for x and then product B for y, and then product z for that. We might be able to streamline, if that makes sense.

I'm curious, actually, this came up in a conversation and Oriol had the comment about of this, mental compartmentalization that humans do so well. And it's really hard to have people get used to this, very flexible product experience that they can do anything with and actually to the point of maybe there will be 10,000 different products. It's like humans are so tuned to be like, this thing does this thing, and I'm going to go and use it for that. And like you can really go the n-th degree of customization and detail. So I'd love this question now because I'm like it's so interesting to see how it's going to end up shaking.

And I don't think it's clear what the right answer is. Yeah well it's the whole what Clayton Christensen like jobs to be done right. You hire a product to do a certain job. And I do think maybe that mental model will blur over time and people will hire one product and it'll do many jobs. I don't maybe.

I also think they're not necessarily contradictory. So we may still need to build 10,000 products, but they may be behind the scenes and rooted in certain ways, 10,000 agents. That's what it'll be maybe. Yeah or 10,000 skills or I don't know actually what form, it's going to take. But to me, that's also why when people are always like, it's all in the model.

I think that's kind of half the story, because there's also going to be a product design sort of. How do you educate and bring people along into this, whatever this new interface or interfaces may look like. Well, also, that's why I love a lot of the labs products, because I think they push the. They always push us on the model side to remember that, yes, the model is a product, and yes, we should have it be able to do a bunch of things. But how you package that model for users.

I think NotebookLM was really that moment for me in particular, where it was can package the model in a way that truly creates a magical experience for users. And I think it's really easy when the model is so good to just be like, well, the model is the product here. Yeah, right. But that doesn't mean someone actually knows how to use it in a way that you can get real value out of and that should be our jobs it's true, the next. I mean, I'm trying to remind myself of this.

The model is the product quote, but then the quote that goes right after that is something exactly to what you're saying, which is the model is the product. And yet you need more to bring it to life than just the model itself, you need the experience of scaffolded my really quick prediction, which we'll see whether this ends up being right is that I think the model has so consistently continued to eat the scaffolding layer. And so I think as we talk about this agent harness as a through line of the conversation, I think it'll be very interesting to see whether or not 12 months from now we're talking about that or whether it's just the model. It goes back like today it's something different because it's sort of new, but then yeah, it goes back to just being the model in 12 months. Or it'll be something else I'm sure that we're talking about in 12 months.

But that's my guess, is that it does go back to just people see it as the model. We talk about it internally as just the model, and the model becomes this much more complex system that we think about and associate with. So that's fine for my job. Yeah fun for your job. More stuff.

But well save this podcast. Save this podcast 365 days. Last year, we should do some review. I don't remember. Maybe we'll pull it up.

Maybe pull it. Pull it up. Yeah, yeah. Do you want to go first. Sure all right.

Yeah I mean, I think we look so young because when you say 20, 30, I feel like there's three things that come to mind. This is good. I'm wearing my I/O outfit here. It looks like the same shirt for 2030. I mean, we're already seeing just from 2024 to 2025.

What Gemini can do has been amazing. And so we're going to see this world where so much of what Demis presented yesterday on this vision of the universal virtual assistant and this idea of Gemini as this proactive part of your life. Hey, we're doing that in 26 materially. So actually think the way we realized a lot of it this year, we're talking about Google products that wasn't thinking big enough for years ahead of the curve. Technology and interact with the world is going to be different.

And so I think that's going to be a big part of I/O I think the second part of I/O to your point is going to be about I think we're really bringing these pieces together into a more unified. This is why Raspberry works for not much. I'm going over here and I'm going over here and I'm going over here and I'm getting three different things versus I actually Gemini app is working for me across my surfaces, across my devices. I'm predicting the same thing. There we go, there we go.

And then the third I think is just I expect IO will also look different in 2030. It won't be so hot 2030. And the way we consume and engage with content is going to look different. You just send your agent to I/O and then it consumes all the stuff. It's done.

No, but it's just going to look different, I think. I think what's also funny is like 2030 feels like so far, so far. My first reaction when you said 2030 I originally was maybe this was 2027, I don't know. Yeah, maybe we preempted the question. I mean, it's interesting.

We have this exercise in Google Labs. Sometimes we do where we think about jump in this kind of magical flying saucer that shoots you out into the future. You get out, you have a few minutes to look around, write down everything about the future, and then you come back. Do you still do that. We've only done that exercise for 2028 right now, so I don't know the actual answer for two years, but it does feel like I mean, one of the things even we were seeing a lot with some of the stuff we launched yesterday at I/O, is this kind of blurring the lines of what's becoming possible.

Yeah and the lowering of the bar when it comes to how much time it takes or how many skills or even the cost of things or who can do something and who and all that relates to who. So I think when you think about the future of software development or creativity or knowledge or any of these things, yeah, four or five years out, it's going to be really interesting. But I do think it's almost like the arc is towards democratizing a lot of this stuff, and that's probably when you look at products like flow, we launched yesterday, or any others, that sort of feels like that'll be a principle. And then, yeah, in terms of the show format and everything, who knows. We were spot on.

I don't know about that. No, I feel like directionally those are the things that are happening. Yeah that's why we need more concrete predictions. Concrete predictions. So that way we can hold you all accountable.

Thank you both for taking the time to sit down. It was a crazy IO. Lots of stuff shipped. But it was a ton of fun and hopefully, we'll be sitting back here IO 2027, which sounds so far away. Yeah hopefully talking about a lot of the progress that we've been made along the dimensions that we talked about today.

So Josh Tulsee, thank you for doing this. Yeah see you all. And thank you for tuning in to this episode of release notes. We'll see you in the next one.