---
video_title: "How to build with Gemini 3.5 Transcribe"
video_id: PWPsZssgfDo
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PWPsZssgfDo
video_date: 2026-08-26
video_description: |
  Learn how to build with Gemini 3.5 Transcribe, our latest transcription model, which is now available on the Interactions API and Live API. Google DeepMind’s Thor Schaeff gives a demo of real-time transcription of email addresses, phone numbers, and multilingual speech, and shows how custom vocabulary and language hints improve accuracy across 85+ supported languages.
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers   
  
  Products Mentioned: Gemini
  Speaker: Thor Schaeff
---
Hello, everyone today is an exciting day, because we have launched our first Gemini based transcription model. Now, this is exciting because this model is both available for unary on the interactions API, but also for live transcription on the Live API. And what you can see is what's really cool here is that the model is an LLM based transcription model. So it can do really, really well in transcribing alphanumerics or email addresses, kind of anything that normal transcription models might struggle with a bit. And so for example, you can see here I gave it a bit of a custom vocabulary, so if we know the names of the folks in the meeting, for example, that could really help.

And we can also set the languages that we expect to improve the accuracy of the transcription. And so you can see here now if I introduce myself as Tor chef it will know how to actually pronounce my name. And so this is really, really cool. So because now if I were to say, oh my email address is my first name, last name at google.com, then it would know if I say, OK, tosten at google.com.

And we can now see that it will, go back and correctly edit that email address. So you can see now in the final transcript, it actually went back over that and realized OK, that was probably wrong. And so it transcribed that correctly. The other thing that is really cool, online I just go as Tor webdev everywhere. And so actually the way you can reach me is Tor webdev at google.com.

And there we go. The email address is correctly transcribed in the final transcription result. Now another really nifty thing is, for example phone numbers. So my phone number is 11231231234. So you can see now recognizes this is a correct US phone number format.

Or, I've lived in Singapore for a long time. So actually on different channels. You can reach me with my Singapore phone number, which is 651. And so in Singapore, the phone number is just 8 eight digits. And, it'll recognize that it's correct number.

So these are just some of the things other things like centimeters are 1 meter. And so it would go and actually use the correct units in there. I don't know what ounces and gallons are. So I won't try that. But assume that will work as well to have the correct metrics or if we have in US, we have a trillion, I believe in German, a trillion is actually in a billion.

So if we're mixing kind of English and German, it can figure that out as well as sprechen.

You can see, even though I set the language hints or the language codes to be English. The model is still able to recognize, 70 plus different languages and transcribe them correctly. So we can improve the transcription quality by setting the language hints. But obviously it can automatically recognize all the different languages that are being spoken. And, again, this is just the power of Gemini.

So Gemini is really, really good at audio understanding. And so it has that really, really deep understanding of many, many different languages as well as those deep reasoning capabilities. So this is really, really exciting for new applications that kind of need real time transcription and maybe a bit more accurate kind of transcription, which is really nice. Thanks so much for tuning in. I hope you try out Gemini 3.5 transcribe,

available both on the interactions API and the Live API, and really can't wait to hear and see what you will build. Thanks for tuning in and see you next time.