---
video_title: "Building the ultimate morning dashboard with Gemini 3.6 Flash and Nano Banana"
video_id: cBBWorSU0P4
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cBBWorSU0P4
video_date: 2026-07-29T23:00:37+00:00
video_description: |
  Raph vibe coded an e-ink picture frame with Gemini 3.6 Flash and Nano Banana that helps his family start their day. 
  
  Learn how he did it using Antigravity and follow the open source guide to build your own too.
  
  Resources: 
  
  Learn more → https://goo.gle/4wpzbs0 
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers  
  
  Speaker: Raphael D. 
  Products Mentioned:  Google AI, Gemini
---
Don't forget your backpack. If that sounds like you. Let me show you this thing I built with Gemini. It's basically an image based calendar that shows that kids what they should be wearing and what they should be packing, as opposed to do list or some app you end up not using. The idea is to empower them with a bit of independence as well as obviously take a few things off mom and dad's plate in the morning.

So my wife and I have a Google Calendar that's just for the kids events. And that calendar is attached to this app. I built in anti-gravity every night at 1:00 AM this script checks the calendar, it checks the weather, and it has some information about the kids that creates this prompt that's sent to Nano banana, which generates an image which is then sent to this e-ink display. Because it's got that Gemini intelligence layer, the kids are dressed appropriately based on the weather, and it's got all of their items in it. And it's all running on the new Gemini 3.6 Flash

model because it's smart, it's fast, and it's relatively inexpensive, and it has to be all three of those things because it's running every day. There's a feature in glance board where overnight it will pull your email. Then Gemini 3.6 Flash will intelligently pull out events that you may have forgotten. The project is open source, which means it's free for you to download off GitHub.

I'm not a programmer. I'm not a dev. I'm a code guy. But with anti-gravity in Gemini, this stuff is way easier to the point where you can literally just ask anti-gravity to download it and add any features you want. I've been calling it glance board, but that's just the first name that came to me, so I'm open to suggestions.

If you've got any good names, drop them in the comments.