---
video_title: "Introducing Gemini 3.7 Flash"
video_id: 9_PtOVH2FPE
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9_PtOVH2FPE
video_date: 2026-08-13T19:44:11+00:00
video_description: |
  Introducing Gemini 3.7 Flash — our most intelligent workhorse model yet for coding and agents.
  
  Follow along as we build an animated sprite-based 90s game using the model in Google Antigravity. We go from a single prompt to a plan, then to a playable game with assets generated by Nano Banana Pro and infinite remixing possibilities. 
  
  Explore agent-first workflows in Antigravity or start building in the Gemini API via Google AI Studio and Android Studio. 
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers 
  
  #GoogleDeepMind #GoogleAI 
  
  Speakers: 
  Products Mentioned: Google Antigravity, Gemini
---
Introducing Gemini 3.7 Flash, our most intelligent workhorse model yet for coding and agents. So let's dive in. I'm going to build a single level of an animated sprite based 90s game. Use Nano banana for all the assets.

OK, so it looks the model is now coming up with a plan for our game. Let's see what it's done. OK, this is one of my favorite parts because you're seeing it generate all these assets while it's building the game. I'm really excited to see what this game ends up looking like. Let's take it for a spin.

It looks like it's drawn all the assets. They look incredible. These characters. I think what I love about this already is the little details. You can see that when I shoot this flame, it has that reflection against the wall.

The map is expansive and I can walk through different stages, all sorts of different opponents. It's just amazing to see. Also just the design adherence to the prompt I had, and you could imagine that we can go back and forth with this and really take the game to the next level. But I think I actually want to remix this into an entirely different concept. Back in anti-gravity, I've taken my original prompt, but sorcerers are out of fashion now, so let's do something like the story of a pizza delivery driver in a suburban neighborhood, just with a few words being changed.

This entire game, look and feel is going to change and adapt to this new prompt, and that's kind of what makes prompting with 3.7 Flash so much fun. Let's see what it comes up with. OK, fresh out the oven. We've got pizza rush and it looks like it's got a lot of controls.

Let's see what it's come up with. Oh my God. Wow this is the suburban neighborhood. I'd imagined their dogs chasing me. Can I feed them pizza.

Yes I can OK, OK. I gave it to the raccoon, but not that neighbor. OK, there we go. Amazing to see the model adapt to an entirely different setting. You give it a few different things and it crafts an entirely new world for you, which makes it really fun for game development.

And it's not just games with 3.7 Flash. We're seeing improvements across debugging, web dev, and overall design adherence. Gemini 3.7 Flash is rolling out in Google anti-gravity, AI Studio, and the Gemini API.

These improvements sum up to a model that just feels better to build with landing where you want to go in fewer shots, less back and forth, and with higher fidelity. Look at what you can build.