---
video_title: "What’s new in Gemma 4"
video_id: jZVBoFOJK-Q
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jZVBoFOJK-Q
video_date: 2026-04-02T16:06:24+00:00
video_description: |
  Meet Gemma 4, our most intelligent open models to date. Purpose-built for advanced reasoning and agentic workflows, Gemma 4 delivers an unprecedented level of intelligence-per-parameter.
  
  In this video, Olivier Lacombe (Group Product Manager, Google DeepMind) introduces the Gemma 4 model family. We also showcase multiple demos of Gemma 4 being used across a wide variety of hardware, from mobile to laptops.
  
  Resources:
  Announcing Gemma 4 → https://goo.gle/gemma-4
  Gemma 4 documentation → https://goo.gle/gemma-4-docs 
  Gemma cookbook → https://goo.gle/3RfNT52 
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers 
  
  Speaker: Olivier Lacombe
  Products Mentioned: Gemma
---
Hi, my name is Olivier, and I'm a group product manager on the Gemma team. Since we launched our first models, the developer community has absolutely blown us away. Over 400 million downloads, over 100,000 variants. You've built a vibrant ecosystem around Gemma and we could not be more grateful. We've listened very closely to what you wanted next, and today we are thrilled to announce Gemma 4.

Built from the same world-class research and technology behind Gemini 3, Gemma 4 is our family of open models, designed to run directly on the hardware you own, phone, laptops and desktop. For the first time ever, we are releasing Gemma under an open source Apache 2.0 license. Gemma 4 is built for the agentic era. It can handle complex logic, multi-step planning, and agentic workflows, making optimal use of tokens for its intelligence.

The bigger model performs well with a context window of up to a quarter million tokens, allowing you to analyze entire code bases, and/or multi-turn agentic use cases. It features native support for tool use, allowing you to build agents that plan and act on your behalf. Let's break down the model family now. First, a 26B Mixture of experts, and a 31B Dense models. These provide frontier intelligence directly on your personal computer.

You can run state-of-the-art local reasoning and coding pipeline without needing to upload data outside of your control environment. The 26B MOE with 3.8B in activated parameters is exceptionally fast, While 31B is optimized for output quality. Then, we have our effective 2B and effective 4B models. Engineered for maximum memory efficiency, these models bring a whole new level of intelligence to mobile and IOT devices.

With combined audio and vision support for real-time processing, we can see and hear the world. All of this while natively supporting over 140 languages. Now, let's test our effective 2B on multilingual and agentic task. Hé Gemma, est-ce que tu peux trouver un restaurant français à San Francisco? Please reply to me in English.

Amazing. We have a winner. As open models become more central to enterprise infrastructure, security is paramount. Developed by Google DeepMind, Gemma 4 undergoes the same rigorous security protocols as our proprietary models, giving enterprise and developers a trusted foundation to build on top of. We want you to be able to use Gemma 4 with the tools you already know and love.

You can download the weights and start experimenting today. We cannot wait to see what you create next.