---
video_title: "Android Studio Quail 2, the Build with Gemini XPRIZE, and more! - Google Developer News July 2026"
video_id: BXzFk5kK5_Q
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BXzFk5kK5_Q
video_date: 2026-07-30T16:00:39+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome to Google Developer News! Join Christy Yao as we dive into the latest tools, updates, and opportunities for developers. In this episode, we cover the stable release of Android Studio Quail 2, new model evaluations in Android Bench, an exclusive look at YouTube’s AI prototyping stack, and how you can compete for a share of $2,000,000 in the Build with Gemini XPRIZE! 
  
  Chapters: 
  
  0:00 - Intro 
  0:13 - Android Studio Quail 2 is Now Stable (Parallel chats, LeakCanary, App Quality Insights)
  1:10 - Android Bench Updates & Harbor Framework
  2:00 - Inside Look: YouTube's AI Prototyping Stack (Emergent Premiere)
  2:48 - Build with Gemini XPRIZE ($2M Competition)
  3:38 - Outro & Keep Building
  
  
  Resources: 
  Android Studio Quail 2  → https://goo.gle/4bloC0A  
  Android Bench → https://goo.gle/4fMcNCb 
  Emergent 1st episode  → https://goo.gle/4fLHDe5 
  Build with Gemini XPRIZE → https://goo.gle/3TIfnBG 
  
  Watch more Google Developer News → https://goo.gle/4e8Rysd  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers  
  
  #GoogleDeveloperNews 
  
  Speaker: Christy Yao
  Products Mentioned:  Google AI, Gemini, Android
---
Welcome to this edition of Google Developer news. Android Studio quail two hits stable updates to Android bench. An inside look on YouTube's AI prototyping stack, and a Gemini hackathon with $2 million worth of prizes. Let's dive in.

I'm Christy Yao, and I'm glad you're here. We have a lot of powerful tools and new opportunities to cover today, so let's get right into our first update. Android Studio quail two is officially stable and ready for you to use in production. Here are three major updates. First, multitasking with parallel chats.

Waiting for Android Studio agent to finish one task before initiating another is a thing of the past. We can now run and manage multiple agentic tasks simultaneously across different chats. Kick off a UI, refactor in one tab, fix a ProGuard rule in the second, and generate documentation in a third all at the same time. Next memory leak detection is getting an upgrade with leak Canary. Leak Canary is natively integrated into the profiler as a first class task.

This transforms your debugging performance by lifting and shifting the heap analysis off your resource constrained testing phone and onto your powerful development computer. Leak tracing is now up to five times faster and completely jank free. Finally, resolving app crashes is faster than ever, with app Quality Insights now integrated with mode. The agent analyzes production reports with Firebase, Crashlytics, or Android vitals along with your app's source code to not only deliver comprehensive debugging advice, but in many cases can directly fix your app's code for you to resolve the crash. Moving on to model evaluation, we are rolling out updates to Android bench to help you better understand which large language models are best for your Android development workflow.

We're continuously adding new models to the leaderboard. Check out Android auto to see the latest rankings. Currently, Cloud fable 5 is leading the pack with a score of 84.5 to continue providing you with the state of the art evaluations. We are upgrading our methodology by standardizing on the harbor framework.

This makes it easier to assess the latest model capabilities and for you to run and evaluate the benchmark yourself. We're also now giving you an opportunity to help shape the benchmark. You can now submit your own unique development tasks for our consideration and share evaluations directly with the community. For the full Android bench announcement, check out the blog LinkedIn the description. Ever wonder how the engineering team behind a billion user platform like YouTube ships AI prototypes.

If so, check out emergent, a new series on the Google Cloud tech YouTube channel. In this episode, Google Cloud's Stephanie Wong sits down with senior staff engineer Benji Beyer to discover what's happening behind the curtain. Here's a sneak peek. I knew I needed to build a flexible, safe environment for prototyping and one that minimized the technical debt and reduce the number of layers and systems somebody would have to navigate just to test an idea. The solution Benji and others built would have implications not just for AI product development at YouTube, but for all of Google to see how they built their prototyping stack, check out the full video on Google Cloud tech.

Subscribe to the Google Cloud tech channel to catch future episodes of emergent. Finally, we have an incredible opportunity for you to build what matters. Launched at Google, I/O the Build with Gemini XPRIZE competition is officially underway. The challenge pick a real problem worth solving and build a real business with AI. There are $2 million in total prizes available.

This is your chance to use the full Google stack from idea validation in the Gemini app to prototyping in Google AI Studio, and scaling securely on Google Cloud. The competition focuses on five key categories, including education, small business services, and financial access. The top five projects will be invited to pitch live at the moonshot summit in Los Angeles this September for a chance to win the $500,000 grand Prize. You have until August 17 to submit your prototype and show real revenue. For full details and official rules, visit Gemini app.

That wraps up this episode of developer news. You can find links to download Android Studio quilt to explore the Android bench leaderboard, watch the emergent premiere and register for the Build with Gemini XPRIZE in the description down below. Keep building and we will see you next time.